04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. to wait for expert view on booster dose, jabs for children||Any decision on COVID-19 vaccine booster dose or vaccines for children would be strictly based on the recommendations made by the expert committee looking into the matter. This decision could not be hurried or politicised. It should be based on pure science and knowledge, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Friday. He was speaking in the Lok Sabha at the end of an over 11-hour discussion that began on Thursday on the pandemic and the government’s response. 3.46 crore cases so far Applauding the work done by the scientific community and the medical staff, he said the nation had so far reported 3.46 crore COVID-19 cases and 4.6 lakh deaths (which is 1.36% of the total cases). “This is one of the lowest numbers in the world. The first case of COVID-19 in India was reported on January 13, 2020 in Kerala. But India held its first meeting of the joint monitoring committee constituted by the Centre earlier that month. This means that we were alert and started working immediately as the world was alerted about the virus,” he said. The government, at the beginning of the pandemic, started working on strengthening the weak medical infrastructure and “without blaming any previous governments, we worked for results. In the last two years, bold decisions were taken.’’ “There was a time when it took three years for approval if someone did research on a vaccine. We scrapped those rules and the nation got COVID-19 vaccine after research within a year,’’ he claimed. Responding to questions on deaths during the pandemic due to oxygen shortage, he observed that the Union Government had multiple times sought data from the States, which had so far not given data on any specific number of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-wait-for-expert-view-on-booster-dose-jabs-for-children/article37834280.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal flags off train to Ayodhya||Amid slogans of “Jai Shri Ram”, petal showers, tight security and light classical music, the first train carrying 1,000 devotees to the Ram Temple in Ayodhya under the Delhi Government’s Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana departed from the Safdarjung railway station here on Friday evening. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was there in person to flag off the train and interact with the Ayodhya-bound devotees. “Many of our senior citizens have gone to Ayodhya today to have darshan of Shri Ram Lalla. This is something wonderful and it is a matter of happiness for all of us. I came to meet all these people here. Everyone is very happy,” he said after flagging off the train. ‘Permission denied’ The Chief Minister said the Delhi Government had planned for a send-off programme at the station but the Central Government “refused permission”. Buses full of pilgrims from each of the 70 Assembly constituencies of the Capital kept pulling up one after the other outside the station throughout the day for the 7 p.m. train, with devotees deboarding and breaking into chants of “Jai Shri Ram” before being welcomed into the station. The media were not allowed to access the platform but devotees outside had a range of responses, with most appreciative of the Chief Minister and the Delhi Government. Praise for CM “He calls himself the Shravan Kumar of Delhi [referring to a character in theRamayanaknown for his devotion to parents] and today he has proved it,” said Prabha Kumari, one of the pilgrims. Asked if the trip could yield political dividends in the civic elections in the Capital next year, Ms. Kumari said “no political party or leader — whether Kejriwal or [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi — can claim God only as their own”. Ashish Negi, another pilgrim, said elections in Delhi are months away. “If there was a BJP Government in this city, this pilgrimage tour would have been happening a few days before an election.” “I don’t have any children but today I feel I have a son. We will think about the elections when they come,” said Santoshi Devi, another pilgrim. Since its formal launch, a total of 35,080 beneficiaries have travelled under the scheme. An insurance cover of Rs. 1 lakh is also provided to look after the devotees. While the scheme covered 13 pilgrimage circuits initially, the list has now gone up to 15 with the inclusion of Kartarpur Sahib in Pakistan and Velankanni Church in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kejriwal-flags-off-train-to-ayodhya/article37834442.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||PepsiCo loses rights to special Lays variety potato in country||Two years after PepsiCo India provoked outrage by suing nine Gujarati farmers for allegedly infringing patent rights by growing its registered potato variety, the company’s registration of the variety has been revoked by the Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers Rights’ Authority (PPV&FRA). “This judgment is a historic victory for the farmers of India. It should also prevent any other seed or food corporation from transgressing legally granted farmers’ seed freedoms in India,” said Kavitha Kuruganti, convenor of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture, who had filed the petition to revoke the food giant’s registration. PepsiCo said it was reviewing Friday’s order, but refused to offer further comments. The PPV&FRA questioned the documentation produced by PepsiCo claiming it was the owner of the variety, and thus could be considered the Registered Breeder under the law. The Authority accepted Ms. Kuruganti’s contention that “several farmers have been put to hardship including the looming possibility of having to pay huge penalty on the purported infringement they were supposed to have been committing... This violates public interest,” added the order from PPV&FRA chairperson K.V. Prabhu The FL-2027 variety of potatoes, used in Lays potato chips, came to the limelight in April 2019, when it became the centrepiece for a David vs Goliath fight in the potato belt of northern Gujarat. Introduced to India in 2009, the potato was grown by about 12,000 farmers with whom the company had an exclusive contract to sell seeds and buy back their produce. In 2016, the company registered the variety under the PPV&FR Act, 2001. Alleging that farmers who were not part of its “collaborative farming programme” were also growing and selling this variety in Gujarat, PepsiCo filed rights infringement cases under the Act against nine farmers in the state, including a Rs. 4.2 crore lawsuit against four small farmers. In the midst of a crucial election season, widespread protests and boycott threats by farmers groups and political parties across the ideological spectrum forced the Gujarat government to step in, pushing the company to withdraw all cases in May 2019. Ms. Kuruganti then filed an application to revoke PepsiCo’s registration in June 2019. “The Authority’s acceptance of the Revocation Application, including on grounds of being against public interest, sends an important signal that farmers’ rights cannot be taken lightly by IPR-holders in the country. This should prevent further intimidation of farmers through vexatious IP lawsuits,” said legal researcher and agriculture IPR expert Shalini Bhutani, hailing the judgement as a precedent. "We believe that the Authority and the Government have a responsibility to let every applicant and registrant under the PPV&FR Act know that their rights do not supersede farmers' rights,” added Kapil Shah of the Kisan Beej Adhikar Manch, one of the Gujarat activists who spearheaded the initial protests. “The registrants’ rights are limited to only production of a variety, and not production from a variety. Even when it comes to production of a variety, farmers have rights to produce seed and even sell seed of a protected variety provided it is unbranded,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pepsico-loses-rights-to-special-lays-variety-potato-in-country/article37834267.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Find permanent solution to flooding, CM directs officials||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has directed government officials to ensure that the flood situation in various parts of the State, especially in Chennai and its surrounding districts, does not recur. He has asked them to come up with permanent solutions to prevent such flooding. During a meeting with top officials at the Secretariat on Friday, the Chief Minister said it was important to ensure that people did not suffer from flooding next year. “We have a lot of constructive work to do. We have to ensure that the monsoon and heavy rain do not cause this kind of damage in the future. It is necessary for us to find permanent solutions,” he said. The Chief Minister directed officials to come up with plans and suggestions to mitigate flooding in Chennai and its surrounding districts like Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Ranipet. “Provide the right solutions and plans to implement them area-wise and department-wise. It was due to the Smart City project in Chennai that T. Nagar was flooded for 5-6 days,” he said. “The same situation occurred in Thoothukudi as well. There too, under the Smart City project, the canals had been choked. When I spoke to some elderly women in the area, they were able to say clearly from where the water was coming. Officials, too, need to understand these things and provide suggestions,” Mr. Stalin said. He further said there was no standard drainage in Chennai, and every area needed a different plan. He asked officials to come up with area-wise plans and suggestions. “This has to be done immediately. I request you all not to take months to come up with plans and suggestions, and to provide them as quickly as possible. I am confident that we will also execute them as quickly as possible,” he said.  We have a lot of constructive work to do. We have to ensure that the monsoon and heavy rain do not cause this kind of damage in the future M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/find-a-permanent-solution-to-flooding-cm/article37834403.ece
04 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Deep depression turns into cyclonic storm||The deep depression over westcentral Bay of Bengal moved north-northwestwards with a speed of 25 kmph and intensified further into cyclonic storm ‘Jawad’ by Friday afternoon and lay centered at over westcentral of Bay of Bengal, about 360 km south-southeast of Visakhapatnam, 470 km south-southeast of Gopalpur, 600 km south-southeast of Paradip and 530 km south-south-east of Puri. It is likely to intensity further and reach west-central Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coast by Saturday morning. Thereafter, it is likely to re-curve north-northeastwards and move along the Odisha coast reaching near Puri around noon on Sunday. It is likely to move further towards West Bengal coast. According to the weatherman at the Cyclone Warning Centre, the cyclonic storm is likely to intensify into severe cyclonic storm by the midnight of Saturday (December 4), before making landfall. According to the scientists at the Department of Oceanography and Meteorology, Andhra University, the cyclonic storm, which could be in the range of category II or III, is likely to make its landfall between the districts of Ganjam and Puri of Odisha, around midnight on Saturday. According to the IMD, rain or thundershowers are likely to occurs at many places over north Coastal Andhra Pradesh; at one or two places over South Coastal Andhra Pradesh on Saturday and Sunday. Heavy to very heavy rainfall very likely to occur at one or two places over Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts, and heavy rainfall is very likely to occur at one or two places over East Godavari district & Yanam. Gale winds speed reaching 70 to 80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph very likely along and off North Andhra Pradesh coast during the next 24 hours. The sea condition would be high to very high along and off north coastal Andhra Pradesh and fishermen have been advised not to venture out on Saturday and on Sunday. Distant Warning Signal number II has been hoisted at Visakhapatnam, Kalingapatnam and Bheemunipatnam ports. And signal I has been hoisted at Kakinada, Gangavaram, Machilipatnam, Nizampatnam and Krishnapatnam ports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/deep-depression-turns-into-cyclonic-storm-jawad/article37834278.ece
04 December 2021||NELLORE,||Rs. 100 cr. for repairing Penna left and right banks||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday announced Rs. 100 crore for repairing the Penna left and right banks on a war-footing as they had suffered severe damage in the wake of a record inflow of 5.5 lakh cusecs into the Somasila reservoir. Inspecting the damage caused to the left bank at Jonnawada, along with his Cabinet colleagues B. Srinivasa Reddy, P. Anil Kumar and M. Goutham Reddy, the Chief Minister asked the officials to speed up the reconstruction of the river banks that had suffered breaches at several stretches, which resulted in the floodwaters entering scores of villages in the riverine mandals, besides hitting hard the farmers who had taken rabi crop cultivation in a big way and the aquaculturists. Work on the the Sangam barrage was going on in full swing, the Chief Minister said, adding it would be completed soon. Every affected farmer would be provided subsidised seed and input subsidy, he said after interacting with a group of farmers near Kovur. Kovur MLA N. Prasanna Kumar Reddy gave an account of the damage caused in his constituency following a breach to the Kovur tank, which led to evacuation of about 6,000 people. The Chief Minister also inspected the damaged Mulumid - Devarapalem Road. Road works Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu gave an account of the temporary restoration works taken up to the damaged roads and irrigation sources in the district. Vehicular traffic on the road was restored after completing the restoration work at a cost of Rs. 18.50 lakh, he added. People in Bhagat Singh Colony in Nellore, who had lost all their belongings in the flash floods, poured out their woes and pleaded with the Chief Minister to come to their rescue. “The government will not let them down,” the Chief Minister said while calming the wailing women. Those who had not received compensation of Rs. 2,000 were asked to visit the village secretariats concerned. The Chief Minister directed the officials to reconstruct the damaged houses expeditiously as the low-lying areas close to the Penna river bank submerged, leading to evacuation of more than 23,000 people in Nellore alone. Crops in 14,265 hectares, including horticultural crops in 2481 hectares, were damaged in the district, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-announces-rs-100-crore-for-repairing-penna-left-and-right-banks/article37834285.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. seeks Rs. 62,000 cr. to clear Air India’s debt||Tax payers will be paying a total of Rs. 62,000 crore for debt and other liabilities of Air India, according to the supplementary demand for grants tabled before Parliament on Friday. The Government has sought Parliament’s nod to infuse over Rs. 62,000 crore to its company that holds Air India’s debt, liabilities and some non-core assets. This company was set up to clean the airline’s balance sheet ahead of its privatisation. At a press meet in October, DIPAM Secretary Tuhin K. Pandey said the net liability on the Government after Air India’s privatisation amounted to Rs. 28,844 crore. So, what is the balance Rs. 33,105 crore for? “The amount includes interest liabilities toward working capital and aircraft loans, lease rentals, owings to oil companies and to the Airports Authority of India. This is what the Government has provided for in the supplementary demand for grants,” a source close to the developments said. Special purpose vehicle As of August 31, Air India had a total debt of Rs. 61,562 crore. Of the total amount, Tata Sons’ subsidiary Talace will take over Rs. 15,300 crore. The remaining Rs. 46,262 crore will be transferred to a Government-owned special purpose vehicle (SPV) known as Air India Assets Holding Limited. This company, which was set up to clean the national carrier’s balance sheet, also houses non-core assets such as land and buildings worth Rs. 14,718 crore. Since 2018, the government has already budgeted Rs. 8,351 crore for servicing some of the liabilities parked in this SPV. C||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-seeks-rs-62000-cr-to-clear-air-india-debt/article37834270.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,||NE monsoon caused massive losses||The heavy rain in October and November has taken its toll on the State. Forty-two people lost their lives owing to flooding and 20,083 houses were damaged. Around 7.9 lakh ha of agricultural crops, 1.25 lakh ha of horticultural crops, and 0.75 lakh ha of plantation crops were damaged follwing heavy heavy rain. Along with infrastructure damage, the overall estimated loss has been pegged at Rs. 11,916.3 crore, according to the data put out by the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre. The KSDMC pointed out that there has been large intra-seasonal variability of rainfall in the State, particularly since 2011, leading to floods and droughts simultaneously. In 2021, Karnataka has been persistently experiencing extreme events since May, officials said. The State received 249% more than normal rainfall in November, while it also recorded the highest departure from normal rainfall in 60 years during the October 1 to November 30 period of the northeast monsoon season this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ne-monsoon-caused-massive-losses/article37834316.ece
04 December 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool mouthpiece targets Cong.||Amid their ongoing war of words, the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) has once against targeted the Congress through an editorial in its party mouthpiece Jaago Bangla titled “Congress in the deep freezer”. The editorial, published on December 3, referred to a recent tweet by poll strategist Prashant Kishor and remarks by Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad. The TMC reiterated in its mouthpiece that it was committed to fight the Bharatiya Janata Party. “The country at this moment needs the Opposition to come together. The Opposition parties have given this responsibility to Mamata Banerjee. This is because she is the most accepted and popular face of the Opposition,” the editorial said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trinamool-mouthpiece-targets-cong/article37833959.ece
04 December 2021||Vijayawada,||‘30 travellers under watch in State’||While dismissing reports in a section of the media that 30 international passengers belonging to Visakhapatnam are missing as baseless, Director of Public Health and Family welfare G. Hymavathi said such international travellers are being tested immediately after their de-boarding at all the airports as per established protocols. Dr. Hymavathi said in a press release there was no scope for direct landing of international passengers at airports in the State, and that the government posted medical teams along with helpdesks for monitoring, screening and testing the travellers. Home isolation She said the Central government had sent to the State a list of the 30 international passengers belonging to Visakhapatnam and the adjoining districts and that they were being placed under home isolation by the health teams. A few flights were landing at Vijayawada airport under Vande Bharat scheme and all the passengers were being screened as per the Central government’s guidelines, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/30-travellers-under-close-watch-in-state/article37834271.ece
04 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||CM reviews cyclone preparedness||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday held a video conference with the Collectors of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East and West Godavari districts on arrangements made to mitigate the impact of the cyclone Jawad. He directed them to ensure that there is no loss of lives, and to allocate Rs. 10 crore per district to undertake relief measures and other urgent works. Besides, Mr. Jagan instructed the officials to maintain the quality of food and drinking water and to ensure cleanliness of toilets. He ordered that NDRF and SDRF teams be deployed in advance, and to evacuate people in low-lying areas to safety. He wanted attention to be paid to the condition of ponds, canals and reservoirs so that they don't develop breaches. Participating in the video conference virtually, Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma told the Chief Minister that 11 NDRF, six Coast Guard, 10 marine police, five SDRF and 18 Fire Service teams had already been sent to the vulnerable locations. Necessary material, including essential commodities, were kept ready.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-reviews-steps-taken-to-face-cyclone/article37834291.ece
04 December 2021||Mangaluru,||Residents seek shifting of hostel after students clash||Clash between two groups of students outside a college hostel near Gujjarakere in Jeppu in Mangaluru, with students even attacking police personnel, on Thursday prompted residents to stage a protest on Friday, demanding shifting of the hostel from the residential locality. The college management sought a week’s time to act on the demand. Adarsha Premkumar, a third year BSc Hospitality Science student of Yenepoya Institute of Arts, Science, Commerce and Management, had come to meet his friend outside the hostel of the institute, on Thursday evening. He got into a heated exchange of words with Abdul Sinan, also a student of the institute and resident of the hostel. The argument led to an exchange of blows between the two and their supporters. As many as seven students were injured in the clash, police said adding that five police personnel too were injured when the students turned on them. Following complaints to Mangaluru South Police Station by Premkumar and Sinan, who were among the injured persons, police went to the hostel to apprehend some of the students allegedly involved in the clash. Some of the hostel residents hurled chairs and other objects at the police, leading to injury to some policemen and local residents. A few local residents were also accused of assaulting some students. Upset with the institute for allowing police into the hostel, students reportedly damaged the security room and some of the CCTV cameras installed in the premises. Of 16 students who have been accused of participating in the clash, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said nine have been taken into custody. On Friday morning, residents led by local councillor P.S. Bhanumathi, who stays near the hostel, staged a protest demanding shifting of the hostel from the residential locality. She accused boys in the hostel of misbehaving with neighbours and also with the police in the past. “Yesterday’s incident was the height of their nuisance. For peace to prevail in this locality, this hostel should be shifted,” she urged Mr. Kumar and the institute’s principal Parvadhavardhini. The demand of residents was supported by activists of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal. Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath, who met the protestors, said if the management does not take any decision, he will prevail upon the district administration to act. Ms. Parvadhavardhini said the institute’s anti-ragging committee is inquiring into the incident, and strong disciplinary action will be taken against all students involved in the clash. Students in the hostel have accused police of high-handedness. They accuse the police of taking some innocent students into custody and assaulting some students in the hostel. “This is the third time that the police have done such things in the recent past,” claimed Mohammed Faizal, a second year forensic science degree student. Mr. Kumar promised to probe the allegations against the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/residents-seek-shifting-of-hostel-after-students-clash/article37834794.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,||2 doses a must for parents of college, school students||In the wake of two confirmed cases of the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus in Karnataka, the State Government has made mandatory two doses of vaccination for parents of children aged below 18 who are going to schools and colleges. The Government has also made two doses of COVID-19 vaccination compulsory for entry into malls and cinemas/theatres. The decision was taken after a three-hour-long meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai with Ministers and senior officials on Friday. The Government has already made two doses of vaccination mandatory for employees working in hotels, restaurants, cinemas, swimming pools, public libraries, zoo, and botanical gardens. No cultural fests With a few clusters emerging in colleges in the State, all higher educational institutions have been directed not to hold cultural functions/festivals and other functions till January 15, 2022. Restrictions It has also restricted the attendance of people to a maximum of 500 at weddings, conferences, gatherings, and meetings with strict enforcement of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour in such events. The Government reiterated that there would be strict implementation of five-pronged strategy of test-track-treat-vaccinate and adherence to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. The new guidelines issued by Tushar Giri Nath, principal secretary, Revenue Department, and member secretary of Executive Committee of the State Disaster Management, said the government servants would be vaccinated with two doses of vaccine. Testing has been made compulsory for health workers, old persons aged above 65 years and persons with co-morbidities and the government would undertake testing, the guidelines said. Wearing of face masks In order to strictly enforce the requirement of wearing a face mask, Bruhant Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, district authorities, and local authorities would impose fine of Rs. 250 in municipal corporation areas and Rs. 100 in other areas for non-wearing of masks. There would be intensive containment (micro containment measures) and active surveillance in clusters/ area reporting higher cases to contain the spread locally, the guidelines said. Reveue Minister R. Ashok said IAS officer Shilpa Nag has been appointed as surveillance officer. A State-level control room which was closed, would be opened again. The Health and Family Welfare department officials have been instructed to take steps for establish oxygenated and ICU beds, and supply of sufficient quantity of oxygen. Screening, testing Testing would be increased in the State from present 60,000 to one lakh people per day, he said. The Health and Family Welfare of Karnataka, has issued guidelines for rigorous screening and testing of the international arrivals from countries identified as “at risk” to prevent spread of Omicron virus in the State, which is in line with the guidelines issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of the Centre, he said. Mr. Ashok said RT-PCR negative report is mandatory for passengers arriving to airports in the State. The amount should be paid soon after the seats are booked. The fee has been fixed at Rs. 500 and Rs. 3,000, for normal and expedited results of RT-PCT test per person, respectively at the airport. Normal testing would take four hours of waiting at the airport, he said. The guidelines said strict surveillance at the border posts set up by the districts adjoining Kerala and Maharashtra States would continue as per the prevailing circular/guidelines issued by Department of Health and family Welfare, it said. Any person found violating government guidelines would be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 5l to 60 of the Disaster Management Ait, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC, and other legal provisions as applicable, the guidelines said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-doses-a-must-for-parents-of-college-school-students/article37834317.ece
04 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Aid given to kids who lost parents to COVID-19||Health Minister Veena George on Friday inaugurated the financial assistance scheme formulated by the State government for children who lost both parents to COVID-19. The Minister handed over the documents of fixed deposit of Rs. 3 lakh each in the name of two children from Pathanamthitta to district child protection officer Nita Das. Both the children and their guardians were present on the occasion. Children who lost both parents or lost their lone surviving parent to COVID-19 will benefit from this scheme. The money deposited in the treasury saving account as fixed deposit would be handed over to children when they attain the age of 18. Monthly deposit Apart from this, a monthly deposit of Rs. 2,000 would also be made to the account. These children will be given free education till they complete graduation. 54 kids to get aid In the first phase, orders have been issued to provide financial aid under this scheme to 54 children across the State, Ms. George said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aid-given-to-kids-who-lost-parents-to-covid/article37834592.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,||HC relaxes bail condition of Kodanad case accused||The Madras High Court on Friday relaxed a bail condition of K.V. Sayan, the prime surviving accused in the 2017 Kodanad Estate heist-cum-murder case, to enable him to pay a visit to Thrissur in Kerala to check on the health of his ailing mother. The condition to stay in Udhagamandalam, until completion of trial, was relaxed for two weeks. Justice T.V. Thamilselvi granted the interim relaxation and ordered that the accused should follow the original condition to stay in Udhagamandalam after two weeks. After it was brought to her notice that the police was investigating the heist-cum-murder case, the judge directed the petitioner to cooperate with the probe. Justice R. Subramanian had granted bail to the petitioner on July 7 on condition that he should stay in Udhagamandalam till the completion of the case and report before the trial court every Monday. The heist-cum-murder was committed in April 2017 in the Kodanad estate jointly owned by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and her close aide V.K. Sasikala. A watchman was murdered by an armed gang. Five days after the crime, the prime accused C. Kanagaraj, a former driver at Jayalalithaa’s residence, died in a road accident at Attur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-relaxes-bail-condition-of-kodanad-heist-cum-murder-accused-kv-sayan/article37834393.ece
04 December 2021||BENGALURU,||Winter session to be held as scheduled||Though the two confirmed cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus in Karnataka have caused concern, the State Government has decided not to cancel the legislature session scheduled to be held in Belagavi from December 13 to 24. Revenue Minister R. Ashok said the winter session of the legislature would be held at the Suvarna Soudha as per the schedule. A separate set of guidelines would be issued later for the conduct of the session, he said. The Secretariat Employees’ Association had demanded cancellation of the session in Belagavi in view of the Omicron variant scare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/winter-session-to-be-held-as-scheduled/article37834318.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Funds sought for MGNREGA||The Centre has sought Rs. 25,000 crore as additional funding for the MGNREGA scheme, after it ran out of funds this year.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/funds-sought-for-mgnrega/article37834282.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||No proposal to ban NSO Group: Govt.||The Government on Friday said there is no plan to ban “any group named NSO Group”. This statement follows an uproar earlier this year over the alleged use of Israeli firm NSO Group’s Pegasus software to snoop on journalists, politicians and activists worldwide, including in India. However, the company had stated that its product was used “exclusively by government Intelligence and law enforcement agencies to fight crime and terror”. “No, Sir. There is no proposal for banning any group named ‘NSO Group’,” Minister of State of Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha in response to a question from two Rajya Sabha MPs Vishambhar Prasad Nishad and Sukhram Singh Yadav. Asked whether the U.S. had blacklisted the NSO Group and Candiru for providing the spyware, Mr. Chandrasekhar said no such information was available with the IT Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-proposal-to-ban-nso-group-govt/article37834268.ece
04 December 2021||TIRUPATI,||PRC in 10 days: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has assured the employees that the PRC proposals have been readied and a positive announcement will be made in 10 days. The announcement came at a time when the government employees are on a warpath over the issue. Mr. Jagan made the reassuring statement on Friday when a section of the employees met him on the sidelines of his entourage to flood-hit areas to take stock of the damage caused in Chittoor district. He maintained that the government was working out the finer details on PRC and would come out with an announcement in 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prc-in-ten-days-jagan/article37834272.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,||3 from abroad test positive in Tamil Nadu||Three travellers, who returned to Tamil Nadu from Singapore and the United Kingdom, have been isolated in government hospitals after they tested positive for COVID-19 on arrival in the State. While their samples have been sent for genomic sequencing to identify the variant involved, their family members, co-passengers seated in front of and behind them on their flights and the aircrew are being tested and kept in quarantine, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. Isolated in ward A man, who arrived at the Tiruchi international airport, tested positive for COVID-19. He was isolated in a special ward at the K.A.P. Viswanathan Government Medical College Hospital, the Minister said. At the Chennai international airport, a 10-year-old, who had arrived from the U.K. with his family, tested positive for the infection. The child was admitted to the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy. The third patient, a 32-year-old woman, tested positive in Chennai. She had gone from London to Colombo and then arrived in Chennai. Eight people, including family contacts of the U.K. returnees, were admitted to the Government Corona Hospital in Guindy. A separate ward with 200 beds has been set up for those from abroad, the Minister said. The passengers’ samples have been sent for genomic sequencing, he said, adding, “Our State has the facility to carry out genomic sequencing. We will sequence samples here and send it to the Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine, Bengaluru, for confirmation.” The Minister, who along with Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, visited the patients on Friday evening, said doctors had said that all of them were asymptomatic and doing well. He said the results of the genomic sequencing of their samples would be available in four to five days. “We are testing passengers who were seated on the front and back rows in the flights. The flight staff are also being tested. All contacts, family members and air-hostesses are already in quarantine. We are handling the situation with utmost precaution,” he said. The Minister said false news was being circulated online that two persons had tested positive for the Omicron variant in the State. All details would be released in a transparent manner, he said. The Minister, who along with Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, visited the patients on Friday evening, said doctors had said that all of them were asymptomatic and doing well. He said the results of the genomic sequencing of their samples would be available in four to five days. “We are testing passengers who were seated on the front and back rows in the flights. The flight staff are also being tested. All contacts, family members and air-hostesses are already in quarantine. We are handling the situation with utmost precaution,” he said. False news The Minister said false news was being circulated online that two persons had tested positive for the Omicron variant in the State. All details would be released in a transparent manner, he said. Travellers from ‘at-risk’ countries like the U.K., South Africa, Hong Kong, Botswana and Israel are being subjected to screening for fever and RT-PCR testing on arrival at the four international airports in the State. If they test negative for COVID-19, they should be under home quarantine for seven days, and adherence to these norms is being monitored by the Health Department, in coordination with the police and the local bodies. Apart from this, 2% of travellers from other countries are being randomly tested at the four airports for the past three days. A total of 2,925 travellers, who arrived in 18 flights from ‘at-risk’ countries, have been tested so far. Of the 10,736 passengers who arrived in 59 flights from non-risk countries, 341 people (2%) have been randomly tested. All 341 have tested negative for COVID-19. RT-PCR costs The Minister said the government would bear the cost of testing for the 2% of travellers from non-risk countries who are being randomly tested. The cost of RT-PCR testing was Rs. 700, he said, adding that the government was ready to bear the cost of testing for those coming from ‘at-risk’ countries and were economically backward. Holding areas have been earmarked at the four airports where passengers can wait till their RT-PCR test results arrive. If any traveller tests positive, they will be isolated at the government medical college hospital. Special wards, comprising 30 to 40 beds with oxygen facilities and ventilators, have been set up at six government hospitals — the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, the Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital and the Government Corona Hospital in Chennai; the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai, and the government medical college hospitals in Tiruchi and Coimbatore. “There is no need to be afraid, but we need to stay cautious. Omicron is said to have higher transmissibility than the Delta variant,” the Minister said. The Health Secretary said the State had 3.25 lakh ‘Thermo TaqPath’ kits to detect the presence of the Omicron variant in SARS-CoV-2 samples. “We have placed orders for another 85,000 kits,” he said. He said the State was rigorously monitoring international travellers, enhancing testing and monitoring hotspots in the State. “No other State is performing 1 lakh RT-PCR tests a day, though daily cases have dropped to 700. We have given instructions to increase testing further. In Chennai, 10,000 to 15,000 tests should be done, he said. Mega vaccination camp The 13th mega COVID-19 vaccination camp will be held on Saturday at 50,000 places. The Health Minister said the State was nearing 80% first dose coverage and 45% second dose coverage. Over 80 lakh people were due for the second dose, he said, adding that all those due for the second dose should come forward and get vaccinated at the mega camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-from-abroad-test-positive-in-tn/article37834355.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Time is ripe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/time-is-ripe/article37834284.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||500 contacts of Omicron patients traced||Close to 500 primary and secondary contacts of the first two cases of Omicron variant detected in India have been traced and five have tested positive for COVID-19, according to a document viewed by The Hindu . The contacts have been isolated and further investigations are on. The men (aged 46 and 66) are the first cases of the variant in India. According to the document, the 66-year-old, double-vaccinated man, who travelled with a negative report from South Africa had his sample collected at the Karnataka airport, on November 20. “Upon arrival he checked into a hotel on Nov. 20 and his test result was positive,” the document said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-contacts-of-omicron-cases-test-positive/article37834281.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,||HC orders further probe into woman’s death||Finding serious lapses, including failure to properly analyse the forensic report, the High Court of Karnataka has ordered further investigation into the death of a newly married woman that the police had termed a case of ‘suicide’ five years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-orders-further-probe-into-womans-death/article37834319.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||Cyclone Jawad to bring rain to Odisha, Bengal||Cyclone Jawad, which formed in the Bay of Bengal on Friday, is expected to reach Paradip, on the Odisha coast, by Sunday. The cyclone, with wind speeds of up to 90 kmph, will bring heavy rain to Odisha, West Bengal, and north Andhra Pradesh over the weekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cyclone-jawad-to-bring-rain-to-odisha-bengal/article37834443.ece
04 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Talks between Haryana CM, farmer leaders fail||The talks between leaders of Haryana farm unions and Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Friday remained inconclusive after the two sides failed to reach an agreement over the demands put forth by the farmer leaders’ delegation. The three-hour-long meeting was held at the CM’s official residence in Chandigarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/talks-between-haryana-cm-farmer-leaders-fail/article37834445.ece
04 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya HC against checking entry of citizens||The High Court of Meghalaya has said the entry of Indian citizens through the implementation of the Meghalaya Residents’ Safety and Security Act, 2016, may not be regulated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/meghalaya-hc-against-checking-entry-of-citizens/article37834635.ece
04 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Jagdish Thakor to head Congress in Gujarat||Almost nine months after the resignation of Gujarat Congress president and Leader of the Opposition Amit Chavda and Paresh Dhanani respectively, the Congress on Friday appointed senior OBC leader Jagdish Thakor as the party chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagdish-thakor-to-head-congress-in-gujarat/article37834634.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||Cyclone Jawad to bring rain to Odisha, Bengal||Cyclone Jawad, which formed in the Bay of Bengal on Friday, is expected to reach Paradip, on the Odisha coast, by Sunday. The cyclone, with wind speeds of up to 90 kmph, will bring heavy rain to Odisha, West Bengal, and north Andhra Pradesh over the weekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cyclone-jawad-to-bring-rain-to-odisha-bengal/article37834636.ece
04 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Jagdish Thakor to head Congress in Gujarat||Almost nine months after the resignation of Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda, the Congress on Friday appointed senior OBC leader Jagdish Thakor as the party chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagdish-thakor-to-head-congress-in-gujarat/article37834807.ece
04 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya HC against checking entry of citizens||The High Court of Meghalaya has said the entry of Indian citizens through the implementation of the Meghalaya Residents’ Safety and Security Act, 2016, may not be regulated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/meghalaya-hc-against-checking-entry-of-citizens/article37834808.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||Cyclone Jawad to bring rain to Odisha, Bengal||Cyclone Jawad, which formed in the Bay of Bengal on Friday, is expected to reach Paradip, on the Odisha coast, by Sunday. The cyclone, with wind speeds of up to 90 kmph, will bring heavy rain to Odisha, West Bengal, and north Andhra Pradesh over the weekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cyclone-jawad-to-bring-rain-to-odisha-bengal/article37834809.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||MGNREGA seeks Rs. 25,000 crore more||The Centre has sought Rs. 25,000 crore as additional funding for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme as part of the supplementary demand for grants submitted to Parliament on Friday, after the demand-driven rural jobs scheme ran out of funds midway through the year. The additional budget for MGNREGA was among the most keenly awaited, as pending payments for wages and materials have threatened to cripple implementation of the scheme. Rural distress Continuing economic distress in rural India has led to increased demand for jobs under the scheme, which promises 100 days of unskilled work for every household at a pay of about Rs. 210 per day. With four months remaining in the financial year, MGNREGA has finished spending the Rs. 73,000 crore initially allocated in the budget, and its financial statement now shows a negative net balance of Rs. 10,244 crore, including payments due. Last year, with the COVID-19 pandemic forcing lockdowns and widespread unemployment, MGNREGA, with a revised budget of Rs. 1.1 lakh crore, acted as a lifeline for the rural economy. This year, the Centre seeks to transfer Rs. 25,000 crore to the National Employment Guarantee Fund, and the supplementary demand for grants entails an additional cash out-go of almost Rs. 22,039 crore for the scheme. “It’s still hugely deficient. This is clearly another pandemic-affected year. Given the current demand, it’s clear you would have needed about Rs. 50,000 crore to deal with it, so this is only half of that,” said Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan founder Nikhil Dey. “Even this amount, it is not clear when the releases will be made and when they will reach the people, who are waiting for their wages well beyond the due date. The money coming in driblets continues to starve the programme so it cannot be implemented as the law requires,” he added. Fertiliser subsidy The additional fertiliser subsidy includes Rs. 43,430 crore for the phosphatic and potassic subsidy and Rs. 15,000 crore towards the urea subsidy scheme. The Food Ministry has also sought an additional Rs. 49,805 crore for food storage and warehousing schemes. Rs. 53,123 crore will go towards payment of pending export incentives. “At end-October 2021, 52% of the full year expenditure target had been completed, and a portion of the higher than expected net cash outgo of Rs. 3 trillion in the second supplementary demand for grants will need to be absorbed through savings in other demands, to curtail the impact on the fiscal deficit. Nonetheless, there is near certainty that the fiscal deficit will exceed the budgeted Rs. 15.1 trillion, despite our assessment that net tax revenues and RBI surplus transfer will together surpass the BE by Rs. 1.7 trillion,” said ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar. “As hopes of a substantial portion of the ambitious FY2022 disinvestment target being realised fade, and we move closer to eventual rate hikes from the MPC, G-sec yields are likely to witness an inevitable hardening,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mgnrega-seeks-rs-25000-crore-more/article37833942.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Afghan trucks can carry Indian aid via Pakistan||As India stepped up efforts to send humanitarian aid to Afghanistan “without conditionalities”, Pakistan announced on Friday that it would allow Indian aid to pass through on Afghan trucks, dropping an earlier demand that Pakistani trucks be used. The announcement came even as European Union (EU) special envoy on Afghanistan Tomas Niklasson was in Delhi, where he met officials of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and the National Security Adviser’s office. He also met Pakistani Charge d’affaires Aftab Khan. “We discussed our plans to staff positions in Kabul, get humanitarian aid in as part of a contribution of 300 million euros,” Mr. Niklasson told The Hindu about his interactions with Indian counterparts, including Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla, MEA point person J.P. Singh and Deputy NSAs Rajendra Khanna and Pankaj Saran. The EU planned to reopen a “minimal presence” in Afghanistan, sending a small number of EU international officials and security personnel in addition to the humanitarian staff present in Kabul. Mr. Niklasson emphasised that reopening the mission in Afghanistan would in no way imply “recognition” to the “de facto regime” of the Taliban. With Saudi Arabia sending back a team of 14 consular officials to Kabul this week, 10 countries are operating their embassies in Afghanistan, including Russia, Iran, China, Pakistan, Turkey, Qatar, UAE, KSA, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, although no country has recognised the Taliban regime. The EU plan marks the first “western” entity to reopen its mission premises in Kabul, given that the U.S. has deputed the Qatari embassy there to manage its interests. India yet to decide As The Hindu reported this week, India has not yet decided on when and whether to staff its embassy that was closed on August 18, although discussions have been held over options at the NSCS (National Security Council Secretariat) and the MEA. “The Indian side was particularly interested in how we deal with the challenges of bringing in and distributing humanitarian aid,” Mr. Niklasson observed, referring to hurdles posed to India’s desire to transport 50,000 tonnes of wheat and medical aid for Afghans facing acute shortages this winter over land from the Attari-Wagah crossing to Torkham, without having any presence on the ground. On Thursday, MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi stated that India was still discussing the “modalities” for the shipment, including whom to hand it over to, after it first made the proposal on October 7. “Let me reiterate our belief that humanitarian assistance should not be subject to conditionalities and the discussions are ongoing,” Mr. Bagchi remarked, in reference to Pakistan’s refusal to allow Indian trucks to traverse through its territory, given a 2019 ban on land trade and transit from India after the Government’s decision to abrogate Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. In the latest development on Friday, Pakistan’s Ministry of Foreign affairs (MFA) said it had conveyed to India’s Charge d’affaires in Islamabad its decision to allow India to send its consignments on Afghan trucks on an “exceptional basis for humanitarian purposes”. “The Indian Government was also urged to proceed quickly to take necessary steps to expeditiously undertake the delivery of the humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan,” the Ministry of Foreign affairs noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/afghan-trucks-can-carry-indian-aid-via-pakistan/article37833964.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||Cyclone Jawad to bring heavy rain to Odisha, Bengal and A.P.||Cyclone Jawad has formed in the Bay of Bengal on Friday and is expected to reach Paradip, on the Odisha coast, by Sunday with winds expected to touch 90 kmph as well as heavy rains in Odisha, West Bengal, and north Andhra Pradesh over the weekend. The India Meteorological Department said the cyclone will briefly gain in strength and become a ‘severe’ cyclonic storm, but is unlikely to make a conventional landfall. It is expected to skirt the coast near Paradip and plot a trajectory towards West Bengal. Jawad currently lies about 650 km away from Paradip and is expected to reach the north Andhra Pradesh coast by Saturday noon. “This cyclone is expected to be much less intense than recent ones such as Titli, and nowhere near extreme ones such as Failin, Fani, Hudhud,” said Director General, IMD, M. Mohapatra at a press conference on Friday. Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba chaired a meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee to review the preparedness of States and Central ministries and agencies to deal with cyclone Jawad. Cyclone shelters have been readied and evacuation of people from the low lying areas was being carried out. “All actions have been taken to stock food grains, drinking water and other essential supplies. Teams for maintenance and restoration of essential services have also been positioned” the Home Ministry said in a statement. The National Disaster Response Force said it has deployed adequate number of teams in the States likely to be affected and as well as rescue and relief teams of the Army and Navy are on standby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cyclone-jawad-to-bring-heavy-rain-to-odisha-bengal-and-ap/article37833968.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||BJP MPs gatecrash Oppn. protest||A handful of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs from the Rajya Sabha gatecrashed at the Opposition protest on Friday morning, carrying placards with photographs of scenes of disruption in the monsoon session of Parliament. For a few minutes, the two sides carried on with competitive slogans but, widely outnumbered by the Opposition, the BJP MPs had to beat a hasty retreat. Friday was the third day of the protest by the 12 suspended MPs. At around 10 a.m., when Opposition MPs gathered at the Gandhi statue to protest in solidarity with their 12 suspended colleagues from the Rajya Sabha, the BJP MPs came marching in. The BJP was carrying out a march from the Gandhi statue to the Ambedkar statue in the Parliament precincts. The BJP and Opposition MPs stood shoulder to shoulder, trying to outshout each other, but the situation did not precipitate further. Opposition MPs shouted “ Kisan virodhi (anti-farmer), Narendra Modi” while the BJP MPs were heard raising slogans on saving democracy. “What happened today morning with Gandhi- ji as witness is cause enough for us to protest. For the last three days, we have been sitting in peaceful dharna. We allowed the House to run, and today, when we are once again conducting a peaceful dharna, they decided to barge in to attack us,” Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leader K. Keshava Rao said. Suspended Congress MP Syed Naseer Hussain called it yet another attempt to intimidate the protesting Opposition. “The people who do not believe in Gandhi are now trying to look for shelter under his shadow. The way they tried to occupy the space near the Gandhi statue, where we are protesting, shows their arrogance,” he said. Communist Party of India (CPI) MP Binoy Viswam also concurred with this view. He said that one can expect very little from those “who believe in Godse and not Gandhi”. Mr. Viswam said that the 12 suspended MPs were ready to sit in protest “for as long as it takes”. When the House convened for the day, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Manoj K. Jha raised the issue in the Rajya Sabha. Detailing the incident, he said the gatecrashing amounted to “taking away the democratic values”. In response, Leader of House Piyush Goyal said the unrepentant behaviour of the suspended MPs and their colleagues showed that they endorsed the attack on the Parliament’s marshals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mps-gatecrash-oppn-protest/article37833949.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Implement panel’s anti-pollution measures, says SC||The Supreme Court on Friday approved the measures taken by the Centre’s Air Quality Commission to create an ‘Enforcement Task Force’ and flying squads to penalise polluters in Delhi NCR. Appearing before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, said the task force was formed on December 2. Mr. Mehta, reading out from an affidavit filed by the commission in court, said 17 flying squads were formed on Thursday and would be increased to 40 in the next 24 hours. The squads have conducted 25 surprise checks so far and would directly report to the task force, he said. “The task force has two independent members. It will meet at 6 p.m. every day. The task force will take action on behalf of the commission against violators,” Mr. Mehta said. ‘Squads will cover NCR’ Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, on the Bench, asked whether the flying squads would be confined to Delhi or the National Capital Region (NCR) too. “The NCR... It is therefore that their number would be increased to 40 squads. This is to cover the entire NCR,” Mr. Mehta said. The court directed the Centre and the Delhi Government to implement the commission’s anti-pollution measures. The affidavit said industrial operations in NCR, where gas was not available and not running on PNG or clean fuel, would be allowed to operate for eight hours during weekdays and remain closed on weekends. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, for petitioner, suggested harnessing solar or electrical energy to power the plants. When Uttar Pradesh objected to the eight-hour workday, saying sugarcane farmers would be hit at the peak of the ongoing crushing season, the court asked the State to approach the commission. Mr. Mehta, referring to the commission’s affidavit, said thermal plants within a 300-km radius of Delhi would continue to be regulated. Only five of 11 plants were functional. The rest would remain closed till December 15. Justice Chandrachud suggested that the Government consider shifting these plants to alternative fuel for the long-term. The court permitted Delhi to continue its work on building seven new hospitals dedicated to COVID-19 treatment in the Capital, provided they meet the directions of the commission. “They offer excellent facilities. Several of them have been refurbished and re-done,” senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, for Delhi, said. The Centre also supported Delhi Government’s request to continue work on the hospitals subject to compliance with the commission’s measures. The Delhi Government said schools had stayed closed for 17 months. There were complaints of learning loss, Mr. Singhvi submitted.  The court has posted the case to December 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/implement-panels-anti-pollution-measures-says-sc/article37833963.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Dam Safety Act will bring in unified policies’||The Rajya Sabha passed the Dam Safety Bill, 2019 on Thursday. The Bill prompted a four-hour debate in the Upper House as several members voiced opposition to the key aspects of the legislation. B.R.K. Pillai , who is Member, Krishna River Management Board, and a senior official of the Jal Shakti Ministry, explains its significance. Excerpts:  The most significant flashpoint regarding dams is States’ apprehension over interference by the Centre? How does the Bill address this? The Bill will lead to the establishment of the National Committee on Dam Safety (NCDS) and the National Dam Safety Authority (NDSA). The NCDS, with expert representations from both Central and State agencies, will evolve unified dam safety policies and protocols for the entire country. The NDSA will act as a regulatory body for ensuring the implementation of policy, guidelines and standards evolved by the NCDS. The focus of the two national institutions will be thus mostly on such dam safety issues that are generic in nature and of nationwide relevance. Dam safety issues that are specific to an individual State will be essentially addressed by the concerned State Committee on Dam Safety (SCDS). Each SCDS will also have representations from both upstream and downstream States, so as to provide amicable solutions. Among the most controversial dam safety disputes involves the Mullaperiyar dam? Does this Bill have a solution? The best possible means of finding a permanent solution for the Mullaperiyar dam is perhaps laid down by the Dam Safety Bill. With the NDSA performing the role of a neutral dam safety organisation, it will be possible to bring transparency in dam safety data and mitigation measures — an essential requirement for confidence building between the two States.  (For full interview, log on to bit.ly/DamLaw)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dam-safety-act-will-bring-in-unified-policies/article37833976.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Health Ministry warns of COVID-19 clusters in India||Cautioning that a few clusters of COVID-19 infection have been reported from the country, the Health Ministry on Friday said some of the mutations reported on the spike gene of new COVID-19 variant Omicron may decrease the efficacy of existing vaccines. The Ministry added that vaccine protection is by antibodies as well as cellular immunity, which is expected to be relatively better preserved. “Hence, vaccines are expected to still offer protection against severe disease and vaccination with the available vaccines is crucial. If eligible, but not vaccinated, one should get vaccinated,” noted the Ministry, while calling for extra vigilance in enforcing public health measures to contain the spread of the Omicron variant. It said that the scale and magnitude of rise in cases and, most importantly, the severity of disease that will be caused is still not clear. The Ministry added that given the fast pace of vaccination in India and high exposure to Delta variant as evidenced by high seropositivity, the severity of the disease is anticipated to be low. The Ministry has also written to States directing them to ensure contact tracing of all positive persons. “This will remain the key to stopping the spread. All contacts of a positive person must be traced, quarantined and tested within 72 hours. Samples of all those who test positive must be collected in good quality and sent for Whole Genome Sequencing expeditiously, and only to the laboratories tagged to the State/UT in the INSACOG network,” said Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan in his letter. He added that active surveillance and testing were key in the detection of clusters or hotspots. Meanwhile, stating that variants were a normal part of evolution and as long as the virus was able to infect, replicate and transmit, it would continue to evolve, the Ministry said that not all variants were dangerous and most often than not, people would not notice them. Only when they are more infectious they gain prominence. The most important step to avoid generation of variants is to reduce the number of infections, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/health-ministry-warns-of-covid-19-clusters-in-india/article37834208.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||PM’s mistake cost 700 lives: Rahul||Describing the now repealed farm laws as a personal mistake of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused Mr. Modi of being “untruthful, insensitive, arrogant and cowardly” in not paying compensation to the families of farmers who died during their agitation against these farm laws. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters, Mr. Gandhi slammed the Centre for claiming that there is “no record” of the farmers who had died in the protests, and asserted that he would submit a list of 700 such farmers in Parliament on Monday. The Congress government in Punjab had paid Rs. 5 lakh compensation to the families of 403 deceased farmers in the State, and provided jobs to 152 of their relatives, Mr. Gandhi said. In addition to the list of 403 deceased farmers from Punjab, the Congress leader said that his party had a list of 100 names from places outside Punjab, and another list of about 200 names that had been compiled from public records. “The Prime Minister himself has said that he has made a mistake. He has apologised to the nation. Well, as a result of that mistake, 700 people have died. Now, you are lying about their names. Why? Why don’t you have the decency to give them what is their due?” Mr. Gandhi asked. “This is not the way the Prime Minister of India should be behaving. This is a very unpleasant, immoral and cowardly way to behave,” he said, adding that the government should have the dignity and humanity to pay compensation to the kin of farmers. Mr. Gandhi alleged that the government was willing to do anything for the PM’s “industrialist friends”, but unwilling to pay minimum compensation to families of the deceased farmers. He suggested the PM should call up them and listen to their pain. Mr. Gandhi tweeted before the press conference: “When the PM apologized for making anti-agriculture law, then he should tell in Parliament how he will repent? When will the Minister involved in the Lakhimpur incident be sacked? How much compensation will be given to the farmers who died and when? When will false cases against the protesters be taken back? When will there be a law on MSP [minimum support price]? Without all this the apology is incomplete.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pms-mistake-cost-700-lives-rahul/article37833940.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Poshan Tracker data under wraps||The Ministry of Women and Child Development has spent over Rs. 1,000 crore on its Poshan or Nutrition Tracker, which records real-time data on malnourished and ‘severe acute malnourished’ children in each anganwadi. But four years since its launch, the Government is yet to make the data public. The Government has spent Rs. 1,053 crore on the Poshan Tracker or Information Communication Technology-Real Time Monitoring as on March 31, 2021, the Ministry of Women and Child Development told the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Education, Women, Children, Youth and Sports. The report was presented before Parliament on November 30. Of the total, Rs. 600 crore was spent on procurement of smartphones; followed by Rs. 203.96 crore on smartphone recharge and maintenance; Rs. 180.68 crore on incentives to anganwadi workers and helpers for using the technology; and Rs. 68 crore on training. Yet, in response to a question on the number of malnourished children in the country from Samajwadi Party MP Rewati Raman Singh in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, the Minister for Women and Child Development Smriti Irani relied on data from the recently released National Family Health Survey-5, which shows improvement in stunting, wasting and under-weight children. The NFHS is a sample survey conducted across 6.3 lakh households in two phases — from June 2019 to January 2020, and January 2021 to April 2021. The Poshan Tracker gives the Ministry daily data from 12.3 lakh anganwadi centres, with 9.8 lakh beneficiaries, including children, in the age of six months to six years, as well as pregnant women and lactating mothers. With the help of their mobile phones, anganwadi workers log into the Poshan Tracker mobile application and input data such as the height or weight of a child, which when tracked over a period of time indicates whether the child is growing appropriately for his or her age or is stunted, wasted or under-weight. Other services recorded include the vaccination status of the child; the nutrition status of pregnant women and lactating mothers; whether an anganwadi was opened on a particular day; how many children attended the anganwadi; how many received take-home rations and hot cooked meals, among others. It triggers alerts for beneficiaries and service providers, and provides a dashboard to enable officials from the Centre to district level to review progress. The Poshan Tracker, known as the ICDS-CAS (Integrated Child Development Services-Common Application Software) in its earlier avatar, was set up with the aim of tracking and improving various services delivered at anganwadis and to ensure nutritional management of beneficiaries. This real-time monitoring system is one of the key pillars of Poshan Abhiyan or Nutrition Mission approved by the Union Cabinet in November 2017 with a financial outlay of Rs. 9,000 crore for three years. Yet this important data is not available in the public domain, unlike the MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi Employment Guarantee Act) data or the Health Management Information System (HMIS) of the Ministry of Health for monitoring of the National Health Mission and other health-related programmes. Government officials have cited privacy concerns as a reason for keeping the data under lock and key but experts say it can easily be anonymised as is the case with data for several other Government schemes. On its Poshan Tracker website (https://poshantracker.in/), the Government hosts a dashboard which provides only administrative details at the national, State and district level. This includes total attendance on a given day, vaccinations, take-home ration and hot cooked meals delivered. But it provides no information on the nutrition status of the beneficiaries. “The dashboard has no useful information and we can’t draw any inferences from it. While Poshan Tracker records real-time data, surveys such as NFHS come out once in few years, and there is a lag between when the data is collected and when the report is released. Poshan Tracker data needs to be in the public domain,” says Dipa Sinha, Assistant Professor, Ambedkar University, and a member of the Right to Food Campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poshan-tracker-data-under-wraps/article37833956.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajasthan BJP gears up for Shah’s visit||Home Minister Amit Shah’s scheduled visit to Rajasthan over the weekend is being highly anticipated by the State unit of the BJP, as it comes after bypoll losses and a solo yatra by former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje. The yatra was seen as an intensification of the face off between her and State BJP chief Satish Poonia. Mr. Shah will be in Jaisalmer for a function associated with the Border Security Force but then will proceed to Jaipur for the more political part of his tour — an address to the working committee of the State unit and a public rally “Panchayat to Parliament” involving local body representatives from nearby panchayats, urban local bodies and cooperative societies as well. Accompanying him from Delhi will be the man Mr. Shah had hand-picked to be the State unit chief in 2018 — Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. State BJP sources said Mr. Shah would certainly be apprised of the problems within the unit. Ms. Raje’s strong-showing in her yatra in the last week of November, where she visited bereaved families of COVID-19 victims and also temples along the way, as well as popping up of posters on the route of her yatra, stating “ Poonia bhagao, bhajapaa bachao ” (get rid of Poonia, save the BJP) has brought matters to a head. “The State unit is divided, there is factionalism, Vasundhara Raje still commands great swathes of support, of which the Delhi high command is also wary of,” said a source. In the face off in 2018, Ms. Raje had refused to accept Mr. Shekhawat as State unit chief, and Mr. Shah appointed Madan Lal Saini as a compromise candidate. The current State chief, Satish Poonia, though has the backing of the party high command at the Centre, had several run-ins with Raje loyalists. Mr. Shah’s visit may help him rally the troops. “This is a simple fight between a charismatic leader with long held loyalists, and a State unit that is part of the larger organisational structure of the BJP, where the leadership of the high command holds sway as it does in the rest of the country,” said a source. It is hoped that Mr. Shah’s visit, his first after the BJP lost power in the State in 2018, will provide some way forward from the factionalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-bjp-gears-up-for-amit-shahs-weekend-visit/article37833947.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||India revokes PepsiCo’s potato patent||Two years after PepsiCo India provoked outrage by suing nine Gujarati farmers for allegedly infringing patent rights by growing its registered potato variety, the company’s registration of the variety has been revoked by the Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers Rights’ Authority (PPV&FRA). “This judgment is a historic victory for the farmers of India. It should also prevent any other seed or food corporation from transgressing legally granted farmers’ seed freedoms in India,” said Kavitha Kuruganti, convenor of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture, who had filed the petition to revoke the food giant’s registration. PepsiCo said it was reviewing Friday’s order. The PPV&FRA questioned the documentation produced by PepsiCo claiming it was the owner of the variety, and thus could be considered the Registered Breeder under the law. The Authority accepted Ms. Kuruganti’s contention that “several farmers have been put to hardship including the looming possibility of having to pay huge penalty on the purported infringement they were supposed to have been committing... This violates public interest,” added the order from PPV&FRA chairperson K.V. Prabhu The FL-2027 variety of potatoes, used in Lays potato chips, came to the limelight in April 2019, when it became the centrepiece for a David vs Goliath fight in the potato belt of northern Gujarat.The potato was grown by about 12,000 farmers with whom the company had an exclusive contract to sell seeds and buy back their produce. In 2016, the company registered the variety under the PPV&FR Act, 2001. Alleging that farmers who were not part of its “collaborative farming programme” were also growing and selling this variety in Gujarat, PepsiCo had filed rights infringement cases against nine farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-revokes-pepsicos-potato-patent/article37834261.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||Tharoor moves Bill for permanent HC Benches||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Friday moved a private member’s Bill in the Lok Sabha seeking to establish permanent Benches of High Courts in State capitals. In Kerala, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Goa, Uttarakhand, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Chhattisgarh, the State High Court is situated outside the capital city. The private member’s Bill was moved in the Lok Sabha after a gap of nearly two years. The private member’s business had been pushed back mainly due to curtailed hours under COVID-19 protocol, disruptions due to Opposition protest. His “Establishment of permanent benches of high courts at state capitals Bill” had been pending since 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tharoor-moves-bill-for-permanent-hc-benches/article37834254.ece
04 December 2021||Chennai,||Shutterbug leads to a pretty find in Sikkim||When Sonam Wangchuk Lepcha, from Dzongu in north Sikkim, started watching butterflies and taking pictures of them, he was not taken very seriously by the people around him. But now his hobby has led to the discovery of a new butterfly species, whose closest relatives are in south-eastern China, close to Hong Kong. Since 2016, Mr. Wangchuk Lepcha has been in the habit of photographing butterflies and sending their pictures to entomologists based at the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), Bengaluru, to identify and upload them on to the ‘Butterflies of India’ website they maintain. In 2020, he contributed the picture of a golden yellow butterfly with brown borders and spots. All the observations submitted to this website are reviewed by an expert paneland they realised that this was a species previously unknown in India andwas a new species. The new species of butterfly, now named the Chocolate-bordered Flitter, also carries the scientific name Zographetus dzonguensis , after Dzongu in north Sikkim, the place where it was discovered. Its closest relatives are Zographetus pangi in Guangdong, and Zographetus hainanensis in Hainan, both in southeastern China, close to Hong Kong, says Dr. Krushnamegh Kunte of NCBS. The physical appearance of the species differ slightly and the internal structures of the males also differ slightly. The details were published in a paper in Zootaxa on December 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shutterbug-leads-to-a-pretty-find-in-sikkim/article37833974.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Implement panel’s anti-pollution steps: SC||“The NCR... It is therefore that their number would be increased to 40 squads. This is to cover the entire NCR,” Mr. Mehta said. The court directed the Centre and the Delhi Government to implement the commission’s anti-pollution measures. The affidavit said industrial operations in NCR, where gas was not available and not running on PNG or clean fuel, would be allowed to operate for eight hours during weekdays and remain closed on weekends. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, for petitioner, suggested harnessing solar or electrical energy for the plants. When U.P. objected to the eight-hour workday, saying sugarcane farmers would be hit at the peak of the ongoing crushing season, the court asked the State to approach the commission. Mr. Mehta, referring to the commission’s affidavit, said thermal plants within a 300-km radius of Delhi would continue to be regulated. Only five of 11 plants were functional. The rest would remain closed till December 15. Justice Chandrachud suggested that the Government consider shifting these plants to alternative fuel for the long-term. The court permitted Delhi to continue its work on building seven new hospitals dedicated to COVID-19 treatment in the Capital, provided they meet the directions of the commission. “They offer excellent facilities. Several of them have been refurbished and re-done,” senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, for Delhi, said. The court has posted the case to December 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/implement-panels-anti-pollution-steps-sc/article37834448.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||PepsiCo loses rights to Lays potato variety||Alleging that farmers who were not part of its “collaborative farming programme” were also growing and selling this variety in Gujarat, PepsiCo filed rights infringement cases under the Act against nine farmers in the state, including a Rs. 4.2 crore lawsuit against four small farmers. In the midst of a crucial election season, widespread protests and boycott threats by farmers groups and political parties across the ideological spectrum forced the Gujarat government to step in, pushing the company to withdraw all cases in May 2019. Ms. Kuruganti then filed an application to revoke PepsiCo’s registration in June 2019. “The Authority’s acceptance of the Revocation Application, including on grounds of being against public interest, sends an important signal that farmers’ rights cannot be taken lightly by IPR-holders in the country. This should prevent further intimidation of farmers through vexatious IP lawsuits,” said legal researcher and agriculture IPR expert Shalini Bhutani, hailing the judgement as a precedent. "We believe that the Authority and the Government have a responsibility to let every applicant and registrant under the PPV&FR Act know that their rights do not supersede farmers' rights,” added Kapil Shah of the Kisan Beej Adhikar Manch, one of the Gujarat activists who spearheaded the initial protests. “The registrants’ rights are limited to only production of a variety, and not production from a variety. Even when it comes to production of a variety, farmers have rights to produce seed and even sell seed of a protected variety provided it is unbranded,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pepsico-loses-rights-to-lays-potato-variety/article37833943.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||153 private members’ Bills introduced in LS||As many as 153 private members’ Bills were introduced in the Lok Sabha on Friday, including one that sought compulsory teaching of the Bhagavad Gita in educational institutions. BJP member Ramesh Bidhuri introduced a Bill to provide for compulsory teaching of the Bhagavad Gita as a moral education textbook in educational institutions. Biju Janata Dal member Bhartruhari Mahtab introduced a Bill to prohibit religious conversions by inducement, coercion or undue influence. Congress member Manish Tewari introduced a Bill to regulate the functioning and exercise of power of Indian intelligence agencies. BJP member Jayant Sinha introduced The Right of Children for Free and Compulsory Education Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/153-private-members-bills-introduced-in-ls/article37834251.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||RS split over Bill on CSR funds for monuments||A private member’s Bill mandating that 25% of all corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds be used for restoration, management and maintenance of ancient monuments and archaeological sites had Rajya Sabha members split on Friday, with some agreeing that historical sites needed more resources while others disagreeing with the mandatory provision. The Upper House took up for discussion the Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2019, which was introduced by BJP MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe on July 12, 2019, on Friday. Mr. Sahasrabuddhe said the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), the National Monuments Authority (NMA) and other agencies tasked with looking after monuments lacked the resources needed for the upkeep of the sites. His Bill proposed an amendment to the Companies Act, making it mandatory on corporates to spend 25% of the CSR amount on monuments’ upkeep. Congress MP Jairam Ramesh said while he broadly agreed with Mr. Sahasrabuddhe’s argument for increased investment in preservation of monuments, the aim of CSR was to benefit local communities. “This should be a guideline and not a blanket law,” Mr. Ramesh said. YSRCP MP V. Vijayasai Reddy supported the Bill, while Amee Yajnik of the Congress questioned the rationale behind the 25% mandate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-split-over-bill-on-csr-funds-for-monuments/article37833935.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||No move for e-voting, Rijiju tells Lok Sabha||There is no proposal to introduce electronic voting in the upcoming general elections, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju informed the Lok Sabha on Friday. In a written reply to an unstarred question by BJP member Dushyant Singh, who had asked the Law Minister of he was aware of an e-voting experiment using a smart phone-based app by the Telangana State Election Commission and if such a technology could be used for general election, Mr. Rijiju replied in the negative. “No such proposal has been received from the Election Commission of India,” he said, adding that the government has not invested in any research and development activity on such technology. In reply to another written question on judicial infrastructure, Mr. Rijiju informed the House that the Government had received a proposal for a National Judicial Infrastructure Authority of India from the Chief Justice of India for adequate infrastructure for courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-move-for-e-voting-rijiju-tells-lok-sabha/article37834252.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||No proposal to ban NSO Group, says Govt.||The company had stated that its product was used “exclusively by government Intelligence and law enforcement agencies to fight crime and terror”. “No, Sir. There is no proposal for banning any group named ‘NSO Group’,” Mr. Chandrasekhar said in a written reply in response to a question from two Rajya Sabha MPs Vishambhar Prasad Nishad and Sukhram Singh Yadav. Asked whether the U.S. had blacklisted the NSO Group and Candiru for providing the spyware, Mr. Chandrasekhar said no such information was available with the IT Ministry. Last month, the U.S. Commerce Department had added NSO Group and Candiru to its trade blacklist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-proposal-to-ban-nso-group-says-govt/article37834255.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. seeks Rs. 62,000 cr. to clear Air India debt||So, what is the balance Rs. 33,105 crore for? “The amount includes interest liabilities toward working capital and aircraft loans, lease rentals, owings to oil companies and to the Airports Authority of India. This is what the government has provided for in the supplementary demand for grants,” a source close to the developments said. As of August 31, Air India had a total debt of Rs. 61,562 crore. Of the total amount, Tata Sons’ subsidiary Talace will take over Rs. 15,300 crore. The remaining Rs. 46,262 crore will be transferred to a government-owned special purpose vehicle (SPV) known as Air India Assets Holding Limited. This company, which was set up to clean the national carrier’s balance sheet, also houses non-core assets such as land and buildings worth Rs. 14,718 crore. Since 2018, the government has already budgeted Rs. 8,351 crore for servicing some of the liabilities parked in this SPV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-seeks-rs-62000-cr-to-clear-air-india-debt/article37834256.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||500 contacts of Omicron patients identified||“ He was asymptomatic and was advised to isolate himself at the hotel. He did a self-investigation in a private lab where he tested negative and checked out on Nov. 27 12:34 midnight and took a cab. He travelled to Dubai. The authorities have traced 24 primary and 240 secondary contacts for the traveller,” it added The samples in the case of the 46-year-old man who had symptoms of fever and body-ache were collected at a hospital on November 22. He was under home isolation from November 22-24 and was later hospitalised from November 25 to 27 after which he was discharged following three days of treatment. His 13 primary contacts 205 secondary contacts were traced. “Three primary and two secondary contacts have tested positive for COVID so far,’’ said the document.  “The variant, Omicron, has 45-52 amino acid changes (including deletions) across the whole genome, 26-32 changes in spike. RT-PCR test can be used as a marker for this variant, pending sequencing confirmation. Increased transmissibility, improved binding affinity make it easier for virus to attach to cells,’’ said the Health Ministry. It said that preliminary data suggested that there were increasing rates of hospitalisation in South Africa, but this may reflect force of infection, rather than increased virulence. Taking precautions Ashok Seth, chairman, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, in his tweet after the detection of Omicron in India said: “Cases of Omicron in India: but why the panic & fear? It is unfortunate that it has become the most dreaded thing even before we know enough. Till now experts from South Africa state that it is causing mild illness. And anyway double masking and double vaccination can protect us from the worst variants. So be proactive but don’t panic.” Meanwhile, 18 districts in India continue to report a high weekly positivity between 5% and 10%, said the Health Ministry with nine districts of concern in Kerala — Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Idukki, Kannur, Kasaragod, Kollam, Palakkad, Pathanamthitta and Thrissur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-contacts-of-omicron-cases-test-positive/article37833950.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bills to extend ED, CBI chiefs’ terms tabled in LS||The government introduced two Bills in the Lok Sabha on Friday that seek to extend the tenures of the directors of the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) up to a maximum of five years, amid protests from Opposition members, who said that the Bills were against the Supreme Court observations on the matter, and were being brought in to harass Opposition leaders from such agencies. Minister of State for Personnel and Training Dr. Jitendra Singh introduced The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021 to replace ordinances that had been brought in the recess period. Congress’s Shashi Tharoor raised objections to the two Bills, stating that it completely disregarded the Supreme Court’s observations that were clear in view that extensions of tenure to superannuated officials should only be done in rare cases. The government’s move was mala fide. Alleged harassment Trinamool Congress member Saugata Roy opposed the move, contending that both the ED and CBI were used by the government to harass Opposition leaders. Congress members K. Suresh, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and RSP member N.K. Premachandran also opposed the introduction of the Bills. They said piecemeal extensions would lead to officers’ loyalty to the government. Dr. Jitendra Singh, however, said the Bills were being brought in as “earlier laws never put any limit on the tenures, we are limiting it to five years.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bills-to-extend-ed-cbi-chiefs-terms-tabled-in-ls/article37833951.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. to wait for expert view on boosters||Responding to multiple questions on deaths during the pandemic due to oxygen shortage, the Health Minister observed that the Union Government had multiple times sought data from the State governments, which had so far not given data on any specific number of cases. “A total of 19 States responded and it was only Punjab which stated in writing that four suspected deaths were there and that too being investigated. We made it public. Still, politics is happening,” the Minister noted. “We have ensured that oxygen plants and ventilators are made available to all the States during the pandemic. Help has also been provided to all the States using the PM-CARES Fund. The Central Government hasn’t stopped at this. We are now also working with the States to ensure that they have a 50-bed critical care medical facility in each district to ensure that the nation is prepared for any further pandemics,” he added. He added that Rs. 100 crore would be spent in each district through the Prime Minister’s Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission for this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-to-wait-for-expert-view-on-boosters/article37833952.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘565 people evacuated’||India has evacuated 565 stranded persons from Afghanistan since August when Kabul fell to the Taliban fighters, the Government stated on Friday in the Lok Sabha. Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said officials of the Ministry of External Affairs were in contact with the Indians left behind. The statement did not elaborate if the airlifted individuals also included some Afghans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/565-people-evacuated/article37833954.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court comes to the aid of sex workers||The Supreme Court has reiterated its direction to States and Union Territories to supply dry rations to sex workers identified by the National AIDS Control Organisation and district legal authorities without insisting on the production of identity documents like ration card. “Right to food has been recognised as a human right under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Though, there is some improvement in the situation caused by COVID-19 pandemic, we are of the view that the constitutional obligation on the State Governments and Union Territories to provide basic amenities to the citizens of this country takes into its fold that the sex workers are entitled for being provided dry ration,” a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao recorded in a recent order. The Court pointed out that it would be difficult for sex workers to produce a proof of identity and asked the Government to reach out and provide them food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supreme-court-comes-to-the-aid-of-sex-workers/article37834259.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||T.N. lauded for efforts to empower the disabled||Tamil Nadu was on Friday awarded the best State for promoting empowerment of persons with disabilities (PwD) in the Centre’s annual national-level awards for the disability sector. It was handed over by President Ram Nath Kovind at a ceremony here on International Day of Persons with Disabilities. In the award citation issued by the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry, Tamil Nadu was honoured for “focusing its attention on taking up and implementing programmes/schemes for the rehabilitation and empowerment of persons with disabilities”. The State had given the highest Budget allocation for the department concerned with persons with disabilities, issued 13.35 lakh disability certificates and granted recognition to 382 special schools run by NGOs, the citation said. “It has taken initiatives in providing rehabilitation to the mentally ill persons who are abandoned by the family and found roaming the streets and other public places who are rescued and admitted to the hospitals under the ‘Rescue Scheme’ through non-government organisations and are provided shelter, food, medical facilities and vocational training,” the citation read. Among government departments, Public Works Department of Nashik was given award for its “outstanding work in creation of a barrier-free environment”. Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar said persons with disabilities were “valuable human resources” and their welfare was a national development agenda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tn-lauded-for-efforts-to-empower-the-disabled/article37833965.ece
04 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||Facelift for two major temples in Puducherry||The Public Works Department (PWD) has taken up comprehensive renovation of two major temples — Gangai Varaga Natheeswarar temple, Thirukanji and Sri Kokilambal Thirukameswarar temple, Villianur — in Puducherry as part of the development of a Spiritual Circuit. The work is expected to be completed in five months and constitutes the second phase of a project being executed at a cost of Rs. 5.5 crore. “The facelift work is currently taken up under the Union Ministry of Tourism’s Swadesh Darshan scheme for integrated development of theme-based tourist circuits. A major portion of the work has been completed,” according to a senior Tourism Department official. PWD sources said that work on landscaping the temple premises was under way. Besides paving granite pathways over an expanse of 60,000 sq. ft. on the temples’ precincts, the roads passing by the periphery of the temples were also being developed. At the Thirukameswarar temple, facilities for pilgrims, including a comfort station, toilet blocks, multi-purpose hall for conducting marriages and events and a stage were being constructed. The temple pond is being spruced up with granite steps and handrails for the benefit of the pilgrims. A metallic fence will be erected around the pond. A multi-purpose hall with a seating capacity of 400 persons is also being built in the Gangai Varaga Natheeswarar temple in Thirukanji. Another major project component was the restoration of the temple pond. “The construction of the four pavilions for performing rituals along the banks of the Sankarabarani river in Thirukanji is nearing completion. Granite pathways are being laid to a length of 100 metres along the ghats. Apart from renovating the temple, the project aims at readying the temple precincts in Thirukanji for the Maha Pushkarini planned next year,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/facelift-for-two-major-temples-in-puducherry/article37834757.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||Aid scheme draws 5,000 applications||The Government has received more than 5,000 applications for its scheme under the PM CARES Fund for COVID-19 orphans. “As on December 2, 5,491 applications have been uploaded on the portal out of which, 3049 applications have been approved by District Magistrates and 483 applications are pending for approval,” Minister for Women and Child Development Smriti Irani told the Lok Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aid-scheme-draws-5000-applications/article37834250.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||BJP MP seeks population control law||Even as India’s national Total Fertility Rate (TFR) is falling below the replacement rate, BJP MP in the Rajya Sabha Kirori Lal Meena pushed for a population control law on the lines of China’s now discarded one-child policy. According to Mr. Meena, such a law will help with controlling inflation and bringing equality for women. During the Zero Hour in Rajya Sabha when MPs can raise issues of national importance, Mr. Meena presented the legislation as a one-shot solution for “poverty, disease, malnourishment, pollution”. The overall health of people would improve with such a law, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mp-seeks-population-control-law/article37833944.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lok Sabha records 204% productivity||The productivity of Lok Sabha increased to 204% on Thursday as the House sat for extra hours till midnight to discuss the COVID-19 pandemic, a historic milestone in Parliament. Commending MPs, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said in the Lok Sabha that it was the highest ever recorded productivity in a single day of legislative business. “It shows how our people’s representatives are engaged in public welfare and the message of such an engagement percolates down the system in a beneficial way,” he said. According to officials, the productivity of the Lower House had touched 117% on Wednesday. Overall, the productivity during the Winter Session of Parliament, which began on Monday, has been 83%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lok-sabha-records-204-productivity/article37833945.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Prepared for any escalation, says Navy chief||In the aftermath of the Ladakh stand-off last year, the Navy forward deployed ships in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), was prepared for any escalation and continued to maintain good domain awareness of movements in the region, Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS) Admiral R. Hari Kumar said. The Navy, he stressed, was a well-balanced force and there was need for right balance between the number of ships and submarines in the context of a third aircraft carrier. On the formation of integrated theatre commands, he noted that jointness and integration was not something that could happen “in a very short time”. The modalities for the Maritime Theatre Command (MTC) could be finalised by mid-2022. “When there were tensions on our northern borders, our ships were forward deployed. Other ships were ready in case the situation escalated. We had kept their [China] ships under close surveillance, which we continue to do even now. Any of their ships coming on deployment, we keep a watch on them. We maintain fairly good maritime domain awareness in our area of responsibility,” said Admiral Kumar, who assumed charge on November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prepared-for-any-escalation-says-navy-chief/article37833957.ece
04 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Bodies of 3 fishermen recovered||The bodies of three fishermen were recovered from the sea after eight fishermen went missing when their boats capsized in turbulent waters in Saurashtra, Gujarat. Late on Friday evening, the third body was found after a search and rescue operation was launched by the Indian Coast Guard and other agencies. According to local officials, five fishermen are still missing. The Coast Guard search and rescue operation continues with a helicopter and a boat. The fishermen went missing after their boats were destroyed amid stormy weather on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bodies-of-3-fishermen-recovered/article37833960.ece
04 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Talks between Haryana, farm leaders fail||The talks between Haryana farm unions leaders and Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Friday remained inconclusive after the two sides failed to reach an agreement over the demands put forth by the farmer leaders’ delegation. “We had put forth four demands, but a consensus could not be built and the talks failed,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni, soon after the three-hour-long meeting at Chief Minister’s official residence in Chandigarh. Mr. Charuni said the farm union leaders had placed four demands — seeking withdrawal of cases registered during the agitation, suitable compensation and Government jobs for the families of the “martyr farmers” and allotment of land to build a memorial for them. “No agreement could be reached on the demands. There was no discussion on holding any further meetings in this regard.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/talks-between-haryana-farm-leaders-fail/article37834257.ece
04 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Disaster relief teams back in Odisha||The Odisha Government on Friday started redeploying the disaster response forces after the deep depression in the Bay of Bengal intensified into cyclonic storm Jawad, which may touch the Puri district coast before recurving away in the north-east direction. Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P. K. Jena said the impact of Jawad would be felt more in districts such as Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara and Khordha, where red-warning for rainfall had been issued. He warned against panic-buying and said that the State had adequate reserve of food materials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disaster-relief-teams-back-in-odisha/article37834206.ece
04 December 2021||Patna,||BJP MLA alleges Nitish used ‘foul’ language||A BJP MLA in Bihar on Friday accused Chief Minister Nitish Kumar of having used ‘objectionable’ language at a meeting of NDA legislators held earlier this week. Nikki Hembrom, who represents Katoria Assembly segment and is the national secretary of the BJP ST Morcha, said she was rebuked when she raised the issue of tribals getting affected by the prohibition law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mla-alleges-nitish-used-foul-language/article37834447.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||Women officers appointed on board major warships: Navy chief||The Indian Navy has deployed 28 women officers on board around 15 frontline warships and the number is set to go up with more such appointments being planned. Chief of Naval Staff Admiral R. Hari Kumar said the Navy is fully prepared to “induct and absorb” women across a wide spectrum of roles and responsibilities.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/women-officers-appointed-on-board-major-warships-navy-chief/article37833970.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Protests over BJP MP’s bill to amend Preamble||A Bill to amend the Preamble to the Constitution to replace the word “socialist” with “equitable”, among other changes, being introduced by BJP MP K.J. Alphons led to protests by Opposition MPs on Friday. Mr. Alphons moved the motion to introduce the Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Upper House to which Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Manoj Kumar Jha objected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protests-over-bjp-mps-bill-to-amend-preamble/article37833936.ece
04 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||OBC leader Thakor to head Cong. in Gujarat||Almost nine months after the resignation of Gujarat Congress president and Leader of the Opposition Amit Chavda and Paresh Dhanani respectively, the Congress on Friday appointed senior OBC leader Jagdish Thakor as the party chief and tribal legislator Sukhram Rathwa as the Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/obc-leader-thakor-to-head-cong-in-gujarat/article37833938.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||NIA moves Supreme Court against bail to advocate Sudha Bharadwaj||The National Investigation Agency has appealed to the Supreme Court against bail default bail granted to advocate Sudha Bharadwaj, who has been in jail for over two years in the Bhima Koregaon case. The Bombay High Court had upheld Ms. Bhardwaj’s right to personal liberty. The NIA court did not have the jurisdiction to extend detention beyond 90 days, the High Court said in its bail order on December 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-moves-supreme-court-against-bail-to-advocate-sudha-bharadwaj/article37833953.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||Booster dose of six Covid vaccines safe, increases immunity: Lancet study||Six different COVID-19 boosters are safe and elicit strong immune response in people who have previously received a two-dose course of AstraZeneca or Pfizer vaccines, according to a study published in The Lancet journal. Two doses of AstraZeneca and Pfizer vaccines have shown 79 per cent and 90 per cent protection, respectively.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/booster-dose-of-six-covid-vaccines-safe-increases-immunity-lancet-study/article37833969.ece
04 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab police recover grenades, bomb from border district||After the two Pakistan ISI-sponsored terror modules in Gurdaspur district earlier this week, Punjab police has recovered four hand grenades and one “tiffin bomb” concealed in a sack at Salempur Araiyan village in the border district. An FIR has been registered under Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Explosive Substances Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-police-recover-grenades-bomb-from-border-district/article37833977.ece
04 December 2021||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao to return to jail by Dec 20||The Bombay High Court on Friday extended 82-year-old poet Varavara Rao’s date of surrender back to the jail till December 20. The Division Bench also extended the time given to the National Investigation Agency to file Mr. Rao’s medical report till December 17. Mr. Rao had sought an extension of the medical bail given to him for a period of six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/varavara-rao-to-return-to-jail-by-dec-20/article37833972.ece
04 December 2021||Guwahati,||11 elephants rescued from Assam mud trap||Forest officials in western Assam’s Goalpara district rescued 11 wild elephants of two separate herds from a mud trap within 24 hours. The elephants had come down from the adjoining hills of Meghalaya to the district’s Choibari area in search of food. Local villagers had informed the Forest Department officials and the police after they found the elephants unable to get out of the mud trap. “Today [December 3] morning, we rescued six elephants that were trapped in the same muddy pond where five others from another herd had been stuck yesterday [December 2],” a Forest official said. The rescue team used excavators to dig up a side of the pond, helping the elephants to climb up slowly. Officials said the villagers helped them in the operation. The elephants were guided to a nearby jungle, the official said. A similar operation spanning 10 hours was carried out on Thursday afternoon when five elephants of a herd fell in the same pond. One of the elephants was a calf. Goalpara district has had a history of human-elephant conflict leading to damage of houses and crops. Meanwhile, the Northeast Frontier Railway has initiated an inquiry into the mowing down of two wild elephants in central Assam’s Morigaon district on November 30. The engine of the New Delhi-Dibrugarh Rajdhani Express had rammed the elephants around 10 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/11-elephants-rescued-from-assam-mud-trap/article37834210.ece
04 December 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||BJP functionary arrested for making provocative remarks||Ariyalur Police have arrested the district unit president of the BJP, Ayyappan, 48, on Friday on charges of making provocative remarks. While speaking at a demonstration organised by the party in front of the Collectorate here on Wednesday, urging the ruling DMK government to reduce prices of petrol and diesel, he had allegedly stated that the party cadre were ready to even carry out “suicide attacks as per instructions of the party’s State president” if the prices of petrol and diesel were not reduced within a week. Police sources said his remarks were aimed at disturbing public tranquillity and harmony, besides causing hatred. The Ariyalur police booked a case against Ayyappan under various IPC sections. He was later remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-functionary-arrested-for-making-provocative-remarks/article37834501.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||UAV Corporation to be formed||The Higher Education Department has issued an order to establish the Tamil Nadu Unmanned Aerial Vehicles Corporation in partnership with the Madras Institute of Technology (MIT), Anna University. The 100% government-owned company with a registered office at Directorate of Technical Education (DoTE), Guindy, and a functional office on MIT campus in Chromepet, has been set up with Rs. 10 crore as authorised paid-up capital, divided into one crore equity shares of Rs. 10 each. Board of directors The board of directors will include the Higher Education Secretary who will be its chairman and an IAS officer will be the managing director. The Additional Chief Secretary or the Finance Secretary or his or her nominee will be one of the directors. The secretaries/representatives of municipal administration and water supply, industries, revenue and disaster management, the Additional Director-General of Police (Technical Services), the Director of Technical Education, a representative from Anna University and a chief executive officer, who will be recruited on deputation, would be directors. MD’s responsibility The day-to-day management of the corporation would be the responsibility of the MD. The authorised capital would be increased based on requirement as and when the corporation’s board and the government approve it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uav-corporation-to-be-formed/article37834390.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM condemns passage of Dam Safety Bill||Chief Minister and DMK president M.K. Stalin condemned the BJP Government at the Centre over the passage of the Dam Safety Bill, 2019 in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, saying the Bill was against federalism and would snatch the rights of the States. “It is highly condemnable that the Union Government has adamantly passed the Dam Safety Bill, which is against federalism and the right of the States. The DMK had consistently opposed the Bill when the party was in Opposition, and now, we continue to do so when we are in power,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. The Chief Minister recalled the speech of DMK MP A. Raja in Parliament when the Bill was tabled in 2019. He said Mr. Raja had demanded, on behalf of the DMK, that the Bill be withdrawn as it was an attack on federalism and was being introduced in an urgent manner. When the Bill came up for discussion in the Rajya Sabha, DMK MP Tiruchi Siva had said it would infringe on basic rights and powers vested in State governments and would give additional powers to the Union government. Mr. Siva had also said the Bill violated Article 252-I of the Constitution, and now, the protection of the States’ powers had become a question mark, Mr. Stalin noted. The Chief Minister said DMK MP T.K.S Elangovan had demanded that the Bill be sent to a select committee. Opposition backing On a similar motion moved by Mr. Siva, voting had taken place and the other Opposition parties had supported the motion. “While the AIADMK, too, had supported the demand, the Union Government used its brute majority to decide that the Bill need not be sent to a select committee and passed the Bill,” he said. Mr. Stalin described the passage of the Bill as a big deterioration in the Union-State relationship. “I wish to remind all that the day when the Union BJP Government will be answerable to the people for misusing its majority and enacting laws against State governments is not far off,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-condemns-passage-of-dam-safety-bill/article37834363.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Soaring air fares leave flyers in a fix||When Manam Jain planned to to go the U.S. for his education, he did not expect that he would have to pay Rs. 1.67 lakh for his flight. Similarly, Kala Mishra who planned to come down to Chennai from London, was shocked to learn that she would have to pay Rs. 60,000 as against the usual fare of Rs. 30,000. “I have been longing to see my family and wanted to somehow fly back to India. I am looking at various options to see how I can plan my trip,” she says. Flyers are struggling to make it as the fares have been rising on some routes. Prakash S. says: “My son and his family are coming down from Canada in December and he is spending Rs. 2.5 lakh on flights alone. We haven’t seen one another for two years.” Travel agents attribute the steep rise in fares to limited number of flights available. S. Jeyasekaran of Travel Agents Association of India, Chennai chapter, says fares are phenomenally high for destinations in the U.S., the U.K., Canada and Dubai in December and passengers are feeling the pinch. For instance, a flight ticket from London to Chennai is priced from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 60,000 and some days. It rises to Rs. 1.2 lakh. Similarly, for destinations in the U.S. and Canada, fares touch Rs. 1 lakh and above. “People don’t have a choice. The ones travelling are the ones who want to meet their families because of some emergency or prior commitment, including weddings,” he says. High demand Travel agents say one of the primary reasons for such high rates, apart from the limited number of flights, is the high demand for seats. Tushar Jain of Roundtrip.in says as against the normal number of eight to 10 flights, there are only two or three now. “For instance, there used to be usually six or seven flights to Dubai but only two are in operation now. Similarly, there are just one or two flights to London,” he says. Sriharan Balan of Madura Travels says that earlier, flyers were reluctant to travel because of safety concerns but since the economy has picked up and the daily tally of COVID-19 cases has been on the decline, people are confident of flying abroad. “Many have waited for more than a year to visit their families. We hear that regular commercial flights may start soon and we are asking passengers to push their travel dates to avoid spending so much on flight fares,” he adds. There aren’t many who want to travel abroad during Christmas and New Year this reason as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soaring-air-fares-leave-flyers-in-a-fix/article37834431.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 711 fresh COVID-19 cases||A total of 711 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the State on Friday. No new case was reported in three districts — Kallakurichi, Tenkasi and Virudhunagar. Besides, 19 districts reported fewer than 10 fresh cases each. Chennai and Coimbatore continued to top the table with 128 and 127 new cases, respectively. Erode’s daily tally dropped to 59. There were 56 cases in Chengalpattu and 52 in Tiruppur. A total of 43 people in Namakkal and 41 in Salem tested positive for the infection. Six districts — Ariyalur, Mayiladuthurai, Perambalur, Theni, Tirupattur and Thoothukudi — reported only one case each. Returnees test positive Among those who tested positive for the infection was a returnee from Singapore and six persons who returned from other States — three from West Bengal and one each from Assam, Bihar and Jharkhand. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 27,29,061. The State recorded nine deaths (four in private hospitals and five in government hospitals), taking the toll to 36,513. A total of 31 districts reported no COVID-19 death. There were three deaths in Salem, while six districts, including Chennai and Coimbatore, recorded one fatality each. As many as 759 patients, including 122 in Chennai and 111 in Coimbatore, were discharged after treatment. This took the total number of recoveries so far to 26,84,450. The State’s active caseload fell to 8,098. There were fewer than 100 active cases each in 22 districts. With nine persons under treatment, Tenkasi had the least number of active cases in the State. As many as 1,267 people were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in Coimbatore and 1,170 in Chennai. A total of 1,02,673 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 5,45,75,400. A total of 2,73,524 people, including 1,56,459 people aged 18 to 44 and 74,847 people aged 45 to 59, were vaccinated on Friday. This took the coverage at government vaccination centres to 6,91,84,506.  The State recorded nine deaths (four in private hospitals and five in government hospitals), taking the toll to 36,513. A total of 31 districts reported no COVID-19 death||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-711-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37834361.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Make public spaces safe, inclusive for queer people’||The priority, while designing and transforming public spaces, must be to make them inclusive and safe for queer people and all other marginalised sections of society, said panellists at a discussion here on Thursday. In a virtual discussion on the topic “Making public spaces LGBTIQ+ inclusive” organised under the Chatham House Rule, which demanded non-disclosure of the identity of the speakers, the panellists said the public spaces were mostly designed with the heteronormative, upper class and upper caste people in mind. The discussion was organised by The Prajnya Trust in association with Orinam as part of the former’s annual 16-day campaign against gender violence. Misconception The panellists said there was a misconception that making public spaces inclusive for queer people and marginalised sections would alienate the spaces from the majority of the public. Highlighting that accessing toilets in public spaces marked for “men” and “women” was difficult for queer people, one of the panellists argued that making all the toilets in public spaces gender neutral would go a long way in making them inclusive and safe. Another panellist wondered why the toilets in public places such as restaurants and bus stands could not be de-gendered when the toilets in planes and trains had always been gender neutral. Arguing that most decision makers from government bodies often came with heteronormative conditioning, a panellist stressed the need for finding avenues to have continuous discussions with them to make the public spaces more inclusive. One of the ways to make the public spaces inclusive was to display artworks by queer people, the panellists said.  Public spaces were mostly designed with the heteronormative, upper class and upper caste people in mind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/make-public-spaces-safe-inclusive-for-queer-people/article37834429.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State may get only light to moderate rain this weekend||Fairly widespread rain may continue over the State during the weekend. However, rainfall may be of light to moderate intensity in several places, and only one or two areas in the southern parts may record heavy rain, the Meteorological Department has said. After intense rainfall last month, the State may largely experience a dip in the next few days. The season’s first cyclonic storm, ‘Jawad’, may intensify and reach west central Bay of Bengal, off the north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts, by Saturday. However, it may not have any direct impact on Tamil Nadu. In the past 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Friday, Ayikudi in Tenkasi district recorded 8 cm of rain — the highest for the day in the State. A few other weather stations, particularly in the southern parts of the State, received moderate rain. Coonoor and Valparai received light rain of 2 cm on Friday, between 8.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. Kanniyakumari and Tirunelveli may see thunderstorms with heavy rain in one or two places on Saturday. Several other southern districts and those along the Western Ghats and its neighbouring districts may get moderate rainfall. Isolated light rain may occur in the north coastal belt and Puducherry. Similarly, on Sunday, Salem, Erode, Namakkal and Tiruppur are likely to get isolated heavy rain. Same pattern next week The same weather pattern may continue next week, and dry weather may prevail in the northern parts. S. Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology, Chennai, said wind convergence over south Tamil Nadu and convective activity would largely ensure wet weather over the State for the next few days. The cyclonic storm will not have much impact on the State. There may be a drop in the minimum temperature in some north coastal and interior districts due to a change in wind direction when the system approaches the coast. An easterly wave may bring some rain after December 10. But weather models are being monitored for further increase in rain, he said. The Meteorological Department has forecast a maximum temperature of 31 degrees Celsius, till Sunday, for Chennai. The city has recorded excess rainfall for the year. It has so far recorded 203 cm of rain, as against its yearly share of 140 cm. Similarly, Meenambakkam has got 197 cm this year, against its annual average of 138 cm.  In the past 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Friday, Ayikudi in Tenkasi district recorded 8 cm of rain — the highest for the day in the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/light-to-moderate-rain-likely-this-weekend/article37834395.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to recruit 140 doctors||The Greater Chennai Corporation will strengthen the public health infrastructure, offering improved services for residents in all the 200 wards of the city. A total of 236 health workers will be recruited for Corporation hospitals shortly. A total of 140 health and wellness centres will be developed in addition to the existing urban primary health centres in various parts of the city. Plans are afoot to recruit 140 doctors and other workers for the centres shortly. On Friday, a large number of candidates gathered on the premises of Ripon Buildings for job interviews. A total of 1,000 candidates appeared for the interviews to fill 236 posts, including 21 medical officers, 25 staff nurses, 17 data entry operators, 10 lab technicians, 11 X-ray technicians, two operation theatre assistants, six pharmacists, and 144 auxiliary nurse midwives (ANM). The Corporation officials sent call letters to 394 candidates who applied for the posts of medical officers and 333 of them turned up. A total of 227 out of 314 staff nurses, who received call letters, appeared for the interview. Only 185 out of 292 candidates, who received call letters for the post of data entry operators, appeared for the interview. A total of 98 candidates appeared for the interview to fill six vacant pharmacist posts. Of the 144 vacancies in auxiliary nurses posts, only 44 candidates appeared for the interview. Once the 236 vacancies are filled, services are expected to improve in various parts of the city. Each of the urban primary health centre get more than 100 outpatients every day. More than 15,000 people benefit from corporation hospitals every day. After the launch of health and wellness centres at 140 locations, more services are expected to be offered for diabetes and hypertension. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the civic body was augmenting the workforce with funding from the National Health Mission. “The Corporation has taken steps to deal with the COVID-19 situation which had peaked in May. COVID-19 has been brought down to a great extent because of the efforts of our team of doctors and paramedical staff. Now that we have got funds under the National Health Mission, the Corporation is taking more doctors and paramedical staff on a contractual basis,” Mr. Bedi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-recruit-140-doctors/article37834378.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online booking for rapid test at airport to be open to all||All passengers will soon be allowed to undergo RT-PCR and the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) testing for SARS CoV-2 at Chennai airport. Passengers can pay for the test and get the results before boarding a flight or exiting the airport. Authorities are working on rectifying a glitch on the portal for online booking of slots for the Rapid Antigen Test for outbound passengers. While travellers arriving at the airport do not face any issues in online booking for RAT, passengers going to countries other than the U.A.E. are unable to book a slot online before reaching the airport. They are unable to proceed beyond the booking page with the portal flashing a message “only passengers travelling to UAE shall opt for rapid test.” With the U.S. making it mandatory for those entering the country to produce a negative COVID-19 test report from the coming week, the glitch could become an issue, a few travellers said. A senior official at the Chennai airport, who acknowledged the problem, said it had been brought to the notice of the officials concerned and they were coordinating with the Hindlabs to fix the glitch. However, passengers heading to other districts in the State can take Rapid PCR test by showing their travel ticket. Charges for tests RT-PCR and Rapid PCR testing counters were working round-the-clock at Chennai airport. While the charge for RT-PCR testing is Rs. 700, it is Rs. 3,400 for Rapid PCR test. The airport official said on December 1, 420 persons underwent RT-PCR and Rapid PCR tests and the figure rose to 591 on December 2. The website for online booking of COVID-19 tests at Chennai airport ishttps://myhindlab.com/MobVerifyPatRegistrationAAI.aspx||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-booking-for-rapid-test-at-airport-to-be-open-to-all/article37834386.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. inks MoUs to strengthen mental health initiatives||Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) were signed between the National Health Mission- Tamil Nadu and three non-governmental organisations on Friday to strengthen measures to provide mental healthcare to the elderly and prevent suicides and for the early diagnosis and treatment of cancer among children. One of the MoUs was signed with the Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF) to train medical personnel, working in the geriatric wards created by the State Government in district headquarters hospitals, on geriatric mental health, particularly dementia care. Suicide prevention Another MoU was signed with Sneha, an organisation working towards suicide prevention, to strengthen government initiatives to prevent suicides. The third was signed with the organisation, CanKids KidsCan, to address the gap in early detection and treatment of cancer among children. Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said the MoUs with the three organisations were part of a series of progressive measures being taken the government to strengthen public health. He highlighted the recently launched Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam scheme, which provides healthcare at the doorstep, and the soon-to-be-launched Innuyir Kappom initiative that will help reduce road accident fatalities. He said the State Government was taking steps to ban the sale of cow dung powder, the consumption of which was becoming a widely prevalent method of committing suicide. The State will also look at imposing stringent restrictions on the sale of rat poison, he said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the MoUs were an example of how NGOs that work in specific areas could complement the government’s measures. Training personnel Darez Ahamed, mission director, NHM-Tamil Nadu, said some of the focus areas, as part of the collaborations, would be training personnel and strengthening fine-tuning standard operating procedures and protocols. R. Thara, vice-chairperson, SCARF, said strengthening elderly care was significant for Tamil Nadu, as the State had nearly 11% of its population in the elderly age group — one of the highest in the country. She said the prevalence of dementia was particularly on the rise among the elderly, and that required additional focus. Lakshmi Vijayakumar, founder, Sneha, said the number of people ending their lives by suicide, particularly among the younger age groups, had significantly increased in the State. She said the use of pesticides to commit suicide was the highest in Tamil Nadu, when compared with the other States. Rajajalakshmi Ravikumar, southern regional director of CanKids KidsCan, said there was an urgent need to take proactive measures for the early detection of cancer, as only 60% of cancer cases among children are detected at the right stage.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available at Sneha's helpline 044-24640050 and the State Government’s health helpline 104)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-inks-mous-to-strengthen-mental-health-initiatives/article37834398.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC refuses to pass interim order on AIADMK organisational polls||The Madras High Court on Friday refused to pass any interim order with respect to the conduct of the AIADMK organisational elections, scheduled to be held on Tuesday, for the posts of coordinator and co-coordinator of the party. Justice Abdul Quddhose only ordered notices, returnable by January 7, to the AIADMK, its incumbent coordinator O. Pannneerselvam, co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami and election officers C. Ponnaiyan and Pollachi V. Jayaraman. Case adjourned He adjourned the case by a month for the filing of counter-affidavits. Former MP K.C. Palanisamy had filed the civil suit, seeking to declare illegal the election notification issued by the party on Thursday. He also sought a permanent injunction restraining the defendants from conducting polls to the posts of coordinator and co-coordinator. He sought the appointment of a retired High Court judge as an independent election officer to conduct the polls after issuing a fresh notification and providing 21 days’ time for the candidates to file their nominations. He also questioned his removal from the party. ‘Removed in 2018’ Senior counsel Vijay Narayan, representing the AIADMK, brought to the notice of the court that the plaintiff was removed from primary membership of the party in 2018, and he had filed a suit now, challenging his removal, and simultaneously sought multiple orders with respect to the organisational elections. Senior counsel P.H. Arvindh Pandian, G. Krishnan and Satish Parasaran, representing the other defendants in the suit, said the former MP had no locus standi to question the elections and, therefore, the court should not entertain any request for passing interim orders with respect to the elections. ‘Members’ support’ The petitioner’s counsel said over 27,000 members of the party were supporting his case, and it was against the bylaws to conduct the polls within five days of issuance of the notification. He also claimed that a candidate who wanted to file his nomination was thrashed at the AIADMK office on Friday. After hearing both sides, the judge said he would certainly intervene in the issue if he finds any illegality in the conduct of the elections after the defendants file their counter-affidavits. However, at the present stage, the plaintiff had not made out any case for grant of interim orders, he said. Applicant manhandled A group of people on Friday manhandled a prospective applicant for the posts of coordinator and co-coordinator of the AIADMK at its headquarters in Chennai. The incident occurred when the prospective applicant, Ompodi Prasad Singh, was talking to journalists. Party sources said Mr. Singh was not given nomination papers as he did not have the “relevant documents”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-refuses-to-pass-interim-order-on-aiadmk-organisational-polls/article37834369.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajesh Das challenges CJM’s order in Madras HC||Suspended special Director General of Police Rajesh Das has filed yet another petition in the Madras High Court and this time, he has challenged an order passed by Villupuram Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) on July 30 taking cognisance of a charge-sheet filed against him in a sexual harassment complaint lodged by a woman Indian Police Service (IPS) officer. ‘Virtually impossible’ When the matter was listed before Justice M. Nirmal Kumar on Thursday for deciding its maintainability, the judge directed the High Court Registry to number the petition and list it for admission in regular course. In his petition, the suspended DGP contended that it would have been virtually impossible for the CJM to have read a 1,300-page charge-sheet within a few hours. He pointed out that the Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) probing the sexual harassment case had filed its charge-sheet on July 29 and the CJM took cognisance of it the very next day and issued summons to him. “It is impossible for the CJM to have read 1,300 pages of the charge-sheet between July 29 evening and July 30 morning,” he contended. The suspended DGP also alleged that the CJM was under heavy pressure since the High Court had taken suo motu cognisance of the complaint and monitored the investigation by CB-CID. “The learned Magistrate was influenced by the orders of this court in suo motu proceedings and took cognisance of the offence without proper application of judicial mind,” his petition read.  It is impossible for the CJM to have read 1,300 pages of the charge-sheet between July 29 evening and July 30 morning Rajesh Das||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajesh-das-challenges-cjms-order-in-madras-hc/article37834432.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC sets aside order impounding Leena Manimekalai’s passport||The Madras High Court on Friday set aside a September 9 order of the Regional Passport Officer, Chennai impounding the passport of film-maker Leena Manimekalai just because she was facing a criminal defamation complaint lodged by director Susi Ganesan for naming him during the ‘MeToo’ movement. Justice M. Dhandapani allowed a writ petition filed by her against the order and directed the official to release the passport within a week. He directed the petitioner to cooperate in early completion of the trial in the defamation case by not obtaining unnecessary adjournments and remaining absent during the hearings. The judge agreed with her counsel Abudukumar Rajarathinam that the RPO had failed to take note that the petitioner was not an accused in any criminal case booked by the police. Instead, she was only facing a private complaint of criminal defamation at the instance of a private individual and it did not warrant impounding of passport. “The act of the passport authority appears to be very strange,” the judge remarked and went on to state that the passport authorities seldom invoke the power conferred on them under Section 10(3)(e) of the Passports Act of 1967 to impound the passports of those accused of committing heinous offences with far reaching consequences. However, when it was complained on behalf of Mr. Ganesan that the High Court had earlier ordered completion of trial in the criminal defamation case within three months and yet the petitioner was adopting dilatory tactics, the judge directed both the parties to cooperate in early completion of the trial. ‘Presence not necessary’ Making it clear that it was not necessary for the writ petitioner to be present before the trial court during every hearing, the judge said her counsel should definitely be present during every hearing. He said the petitioner could submit her travel plan before the trial court if she intended to fly abroad for educational purposes so that the trial court could frame a schedule for hearing. Whenever her personal presence was required for the trial, the court concerned would issue appropriate summons, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-sets-aside-order-impounding-passport-of-leena-manimekalai/article37834392.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Need urgent focus on improving childhood immunisation’||The dropping rates of childhood immunisation across the country will definitely have consequences, and how soon these deleterious effects come in will depend on the proportion of children immunised, and by the disease itself, said Gagandeep Kang, professor of the Department of Gastrointestinal Sciences at the Christian Medical College inVellore, on Friday. Already, outbreaks of diphtheria have surfaced, and it is likely to manifest at the earliest. The risk of re-emerging polio infection is also something one has to watch out for. Pertussis would be more distributed than diphtheria, and is unlikely to be an outbreak. However, for both HIB and Pertussis, the proportion of these diseases will go up in a population. Dr. Kang was speaking at a webinar, ‘The Impact of COVID-19 on Childhood Immunisations’, organised by Sabin Institute in association with Internews Asia Media Dialogue. Over the course of the pandemic, during the lockdowns, much of the health resources went towards addressing the challenges posed by COVID-19, Dr. Kang said. In the process, one of the side effects was the drop in childhood immunisation rates last year. There were children who did not get any vaccines, and others who got partially vaccinated. The children who got no vaccines were not only those who counted among the anti-vaccers, but also those from families with poor access to healthcare. In the case of the group that received partial vaccination, a pandemic disrupts the health-seeking behaviour of the family that usually brings the child in to get his or her shot. Safety was a key issue during the past year. In South East Asia, Dr. Kang said there had been an emphasis on surveillance for a very long time. In terms of services, infrastructure and human resources, it took a long time to set it up, but everything that was built over a period of time had gone due to COVID-19. Unless efforts were made to revive the childhood immunisation programme in full measure, it will be difficult to prevent children from contracting vaccine-preventable diseases that could be killers, she added. Sumnima Tuladhar, Executive Director, CWIN-Nepal, and Jaya Sreedhar and Sonny Krishnan of InterNews also participated in the webinar.  Over the course of the pandemic, during the lockdowns, much of the health resources went towards addressing the challenges posed by COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-urgent-focus-on-improving-childhood-immunisation/article37834376.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Act against Tangedco for violating norm’||A consumer activist has written to the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC), seeking action against Tangedco for non-compliance with the regulation that the utility should bear the cost of installing distribution transformers, with associated equipment, and not charge consumers. In his letter, K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary, Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said TNERC could not remain a mere spectator in the issue, despite all the facts being brought to its knowledge. “TNERC is soft towards Tangedco, and is unwilling to take any effective and strong action under sections 142 and 146 of the Electricity Act, which deal with the levying of penalty for non-compliance with regulations, despite pleas to initiate suo motu action,” he said.  According to him, despite the regulation and orders from TNERC and the Electricity Ombudsman, Tangedco continued to collect the charges. Field-level officials said they had not received any communication from their higher officials not to collect the charges, Mr. Kathirmathiyon said. On September 24, the Electricity Ombudsman, in a case filed by real estate developers, had ruled that as per the regulation, charges for installation work, including drawing a portion of any HT line on the consumer’s premises, alone should be collected from the consumer. Collection of the cost of distribution transformers, with associated equipment/accessories such as AB switch, HG Fuse, DT structure/pole, by Tangedco, went against the regulations and directions, he ruled, and instructed Tangedco to refund the excess charges collected in all similar cases and file a compliance report in 60 days. Mr. Kathirmathiyon said a compliance report had not been filed. Sources said real estate developers were planning to seek action under Section 142 of the Electricity Act for non-compliance with Ombudsman’s order. Mr. Kathirmathiyon said 46 associations in Coimbatore had given a joint memorandum on the issue to the Chief Minister recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/act-against-tangedco-for-violating-norm/article37834401.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna Varsity teachers plan legal action if demands are not met||Anna University Teachers Association has planned to legally fight against fresh recruitment for the institution if their demands are not met by the year-end. The AUTA has listed five demands, including an active grievance redress committee, resolving career advancement scheme-related issues, implementing the VII Pay Commission recommendations and removal of research journals by the Centre for Research. The association, in its general body meeting, resolved that the grievance committee should comprise members familiar with AU Act and UG/AICTE norms under the chairmanship of the Vice-Chancellor. It has said that all career advancement scheme issues raised in 2017 and 2018 must be resolved amicably within a specific time frame. Their grievances include resolving issues related to rules framed for one-week and two-week courses, validating past applications and calling faculty members for certificate verification, resolving the introduction of higher norms than mandated for eligibility and pay fixation. The association, which held its general body meeting on November 15, has called for fresh notification for career advancement scheme (CAS) based on the VI Pay Commission recommendations to promote eligible staff members, followed by CAS under the 7th Pay Commission norms. The teachers wanted all staff members who were denied the VII Pay Commission benefits to be given their dues. Anna University has a huge backlog of vacancies of teaching posts which resulted in its NIRF ranking slipping.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/varsity-teachers-plan-legal-action-if-their-demands-are-not-met/article37834383.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Newborn treated for rare condition||A newborn diagnosed with a rare cardiac condition was treated at a city hospital. The neonate is doing well, the doctors said. A woman from Kadapa in Andhra Pradesh was admitted in Dr. Mehta’s Hospital for delivery. She was delivered of twins, one boy weighing 1.040 kg and another 750 gm, in the 28th week of pregnancy. While one baby was discharged after four weeks, the other one with low weight remained in hospital for six weeks. The infant was diagnosed with cardiac tamponade, a rare medical condition where fluid accumulates around heart muscle, placing excessive pressure on the organ. The excess fluid was drained and the blood pressure was stabilised. The neonate had a stormy course in the ICU and required three doses of surfactant and 10 days of mechanical ventilation, followed by non-invasive ventilation as its lungs were premature, said consultant neonatologist B. Arun Krishnan. Treatment for cardiac tamponade involves draining the excess fluid from the pericardium, stabilising blood pressure, and treating the underlying cause, said paediatric cardiologist C. Shanthi. When the baby’s weight touched 1.3 kg, it was discharged. The cost of the procedure was subsidised considering the family’s financial constraints, a hospital release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newborn-treated-for-rare-condition/article37834389.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Second person arrested in cheating case||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) has arrested one more person in the case of a businessman being cheated of Rs. 3.20 crore. The name of the arrested person was given as B. Gnanaprakasam of Alandur, The CCB, which has been investigating the cheating case of the businessman, Kannan, had arrested K.V.N. Rajan on August 17 this year. A senior official of the Entrustment Document Fraud section of the CCB said Mr. Kannan had lodged a complaint with the CCB that Rajan had promised to give him a contract for supplying COVID-19 protective kits of face masks and nitrile gloves to hospitals, for which he gave money. The funds were given to four companies based on Rajan’s advice. However, the contract was not given and the money not repaid. During the investigation, the CCB police found that Rajan, who was working as a Deputy General Manager at ITI Ltd., did not have the powers or any such orders. He was arrested in August. Gnanaprakasam was produced in the CCB CB-CID court and sent to prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-person-arrested-in-cheating-case/article37834377.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC: civic poll will be subject to verdict on quota for women||The Madras High Court on Thursday ordered that all proceedings to be initiated for the conduct of local body elections in Greater Chennai Corporation limits would be subject to the result of a writ petition filed in the court insisting that the reservation of wards for women should not exceed 50%. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu passed the interim orders after ordering notices, returnable within two weeks, to the State government, the State Election Commission and the Corporation Commissioner where 105 of the 200 wards had been reserved for women. Date given The judges granted a short date for filing counter- affidavits after advocate-general R. Shunmugasundaram said the Supreme Court had ordered conduct of local body polls at the earliest. Accordingly, elections to panchayats had been conducted and polls were due only for urban local bodies, he said. R. Parthiban of West Mambalam had filed the case stating that 89 wards had been reserved for women (general), 16 for Scheduled Castes (women) and 16 for Scheduled Castes (general) candidates. The rest of the 79 wards had been left to the general category. Senior counsel S. Prabhakaran, who represented the petitioner, said only 84 seats should have been reserved for women (general) leaving an equal number for both men and women. The senior counsel said more seats had been reserved for women because of an erroneous process followed by the Corporation in the zone-wise reservation of wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-civic-poll-will-be-subject-to-verdict-on-quota-for-women/article37834759.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special drive to verify IGST refund||The Principal Chief Commissioner of GST and Central Excise, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Zone is organising a special fortnightly drive from December 6 to 17 on Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) refund. It is aimed at completing all the pending verification with regard to IGST refund as part of a trade facilitation process. According to a press release, taxpayers will be able to directly meet with senior officials, without any appointment, between December 14 and 17 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-drive-to-verify-igst-refund/article37834381.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bill will lead to disasters, hit T.N. badly, says Vaiko||Rather than protecting dams, the Dam Safety Bill will lead to disasters, and Tamil Nadu will suffer as a consequence, MDMK general secretary Vaiko said. Speaking in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, Mr. Vaiko said when Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Karnataka were part of the erstwhile Madras Presidency, they were like brothers and sisters. “But now, these States are refusing to give us water. If the Dam Safety Bill is passed, Tamil Nadu will be badly affected,” Mr. Vaiko said. He said only weak dams would break. But the Kallanai,  built by Chola king Karikalan 2,000 years ago, is still strong and in use. “ Kallanai  is one of the wonders of the world. It will stand strong even after another 2,000 years,” he said. He said British Colonel John Pennycuick built the Mullaperiyar dam, which provided relief to farmers in six districts of Tamil Nadu. He said he was saddened by some people in Kerala falsely claiming that the dam would fall. Mr. Vaiko noted that the Supreme Court had said the dam was safe, and, as per Tamil Nadu’s request, the water level could be increased to 142 feet, and later to 152 feet. “A number of new tourist resorts have come up on the waterfront of the dam’s water course. They are the ones spreading rumours that the dam will fall because they will be affected if the water level is raised,” he said. He said Karnataka was making efforts to build a dam at Mekedatu, ignoring the Supreme Court’s directions. Andhra Pradesh, on the other hand, was constructing a dam across the Palar, and was preventing Tamil Nadu from getting its share of water, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bill-will-lead-to-disasters-hit-tn-badly-says-vaiko/article37834365.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac shops to follow pre-COVID-19 timings||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) on Friday said its shops would revert to pre-COVID-19 timings — noon to 10 p.m. — with immediate effect. Prior to the announcement, the outlets were operating from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. In a circular sent to all senior regional managers and district managers, L. Subramanian, managing director, Tasmac, said COVID-19 protocols should be followed. Following the announcement, many workers felt keeping the outlets open till 10 p.m. was not a good idea. D. Dhanasekaran, general secretary of the Tasmac Workers’ Association, pointed out that the risk of disease transmission was yet to subside, and the news about the new variant of the novel coronavirus, Omicron, was also worrying. Vaccination status The employees also said it would be impossible to keep track of the vaccination status of people at Tasmac bars. “The crowd is usually uncontrollable, and it will be difficult to verify vaccination certificates/details of each person who comes in to make a purchase,” said a salesperson at an outlet in Chennai. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian had recently said that COVID-19 vaccination was mandatory for purchasing liquor from Tasmac shops, and that a directive in this regard would be issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-shops-to-follow-pre-covid-19-timings/article37834367.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Announce incentive for conservancy workers, says OPS||All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) co-oordinator O. Panneerselvam on Friday, urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to announce that conservancy workers of local bodies would be paid Rs. 5,000 each as an incentive for their services during the current Northeast monsoon. In a statement, Mr. Panneerselvam lauded the workers for having cleared garbage in most of the places, without getting deterred by the intensity of impact of heavy rainfall. He recalled that even in 2015, when Jayalalithaa was Chief Minister, the workers of Greater Chennai Corporation were paid Rs. 2,000 each for their services. Keeping the present level of prices in mind, the amount could be hiked to Rs. 5,000, Mr. Panneerselvam observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/announce-rs-5000-incentive-for-conservancy-workers-ops/article37834396.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat on December 14||A Dak Adalat will be conducted by the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Chennai City North division, at 5, Ethiraj Salai, Egmore, on December 14 at 11 a.m. Customers can send their grievances or complaints related to postal services under the jurisdiction of the city’s north division on or before December 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat-on-december-14/article37834388.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Body seeks jobs for kin of govt. teachers||The Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers’ Association has appealed to the Government to provide jobs to the kin of teaching and non-teaching staff who died due to the COVID-19 infection. Association president T. Veeramani said seven non-teaching staff and 46 teachers had lost their lives due to the infection. “We want the work to be expedited,” he said. Most of them were recruited under the new pension scheme. “Their families were dependant on their earnings. With the breadwinner lost, the families are struggling to make ends meet,” he said. He urged the Government to reviewthe applications from the families as early as possible. He appealed to the Chief Minister to issue appointment orders to the beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-seeks-jobs-for-kin-of-govt-teachers/article37834399.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. notifies Journalists’ Welfare Board||The Tamil Nadu Government on Friday notified the setting up of the Journalists’ Welfare Board, which was announced in the demand for grants for the Information and Publicity Department in September. Education assistance of Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 1,500 will be given to children of indigent journalists studying in Classes X to XII. College students will get Rs. 1,500 in aid, and those in hostels Rs. 1,750 per academic year. An assistance of Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 6,000 will be provided to those pursuing multiple educational courses. The government also announced the provision of Rs. 2,000 as marriage assistance, Rs. 6,000 as maternity assistance, Rs. 3,000 for abortion or miscarriage, Rs. 50,000 for natural death and Rs. 5,000 for final rites. All 12 existing schemes for journalists will be merged into the new welfare board. Funds for the Board will be raised through the 1% contribution made by media organisations, out of the total advertisement value given by the government to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-notifies-journalists-welfare-board/article37834370.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil paper compulsory in TNPSC exams||The State Government on Friday issued a G.O. making the Tamil language paper compulsory in qualifying examinations for State government jobs. The notification follows an announcement made by Minister for Finance & Human Resources Management Palanivel Thiaga Rajan in the Assembly. The G.O. makes the Tamil paper compulsory in the TNPSC and Teachers Recruitment Board examinations. In another notification, the government waived the loans taken by women’s self-help groups from cooperative societies. The waiver was to the tune of 2,674.64 crore (principal plus interest), excluding interest penalties and other expenses as of March 31, 2021. The government will assume the loan and has earmarked Rs. 600 crore to be released this financial year, and the balance with 7% interest would be released over four years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-paper-compulsory-in-tnpsc-exams/article37834371.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Big demand for domestic flights too||Although many are postponing international travel, domestic air passenger traffic has picked up. Chennai airport has been consistently recording arrival and departure of about 33,000 domestic passengers daily. The domestic flight prices continue to be high for most of December. A flight ticket to Delhi costs Rs. 8,000 and for Bengaluru, it is about Rs. 3,000. To Mumbai and Hyderabad, the fares range between Rs. 4,000 aand Rs. 5,000. But Despite this, many are ready to fly within the country for short holidays in December, travel agents say. Sources said flights were operating to full capacity on important routes like Delhi-Chennai, Mumbai-Chennai and Guwahati-Chennai. Tushar Jain of Roundtrip.in says people are eager to visit holiday destinations such as Kulu, Manali, Shimla and Dehradun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/big-demand-for-domestic-flights-too/article37834430.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Girl’s mother, man held under POCSO Act||The Madipakkam All Women Police arrested a 33-year-old man for sexually harassing a 14-year-old girl on Friday. The girl’s mother, who was living in with the accused, was also arrested as an accomplice to the crime. The two were booked under the POCSO Act. The police said the girl’s uncle had lodged a complaint that his niece was sexually harassed by Murugaiah of Pudukottai. The girl’s mother failed to stop the crime, he said. ChildLine operates a toll-free helpline 1098 for children in distress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girls-mother-man-held-under-pocso-act/article37834387.ece
04 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Land survey to be carried out at Theppakulamedu in ATR today||Following accusations made against the Kadar tribal people by the Forest Department of encroaching upon forest land in Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), the officials said a land survey would be carried out on Saturday in Theppakulamedu where 21 families of the Kadar tribe recently got homestead pattas. In a statement on Friday, Manambolly Forest Range Officer A. Manikandan said the 21 families received homestead pattas on November 7. He alleged that the families had been “encroaching on forest land” and that a team of Forest Department personnel led by him found five huts that were “erected illegally” within the Manambolly forest range near Valparai on Friday morning. “In this situation, only one out of the five huts that was encroaching on forest land was removed [by the personnel],” Mr. Manikandan said. He further alleged that the tribal families used “inappropriate words” against the forest staff and prevented them from discharging their duty. Photos and videos of the forest personnel removing the hut were widely shared on social media platforms on Friday morning. One resident, in an audio message, alleged “injustice” meted out to the Kadar tribal people by the Forest Department and demanded action against the officials involved in dismantling the hut. A senior official from ATR said the land survey would be a joint exercise by the Forest, Revenue, Tribal Welfare and Survey departments to demarcate the borders of the Theppakulamedu area, where the homestead pattas were provided to the 21 families. The four huts, which were erected allegedly on forest land outside Theppakulamedu, would not be removed till the land survey was completed, he said. A total of 23 Kadar families were evicted by the Forest Department from ATR in August 2019 after they erected temporary shelters close to their traditional settlement Kallarkudi, which was hit by a landslide. After two years of protests, 21 out of the 23 families were issued homestead pattas at Theppakulamedu, which is in the core area of the tiger reserve and around 15 km away from the hill town of Valparai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/land-survey-to-be-carried-out-at-theppakulamedu-in-atr-today/article37834426.ece
04 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘80 Siddha clinics kept ready across State if Omicron cases surface’||The Directorate of Indian Medicine and Homoeopathy has kept ready 80 Siddha clinics if the Omicron cases were to surface, Director S. Ganesh told journalists on the sidelines of the inauguration of National Conference on the ‘Strength of Siddha Medicine for Communicable Diseases’ at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University here on Friday. By opening 80 Siddha clinics across the State, the government had treated over one lakh COVID-19 positive persons who had mild and moderate symptoms. Now, with the fall in COVID-19 cases, the government had closed the clinics, but had kept the doctors on stand-by. The Directorate had faced shortage of drugs during the first and second wave of COVID-19. But it took immediate steps to procure herbs to overcome the shortfall, Mr. Ganesh said and added that it was fully geared to meet any new infection outbreak. Thanks to the increased awareness among people on Siddha, particularly after the COVID-19 outbreak, the Directorate was seeing a rise in demand for Siddha treatment. Therefore, it was conducting camps across the State, at 1,000 camps a week, he added. The Ministry of AYUSH had also played a role in spreading awareness among people on the Siddha system of medicine. From 33 centres, the Ministry had helped distribute Siddha medicines to around 60,000 persons across the country, said K. Kanakavalli, Director General, Central Council for Research in Siddha. Awareness Though awareness on Siddha was on the rise from 2016 after increase in dengue and chikangunya cases, it had increased dramatically after COVID-19, she added. The demand for Siddha medicine also came from the U.S., U.K., Australia, Japan and Malaysia, said R. Meenakumari, Director, National Institute of Siddha, Chennai. The State government’s integrated approach – combining allopathy with Siddha – had helped in quicker recovery of COVID-19 affected persons. It also showed that the number of days patients stayed in hospitals or COVID-19 Care Centres came down with integrated treatment, she added. The national conference was a precursor to the Siddha Day celebration, held every year on the birth anniversary of Siddhar Agasthiyar, said P. Sathiyarajeswaran, Assistant Director, Siddha Central Research Institute, Chennai. More than 200 papers are to be presented in the two-day conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/80-siddha-clinics-kept-ready-across-state-if-omicron-cases-surface/article37834410.ece
04 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Podcasting project for senior citizens launched||‘Anubhav’, a project to create podcasts by and for senior citizens introduced by the National Institute of Social Defence (NISD), was launched here on Thursday. R. Sreedher, senior community radio practitioner and the project coordinator for NISD, said Coimbatore was one of the 10 locations in India where recording centres would be set up for the senior citizens. ‘Anubhav’ involved the training of senior citizens by community radio experts to create podcasts with informational content and to showcase talents such as musical performances and storytelling, he said. The recording centre was inaugurated at Covai S3 retirement home at Pachapalayam by Chairman of Rathinam Group of Institutions Madan A. Sendhil on Thursday, Mr. Sreedher said. Set up at Rs. 1.2 lakh, the centre was equipped with two microphones and one 10-channel mixer. “We have asked [the senior citizens] to record two programmes every week,” he said, which would have a duration of 15 minutes each. These would be uploaded on online platforms such as I-Radio, Apple Music and Spotify. Through the recording centre here, around 104 podcasts under ‘Anubhav’ would be uploaded in a year, he said. Along with Coimbatore, training programmes were also under way at Jaipur, Pune and Bengaluru and recording centres would soon come up at Puducherry, Hyderabad, Delhi, Bhubaneswar, Kolkata and Noida, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/podcasting-project-for-senior-citizens-launched/article37834413.ece
04 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to review Vellalore bus terminus project||Coimbatore Corporation, it appears, is having a complete relook at the Vellalore bus terminus project. Sources familiar with the issue said the Corporation was specifically looking at whether construction of the terminus in Vellalore would help solve the traffic problems and aid city’s growth. The Corporation took the decision to have a relook at the site for bus terminus following suggestions from various sections of society and more specifically by officials from the Chief Minister’s Office, the sources said. The suggestion was mooted to the Corporation when Chief Minister M.K. Stalin was here last month. Location The location of the terminus site piqued the CMO officials, who raised doubts over the availability of approach roads and re-routing of public transport, the sources said. The Corporation has decided to review the choice of location and planned to use the mobility data being prepared by the consultant engaged by the Chennai Metro Rail Limited to prepare a feasibility report for Coimbatore metro project. The sources said after the decision to review the project, the Corporation officials also stumbled upon the fact that Vellalore was not the first choice for the Rs. 168-crore bus terminus project. The State government had initially proposed to take up the project using funds from the Central government under the Bharat Mala scheme. But it decided on Vellalore and chose to forego the Central government fund, the sources said. Now the Corporation is meeting 50% of the Rs. 168 crore. District Road Safety Committee member K. Kathirmathiyon said the National Highway’s objection was specific to the choice of the site for the bus terminus. It felt that in the absence of proper connecting roads, buses from north, east and south would have to pass through the city to reach the terminus. And city buses would have to be redeployed to improve connectivity from the terminus to various parts of the city.  Court verdict He also cited a court verdict that said buses plying within 55km would have to reach Gandhipuram to underscore the point that the Vellalore bus terminus would go the way the Singanallur and Mettupalayam Road bus stands went. Buses from Tiruppur and other towns east of Coimbatore continued to go to Gandhipuram and Mettupalayam and Ooty buses did not stop in the Mettupalayam Road bus stand because of the court verdict. As the verdict was in force, the same fate awaited the Vellalore terminus. The Corporation officials said the civic body would take a call based on the traffic study by the metro rail consultant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-review-vellalore-bus-terminus-project/article37834422.ece
04 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||New hotel opened in Coimbatore||Apeejay Surrendra Park Hotels has opened a 55-room hotel - Zone Connect Coimbatore - at Kalapatti here. Vikas Ahluwalia, General Manager and National Head of Zone by the Park Hotels, said this was the third hotel under the Zone Connect brand that had become operational and four more were in the pipeline in Darjeeling, Tirupathi, Port Blair and in Telangana. The group planned to have 25 hotels under this brand by 2025 and 25 hotels under the Zone by the Park brand by 2025. The hotel - with a restaurant, bar and a banquet hall - was expected to cater to visitors who came to Coimbatore for meetings, conferences, hospitals, and to go to nearby districts. “We will apply for four star classification,” he said. All Zone Connect properties would meet the four star classification requirements. The Apeejay Surrendra Park Hotels launched the Zone Connect brand last year and Coimbatore was the first property signed under the brand. C. Shanmuga Sundaram, director of CR Hospitality Private Limited, said in a press release that the company was happy to welcome guests at its new property and looks forward to developing its hospitality portfolio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-hotel-opened-in-coimbatore/article37834406.ece
04 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tourism Department mulls boating facility in Valankulam, Periyakulam||Tourism Minister M. Mathiventhan said here on Friday that the Tourism Department would explore the possibility of starting boating operation in Valankulam and Periyakulam, tanks where the Coimbatore Corporation had taken up lake development work under the Smart Cities Mission. A release from the district administration said after the completion of the Mission work and reduction in COVID-19 cases, the Department would explore the possibility of improving tourism in the city and district. Renovation Mr. Mathiventhan said work to renovate Hotel Tamil Nadu in Gandhipuram, which began sometime ago, would be completed soon. During the pandemic, Hotel Tamil Nadu had lunched the facility to order food online. This had received good patronage and helped the Hotel earned Rs. 22 lakh. The release said the Minister also hinted at holding a hot air baloon festival in Pollachi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourism-department-mulls-boating-facility-in-valankulam-periyakulam/article37834424.ece
04 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Update nomination details’||The Employees Provident Fund organisation is encouraging all employees to file e-nominations through its portal and update the nomination details online, according to a release. If the mobile number of the PF member is linked with UAN and if Aadhaar verification of the UAN is complete, the member can avail of this facility by logging into the member interface in the unified portal, the release says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/update-nomination-details/article37834409.ece
04 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No power||There will be no power supply in the following areas under Somanur, Kalipalayam, Karumathampatty, and Elachipalayam sub-stations from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on December 6 : Somanur, Karumathampatty, Krishnapuram, Samalapuram, Ramachiyampalayam, Tho ttipalayam, Senthil Nagar, Segudanthali, Paramasivanpalayam, part of Kaniyur, Elachipalayam, Rayarpalayam, Thaneerpandal, Karumathapatti four road, part of Kalipalayam and part of Ayyampalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-power/article37834411.ece
04 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||AgNext develops solution for turmeric testing||AgNext, an agri-tech startup that uses AI-based technologies for food quality assessment of various commodities, in collaboration with the Department of Agricultural Marketing of Telangana, Spices Board, and ITC, has deployed its AI-based curcumin testing solution ‘Qualix’ at the agri marketing centre at Nizamabad in Telangana. Taranjeet Singh Bhamra, founder and Chief Executive Officer of AgNext, said it deployed the solution in July 2021 as a pilot project. The farmers can save on time. This solution significantly reduces the time taken to calculate the percentage of curcumin present in turmeric to less than 60 seconds, as opposed to testing procedures that can take two to three days. The company has more orders in the pipeline for this solution. It can be deployed in other turmeric growing centres too. “We are funded company. We received $ 21 million and we will look at more funding. The current funding is for research and development and growth. We are expanding globally too,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agnext-develops-solution-for-turmeric-testing/article37834428.ece
04 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Recruitment drive for differently abled||Suez India Pvt. Ltd. on Friday conducted a drive to recruit differently abled persons. A communique from the company, which is executing the 24x7 drinking water supply improvement project in 60 wards, said it conducted the drive to mark the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. For various office work like data entry operation and customer service, 25 persons appeared for the interview. The company had shortlisted seven and had planned to recruit two or three persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recruitment-drive-for-differently-abled/article37834423.ece
04 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Former AIADMK functionary arrested||The Gomangalam police on Thursday arrested a former functionary of the AIADMK IT Wing on charges of criminally intimidating the wife of a party member in Gomangalam in Coimbatore district. According to the police, R. Arunprasath (28) was formerly deputy secretary of the party’s IT wing for Pollachi South unit. On Wednesday, he visited the residence of Sivakumar, AIADMK’s Gomangalam branch secretary near Pollachi, and allegedly threatened the latter’s wife. Based on her complaint, the Gomangalam police registered a case against Arunprasath. He was remanded in judicial custody, the police said. The accused was expelled from his post on November 14. On Thursday, former Minister Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan petitioned the Tiruppur District Police, in which he accused Arunprasath of circulating false information about him on social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-aiadmk-functionary-arrested/article37834414.ece
04 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ body wants high voltage transmission line project halted||Members of the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Pathukappu Sangam staged a protest at Moolakarai here on Friday urging the State government to halt the installation of towers on farmlands for the Virudhunagar – Tiruppur high voltage transmission line project, until the cases pending in High Court were cleared. They said that the high voltage line of the 765 KV transmission project implemented by the Tamil Nadu Transmission Corporation Limited would pass through Virudhunagar, Madurai, Dindigul and Tiruppur districts. Based on the court’s order, the move to erect towers on farmlands was halted. “But now, the works have resumed with the help of the police and the Revenue Department,” they said and wanted the works halted until the cases in the court were cleared. The protesters also demanded suitable compensation for the land owners affected by the 16 projects implemented by the previous government. “Compensation should be provided as per the government order no. 54,” they said. Though cases related to all protests were withdrawn by the State government, cases against farmers and other members who protested against the tower line projects were yet to be withdrawn. They raised slogans urging the government to fulfil their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-body-wants-high-voltage-transmission-line-project-halted/article37834522.ece
04 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Safai Karamcharis chairman inspects CETP at Perundurai Sipcot||Chairman of the National Commission for Safai Karmacharis M. Venkatesan on Friday inspected the common effluent treatment plant (CETP) at Sipcot in Perundurai and held discussions with the stakeholders. M. Balasubramanian, Deputy Director and Officer-in-Charge of Regional Office of the Textile Commissioner, Coimbatore, P.K.N Chandrasekaran, president of Perundurai Sipcot Textile Processing Association, and Uday Kumar, District Environment Engineer, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, Perundurai, briefed the chairman on the functioning of CETP and the discharge of effluents. Mr. Venkatesan questioned about the safety measures adopted for workers at the plant and enquired on manual cleaning. Officials explained that there was no manual cleaning in the plant. Mr. Venkatesan interacted with the members of textile processing associations of Erode and Tiruppur, TNPCB officers, officers of the Regional Office of the Textile Commissioner, Government of India, Coimbatore, and the officers from the Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health, and Department of Handlooms and Textiles in Erode. He explained the features of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavenger and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 and asked the stakeholders to adhere to the norms. The chairman had a brief discussion with all the dyeing and printing associations. He also interacted with the labourers and supervisors at the dyeing industries on the Sipcot premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safai-karamcharis-chairman-inspects-cetp-at-perundurai-sipcot/article37834523.ece
04 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 59 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Friday reported 59 new cases of COVID-19, taking the overall tally to 1,06,492. While 64 persons were discharged after recovery, the district had 776 active cases as on Friday. Salem district on Friday reported 41 fresh cases and three deaths. According to health officials, 35 cases were indigenous and 11 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported 43 new cases, all indigenous. Nine indigenous cases were reported in Dharmapuri, and 10 cases in Krishnagiri. A total of 127 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Friday. The Health Department reported one new death, which took the toll to 2,470. Tiruppur district reported 52 new cases on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-59-new-covid-19-cases/article37834526.ece
04 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Foreign returnees with COVID-19 symptoms asked to alert war room||People returning from foreign countries, with symptoms of coronavirus, should immediately alert the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) or the war room for necessary action. District Collector H. Krishnanunni in a release said that symptomatic persons returning from South Africa, England, Botswana, Hong Kong, China, Israel, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Brazil, Bangladesh and Mauritius should visit the nearest primary health centre or alert the war room at 80569-31110 and provide necessary information. “Since vaccination is the only way to prevent spread of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus, persons aged above 18 should ensure that they have received two doses of vaccine,” the release added. 13 passengers Health officials said that 13 passengers returned from these countries to the district on Thursday. Though they tested negative for COVID-19 at the airports, they were asked to remain in home isolation for one week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foreign-returnees-with-covid-19-symptoms-asked-to-alert-war-room/article37834531.ece
04 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Bhavanisagar dam reduced||The discharge of water from Bhavanisagar Dam to River Bhavani was reduced to 4,000 cusecs on Friday. Inflow At 8 a.m. Friday, the inflow into the reservoir was 5,814 cusecs and the discharge was 5,800 cusecs. The water level stood at 104.50 feet against the full reservoir level of 105 feet. The storage was 32.37 tmc ft against the total capacity of 32.800 tmc ft. Public Works Department officials said that the average inflow in the last 24 hours was 7,617 cusecs that dropped over the day to less than 6,000 cusecs. The officials added that drop in rainfall in catchment areas resulted in drop in inflow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-from-bhavanisagar-dam-reduced/article37834525.ece
04 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination target set at one lakh people in Erode||The district administration has set a target of vaccinating one lakh people across the district during the 13th mega vaccination camp to be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on December 4 (Saturday). In a press release, District Collector H. Krishnanunni said that the camps would be held at 467 centres across the district and the administration targets to reach persons above 18 years of age for vaccination. He said that local bodies were asked to create awareness among the people on the conduct of camps and asked eligible people to attend the camps. He said that persons who had received their first shot of Covishield can get vaccinated after 84 days, while a gap of 28 days was necessary for those who received Covaxin. “There are no food restrictions following vaccination and people can get the shots without fear,” he added. Those attending the camps should wear masks and ensure personal distancing at the centres and follow all COVID-19 norms, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-target-set-at-one-lakh-people-in-erode/article37834530.ece
04 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Body found in sewage channel||The body of a 46-year-old woman was found in a sewage channel at Dr. Radhakrishnan First Street at Periyavalasu in the city on Thursday. Following complaints from residents that the channel was choked, the Corporation workers attended to the work and found the body. The police retrieved the body and sent it to the District Headquarters Hospital. The victim was identified as Santhi of Periyavalasu. After her husband’s death, she was residing in her brother’s house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-found-in-sewage-channel/article37834535.ece
04 December 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||CBI files chargesheet against 24 in Periye case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a chargesheet against 24 persons, including former CPI(M) MLA K.V. Kunhiraman, in the Periye twin murder case before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ernakulam, on Friday. The chargesheet was filed by T.P. Ananda Krishnan, Dy.SP, CBI Special Crime Branch, Thiruvananthapuram. The accused were booked under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code. Congress workers Kripesh, 19, and Sarath Lal P.K., 24, were hacked to death at Periye in Kasaragod on February 17, 2019. Mr. Kunhiraman and three others were charged under the section of obstruction to lawful apprehension of accused persons. The Kerala High Court had asked the CBI to file the chargesheet on or before December 4. It will soon file a petition before the Ernakulam Chief Judicial Magistrate Court seeking the custody of five CPI(M) workers arrested on Wednesday. In Thiruvananthapuram, CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said innocent persons had been named as accused in the case. The CBI, which is investigating the case, should strive to identify the real culprits, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-24-in-periye-case/article37834266.ece
04 December 2021||Kovilpatti,TAMIL NADU||Construction workers stage demo||Police arrested 108 construction workers as they staged a demonstration here and in Thoothukudi on Friday. They urged the governments to control the rise in prices of construction materials and not to weaken the Construction Labourers’ Welfare Board by introducing unnecessary amendments. Besides lowering the GST slab, the monthly pension for the construction workers should be hiked to Rs. 3,000. The children of the construction workers registered with the Construction Labourers’ Welfare Board should be given educational assistance right from Class 1, they said. As the construction workers blocked vehicular traffic in front of the Kovilpatti Old Bus-Stand, the police arrested 73 persons, including 12 women, while 35 protestors were detained in Thoothukudi. All of them were released in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-workers-stage-demo/article37834784.ece
04 December 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Special ward for Omicron cases opened in Krishnagiri||A special ward with 30 beds has been set up at the Krishnagiri Medical College Hospital to treat persons who contract the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Hospital Dean Ashokan said the special ward had been opened as the district shared borders with Karnataka where two cases of Omicron had been detected. Dr. Ashokan said 100 beds had already been allocated for COVID-19 treatment, but there were only 20 patients undergoing treatment now. The hospital had 100 ventilators, a 13,000-litre liquid oxygen plant, and a medical oxygen generator that could generate 1000 litres per minute. The Dean said that irrespective of variants, the public should undergo vaccination and follow safety protocols such as maintaining physical distance, hand sanitising and wearing of mask to prevent the spread of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-ward-for-omicron-cases-opened-in-krishnagiri/article37834534.ece
04 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ban soon on unvaccinated people at public places in Madurai||Madurai district administration has given one week time for people to get at least one dose of COVID vaccine, failing which they would be banned from entering public places, including ration shops, shopping malls and commercial establishments. After a meeting with district officials, elected representatives and members of various associations here on Thursday, Minister for Commercial Taxes, P. Moorthi, made the announcement of banning the unvaccinated from visiting public places. “The Government has taken a series of steps to protect the people from COVID from creating additional facilities in hospitals and additional screening at airports to prevent spreading of Omicron,” Mr. Moorthi said. Stating that 100% vaccination will give protection to people from the infection, the Minister said that nurses and members of self-help groups would be roped in to create awareness of the importance of vaccination, he added. As part of the State Government’s plan to create a safe environment against COVID, it was decided to ban unvaccinated people from entering public places from next Sunday. “Two mega vaccination camps are being organised tomorrow and next Saturday and people can get vaccinated themselves,” Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar said. Those who fail to take at least one dose by next Saturday, would not be allowed to enter 18 identified public places, including hotels/lodges, recreation clubs, shopping malls, commercial establishments, industries, both organised and unorganized, educational institutions, marriage halls, cinema theatres, markets, TASMAC shops and ration shops. “All the employees of these places would keep warning people about the ban for the next one week. But, after next Saturday, the ban will come into force. Implementation of this restriction would be monitored by officials of local bodies and health officials,” Dr. Sekhar said. Corporation Commissioner, K.P. Karthikeyan, Madurai South MLA, M. Boominathan, Sholavandan MLA, Venkatesan, Rural Development Agency, Project Director, Abitha Haneef, were among those who took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ban-soon-on-unvaccinated-people-at-public-places-in-madurai/article37834693.ece
04 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC commutes death sentence||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has commuted the death sentence imposed on a man hailing from Gujarat for the sexual assault and death of a 17-year-old specially abled boy in Pudukkottai district in 2019 to 30 years rigorous imprisonment. In 2021, the Pudukkottai Mahila court awarded the death penalty to the Gujarat man Danish Patel for offences under various Sections of the IPC and the POCSO Act. The convict was working as a heavy vehicle operator in a private crusher unit in the district. The convict kidnapped the boy and sexually assaulted him. The boy underwent 20 days of treatment at the Pudukkottai Medical College Hospital and later succumbed to injuries due to septicemia. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran held that the death of the victim falls under the definition culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The death was caused without any intention to cause death. The convict’s intention to cause the bodily injuries was not to cause death, but to satisfy his lust. The prosecution was able to establish that the death was due to the injury, but failed to prove that the particular injury was intended by the convict, the court said. The court made it clear that it was for the restricted purpose of deciding the charge for the offence under Section 302 (murder) IPC. In respect of POCSO Act, the legislature has consciously not used the expression ‘murder’, but used the expression ‘death’. Under POCSO Act it was sufficient for the prosecution to prove that the accused had committed penetrative sexual assault on the child, which caused the death of the child. It is not material whether such death is culpable homicide amounting to murder or not amounting to murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-commutes-death-sentence/article37834489.ece
04 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Work to plug breach near regulator begins||Public Works Department engineers have started to plug a breach in a concrete wall, which separates water flow into Nilayur Tank and Kambugudi channel, downstream Vilachery regulator here on Friday. After a heavy downpour reported in the region on November 30, the four-metre-high concrete wall fell down for nearly 15 metres. “This led to water discharged from the regulator going only to Nilayur tank and Semattan tank and water meant for 99 tanks in Madurai and Virudhunagar districts through Kambikudi channel also got diverted to Nilayur tank,” a PWD official said. This triggered a tension in Virudhunagar district as flow of flood water stopped all of a sudden. Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar instructed the officials to plug the breach at the earliest following which the PWD engineers began the work of placing sand bags to plug the breach. “We have started the work and it is expected to be completed by Saturday and flow of water to Kambikudi channel can be ensured thereafter,” he added. Periyar-Vaigai Basin Chief Engineer M. Sugumar and Executive Engineer V. Sugumaran inspected the work being carried out under the supervision of Assistant Executive Engineer C. Selvam and Assistant Engineer C. P. Mohankumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-to-plug-breach-near-regulator-begins/article37834695.ece
04 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PFI seeks action against police personnel found guilty of torture||The Popular Front of India (PFI) has demanded immediate action against the police personnel found guilty by the State Human Rights Commission of torturing “innocent” Muslim youths in a case of hurling the head of a cow at the RSS office in Madurai in 2011. PFI State vice-president, A. Khalid Mohammed, sought a re-investigation by a special team into the case and 17 other cases of detection of bombs in public places in Madurai city. The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) recently awarded Rs. 1 lakh compensation each to the four accused and ordered stringent action against the guilty police personnel. Alleging that Muslim youths were targeted, framed and tortured, Mr. Mohammed told journalists on Friday: “17 cases of unexploded bombs/exploding of crackers were registered in the city and around 100 Muslims were affected due to biased police action. We want the government to constitute a special team to re-investigate these cases and bring to light the truth,” he said. According to him, then Superintendent of Police (Madurai District), V. Balakrishnan, had written to the Director General of Police implicating two senior police officers in those cases. Shahinsha, one of the accused in the RSS office case, complained that he suffered injuries on his spinal cord and its impact was now felt on his health. Torture alleged “The police tortured us to admit to the crime as we denied any knowledge of it. However, they forced us to give confessions by threatening to harm our family members,” Shahinsha said. The case, which was subsequently transferred to Crime Branch – Criminal Investigation Department is still being heard at a Judicial Magistrate Court. District president of PFI, S. Mohammed Abudhahir, was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pfi-seeks-action-against-police-personnel-found-guilty-of-torture/article37834690.ece
04 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court dismisses Dhayanidhi Alagiri’s plea||Dismissing a petition filed by Dhayanidhi Alagiri who sought to quash the summons issued by the II Additional District Judge for CBI cases, Madurai, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court observed that the summons issued cannot be treated as premature or illegal. The summon was issued by the court to Dhayanidhi Alagiri to answer the charge of offences under various Sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in an illegal granite mining case. He was a director of the company Olympus Granites Pvt. Ltd.. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran observed that the summons issued to the petitioner cannot be treated as premature or illegal. The petitioner was liable to face trial both in his individual capacity as well as person in charge and responsible for the conduct of the business of the company which has alleged to have contravened the provisions of the PMLA. The court held that the petition was devoid of merits and liable to be dismissed. The judges directed the trial court to proceed with the complaint and dispose of it as expeditiously as possible, preferably on a day-to-day basis without adjourning the matter beyond five working days at any point of time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-dismisses-dhayanidhi-alagiris-plea/article37834405.ece
04 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Mullaperiyar dam stood at 141.85 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 3,954 cusecs and a discharge of 2,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 70.11 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 4,176 cusecs and a discharge of 3,745 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 11,070 mcft. Rainfall recorded in various places in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday was in (mm): Periyar 44.6, Thekkadi 8.6, Sothupparai dam 3 and Uthamapalayam 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37834511.ece
04 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CRS to inspect electrified railway line||Abhai Kumar Rai, Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle, Bengaluru, will inspect Madurai - Manamadurai electrified railway line on Sunday. Upon completion of electrification on this 47-km stretch, freight trains are being run on this electrified line, a railway statement said. However, clearance by CRS after a thorough inspection is required to operate passenger train services. His inspection is expected to start from Madurai at 9.30 a.m. and will end at Manamadurai at 1.30 p.m. A speed trial would be conducted from Manamadurai to Madurai, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crs-to-inspect-electrified-railway-line-on-sunday/article37834514.ece
04 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,TAMIL NADU||Five arrested for death of CPI(M) leader||The police on Saturday arrested five persons in connection with the murder of a CPI(M) leader at Chathenkari, near Thiruvalla, on Thursday night. The arrested were identified as Jishnu Raghu of Chathankari, Pramod Prasannan of Payipad, and Nandu Kumar C. of Azhiyidathuchira, who were caught from a hideout near Karuvatta, Muhammad Faizal, a native of Kannur, who was taken into custody from Kuttapuzha, and Vishnu Kumar, a native of Vengal, near here, who was held from a hideout near Edathua. The accused were subjected to interrogation at the Pulikeezhu police station and will be produced before a magistrate later in the day. In protest against the murder, the CPI(M) observed a hartal in Thiruvalla on Friday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan directed the police to bring all persons involved in the crime before the law. According to the police, the assailants chased P.B. Sandeep Kumar on two motorcycles and hacked and stabbed him to death. The attack took place near the SNDP high school at Chathenkari when Mr. Sandeep Kumar was returning home. The preliminary postmortem report from the Thiruvalla taluk hospital showed that he sustained about 20 injuries on his body. Of this, a deep injury on his chest caused the death. CPI(M) demand CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan blamed the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-Bharatiya Janata Party for the murder and called for a high-level investigation to uncover the conspiracy behind the act. Addressing his first press conference after resuming charge in the capital, he alleged that the murder was a pre-planned one and wanted the State government to examine a reported police version that it was not politically motivated. The police, he said, should not have made such an observation while the investigation is still on. (The local police sought to attribute the killing to rivalry between the victim and Jishnu, the key accused.) He said 215 CPI(M) workers had died at the hands of the RSS-BJP in the State so far. Shun violence: Governor Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has said any kind of violence is antithetical to democracy. Terming the murder of Sandeep Kumar “very unfortunate,” Mr. Khan said here on Friday that law enforcement agencies should bring the culprits to trial. ( With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-arrested-for-death-of-cpim-leader/article37834218.ece
04 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||MP seeks support of L-G to set up KVs||Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) V. Vaithilingam has sought the support of Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan in setting up Kendriya Vidyalayas in Puducherry and Karaikal. He also sought her support to set up a separate recruitment board for the Union Territory. In a letter to the Lt. Governor on Thursday, the Member of Parliament said the Union Education Minister had agreed to consider the demand if the Union Territory’s administration was able to provide the land necessary for the project. Mr. Vaithilingam said land had already been identified in the Karaikal region to set up a KV. In Maducarai region also, the land obligation could be fulfilled by shifting 196 students studying in S. V. Ramamurthy school there to the nearest government school. The parliamentarian sought the Lt. Governor’s support in setting up a separate recruitment board as Group A and B posts are currently filled by the Union Public Service Commission. The UPSC recruitment paved way for appointment of non Tamil-speaking officers in key posts and denied job opportunities to local residents, he said. He also urged the Lt. Governor to take steps to protect the land of Kamatchi Amman temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-vaithilingam-writes-to-l-g/article37834753.ece
04 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records one death, 30 new infections||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 30 new cases on Friday. A patient death in Puducherry took the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,874. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,464), Karaikal (251), Yanam (108) and Mahe (51). Puducherry logged 19 of the new cases, which were detected from 2,467 tests, followed by Karaikal (6) and Mahe (5). No fresh case was reported from Yanam. With 29 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 299. This comprised 61 patients in hospital and 238 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.22%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.32%. The Union Territory has registered a cumulative total of 1,29,028 cases and 1,26,855 recovered patients. Of an estimated 19.9 lakh tests conducted to date, over 16.88 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 6,918 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered an aggregate of 12,48,374 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-one-death-30-new-infections/article37834755.ece
04 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Physical classes from Dec. 6||Physical classes for students of standards I to VIII in Puducherry will resume on December 6, Education Minister A. Namassivayam said on Friday. Addressing a press conference, he said physical classes will be conducted from 9.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. in a staggered manner from Monday. Classes for students of Standards I, III, V and VII will be held on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while Classes for Standards II, IV, VI and VIII will be held on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/physical-classes-to-resume-in-puducherry-from-dec-6/article37834400.ece
04 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested||The territorial police on Friday arrested four persons and recovered from them stolen jewellery worth around Rs. 14 lakh. Senior Superintendent of Police, Law and Order, R. Lokeshwaran said that the accused, hailing from Tamil Nadu, were involved in theft and chain snatching cases in various police station limits in Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested/article37834754.ece
04 December 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Several villages marooned in Ramanathapuram district||Several residential areas, highways and agricultural farms downstream the Big Tank in Ramathapuram district have been marooned as more flood water from Vaigai river outflanked on Thursday. Roads were submerged for long stretches. Among the roads that were inundated were Parthibanur-Kamudhi Road at Seyyamangalam, Kavanaur causeway on Ramanathapuram-Nainarkoil Road and Paramakudi causeway. Though bus services on the submerged roads have been withdrawn since Thursday, people were seen wading through ankle-deep and knee-deep water. Water was seen gushing through the streets in Thoravalur . V. Ramalingam (57) of Thoruvalur said that though water started to inundate their village for three days, the level of water increased after Thursday evening. “At least 19 houses have water for nearly two-feet and people have moved to other houses and some to the local school. They are being served food since morning,” he said. Revenue Divisional Officer (Paramakudi), R. Murugan, said that water has started to drain on Friday. He said that though the villages are marooned, not much damage has been reported. “Enumeration of farm land where crops have been damaged due to inundation was being carried out,” he said. Narrowing of Vaigai Meanwhile, Executive Engineer, Lower Vaigai Division, S. Mathana Sudhakaran, said that outflanking of flood water caused flooding in several villages. “Though the width of the Vaigai river is around 500 metres even downstream Parthibanur, it suddenly shrinks to around 50 metres as the river crosses Gangaikondan, Mennanthi, and Muthaloor,” he said. He clarified that it was the natural course of the river and not due to any encroachment. Flood water that was flowing touching both the banks upstream, when crosses this stretch outflanks, he said. According to a data, similar flooding was reported in the first week of December 2011. The flood water that inundated the villages will again flow back into the river, he added. “All this flooding has happened even after regulating the water for filling up tanks in various parts of the district. In the last four days, at least 120 out of 241 tanks have been filled up to the brim. Another 60 tanks have got water up to 75% of their capacities,” Mr. Sudhakaran said. District Monitoring Officer Dharmendra Pratap Yadav told reporters that though several tanks had been desilted and channels cleared, unexpected rain from Vaigai river had caused flooding after several years. Along with Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat, he inspected a relief camp at Government Raja Sethupathi Higher Secondary School in Paramakudi, where rain-affected people were provided accommodation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/several-villages-marooned-in-ramanathapuram-district/article37834517.ece
04 December 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||New bus services introduced in Ranipet||Commuters from interior farming villages in Ranipet district can now travel on 18 new routes as bus services connecting Chennai and Bengaluru with Arcot, Arakkonam and Ranipet were introduced on Friday. Accompanied by Ranipet Collector D. Bhaskara Pandian, Minister for Handlooms and Textiles, Khadi and Village Industries Board R. Gandhi flagged off the bus services on new routes bringing relief to hundreds of commuters in villages in the district. Of the 18 new routes, bus services on 10 routes will ply within the district and neighbouring Vellore, covering areas such as Arcot, Arakkonam, Thimiri and Adukkamparai (Vellore). “The objective of the new bus services is to ensure that students and other commuters, mainly farmers, got access to these towns from their villages,” said S. Nataraj, General Manager, Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (Vellore Region). Among the three taluks, Arcot got 11 new bus routes, mostly connecting villages with the Arcot town and Vellore. Buses in these new routes will be operated on all days, including Sundays. New bus routes to neighbouring cities like Chennai and Bengaluru were also introduced. Ranipet Superintendent of Police (SP) Deepa Sathyan, Arcot MLA J.L Eeswarappan, S. Nataraj, general manager, TNSTC (Vellore region), K. Ponnupandi, deputy GM, TNSTC (Vellore region), elected representatives and residents participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-bus-services-introduced-in-ranipet/article37834790.ece
04 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP ready to face local body elections’||Former Union Minister Pon. Radhakrishnan said here on Friday that the Bharatiya Janata Party was ready to face the urban local body elections in the State. Responding to a question from presspersons on the alliance with the AIADMK, he said the BJP was still in alliance with the AIADMK and was hopeful that it would continue for the elections. Mr. Radhakrishnan said his party had requested the Centre to release maximum funds as flood relief for the State. He condemned the recently reported sexual assaults on children and said that Tamil Nadu had become an ‘addiction’ State. He alleged that ganja was easily available in various parts of the State, and that a special team should be formed to end this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-ready-to-face-local-body-elections/article37834408.ece
04 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||International Day of Persons with Disabilities observed||International Day of Persons with Disabilities was observed in three districts in the region on Friday. At the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital in Salem, Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy opened a special out-patient counter and a pharmacyfor quick issue of OP tickets and dispensing of medicines to persons with disabilities. In Namakkal, Collector Shreya P. Singh distributed welfare assistance worth Rs. 10.83 lakh to 40 persons with disabilities. In Krishnagiri, Collector V. Jayachandra Banu Reddy distributed assistance worth Rs. 13.83 lakh to 20 beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/international-day-of-persons-with-disabilities-observed/article37834524.ece
04 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||College students petition Collector||First year college students staying at the Government Women’s Hostel submitted a petition to the District Collector on Friday alleging that senior students were ragging them in the hostel. The students alleged that they were subjected to inhumane treatment in the name of ragging. In spite of complaining to the hostel warden, no action was taken, they said. The petitioners requested the Collector and Adi-Dravidar Welfare Officer to take necessary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-students-petition-collector/article37834532.ece
04 December 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Cloudburst results in flood in Srivilliputtur||Cloudburst in and around Srivilliputtur town led to inundation of several residential areas and brought copious rainwater and filled up several tanks past Thursday midnight. The rain gauge station in Srivilliputtur recorded 67 mm of rainfall. Residents of four huts that were partially damaged in Kallanai Odai Street were provided accommodation in a marriage hall. Rain that started past midnight continued for nearly two hours flooding many areas in the town. Among them, Kulalar Street, Raittanpatti, Arunthathiyar Colony, Thaikkapatti and Aathukadai Street were inundated. Sivakasi Sub-Collector M. Birathiviraj, Tahsildar, Srivilliputtur, R. Ramasubramanian, inspected various spots and oversaw the water draining works carried out by Srivilliputtur municipal authorities. “The blockages in the channel were cleared and water started draining,” Mr. Birathiviraj said. Srivilliputtur Municipal Commissioner Malliga said that water had almost drained in all areas of the town by evening. However, the municipal officials were creating baby channels to divert water in case of more rain on Friday night as many tanks had water up to the brim. Periyakulam tank, which had water only around 50% till Thursday, got filled up in the flash flood. Other than Srivilliputtur, only Rajapalayam recorded 18 mm of rainfall out of the 12 rain gauge stations in the district.  The blockages in the channel are being cleared and water has started draining M. Birathiviraj Sub-Collector, Sivakasi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/several-tanks-fill-up-thanks-to-cloudburst/article37834499.ece
04 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||ONGC assures solutions to farmers’ problems||The Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) has assured farmers that it could come up with solutions to problems faced by farmers with assistance from the SASTRA, a Deemed to be University. This assurance follows discussions the farmers had with the ONGC and the SASTRA-Technology Business Incubation (SASTRA-TBI) centre during a recent four-day free training programme on ‘Sustainable livelihood in agriculture through organic and technology-based farming.’ According to the University release, the objective was to motivate and educate the benefits of organic farming and the use of technology to improve the yield and thereby get more income from agricultural operations. The programme was designed in such a way to cover organic farming, herbal medicine for livelihood and modern technology in farming. The participants were taken to an organic farm at Keeranur in Pudukottai district to understand, experience and explore the organic farming activities. They were taken to the SASTRA-TBI centre where the usage of drone for spraying fertilizer/pesticide, and IOT for water management and soil test were explained. Further, to enlighten the farmers about the business prospects in the food processing sector, the participants were taken to the National Institute for Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management, Thanjavur (NIFTEM-Thanjavur), formerly known as the Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology. During the discussion, the farmers listed various problems faced by them and also probable solutions for the issues with the organisers. The ONGC and SASTRA assured to address the issues. While addressing the farmers, the Group General Manager and Support Manager, ONGC, Karaikal Asset, Sebastian said that the welfare of farmers would be taken care of through the Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives. He had also distributed certificates and mementoes to the participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ongc-assures-solutions-to-farmers-problems/article37834490.ece
04 December 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Only vaccinated people allowed to cross inter-State border||Theni district administration has made vaccination mandatory for people passing through Tamil Nadu-Kerala border. Special health teams have been posted at Kumily and Bodimettu checkposts. With the presence of police at the checkpost at Kumily and Bodimettu the health team are able to prevent people who have not taken the vaccine from crossing over the border from one State to another. Theni Collector K.V. Muralidharan has instructed the health officials not to allow people until they produce their vaccination certificates. Though most of the Ayyappa devotees from Tamil Nadu have got their certificates, the health officials found that a few of them did not posses the certificate. “We are not forcing anyone to take the vaccine, but only telling them that they cannot be allowed to cross the border without vaccine. Almost everyone from tourist to pilgrims and tea estate labourers have come forward to take the jab,” a health official said. The health officials found that around 40 members of a tourist group from Maharashtra had come all the way to Theni district without having their vaccine. “Only after they agreed to take their first dose, we allowed them to cross over to Kerala side,” he said. Similar facility would be put up at Cumbum Mettu from Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-vaccinated-people-can-pass-through-border/article37834507.ece
04 December 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Landslips hit traffic on Bodimettu ghat road||Landslips at multiple locations on Bodimettu ghat road late on Thursday night brought vehicular traffic on Bodinaickanoor-Idukki ghat section to a standstill till Friday morning. National Highways engineers who rushed men and machineries to the spot started clearing the debris from the ghat road connecting Tamil Nadu with Kerala. “Landslips were reported at around 11 p.m. and traffic was immediately blocked as a precautionary measure. We have cleared the debris and would make the road free of the boulders by blasting on Saturday,” said Assistant Divisional Engineer (National Highways), M. Seetharaman. Major and minor landslips were reported at around 40 spots on the ghat road following rain since Wednesday. The weathered rock gets loosened after getting drenched in continuous rain and start rolling down, sources said. Similar landslips were reported on Monday night and Tuesday night also. After men and machinery, led by Assistant Engineer A. Praveen Kumar cleared the road to enable movement of vehicles, road traffic was restored around 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/landslips-hit-traffic-on-bodimettu-ghat-road/article37834498.ece
04 December 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||7 more high-power pumps to drain out rainwater in Thoothukudi||The district administration has procured seven more high-power pumps at a cost of Rs. 52 lakh to pump out the stagnant rainwater from residential areas. As the residents of good number of residential areas in Thoothukudi are battling rainwater mixed with sewage for more than a week, the coastal town is witnessing road roko everyday at several places. Consequently, the Corporation has reportedly deployed more than 300 pumps to drain the stagnant water even as areas like Annai Velankanni Nagar near North Krishnarajapuram still remain neglected for reasons best known to the Corporation officials. When this issue was brought to the notice of Corporation Commissioner T. Charusree, she promised to send the Corporation personnel to Annai Velankanni Nagar. As none turned up to drain the nauseating stagnant water, the residents sent a SOS to Collector K. Senthil Raj, who sent revenue officials to the spot. “However, only a small trench was cut across the road to drain the stagnant water and no motor was used at Annai Velankanni Nagar, which has been surrounded by sewage for the past eight days. And, our miseries continue due to neglect,” said the residents. As Chief Minister M. K. Stalin visited four rain-hit areas on Thursday, seven high-power pumps – five 56 HP pumps and two 30 HP pumps - have been procured for pumping out the stagnant water and it would be used in Muthammal Colony, Rahmath Nagar and Athi Parasakthi Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7-more-high-power-pumps-to-drain-out-rainwater-in-thoothukudi/article37834518.ece
04 December 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||6 held with banned tobacco products||Police have arrested six persons for allegedly smuggling banned tobacco products, worth about Rs. 6 lakh. Police said two bikes and as many cargo vehicles were intercepted by the police team conducting vehicular check at Theyriyoor on Thursday night. Since 1,100 kg banned tobacco products were loaded in the bikes and cargo vehicles, the police seized the vehicles. They also arrested Rajakani, 44, and Manikandan, 32, of Panagudi in Tirunelveli district, Ilangaamani, 32, of Kovilvilai near Panagudi, Albert Rajan, 37, of Lebbaikudiyiruppu near Panagudi, Chiththirai Selvan, 30, and Mohan Raj, 28, both hailing from Theyriyoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6-held-with-banned-tobacco-products/article37834519.ece
04 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Ward for international travellers established||The Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital has set up an exclusive ward for treating those among incoming international air travellers who are infected with COVID-19 virus, and their contacts. The ward would be an isolation facility for patients until the results of the sample taken for genome sequencing arrive. The facility has been established at the farthest end of the hospital campus where patients were admitted during the first wave of COVID-19. A total of 22 regular beds and 10 Intensive Care Unit beds have been set up, and it would be expanded if the need arises, senior officials said. Health workers deputed for COVID-19 duty would monitor the patients. “The facility is sufficient and well-equipped,” the official said. The hospital has three Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants for oxygen generation and supply - a 1,000-litre capacity PSA plant funded through the PM CARES, and two 350-litre capacity plants through CSR funds. A triage centre with a 30-bed capacity is also ready for use. In case the number of patients increases, their vitals can be checked and their condition stabilised at the facility, where oxygen would be made available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ward-for-international-travellers-established/article37834493.ece
04 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||University conducts induction programme for freshers||As mandated by the University Grants Commission and the National Assessment and Accreditation Council, Bharathidasan University conducted Students Induction Programme (SIP) for freshers in various departments over a three-day duration. The purpose of the SIP, Vice-Chancellor M. Selvam said, was to familiarise students with the facilities in the university. The programme, he felt, would make the freshers comfortable with the university environment. During the three-day programme that culminated on Wednesday, the students were also oriented on soft skills and insights into future job market. G. Ravindran, former Head of the Department of English, St. Joseph’s College, Tiruchi, in his special address on ‘Building Blocks of Communication and Soft Skill’ focussed on traits of success such as adaptability, active listening, lateral thinking, and time management. S. Iyyampillai, former Senior Professor of Economics, Bharathidasan University, in his lecture on ‘What Next?’ urged students to learn beyond books, classroom, and teachers. He explained how one can learn from one’s own experiences as well. T. R. Gurumoorthy, Senior Professor and Head, Department of Commerce, Alagappa University, delivered a talk on ‘Moulding the Individual for Inner Engineering, Motivation and Leadership’, while R. Raja Govindasamy, former principal, Thiagarajar College (Autonomous), Madurai, motivated the students on the topic ‘Positive Attitude Amplifies Achievement Aptitude and Attitude’ Presentations were also made on various Cells/Centres such as Anti- Ragging, Anti-Sexual Harassment, Internal Complaints Committee, NSS, NCC, Green and Clean Initiative, Youth Red Cross, Placement, Institute for Entrepreneurship and Career Development, BECH (Bharathidasan University Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Career Hub), Business Development Centre, Bharathidasan University Technology Park, and SC/ST Cell. A video produced by Department of Educational Technology about the University Departments and facilities was screened for the students. Motivational videos were also displayed and around 1200 students from all the Departments from both Main and Khajamalai Campuses participated in the programmes, said M. Selvam, Syndicate Member and Coordinator, BDU, SIP 2021. To ensure the adherence of SOP, these students were divided into four batches of around 300 students in each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/university-conducts-induction-programme-for-freshers/article37834488.ece
04 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||243 arrested during drive against gutkha||Police personnel in Tiruchi range encompassing Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Perambalur, Ariyalur and Karur districts conducted surprise checks in the five districts on Thursday and seized around 93.5 kg of gutkha and banned tobacco products valued at Rs. 1.53 lakh. The surprise checks were conducted on the instruction of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi range during which 245 cases were booked and 243 accused were arrested. Eighty four cases were booked in Tiruchi; 43 in Pudukottai; 33 in Karur; 23 in Perambalur and 62 cases in Ariyalur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/243-arrested-during-drive-against-gutkha/article37834495.ece
04 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaikunta Ekadasi festival begins||The annual Vaikunta Ekadasi festival at Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple began on Friday with ‘Tirunedunthaandagam.’ The highlight of the festival, which is split into ‘Pagal Pathu’ and ‘Raa Pathu,’ each lasting 10 days, is the opening of ‘Paramapada Vasal’ in the early hours of December 14 on the Ekadasi day. The temple gopurams have been illuminated as part of the festival arrangements made by the temple authorities. The festival will conclude with ‘Nammazhar Moksham’ on December 24. A temporary police outpost has been set up on the temple premises by the City Police as part of the detailed security arrangements. Police personnel would be deployed in shifts at the outpost which would function round-the-clock.  The temple gopurams have been illuminated as part of the festival arrangements||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaikunta-ekadasi-festival-begins-at-temple/article37834435.ece
04 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||School staff held under POCSO Act||A 52-year-old correspondent of a government-aided school in Tiruchi was arrested on Friday for sexually assaulting a minor girl student on the institution’s premises. The Srirangam all-women police arrested the accused, M. James, of Bharathi Nagar in Vannarpettai, acting on a complaint lodged by the victim on Friday. The accused’s wife, Stella Mary, who worked as a teacher at the same school, was also arrested for failing to report the incident and allegedly trying to cover it up after being approached by the girl for intervention. Police sources said the girl was staying in the school’s hostel. She is said to be under the care of her aunt. James is alleged to have sexually harassed her from August. The police held a detailed inquiry with James and his wife before arresting them under sections of the POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-staff-held-under-pocso-act/article37834372.ece
04 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||58 cases in central districts||The central region reported 58 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday. One patient died of the infection in Tiruvarur district. All nine districts in the region continues to report less than 20 COVID-19 cases, reflecting a significant dip in the spread of the viral infection. Sixteen patients reported positive for the viral infection in Tiruchi, while 12 each were reported in Karur and Thanjavur districts. In the other six districts, less than 10 patients tested positive. Six patients each reported COVID-19 positive in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts. Pudukottai reported three while Mayiladuthurai, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts reported one case each, the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/58-cases-in-central-districts/article37834494.ece
04 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Friday stood at 120 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 13,743 cusecs and the discharge 13,001 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article37834497.ece
04 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||It’s a dangerous drive on dusty roads riddled with potholes||Busy roads in Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai, which were in unmotorable condition due to lack of maintenance for the past several months, are causing a number of accidents as they are filled with potholes after the recent rains. Even though the political parties and other organisations were appealing to the Department of Highways and the corporation to repair the roads, it has not evoked any positive response. The situation has turned from bad to the worse after several spells of rain pounded the district. Swami Nellaiyappar High Road and South Mount Road, which are being used by a few thousand vehicles everyday including timber-laden and cement-laden lorries going to Kerala, are unmotorable. Tirunelveli MLA Nainar Nagenthran, who chaired a meeting with public, traders, autorickshaw and cab drivers recently, said that he would mobilise the public against the ‘inactive’ Department of Highways and organise a fast in protest against the department’s miserable failure. He submitted a petition to Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran. Officials told him that they would repair this stretch and relay the road after the end of north-east monsoon. However, only potholes are filled with blue metal. When the heavily damaged Tirunelveli Town – Suththamalli Road caused accidents everyday, Inspector of Police, Suththamalli, Hariharan took the efforts to repair the road to make it safer. The Department of Highways was silent. As accidents became a routine affair, the police warned the Department of Highways of stringent action against the officials concerned if the road was not repaired immediately to ensure the safety of the road-users. Only after the warning, the department took up patch work on the badly damaged portions. The busy 7-km-long bypass road connecting Thatchanallur intersection in the north and the NGO Colony intersection in the south is in a terrible shape. Even though this badly damaged road near the western entrance of the Vaeinthaankulam new bus-stand is causing accidents everyday, the department has filled up only the big craters with the blue metal without any tar while leaving other pits untouched. The five-year-old four-lane road between Palayamkottai Central Prison and four-lane national highway too has potholes at several places. After repeated accidents involving two-wheelers and subsequent complaints by the public, these potholes are being filled with just blue metal and without bitumen. As the heavy vehicles hit the blue metal-filled pits at high speed, the broken stones get removed from the potholes and get scattered all along the road leading to more accidents, especially involving two-wheelers. Almost all the roads being maintained by the Tirunelveli Corporation are in a worst shape. “The reason behind this is the corruption in awarding the road laying contracts. Since the hands of everyone involved in this process are tainted, the tax-paying road-users are feeling the heat. The DMK government should ensure corruption-free contracts awarding system which will ensure quality of the roads,” says K.M.A. Nizam, Tirunelveli district secretary of MDMK and a road contractor.  The DMK government should ensure corruption-free contracts awarding system which will ensure quality of the roads K.M.A. Nizam Tirunelveli district secretary of MDMK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-a-dangerous-drive-on-dusty-roads-riddled-with-potholes/article37834787.ece
04 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Omicron threat: isolation ward ready||Even as the omicron variant of COVID-19 is threatening, the district administration has kept ready an isolation ward with 100 oxygen-supported beds in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH). After inspecting the COVID-19 screening facilities at Tirunelveli Railway Junction on Friday evening, Collector V. Vishnu said a screening and vaccination centre had been created at the railway junction as it was an important entry point into the district after the international airports at Madurai and Thiruvananthapuram. Besides screening the patients arriving at Tirunelveli Railway Junction with suspected symptoms of the viral infection, vaccination of Covaxin or Covishield would also be done after checking the passengers’ vaccination status. “Since we’ve got the laboratory facilities to test even the omicron suspects, there is no need for panic. When we tested a suspected case here, it turned out to be negative,” Mr. Vishnu said adding that the TVMCH had 1,500 beds with oxygen facility and another 1,500 beds could be made ready in other hospitals within a day. The Collector also informed that the ‘COVID War Room’, which was established a year ago, was still active to monitor the cases getting admitted in the hospitals and was following-up the cases even after the patients were discharged from the hospitals. The triage centre was also functioning to screen the suspected cases and send them for appropriate treatment based on the symptoms and health parameters. On the availability of medical-grade oxygen in the district, Mr. Vishnu said the district was having three oxygen generation plants and two cylinder bottling units to meet any demand. Since colleges are functioning normally with offline classes, special vaccination camps were conducted to vaccinate the students. Even as the district’s vaccination rate was at 72%, new camps would be organised in the areas where vaccination rate was relatively low. “The people are very much aware of the advantages of getting vaccinated and are cooperating with the administration. Hence, there is no need to ban those who are yet to receive the vaccine from visiting public places,” Mr. Vishnu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/omicron-threat-isolation-ward-ready-at-tvmch/article37834509.ece
04 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Display phone numbers for registering sexual harassment complaints’||Collector V. Vishnu has instructed the heads of all schools to display on their school premises the phone numbers meant to register complaints pertaining to sexual harassment and crime against women and children. Addressing a meeting held with the heads of schools and officials from the Departments of Education and Social Welfare through videoconference on Friday, Mr. Vishnu said the heads of educational institutions should create awareness among the students on sexual harassment, registration of complaint in case of sexual harassment, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act) etc. The phone numbers of the officials and the toll-free numbers for registering the complaints about sexual harassment and crime against women and children should be displayed clearly at least five places on the school premises. Village committees comprising school teachers, policewomen and important persons of the villages should be constituted in every school to prevent such incidents. Moreover, the police, psychologists and counsellors should address the students to create awareness about sexual harassment and crime against women and children. “Since child marriage is still prevalent in the district, the students should be encouraged to alert the teachers or other officials concerned if they come across such instances,” Mr. Vishnu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/display-phone-numbers-for-registering-sexual-harassment-complaints/article37834788.ece
04 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Friday stood at 138.45 feet (maximum level is 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 2,0875.13 cusecs and 1,637.59 cusecs is discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam (maximum level is 118 feet) stood at 114.90 feet. The dam had an inflow of 1,137 cusecs and no water is discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37834782.ece
04 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Self-immolation bid by couple foiled||Police personnel at the District Collectorate in Tiruppur foiled a self-immolation attempt by a couple on Friday. Police sources said the 35-year-old man was an autorickshaw driver who had allegedly loaned Rs. 1 lakh to a man. He alleged that the man had not returned the money yet and threatened him. On Friday, the driver and his wife visited the Collectorate and attempted to immolate themselves, the sources said. The police prevented their attempt and advised them to lodge a police complaint.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/self-immolation-bid-by-couple-foiled/article37834427.ece
04 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||38 tonnes of PDS rice seized||The Civil Supplies CID officers on Thursday seized two trucks near Kundadam in Tiruppur district carrying around 38 tonnes of rice meant for the public distribution system (PDS) that was allegedly being smuggled to Kerala. Police sources said the Tiruppur Unit of CS-CID, on a tip-off, conducted a vehicle check on Dharapuram-Palladam Road on Thursday during which one truck was found to have around 18 tonnes of PDS rice and broken rice. Following this, the police team detained truck driver Eswaran (36) and seized the truck. Within an hour, another truck was stopped, in which 20 tonnes of PDS rice and broken rice were found, according to the sources. The team seized this truck and detained its driver Selvaraj (46). Preliminary investigations revealed that the two accused were not in league with each other and that they had attempted to smuggle the rice separately. The rice was allegedly smuggled from the southern districts of Kerala, the sources said. The Tiruppur Unit of CS-CID registered a case against the two accused. They were remanded in judicial custody on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/38-tonnes-of-pds-rice-seized/article37834425.ece
04 December 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||300 get placement orders at job mela||Placement orders were distributed to 326 persons at a job mela organised by the district administration here on December 3 to meet manpower requirements in the private sector. According to an official release, 52 companies participated in the event organised by the District Employment and Guidance Centre and 2,327 candidates aged between 18 and 35 with educational qualification of a pass in 8th Standard to ITI diploma attended the mela. Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan distributed the placement orders to the selected candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/300-get-placement-orders-at-job-mela/article37834491.ece
04 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Travellers screened at checkposts in Nilgiris||Teams from the Health Department in the Nilgiris have been deployed at border checkposts between Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka, to check travellers for symptoms of COVID-19, and minimise the risk of the spread of the Omicron variant in the district, District Collector S.P. Amrith said on Friday. Mr. Amrith told reporters teams comprising doctors and nurses, as well as police and revenue staff, had been deployed at the border checkposts of Choladi, Nadugani, Thaloor and Pattavayal, bordering Kerala, and the Kakkanallah check post, bordering Karnataka. “Travellers from Kerala and Karnataka entering the Nilgiris by bus and private vehicles are being screened for symptoms of COVID-19,” said Mr. Amrith. Samples for testing are collected from persons exhibiting any symptoms. “If they are travelling to the Nilgiris from other States, they are being asked to turn back. If the travellers belong to Tamil Nadu, test samples are being collected,” he said. The district administration is also monitoring the entry of international tourists from countries that have reported the presence of the Omicron variant. “Health teams are immediately notified from the airports about the movement of international travellers from the affected countries. So far, no travellers from such countries have come to the district,” he said. If they visit the Nilgiris, such persons would be quarantined for eight days and tested for COVID-19 before being allowed to travel around in the district, he said. The district administration stated that more than 2,000 RT-PCR tests were being conducted each day and the positivity rate was 0.7 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/travellers-screened-at-checkposts-in-nilgiris/article37834417.ece
04 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 12 fresh COVID-19 infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,230 with 12 new cases reported on Friday. While 48,932 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 157. The district's death toll is 1,141. In Ranipet district, 5 cases were reported positive and the tally stood at 43,575. In Tirupattur district, 1 case was reported on Friday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,395. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases stood at 4, taking the total number of cases to 55,206. Out of these, 54,484 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 52.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-12-fresh-covid-19-infections/article37834791.ece
04 December 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Inform govt. of units making banned plastics’||The Villupuram district administration has appealed to people to inform the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) about plastic industries, which are operating illegally and manufacturing banned single-use plastic items. “Environmentally-conscious citizens providing information will be appreciated and rewarded for their contribution to protect the environment and eradicate single-use plastics. The informant’s identity will be kept confidential,” said Collector D. Mohan. Despite the Madras High Court and the National Green Tribunal (Southern Zone) issuing directions to the government for strict implementation of the ban and to take effective steps against the violators at the grassroots level, units manufacturing banned plastic items continue to exist and operate illegally on small spaces within residential/commercial establishments, he said. Though the TNPCB has been conducting regular inspections on complaints received, plastic units continue to operate illegally. Most of these units are unorganised, without registrations, and function purely on a temporary basis, Mr. Mohan said. Hence, environmentally-conscious public and residents are requested to inform the TNPCB about such units manufacturing banned plastic items. The complaints shall be forwarded to the District Environmental Engineers of the TNPCB, he said. Such complaints may be lodged through email/letter/phone calls and WhatsApp. The complainants are also requested to provide their name and mobile number so that additional details as requested may be sought from them. This is also required to avoid prank calls, the Collector said.  Though TNPCB has been conducting regular inspections on complaints received, plastic units continue to operate illegally||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inform-govt-of-units-making-banned-plastics/article37834758.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Ready for a debate on Central aid’||Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, has challenged Chief Minister N. Rangasamy and Ministers, to an open debate on the rule of the All India N. R. Congress-led National Democratic Alliance in the Union Territory. In a virtual statement released to the media on Thursday night, the senior Congress leader said the Chief Minister and BJP leaders in the Union Territory faced the Assembly polls promising to get enhanced financial assistance. “The government was only able to get Rs. 24 crore more this financial year compared to the last Budget presented by the Congress government. Rangasamy was not able to implement 90% of the schemes announced in the Budget. Even schemes being implemented such as including more beneficiaries under the old age pension and enhanced assistance for fishermen were those planned during the Congress regime. I am ready for an open debate,” he said. The government would need an additional Rs. 1,000 crore to fufill their poll promises of opening textile and sugar mills and to revive the cooperative sector. Taking pot shots at Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, the former Chief Minister said the Lt. Governor should “better be a full-time L-G of the Union Territory rather than holding additional charge as she has got tremendous responsibilities. She is also functioning as the Chief Minister of the Union Territory so she has got additional work.” The Chief Minister also questioned the Lt. Governor’s role in getting additional funds from the Centre. The former Chief Minister welcomed the stand taken by the Lt. Governor to test all tourists for COVID-19 before entering the Union Territory. “It is a welcome stand but the government should also ramp up testing of the general population,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ready-for-a-debate-on-central-aid/article37834752.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 127 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 127 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Friday. The Health Department reported one new death, causing the toll to touch 2,470. As many as 111 persons recovered on Friday and the district had 1,267 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 52 new cases on Friday. The district had 604 active cases and 54 persons recovered. The Health Department did not report any new deaths and the toll remained at 1,000. Vaccination camps Coimbatore Corporation will hold 261 vaccination camps during the mega vaccination drive on Saturday. A release from the civic body said vaccines would be administered from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. There were 1.20 lakh eligible persons in the city who had not taken even the first dose of vaccine. The Corporation would strive to reach out to these people on Saturday. There were 2.43 lakh persons who had gained eligibility for the second dose (after completion of 84 days after the first dose of Covishield and 28 days after taking the first shot of Covaxin) The Corporation reminded owners of malls, cinemas and other commercial establishments to let in only those persons who had either taken both doses, or had been administered the first dose but had not gained eligibility for the second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-127-new-covid-19-cases/article37834416.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||3 from abroad test positive in T.N.||The child was admitted to the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy. The third patient, a 32-year-old woman, tested positive in Chennai. She had travelled from London to Colombo before arriving in Chennai. Eight people, including family contacts of the U.K. returnees, were admitted to the Government Corona Hospital in Guindy. A separate ward with 200 beds had been set up for those from abroad, the Minister said. The passengers’ samples had been sent for genomic sequencing, he said. The Minister, who along with Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, visited the patients on Friday, said doctors had said all of them were asymptomatic and doing well. He said the results of the genomic sequencing of their samples would be available in four to five days. “We are testing passengers who were seated on the front and back rows in the flights. The flight staff are also being tested. All contacts, family members and air-hostesses are already in quarantine,” he said. False news The Minister said false news was being circulated online that two persons had tested positive for the Omicron variant in the State. All details would be released in a transparent manner, he said. Travellers from ‘at-risk’ countries like the U.K., South Africa, Hong Kong, Botswana and Israel are being subjected to screening for fever and RT-PCR testing on arrival at the four international airports in the State. If they test negative for COVID-19, they should be under home quarantine for seven days, and adherence to these norms is being monitored. Apart from this, 2% of travellers from other countries are being randomly tested at the four airports for the past three days. The Minister said the government would bear the cost of testing for the 2% of travellers from non-risk countries who are being randomly tested. Holding areas have been earmarked at the four airports where passengers can wait till their RT-PCR test results arrive. If any traveller tests positive, they will be isolated at the government medical college hospital. Special wards, comprising 30 to 40 beds with oxygen facilities and ventilators, have been set up at six government hospitals — the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, the Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital and the Government Corona Hospital in Chennai; the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai, and the government medical college hospitals in Tiruchi and Coimbatore. The Health Secretary said the State had 3.25 lakh ‘Thermo TaqPath’ kits to detect the presence of the Omicron variant in samples. The 13th mega COVID-19 vaccination camp will be held on Saturday at 50,000 places. The Health Minister said the State was nearing 80% first dose coverage and 45% second dose coverage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-from-abroad-test-positive-in-tn/article37834374.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cost of business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cost-of-business/article37834227.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Young Indians Coimbatore and Confederation of Indian Industry: Yi Learning Conclave - ‘X Factor’, The Residency Towers, 3 p.m.  Nehru Institute of Information Technology and Management: Graduation Ceremony, 11 a.m.  D.J. Academy for Managerial Excellence: Corporate Connect – Motivational Talk, 11 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Industry Institute Forum – Campus to Corporate Connect, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article37834415.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||04-12-2021-city cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA AAA / BHARAT KALACHAR / TOM MEDIAAS - MARGAZHI NATYA MAHOTSAV 2021 TODAY AT SRI YGP AUDITORIUM, NO.17, THIRUMALAI ROAD, T. NAGAR, CHENNAI - 600 017. 5.30 PM (ALL ARE WELCOME) PRARTHANA ANANTHANARAYANAN SUBHALAKSHMI, Guru: Smt. PADMINI KRISHNAMURTHY, 7.15 PM (TICKETED) "KAMBA CHITTIRAM" Thematic Presentation by Students of KRIPA CENTRE FOR FINE ARTS, Choreography: Smt.SAIKRIPA PRASANNA. RESERVATION AT HALL Supported by : SRIRAM CAPITAL Ltd , INDUSIND BANK, L&T, PTA PSBB School K.K.Nagar. ENTRY ONLY THIRUMALAI RD. PH: 28343045 / 9941907993 (ALL Govt. S.O. P’s will be followed). AANMAJOTHI & MADHURADHWANI Today 6.30 pm Prasanna Venkatraman / Vittal Rangan /Serthalai Ananthakrishnan / Anirudh Athreya @ Arkay Convention Centre, Luz. Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, East Mada Street, Mylapore Chennai-600 004 Bhavan's Cultural Festival 2021, Live Programme: upto 15.12.2021 in association with South Zone Cultural Centre (Ministry of Culture, Government of India ) at Bhavan's Main Auditorium, East Mada Street, Mylapore Chennai -600 004. Today 4th Dec:5.00 pm: Sri Arun Bharatram(Sitar) and 6.30 pm: Smt. Ranjani & Smt. Gayathri (Vocal), Smt. Charumathi Raghuraman (Violin), Sri Sai Giridhar (Mridangam), Sri S. Krishna (Ghatam). Tomorrow 5th Dec: 10.00 am: Thiruvarur Dr. Bakthavatsalam & Troupe (Laya Maduraa), 4.30 pm: Sri Sriram Parasuram (Hindustani/Carnatic) and 6.30 pm: Smt.Vishaka Hari (Harikatha). Programme supported by : Apollo Pharmacies Ltd., Ramco Cements Ltd., Ramco Industries, Rajalakshmi Institutions, MGM Healthcare, Kauvery Hospitals, GRT Jewellers, Co-Optex, Nalli Silks, Aban Scientific, Larsen & Toubro, State Bank of India, AVA Cholayil, Dhanvantari Nano Aushadi, Sabari Foundations and Construction, Suryaans Paper, Star Health and Allied Insurance, SMK Fomra Institute of Technology, Indian Oil Corporation, NAC Jewellers, Sri Krishna Sweets. Watch Live (Courtesy - Bhavan's Kolkata Kendra). www.bhavanschennai.org. Covid-19 S.O.P to be followed. All are Welcome. Kedaram (Regd) 9884066767 6th Isaivizha Ragasudha Hall, Mylapore 4pm: Krithika Natarajan- Vocal, Deepika - Violin, B.Ganapathyraman - Mridangam, Nergunam Dr Sankar- Kanjira. 6pm: Sriranjini Santhanagopalan- Vocal, Sayee Rakshith- violin, Patri Sathiskumar- Mridangam, Chandrasekara Sharma - Ghatam. All are welcome. Sponsors: NALLI CHINNASWAMY CHETTY; MINISTRY OF CULTURE, MyTVS & RAJALAKSHMI INSTITUTIONS. Live @ YouTube Parivadini Kedaram. PUSHPAANJALI CULTURAL TRUST Today 4pm at R K Swamy Auditorium (Sir Sivaswamy Kalalaya), Mylapore. Bharathanatyam by Dr.Dhanya Varshini Murali & Kum.Amrithavarshini Murali (Dis of Prof.Sikkil Vasanthakumari) 5.30pm Bharathanatyam by Kum.Ishwarya Rajkumar & Kum. Keerthana Kumar (Dis of Smt.Karthiyayani Srinivas) 7pm Bharathanatyam by Kum. Sahithya Venkatasubramaniam (Dis of Sri Prabin Villareesh, Bangalore) The Mylapore Fine Arts Club (Regd.) Phone 24997755 Today 6.45 PM U A A Presents Y.Gee. Mahendra in CHARUKESI by Venkat - Tickets Available. MISCELLANEOUS Sri Vidyatheertha Foundation (Regd) Ph: 97899 99160 104th Jayanthi Satsangh of Jagadguru Sri Abhinava Vidyatheertha Mahaswamigal. Swami Vidyashankara Saraswathy delivers a discourse on 'Understanding of our Dharma' - Live relay via our YouTube channel 'Shankara Vijayam' from 6 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/04-12-2021-city-cinema/article37834391.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Nandha Engineering College: Department of Information Technology, Association inauguration, C. Robinson, Chief Executive Officer, W3CERT Technologies, chief guest, 10 a.m.; Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, virtual workshop on Build IoT Dashboard using PythonDjango, Mukul Shandilya, Junior Research Engineer, TechnieNest Private Limited, Rajasthan, resource person, 9.30 a.m.    Knowledge Institute of Technology: CSE - SCINTEL Association inauguration, 9.30 a.m.  AVS College of Arts and Science: Graduation Day, 10 a.m.    Vivekanandha College of Engineering for Women: Graduation Day, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article37834527.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||Harshamitra Super Speciality Cancer Centre and Research Institute: 36th annual conference of Association of Radioation Oncologists of India - Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, Collector S. Sivarasu inaugurates, Hotel SRM, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article37834826.ece
04 December 2021||Begnaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. leader secures bail||Congress leader M.N. Gopalakrishna, who was purportedly seen in a video clip discussing plans to kill S.R. Vishwanath, Yelahanka BJP MLA, reportedly surrendered before a city court and secured bail on Friday, sources said. Devaraj, a local leader who recorded the video and sent it to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and the MLA apologising “for taking a hit”, was arrested by the Rajanukunte police. He was produced before a court at Doddaballapur, which granted him bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-leader-secures-bail/article37834352.ece
04 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ramesh openly supports Lakhan’s candidature||Since the day Lakhan Jarkiholi, the youngest of the Jarkiholi siblings, filed his nomination as an Independent candidate for the Legislative Council polls, there were rumours about his brothers helping him discreetly. On Friday, the rumours were put to rest when BJP MLA and former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and Mr. Lakhan Jarkiholi addressed members of the gram panchayat and urban local bodies at Brahmanath Bhavan in Nippani. While the crowd was the same, votes were sought for different candidates.Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi sought votes for the BJP and for his brother while Mr. Lakhan Jarkiholi sought votes only for himself. The first to address the gathering was Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi who openly declared his support for his brother whose candidature could have an adverse impact on his party candidate. He claimed to have “fielded Lakhan only to defeat Channaraj Hattiholi”, the Congress candidate and younger brother of MLA Lakshmi Hebbalkar, who is his political adversary in Belagavi district. “If the Congress had given the ticket to backward class leaders suchas Vivekrao Patil or a veteran Congressmen such as Prakash Hukkeri, I would not have fielded Lakhan. I am supporting him now only because we want to defeat Channaraj Hattiholi,” Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi declared.“The Congress is a party that supports only politicians with money. There is no social justice in that party. That is why I left the Congress to join the BJP,” he said. Minutes later, Mr. Lakhan Jarkiholi took to the stage and sought votes for himself. He recalled the contributions of his brothers to Belagavi district. On Thursday, Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi left a campaign rally at Sthavanidhi, near Athani, with a cryptic message. “You should ensure victory of the BJP candidate, Mahantesh Kavatagimath, and defeat the Congress candidate. But, I will not tell you which candidate should get your first preference vote or the second preference vote... I am being cautious as I have some political enemies in Athani,” he said. This was widely interpreted as a reference to Laxman Savadi, former Deputy Chief Minister, who has not had the best of relations with the Jarkiholi brothers for decades. On Friday, Mr. Savadi responded in Athani saying that the party was “keenly observing who is supporting whom”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramesh-openly-supports-lakhans-candidature/article37834345.ece
04 December 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farmer found dead||A farmer was found dead in his field in Chandan Hosur village near Hire Bagewadi in Belagavi district on Friday. According to reports, he was upset after he received a bank notice to repay his loan, a few days ago. The police suspect that he ended his life on Thursday night.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmer-found-dead/article37834536.ece
04 December 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Former TMC member killed||Unidentified miscreants killed Pradeep Entamana, former member of the town municipal council of Alamel in Vijayapura district, on Thursday night. The body of the 32-year-old rowdy-sheeter was found on Friday night in a field near his house. The police suspect that a gang waylaid him when he was returning from a wedding and attacked him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-tmc-member-killed/article37834542.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Loss from northeast monsoon pegged at Rs. 11,916.3 crore||Faced with the fourth consecutive year of flooding and landslips since 2018, two months of the northeast monsoon alone has caused massive losses in terms of damage to life, property, and crops. The overall estimated damage caused by the rain in October and November alone has been pegged at Rs. 11,916.3 crore and as per the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) norms, Rs. 1,281.92 crore. As per the estimates of the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), untimely heavy rain during October and November has seen 42 human lives lost owing to flooding, 20,083 houses damaged, and 7.9 lakh ha of agricultural crops, 1.25 lakh ha of horticultural crops, 0.75 lakh ha of plantation crops, and 243 ha of sericultural crops damaged. The crop loss owing to floods is estimated at Rs. 8,962.02 crore Over-saturation of soil “The unprecedented incessant rainfall led to over-saturation of soil and inundation of crop fields for more than a week to a month resulting in significant damage to standing crops near harvesting stage. Further, heavy rainfall during November also destroyed most of the rabi crops, such as Bengal gram, cotton, jowar, maize, and chilli. Long duration cloudy situation led to pest and disease to plantation crops such as grapes, coffee, arecanut, and pepper, causing immense misery to farmers,” KNDMC officials said, adding that there had also been large-scale damage to houses and critical infrastructure such as roads, schools, and government offices. This includes 19,366 km of State highways, and major district, village, and urban roads; 1,258 bridges/culverts, 7,204 poles, 1,008 power supply transformers up to 11-kV, 446 km power supply lines, 439 minor irrigation tanks, 977 water supply schemes, and 7,711 government buildings. According to the statement showing the amount required for relief, rescue and emergent works due to flood during the two months, the estimated infrastructure damage is Rs. 2,630.99. Rainfall patterns Officials from the disaster management centre pointed out that there has been large intra-seasonal variability of rainfall in the State, particularly since 2011, leading to floods and droughts simultaneously, and in 2021, Karnataka has been persistently experiencing extreme events since May 2021. During the northeast monsoon — between October 1 and November 21 — simultaneous cyclonic circulation and low pressures over the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea resulted in untimely incessant widespread heavy rainfall over the State, especially in the south-interior Karnataka, Malnad, and coastal regions. This resulted in the State receiving 85% more rainfall than normal, resulting in 23 out of 31 districts recording excess to large excess rainfall, officials said. Overall, the State recorded normal rainfall this year from January 1 to November 30: 1,144 mm as against the normal rainfall of 1,317 mm with a percentage departure of 15. During the pre-monsoon season (January 1 to May 31), the State recorded 74% departure from normal, falling under the ‘large excess rainfall’ category, while during the southwest monsoon season (June 1 to September 30), Karnataka saw a -8 % departure — classified as normal. The northeast monsoon (October 1 to November 30) was an 87% departure, making the State fall under the ‘large excess’ category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/loss-from-northeast-monsoon-pegged-at-rs-119163-crore/article37834347.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP yet to complete contact tracing||A day after five persons — all contacts of the 46-year-old Bengaluru resident who contracted the Omicron strain of the coronavirus — tested positive for COVID-19, the civic up has stepped up its contact tracing efforts. According to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahangara Palike health officials, so far, they have been able to identify 23 primary contacts and 207 secondary contacts of the five people. Contact tracing of four people has been completed, while that of the fifth person is still under way and is likely to be completed soon. All contacts will be isolated and tested, said civic officials. Sources said that the 46-year-old male, a health professional who contracted the new variant despite having no travel history, is currently hospitalised in a special facility set up in the city to treat people with the Omicron strain. He had reportedly attended a conference for health professionals on November 20.When asked if any of the five contacts who tested positive were health professionals, officials refused to divulge further information. “All we can say at this point is that all the people he came in contact with have been traced and tested,” said BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) K.V. Thrilok Chandra. The samples of the five people who tested positive have been sent for genome sequencing, the results of which are expected on Saturday. Mr. Thrilok Chandra told The Hindu that the civic body had been very thorough with the contact tracing. “We have traced the patients who consulted the health professional at his clinic, hospital as well as the staff of the out-patient department at the hospital. Of these persons, only five tested positive between November 22 and 25, who have also been isolated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/omicron-strain-bbmp-yet-to-complete-contact-tracing-efforts/article37834333.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||10 returnees not missing; they arrived in November: BBMP||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has been making efforts to trace international returnees, especially those from at-risk countries, who arrived in the city in early November before the mandatory testing regulations were in place. Responding to rumours that among the international returnees, 10 persons are yet to be traced, BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that these persons from at-risk countries had arrived in the city in early November, when the new variant of COVID-19 and at-risk countries were yet to be identified,” he said. Not missing Countering rumours that the ten international returnees were ‘missing’, K.V. Thrilok Chandra, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health), clarified they they had actually arrived in the city during the first and second weeks of November. The new variant of COVID-19 and the at-risk countries were identified in the third week of November. “These international returnees are neither missing nor are they contacts of either of the two persons who have been detected with Omicron, as is being portrayed. We have already contacted them. They will be tested soon,” he added. Review meeting These returnees were also discussed in the review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai earlier on Friday. The civic body was directed to ensure that they are tested as soon as possible. Precautionary measures Meanwhile Mr. Gupta said that the exercise to backtrace and identify the returnees started around two to three days ago as part of precautionary measures to check the presence of the new variant in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-international-returnees-not-missing-bbmp-chief/article37834334.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Omicron: State Health Dept. on high alert||In the wake of India’s first two Omicron cases being detected in Karnataka, the State Health Department is on high alert. All medical colleges in the districts have been directed to gear up and be prepared to deal with a possible third wave. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who on Friday met the deans and heads of various departments in the 21 medical colleges, directed them to train 18,000 nursing students, ramp up paediatric ICUs, and keep other required infrastructure ready. After chairing a video conference with the directors of the medical colleges, the Minister said everyone including the heads of departments, professors and senior doctors of the medical colleges have been advised to get involved in coordination with resident doctors and final-year medical students. “During the first and second waves, the State faced a paucity of nurses to treat those who were in the ICUs. Now that problem has been solved. There are about 18,000 students doing their final year nursing courses. They should be trained for a month through the digital platform of the RGUHS for assisting our doctors in the ICUs if required,” he said. “We are trying to resolve all issues flagged by the medical colleges that may come in the way of providing quality treatment for people,” he said. On the release of COVID risk allowance for resident doctors, the Minister said of the required Rs. 73 crore, the Finance Department released Rs. 55 crore on Thursday. The remaining will also be released within a day or two and the risk allowance will be credited to the accounts of the resident doctors shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/omicron-state-health-dept-on-high-alert/article37834323.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Death toll in NICE Road accident rises to three||One of the five women who was injured in the NICE Road accident succumbed to her injuries on Thursday evening. A speeding car had run over a group of seven women sitting by the street side on NICE Road on November 1 night. Two women, Gali Honnamma, 68 and Bindu, 28, were killed on the spot, while five were injured and hospitalised. Of them, Reva Honnamma, 58, succumbed to her injuries on Thursday. According to sources, the four others are under treatment at the hospital, but the condition of one woman, Rajamma, 76, is critical as she sustained internal injuries in the abdomen. Meanwhile, Prem Kumar, 28, son of an electrical contractor, who was behind the wheel, was allegedly under the influence of alcohol when the accident occurred. An alcometer test showed he had 145 mg/100 ml of blood alcohol levels much above 30 mg/100 ml blood, police said. While he was driving on an incomplete stretch on NICE Road near Talaghattapura, not used by motorists, he saw a bike parked on the road and took a sharp right to avoid ramming into it. However, in doing so he mowed down the group of seven women. The group of women, all related to each other and residents of Varasandra, had put out ragi to dry, packed them in gunny bags after dark, and were sitting by the roadside having dinner. Police arrested Prem Kumar, booking him for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and he has been sent to judicial custody. His friend Gagan, who was in the car when the accident occurred, fled from the scene and is still at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/death-toll-in-nice-road-accident-rises-to-three/article37834335.ece
04 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yaduveer to chair panel to celebrate jubilee of RSS-linked school||The scion of the erstwhile Mysuru royal family Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar has said he will chair the committee to celebrate the golden jubilee of Janaseva Vidya Kendra, a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-linked school, at Channenahalli. He told mediapersons on Friday he was happy to be part of the celebrations as the school blended tradition and modernity in education. The yearlong celebrations will be flagged off on December 26, to be inaugurated by Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot. RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale will be the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yaduveer-to-chair-panel-to-celebrate-jubilee-of-rss-linked-school/article37834342.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC bids farewell to ‘anti-corruption judge’||Justice N.K. Sudhindrarao, a judge of the High Court, had “displayed qualities of fearless and firmness right from the commencement of his judiciary career” 20 years ago, said Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka Ritu Raj Awasthi on Friday. “I am told Justice Sudhindrarao was popularly referred to as anti-corruption judge,” the Chief Justice said while giving a traditional farewell on behalf of the Full Court on the occasion the former’s superannuation from the service. Pointing out that Mr. Justice Sudhindrarao had dealt with many high-profile cases involving offences of corruption while he was the judge of the Special Court for Lokayukta cases prior to his elevation as a judge of the High Court, the Chief Justice said Mr. Justice Sudhindrarao’s “dedication and firmness eared him the trust and the confidence of the public”. Mr. Justice Sudhindrarao had passed several stringent orders in corruption cases when he was the judge of the Special Court for Lokayukta cases. One of his prominent decisions that created ripples in political circles was the denial of bail to then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and a few other political leaders, resulting in them landing behind the bars in the Central Prison, Bengaluru, under the judicial custody in a corruption case. In his reply to the farewell, Mr. Justice Sudhindrarao said right from his students days casteism and corruption were his enemies, and he never left a single opportunity to express his dissent. Karnataka State Bar Council chairman Srinivasa Babu L. said Mr. Justice Sudhindrarao set a landmark by his commitment and adherence to the principles of honesty and integrity right from the day he joined the judicial service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-bids-farewell-to-anti-corruption-judge/article37834349.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice on plea against Suraj’s candidature||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday ordered issue of notice to the Election Commission of India on a petition questioning acceptance of nomination papers of Suraj Revanna,son of JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna, for the election to the Legislative Council from the Hassan Local Authorities’ constituency. Thepetitioner, Harish K.L. of Channarayapatna in Hassan district, has complained that Mr. Suraj Revanna had not declared his marital status besides not disclosing the assets andliabilities of his wife and other dependents in the declaration filed along with the nomination papers. Justice M. Nagaprasanna, before whom the petition came up for hearing, adjourned further hearing till December 6 while ordering issue of notice to Mr. Suraj Revanna and others. It has been complained in the petition that the Returning Officer had rejected the objections raised by the petitioner’s advocate during scrutiny of nomination papers on the ground that only the contesting candidates can raise objections. The petitioner has sought a declaration from the court that Mr. Suraj Revanna is not qualified to contest the election in terms of Section 33(A) and 125(A) of the Representation of People Act, 1950, for non-disclosure of material information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-on-plea-against-surajs-candidature/article37834350.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KAS officer petitions police against new BU Registrar||KAS officer K. Jyothi, who was recently replaced by M. Kotresh as Registrar (Administration) of Bangalore University, petitioned the Jnanabharathi police on Friday alleging that the newly appointed Registrar had accessed her office without authorisation and discharged duties while accessing files and letters. Mr. Kotresh told her that he did so on the oral instructions of V-C K.R. Venugopal, she said in her petition to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kas-officer-petitions-police-against-new-bu-registrar/article37834338.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Disruption in metro services||To facilitate maintenance work between Trinity and Halasur stations, BMRCL announced that Namma Metro services will be suspended between Baiyyappanahalli and M.G. Road on the Purple Line from 5 p.m. on Saturday till 7 a.m on Sunday. However, services will be available between M.G. Road till Kengeri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disruption-in-metro-services/article37834328.ece
04 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Roads: Cong. smells scam||The Congress on Friday alleged that the BJP Government has siphoned off several hundreds of crores of rupees in development and maintenance of 12 high-dnsity corridor roads in Bengaluru. Speaking to reporters at the party office, KPCC working president Ramalinga Reddy alleged that the government had spent Rs. 785.31 crore on development and maintenance of the roads. But many roads were damaged now owing to rains and poor maintenance. He demanded the government release funds to BBMP to fill the potholes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/roads-cong-smells-scam/article37834336.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Road to residence barricaded||A day after a 46-year-old health professional tested positive for the Omicron variant of the COVID-19, the road leading to his house was barricaded. However, senior officials in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) claimed that no such directions had been given. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta clarified that no express orders had been given to the zonal or ward health officials to take up such measures. “These may be default decisions that have been taken by the local authorities as per set protocol,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/road-to-residence-barricaded/article37834330.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||413 new cases, four deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported 413 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,97,246. Bengaluru Urban reported 212 cases and two deaths. With four deaths, the toll rose to 38,220. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 256 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 29,52,101. The State now has 6,896 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.39%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.96%. As many as 1,05,879 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 88,084 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,36,03,765.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-karnataka-reports-413-new-cases-four-deaths/article37834324.ece
04 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Actor Shivaram critical||Veteran actor Shivaram, 83, who has suffered a brain haemorrhage, is in a very critical condition at a private hospital in Bengaluru. Mr. Shivaram collapsed at his residence on Tuesday night while performing a puja as he was preparing to go to Sabarimala. He was rushed to a private hospital. Doctors have ruled out surgery due to his old age and related complications, sources said. His condition continues to be critical and he is not responding well, sources in the industry said. A week ago, he was also involved in a minor car accident, but had not suffered any major injuries, sources said. Though he started out as an assistant director in 1958, assisting K.R. Seetharama Sastry, Puttanna Kanagal, and Singeetam Srinivasa Rao, he debuted as an actor in 1965 in Beretha Jeeva and established himself as a character actor since then. He is one of the senior most actors of the Kannada film industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/actor-shivaram-critical/article37834351.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 5L stolen from contractor’s car||A civil contractor who parked his SUV in the parking lot of BBMP head office found the driver seat window broken and Rs. 5 lakh cash kept in the dashboard missing on Friday afternoon. The contractor has lodged a complaint based on which Halasur Gate police have taken up a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-5l-stolen-from-contractors-car/article37834327.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Former Bigg Boss contestant assaulted||‘Kirik’ Keerthi, a former Bigg Boss contestant, was allegedly assaulted with a beer bottle at a pub by a patron in Sadashivanagar on Thursday night. Mr. Keerthi reportedly took objection to the patron sitting at the next table taking a photo of him. “The duo had an argument and as it went out of hand, the patron attacked Mr. Keerthi with a beer bottle on the head. He suffered minor injuries,” said the police. A case has been registered at Sadashivanagar police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-bigg-boss-contestant-assaulted/article37834337.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in view of carrying out works related to conversion of overhead line into UG/AB cable works. According to a release, West Circle, the areas to be affected are: Vinayaka Layout, Nagarbhavi 9th Block, near Bharath Petrol Pump, Siddaganga Choultry, Ganga International School road, T.B. Halli Road. Power supply will also be affected for three days between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. from December 4 in view of taking up of re-erection and other works in the areas serviced from Kachamaranahalli Sub-Station. The areas are: Varthur, Gunurupalya, Panathurdinne, Balagere BWSSB Plant and Kachamaranahahalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article37834331.ece
04 December 2021||Benglauru,KARNATAKA||BIAL to bear test costs||International passengers from non-risk countries who are randomly selected for testing for COVID-19 will not have to pay for RT-PCR. BIAL on Friday announced that it will bear testing costs for 2% of international passengers who will be randomly chosen at Kempegowda airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bial-to-bear-test-costs/article37834325.ece
04 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Modi Govt. ignoring rural local bodies’||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has alleged that the Narendra Modi-led Union Government had not taken any steps to strengthen rural local bodies in the last eight years. At a press conference in Chikkamagaluru on Friday, he said the BJP lacked the commitment to strengthen local bodies. The party in power in the State brought in a law to postpone elections to taluk and zilla panchayats. “The BJP does not believe in the idea of decentralisation. The party wants to scuttle powers of panchayat bodies”, he said. M.K.Pranesh, who was elected to the Legislative Council on the BJP ticket, hardly spoke in the council about panchayat bodies. The Congress had always strengthened local bodies. The voters of the council polls would consider the contributions of the party while exercising their right, he said. KPCC president D.K.Shivakumar said Chikkamagaluru was like a native place for the Congress and the party’s candidate would “definitely win” in the council polls. The people were fed up with the BJP rule in the State and the Centre. He alleged that the corruption had been rampant in the State and the contractors’ association had written to the Prime Minister alleging how much money the contractors had to pay to get their bills cleared. “Karnataka has become the number one corrupt State in the country. People in power looted money in every purchase during the COVID-19 pandemic”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/modi-govt-ignoring-rural-local-bodies/article37834702.ece
04 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Leopard dies||An eight-year-old leopard, which was injured, succumbed on Thursday. The Belur Range Forest officials had rescued the animal from Kallahalli on November 30 after being alerted by local people about its injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-dies/article37834709.ece
04 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dharwad officials give conditional permission to open SDM OPD||With the new variant of COVID-19 not found in samples sent for genome sequencing to Benglauru, the Dharwad district administration has given conditional permission for SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital in Dharwad to open its out-patient department (OPD). In a press release issued here on Friday, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has said that the decision to permit opening the OPD was taken after considering the recommendations by the State-level experts’ committee. It might be recalled that the district administration had ordered for closure of the OPD of the hospital and also sealed two hostels in the last week of November following a sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases. As 306 out of the total 7,868 persons, including students, health staff, and other employees, had tested positive, even admission of in-patients was also barred as a precautionary measure. Subsequently, the district administration had sent the samples of positive patients to Bengaluru for genome sequencing in order to ascertain whether they were suffering from any new variant of the pandemic. None of the samples tested positive for any new variant. The management board of the medical college had sought permission for reopening the OPD and IPD of the hospital on November 30 and the requisition was sent for advice to the committee, which met on Thursday and recommended giving conditional permission. The Deputy Commissioner has said in the release that based on the committee’s recommendation, SDM Medical College and Hospital has been given conditional permission under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the National Disaster Management Act, 2005 to reopen OPD and IPD from Friday. Mandatory adherence to the COVID-19 protocol should be ensured, he has said. The conditions include no social, cultural or sports event to be conducted on campus for next two months; Mandatory collection of swabs at OPD and IPD for testing; entry only to persons who have received double dose of vaccines; operating vaccine teams and swab collection teams at entrance of the hospital; the hostels under containment zone will be denotified after 14 days after the last case of infection, and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-officials-give-conditional-permission-to-open-sdm-opd/article37834544.ece
04 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Modi has played cruel joke on youth: AIDYO||“Prime Minister Narendra Modi has played a cruel joke on the youth of the country, by promising 2 crore jobs per year. When crores have lost jobs, the Modi government is not even bothered to even fill up the 52 lakh jobs that have fallen vacant in the last seven years,” All-India Democratic Youth Organisation (AIDYO) national president Ramanjanappa Aldalli has said. Speaking in Hubballi on Friday, Mr. Aldalli said that the country, which had the highest population of youth, was facing the its worst unemployment crisis. “The unemployment rate in the country, which was 6.96% in July 2021, increased to 8.32% in August 2021. In urban areas it is 9.78%. Crores of youths and workers and migrant labourers have lost their jobs. The Prime Minister had promised two crore jobs in a year. But when 2.5 crore jobs were lost during April-May, the Modi government looked the other way,” he said. Mr. Aldalli said that in a country where there were over 100 crore people in the working age group, the number of unemployed youth was increasing continuously. Sectors like agriculture, industry and services were in deep crisis and COVID-19 pandemic had further added to the problem. Both the State and the Union Governments had failed to generate employment for the eligible youth, he said. He alleged that because of the failure of the Governments, the crime rate had increased and so too the suicide rate. Lack of employment was causing youth to take this extreme step and the Governments were least bothered to look into the issue, he said. Mr. Ramanjanappa said that as part of expanding the movement against soaring prices of essential commodities, rising unemployment and cultural degradation, and related issues, the AIDYO would be holding an all-India youth convention at Ghatshila in Jharkhand on December 11 and 12. The convention will deliberate on the burning issues of the country, the need for expanding the movement to get the rightful demands by strengthening the organisation at the taluk, district, State and national levels, and also chalk out future plans, he said, adding that thousands of youths from across the country would participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/modi-has-played-cruel-joke-on-youth-aidyo/article37834538.ece
04 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Ballari police arrest 10 people for assaulting Revenue officer||The Ballari police have arrested 10 people, including two children in conflict with the law, who had allegedly assaulted a village accountant at Tolamamidi village in Ballari district. The eight adults arrested have been idenfitied as Makbul, Ilias, Tasmim, Shanaz, Apsara, Bibijan, Mohammad Gaus, and Tausif. A.K. Venkataswamy, a village accountant attached to Yettinabudihal village who was also an In-charge Revenue Inspector of Rupanagudi hobli, was allegedly assaulted with weapons at his residence in Ballari late on Wednesday. The officer, in his statement to the police, had alleged that he was assaulted because he had attempted to seize the vehicles that were transporting illegally extracted sand a day before at Tolamamidi village. Based on his statement, the Brucepet police had registered a first information report under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including Section 307 (attempt to murder) on Thursday. Ballari Superintendent of Police Saidulu Adavath formed a special team, headed by Deputy Superintendent of Police Ramesh Kumar, to nab the accused. Mr. Adavath said in a press release that all the accused were produced before the court which remanded them in judicial custody. In connection to the same case, the Ballari Rural Police have arrested six more people for preventing revenue officers from discharging their duties. J. Ganesh, a village accountant of Tolamamidi, had complained to the police that he was allegedly prevented from discharging his duties by a mob, when he, along with Kuntanal village accountant Manjunath, Yettinabudihal village accountant A.K. Venkataswamy, and geologists Naveen and K. Srinivas, had gone to Tolamamidi for seizing vehicles that were reportedly transporting the illegally extracted sand on the night of November 30. Based on the complaint, the Ballari Rural police had filed a FIR under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation). In a press release on Friday, the police said that they had arrested Madhu, Gangadhar, Prakash, Ramesh, Nagaraj and Prakash in connection with the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ballari-police-arrest-10-people-for-assaulting-revenue-officer/article37834539.ece
04 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kharge calls upon party workers to collectively work to defeat BJP candidates in Council polls||M. Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, called upon Congress workers to collectively work for ensuring the victory of party candidate Shivanand Patil by defeating BJP’s wealthy candidate B.G. Patil in the Legislative Council polls. “If we work collectively, the opposite candidate, however mighty or wealthy he might be, will have to bite the dust. If you see the history, you will find that the Congress had always given tickets to ordinary party workers as compared to the wealthy candidates fielded by other parties including BJP. Yet, our candidates won most of the elections just because we had worked collectively,” Mr. Kharge said at a meeting in Kalaburagi on Friday. Criticising the BJP for what he called “divisive politics”, the Congress veteran said that his party had always worked for the democratic principles it had believed in. “I had to lose the last Lok Sabha elections as I was not ready to compromise with my party’s ideology. The Congress, when it was in power for 10 years, had introduced many revolutionary initiatives including the enactment of the the Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Act and the Right to Education Act. However, the BJP is now reversing all the development initiatives. Should we vote for the BJP that is responsible for the skyrocketing prices of essential commodities including cooking gas, petrol and diesel?,” Mr. Kharge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kharge-calls-upon-party-workers-to-collectively-work-to-defeat-bjp-candidates-in-council-polls/article37834541.ece
04 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Area under horticultural crops up by 29% in three years||The area under horticultural crops in Dakshina Kannada has increased by 28.38% in the last three years. It is according to the crop survey done using the Crop Survey App. The data of the survey has been compiled jointly by the Departments of Agriculture, Horticulture, Revenue and Statistics. The crop survey using the app was introduced on a pilot basis in the State during 2017-18 and stabilised from the next financial year. Prior to this the data of the area under crop was based on the statistics provided by the gram panchayats or village level revenue inspectors. The survey done using the app is being dubbed as more scientific as it is field based and synchronised with the IT tools. According to the survey the total area under horticulture in the district went up by 38,796.18 hectares (28.38 %), from 1.36 lakh hectares in 2018-19 to 1.75 lakh hectares in 2020-21. There was a steep increase in the area under banana (179.22 %), black pepper (157.16 %) and cashew (147.69 %). The area under cocoa has gone up by 62.69 %. Arecanut Being a major commercial/food crop, the area under arecanut has jumped by 3.29 % from 94,365 hectares to 97,467 hectares in the last three years. It appears that the extent of area under arecanut in the district is inching towards one lakh hectares. This is amid concerns expressed by the stakeholders that the expansion of area is likely to hit the prospects of the market stability in the near future. According to the data, the area under arecanut stood at 39,396 hectares in 2017-18. It shot up by 54,969 hectares (139.53 %) to 94,365 hectares in the immediate next financial year (2018-19). In reality, pointed out a farm official, there was no large scale expansion of area under arecanut in just one year that is by 139.53%. But the survey done using the App was more realistic and revealed the real extent of area under arecanut. Till then the assessment was based on the data provided by the village level revenue inspectors or gram panchayats which was usually based on “guesstimate”. The same is in the case of other horticultural crops, the official told The Hindu. The survey done using the App reveal that there was constant increase in the area under banana, black pepper, coconut, cashew and cocoa in the district in the last three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/area-under-horticultural-crops-up-by-29-in-three-years/article37834804.ece
04 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mangaluru-Puttur-Subrahmanya daily train services to be restored on Dec. 9||Railways has decided to restore unreserved daily train services between Mangaluru Central and Subrahmanya Road via Puttur as unreserved express specials starting December 9. Pre-COVID-19 lockdown, they were being operated as unreserved passenger trains. Daily passenger train services between Mangaluru Central and Puttur will be restored on the same day. Train No 06489 Mangaluru Central-Subrahmanya Road Daily Unreserved Express Special will leave Mangaluru Central at 10 a.m. and reach Subramanya Road at 12.30 p.m. starting December 9. It will arrive at Mangaluru Junction at 10.14 a.m. and leave at 10.15 a.m. Train No 06488 Subrahmanya Road-Mangaluru Central Daily Unreserved Express Special will leave Subramanya Road at 1.30 p.m. and reach Mangaluru Central 4.10 p.m. The train will arrive at Mangaluru Junction at 3.29 p.m. and leave for Mangaluru Central at 3.30 p.m. The trains will stop at Bantwal, Neralakatte, Kabaka Puttur, Narimogaru, Kaniyuru, Yedamangala, Kodimbala and Bajakare.  Train No 06485 Mangaluru Central-Kabaka Puttur Daily Passenger will leave Mangaluru Central at 5.45 a.m. and reach Kabaka Puttur at 7.15 a.m. starting December 9. The train will arrive at Mangaluru Junction at 5.57 a.m. and leave for Puttur at 5.58 a.m. Train No 06484 Kabaka Puttur-Mangaluru Central Daily Passenger will leave Kabaka Puttur at 7.55 a.m. and reach Mangaluru Central at 9.25 a.m. It will arrive at Mangaluru Junction at 8.59 a.m. and leave for Mangaluru Central at 9 a.m. The trains will halt at Bantwal and Neralakatte. Train No 06487 Mangaluru Central-Kabaka Puttur Daily Passenger will leave Mangaluru Central at 6 p.m. and reach Kabaka Puttur at 7.25 p.m. starting December 9. The train will arrive at Mangaluru Junction at 6.14 p.m. and leave for Puttur at 6.15 p.m. Train No 06486 Kabaka Puttur-Mangaluru Central Daily Passenger will leave Kabaka Puttur at 8.25 p.m. and reach Mangaluru Central at 10.05 p.m. starting December 9. The train will arrive in Mangaluru Junction at 9.29 p.m. and leave for Mangaluru Central at 9.30 p.m. They will have four general Second Class coaches and a Luggage-cum-Brake van, a release from Palakkad Division of the Southern Railway said on Thursday. Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada unit of the National Students Union of India (NSUI) staged a protest at Mangaluru Central on Thursday seeking the restoration of train services between Mangaluru and Subrahmanya.  Dakshina Kannada unit of the NSUI staged a protest at Mangaluru Central on Thursday seeking the restoration of services between Mangaluru and Subrahmanya||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangaluru-puttur-subrahmanya-daily-train-services-to-be-restored-on-dec-9/article37834799.ece
04 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Governor visits Udupi, Kollur temples||Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot, who is on a tour of coastal areas since Thursday, visited Sri Krishna temple in Udupi and Sri Mookambika temple in Kollur on Friday. He met the junior seer of Admar mutt Eshapriya Tirtha who is also the paryaya seer of Krishna mutt. K. Raghupathi Bhat, MLA, Udupi, who is the honorary chairman of Paryaya Utsava Samithi 2022, invited the Governor for next year’s paryaya. The biennially paryaya marks the transfer of management and worship of Krishna at the 800-year-old temple from one seer of the Ashta mutts (eight mutts) to another. Seers of the eight mutts share this responsibility by turns. Later, the Governor offered special prayers at the Sri Mookambika temple where he also saw the golden chariot. He then left for Murudeshwar and Karwar in Uttara Kannada where he will halt overnight at the naval base. The Governor will attend the Navy Day function at the naval base in Karwar on Saturday. He will leave for Bengaluru via Goa airport on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/governor-visits-udupi-kollur-temples/article37834801.ece
04 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vijayapura-Mangaluru train services resume||The Vijayapura-Mangaluru Junction-Vijayapura daily train services resumed on Wednesday. Railways on Thursday announced the schedule for nine days till December 11. Train No 07377 Vijayapura-Mangaluru Junction Reserved Special will leave Vijayapura at 6.15 p.m. and reach Mangaluru Junction at 1.30 p.m. the next day. The train will be in operation till December 10, 2021 (nine services). Train No 07378 Mangaluru Junction-Vijayapura Reserved Special will leave Mangaluru Junction at 3 p.m. and reach Vijayapura at 10.40 a.m. the next day from December 3 to December 11, 2021 (nine services). The trains will have one AC 3-tier coach, six sleeper class coaches, five second class sitting coaches and two luggage-cum-brake vans. The trains will stop at Bagewadi Road, Alamatti, Bagalkot, Guledagudda, Badami, Hole Alur, Mallapur, Gadag, Hubballi, Haveri, Byadgi, Ranebennur, Harihar, Davangere, Kadur, Arsikere, Hassan, Sakleshpur, Subrahmanya Road, Kabaka Puttur and Bantwal, a release from Palakkad Division of Southern Railway said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vijayapura-mangaluru-train-services-resume/article37834798.ece
04 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||The Yenepoya Foundation in association with Yenepoya Deemed to be University has invited applications for its academic excellence awards 2021. Candidates who have excelled in SSLC/PUC and Degree courses during 2020-21 can apply. The awards are for students who have studied in any recognized institution in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts or Kasaragod district of Kerala and will be given purely on merit. Those who have scored 90% (CGPA 9.5) and above in SSLC/PUC, 75% (CGPA 7.9) and above in degree courses such as B.Com, B.Sc, B.C.A, B.B.M and 70% (CGPA 7.4) in B.A, B.Ed, Afzal-Ulema examinations are eligible to apply on www.yenepoya.edu.in and then go to aea.yenepoya.in. Only online applications will be accepted. The last date to apply is December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited/article37834805.ece
04 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Dakshina Kannada reported 10 new COVID-19 cases on Friday. Following the discharge of 10 patients after treatment, the active cases stood at 141. The test positivity rate was at 0.13 %. Udupi district reported 19 new cases. After the discharge of seven patients following treatment, the active cases were at 82.    The Department of Minorities Welfare has extended the last date for applying to pre and post matriculation and merit-cum-means scholarships till December 15. The applications will have to be submitted online. Pre-matriculation students will have to submit the relevant documents to the respective heads of schools after filing applications on online, a release said.    The Postal Department, Udupi Division, will conduct a Dak Adalat in the office of the Superintendent of Post Offices in Udupi on December 10 at 10 a.m. Those having grievances should send them in writing to the office by December 8. They will be addressed in the adalat.     D. Devaraj Urs Backward Classes Development Corporation in Udupi has invited applications for loans under different schemes of the government. Apply by January 10, 2022. Application forms can be obtained from the website of the corporation. Contact the corporation office at Rajatadri, Udupi, on Ph: 0820-2574882.    Mangalore University has extended the last date to apply for post-graduate courses, including diploma and certificate courses, for 2021-22 till December 9. This applies to courses offered on Mangalore University Campus, Mangalagangothri, University College, Mangaluru, Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa College, Madikeri, PG Centre Chikka Aluvara, Kodagu, University Evening College, Mangaluru, and courses offered under the government quota in affiliated colleges and government colleges. Details are avialable on www. mangaloreuniversity.ac.in,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37834797.ece
04 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘We will resolve problems of GPs’||The candidates in fray for the ensuing elections to the Legislative Council from the dual-member Mysuru-Chamarajanagar local bodies’ constituency have vowed to resolve the problems faced by the local bodies, particularly gram panchayats and their members, if they are elected. Congress candidate D. Thimmaiah, JD(S) candidate C.N. Manje Gowda, BJP challenger Raghu Kautilya and Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha candidate Vatal Nagaraj were participating in an interaction with the media organised by Mysuru District Journalists’ Association (MDJA) in Mysuru on Friday. A total of 6,787 people including members of gram panchayats, town panchayats, town municipal councils and city municipal councils in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts, besides Mysuru City Corporation, will be exercising their franchise in the preferential pattern of voting on December 10. While Mysuru district accounts for 4,512 votes, Chamarajanagar district has 2,275 votes. Dr. Thimmaiah, who sought votes from the members of the local bodies on the strength of the programmes implemented by the erstwhile Congress Government led by Siddaramaiah, promised to represent the members of the local bodies in the Legislative Council if elected. Mr. Raghu, who claimed to have maintained a contact with the gram panchayat members despite his loss in the last elections, promised to ensure more facilities for the gram panchayat members. Similiarly, JD(S) candidate Mr. Manje Gowda, who is also an ex-army man, said he will work towards ensuring additional aid for the gram panchayats and protect their interests with the same commitment that he had showed to guard the country’s borders. Mr. Vatal Nagaraj too made out a case for enhancing the facilities extended to gram panchayat members by comparing the incentives given to MLAs and MPs. However, the candidates, except for Mr. Vatal Nagaraj, were found squirming in their seats when the reporters challenged them to make a public vow against luring the electorate with money and goodies. While Mr. Nagaraj said he was ready to make a promise in the name of any God that he would not give even a single paisa to the voters, the candidates from the other parties struggled for words while responding to the challenge posed by the reporters. Mr. Raghu, who did not give a direct reply, said the candidates will stand by the promise to abide by the Constitution made at the time of nomination. Dr. Thimmaiah and Mr. Manje Gowda, however, avoided giving a reply to the poser. Meanwhile, the personal charges levelled by Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar against Mr. Manje Gowda too came up for discussion during the interaction. While Mr. Manje Gowda said he had already submitted a complaint to the Election Commission of India along with a copy of the CD containing the video of Mr. Somashekar’s remarks, Mr. Raghu said questions relating to the issue should be posed only to Mr. Somashekar. ‘Give evidence’ Mr. Manje Gowda said he stands by his offer to withdraw from the fray and quit politics if Mr. Somashekar produced evidence to support his allegations. MDJA President S.T. Ravi Kumar and MDJA General Secretary M. Subramanya coordinated the interaction with the reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-will-resolve-problems-of-gps/article37834705.ece
04 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Seer questions adaptation of folk song in Kannada film||Salur Mutt seer Shanthamallikarjuna Swami has taken exception to the adaptation of a devotional folk song pertaining to the presiding deity of M.M. Hills temple shrine while portraying a violent scene in a Kannada movie. The song “Sojugaada Sooju Mallige’’ has been rendered in folk form for centuries in praise of Male Mahadeshwara by the the tribals and devotees but it has been adapted in a scene related to murder which is questionable, said the seer. The song has been used in a recent Kannada movie ‘Garuda Gamana Vrishabha Vahana’. The seer said while it is common to adapt devotional and folk songs to suit a particular sequence, it has been portrayed while depicting a violent crime which amounts to distorting and abusing the cultural values enshrined in the original song. Questioning the need for using a song originating in the M.M. Hills region in the context of depicting scenes from coastal Karnataka, the seer said the film director could have as well adapted a local song from the region that would be suitable to the context. The seer also said that he was not seeking a formal apology from any quarter and nor would it serve any purpose. Regrets, if any, should stem from an individual borne out of realisation and conviction of one’s wrongdoing and not under duress or pressure, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seer-questions-adaptation-of-folk-song-in-kannada-film/article37834707.ece
04 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||AIISH promoting rights of persons with disabilities||The Mysuru-based All India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH) on Friday observed International Day of Persons with Disabilities. The event aims to promote awareness on disability issues, fundamental rights of persons with disabilities and their development in political, social, economic and cultural fields. Roopa M.J., Additional Commissioner, Mysuru City Corporation, virtually participated as the chief guest and M. Pushpavathi, Director, AIISH, Mysuru, presided. On the occasion, the special achievers along with AIISH “Best Mother of the year-2021” were felicitated. Ramadevi B., mother of Vamsi Krishna V. (autism spectrum disorder and intellectual disability), was conferred with the Best Mother of the Year-2021 award in recognition of her hard work for the development of her child. “The child exhibited poor socialisation skills and eye contact, self-injurious behaviours, reduced attention and concentration. Her dedication, sincerity and hard work brought change in the child’s life, showing improvement in the quality of life,” a release from AIISH said here. Felicitated Among the achievers who were felicitated on the occasion include Karthik B.K., a person with cleft lip and palate, completed diploma in electronics and communication from a polytechnic college here; and currently working as technical lead in Happy Minds Company, Mysuru; Asna T.P, a person with hearing impairment, completed her Bachelor’s in Architecture from Government Engineering College, Kerala with a first class, and currently working as an architect and designer in Thrissur; and Annushaka Bhattacharjee, a person with autism spectrum disorder, completed her 10th standard through National Open Schooling, and working as an assistant teacher at Nireekshe Special School here. Pre-recorded videos of sports and cultural events, phone-in programmes and success stories of persons with disabilities were streamlined via Facebook page of AIISH to mark the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aiish-promoting-rights-of-persons-with-disabilities/article37834703.ece
04 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Vatal eyes second preferential votes||Former MLA and Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj, who is in the fray for the elections to the Legislative Council from Mysuru-Chamarajanagar local authorities’ constituency, is seeking the second preferential votes of the electorate. This comes at a time when the candidates of the mainstream parties such as Congress and BJP were not only seeking the first preferential vote of their supporters, but also asking them not to cast preferential votes like second, third or fourth. Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar have already made it clear that they are asking their supporters to cast only their first preferential vote. Participating in an interaction programme with the media organised by Mysuru District Journalists’ Association (MDJA) here on Friday, Mr Vatal Nagaraj said the candidates of the mainstream parties were free to ask their supporters to cast their first preferential votes in their favour. But, nobody can prevent the electorate from casting their second preferential vote. “You can ask for first preferential votes. But, ask them to cast their second preferential vote for me”, he said while expressing hope that the electorate comprising about 6,787 elected members of the urban and rural local bodies would cast their second preferential vote in his favour and ensure his election to the Legislative Council. Mr Nagaraj recalled his political journey, which began with his first election in 1967.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vatal-eyes-second-preferential-votes/article37834708.ece
04 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Rly. officials conduct safety audit||A team of railway officials completed a review and safety audit of railway assets including tracks, signal and communication equipment in the Mysuru division, on Friday. The team of officers led by Alok Tiwari, Principal Chief Safety Officer from South Western Railway Headquarters, conducted the inspection on Mysuru-Yeliyur section on Friday and Saturday, a release said. The team inspected major and minor bridges at Srirangapatna, points and crossings at Naganahalli and Pandavapura stations, level crossing gates and traction sub-stations on the Mysuru-Bengaluru double line. It also interacted with the staff working at the level crossing gates to assess their knowledge of the rules and the action they should take when “train parting’’ is noticed apart from protecting the level crossing gates. There was a check of the pit lines, electrical interlocking, yard, coaching depot, crew lobby and running room at Mysuru Station to ensure all safety parameters and preparedness are in line. The release said a seminar on safety issues was also conducted which was attended by Divisional Railway Manager Rahul Agarwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rly-officials-conduct-safety-audit/article37834706.ece
04 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||11 students in Kodagu test positive||Eleven students of a school in Madikeri have tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. All the students are from Class 8 of Kodagu Vidyalaya. Confirming this to The Hindu , Kodagu DHO Venkatesh said a student tested positive on November 27 and another student of the same class got infected on November 30. Sample testing “On knowing this, we went to the school and collected details. As a precaution, samples of 51 students of Class 8 (A and B sections) were sent for the RT-PCR test and nine have tested positive,” he said. Dr. Venkatesh said the Deputy Commissioner was informed and he spoke to the school management on the matter. A decision was taken to test the children from classes 6 to 10. Accordingly, the samples were collected and sent for the test. Out of 289 samples, 192 samples have tested negative and the reports of remaining samples are awaited, he informed. ‘No need to panic’ Dr. Venkatesh said the students tested positive on November 27 and 30 are symptomatic with one of them admitted in a hospital and nine other infected students are asymptomatic. “Ten infected students are home isolated and there is no need to panic. Our teams are visiting isolated children. If there is any inconvenience, such children can be shifted to COVID-19 Care Centers as arrangements for housing children have been made,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/11-students-in-kodagu-test-positive/article37834329.ece
04 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Resident doctors call off strike||The five-day-long strike by the resident doctors of MMCRI was called off on Friday. They were seeking COVID-19 risk allowance and timely payment of stipend. Dinesh, Dean and Director of MMCRI, met the protesting doctors and promised to look into their demands. “The meeting of Minister for Health and Medical Education K. Sudhakar with the representatives of KARD has been fruitful. We have decided to call off the strike,” a statement from Resident Doctors’ Association, MMCRI, Mysuru said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/resident-doctors-call-off-strike/article37834545.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||2 jabs must for parents of college, school students||The new guidelines issued by Tushar Giri Nath, principal secretary, Revenue Department, and member secretary of Executive Committee of the State Disaster Management, said the government servants would be vaccinated with two doses of vaccine. Testing has been made compulsory for health workers, old persons aged above 65 years and persons with co-morbidities and the government would undertake testing, the guidelines said. Wearing of face masks In order to strictly enforce the requirement of wearing a face mask, Bruhant Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, district authorities, and local authorities would impose fine of Rs. 250 in municipal corporation areas and Rs. 100 in other areas for non-wearing of masks. There would be intensive containment (micro containment measures) and active surveillance in clusters/ area reporting higher cases to contain the spread locally, the guidelines said. Reveue Minister R. Ashok said IAS officer Shilpa Nag has been appointed as surveillance officer. A State-level control room which was closed, would be opened again. The Health and Family Welfare department officials have been instructed to take steps for establish oxygenated and ICU beds, and supply of sufficient quantity of oxygen. Screening, testing Testing would be increased in the State from present 60,000 to one lakh people per day, he said. The Health and Family Welfare of Karnataka, has issued guidelines for rigorous screening and testing of the international arrivals from countries identified as “at risk” to prevent spread of Omicron virus in the State, which is in line with the guidelines issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare of the Centre, he said. Mr. Ashok said RT-PCR negative report is mandatory for passengers arriving to airports in the State. The amount should be paid soon after the seats are booked. The fee has been fixed at Rs. 500 and Rs. 3,000, for normal and expedited results of RT-PCT test per person, respectively at the airport. Normal testing would take four hours of waiting at the airport, he said. The guidelines said strict surveillance at the border posts set up by the districts adjoining Kerala and Maharashtra States would continue as per the prevailing circular/guidelines issued by Department of Health and family Welfare, it said. Any person found violating government guidelines would be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 5l to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, and other legal provisions as applicable, the guidelines said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2-jabs-must-for-parents-of-school-college-students/article37834341.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In one voice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-one-voice/article37834340.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Udupi  Sri Krishna Mutt: Chittani Ramachandra Hegde memorial Yakshagana performance, Pruthu Yajna, Rajangana, 6.30 p.m. Dharmasthala  Reception Committee of Sarvadharma and Sahitya Sammelanas: Lakshadeepotsava, Samavasarana pooje, Chandranatha Swamy basadi, 6.30 p.m. Puttur  Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports: Dakshina Kannada district level Yuvajanotsava, Vidyarashmi First Grade College, Savanur, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article37834802.ece
04 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Kanjikuzhy to be women-friendly||Ensuring the safety and well being of women and children remains a top priority at all levels of government. But it is easier said than done as women continue to face violence both at home and outside. That said, from deciding to design safe and inclusive streets to taking steps to make it a dowry-free local body, the Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat in Alappuzha is determined to achieve the women-friendly tag through some serious actions. The panchayat is all set to launch Subhadram, a project primarily aimed at finding solutions to issues being faced by women and children along with providing support to victims of dowry harassment, domestic violence, and other atrocities. Many components “The project, which aims to ensure the safety and well-being of women and children, involves a number of components. Other than giving counselling and necessary assistance including legal, medical and psychological support to the victims, the project plans to make the local body a truly gender-inclusive space,” says Geetha Karthikeyan, president, Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat. Among them is making streets and public spaces in Kanjikuzhy women and child-friendly. M. Santhoshkumar, vice president, Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat, says the local body will design well-lit inclusive streets and open gathering spaces where women and children could walk or gather at any time. “We want women and children to feel safe, visible and welcome in streets and public spaces. The streets and public spaces in the local body will be transformed accordingly,” he says. Woman facilitator As part of Subhadram project, Jagratha samithis will be strengthened and a woman facilitator will be appointed in the panchayat. The panchayat will set up a shelter home for victims. It will also establish a crisis management team and its services will be extended to all wards in the local body. A toll-free number will be made available for women to lodge complaints round the clock, besides placing complaint boxes in all anganwadis. Dowry-free To make the local body a dowry-free panchayat, special awareness programmes will be conducted for teenagers making them aware of the dowry prevention law. The panchayat is also planning to impart skill development classes for all girls in the age group between 10 and 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kanjikuzhy-to-be-women-friendly/article37834660.ece
04 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Loan scheme for Keravan Kerala||To give an impetus to the Tourism Department’s Keravan Kerala, the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) has come out with a scheme to provide loans up to Rs. 5 crore for purchasing tourist caravans and setting up caravan parks. A statement issued by the Tourism Department said that under the scheme an enterprise was entitled to get a loan of up to Rs. 1 crore per caravan, or 70% of the cost, for buying up to five vehicles. The loan amount ranges from Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 1 crore per vehicle. Eligible Existing resorts/resort groups (firms, LLP and Limited Companies), fleet owners, tour operators and returnee migrants are eligible. The caravan tourism policy, announced by the State Government in September, has generated a tremendous response from the industry. It has received a good number of applications for operating tourist caravans and setting up caravan parks since the online registration process began last month. Details Further details of the scheme can be accessed by logging onto the website www.ksidc.org or by calling 0471-2318922 or 0484-2323010.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksidc-loan-scheme-for-keravan-kerala/article37834659.ece
04 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Ream drainage holes in Cheruthoni dam: panel||Reaming of drainage holes should be taken up in the Cheruthoni dam of the Idukki reservoir to ensure the smooth flow of seepage water from the structure, Dam Safety Authority chairman C.N. Ramachandran Nair has said. After visiting the Cheruthoni dam and the Idukki arch dam on Friday, he said that reaming was conducted in the Idukki arch dam in 2014 and there was no variation in the seepage water levels from the Idukki and the Cheruthoni dams. Reaming needed to be done to ensure the health of the dams. There was no issues in the Idukki arch dam and it was functioning smoothly, he said. “The reported mudslide near the hills of the Kulamavu dam of Idukki reservoir will not affect dam safety,” he said. The Kerala State Human Rights Commission received a complaint regarding the mudslide near the Kulamavu dam. A reply would be submitted in this regard, he said. The Dam Safety Authority team visits the dams in the State twice a year, when the dams are at the maximum level and at the lowest water level. Hydel tourism The chairman on Thursday visited the Malankara dam. He said that encroachment on the dam area could be avoided by filling the dam to the maximum level. He said the Malankara dam had huge potential for hydel tourism and it should be tapped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ream-drainage-holes-in-cheruthoni-dam-panel/article37834665.ece
04 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Call for change in society’s attitude towards dowry||The social mentality on dowry should change as many women have fallen victims to it, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has said. Inaugurating the third phase of ‘Makalkoppam’ (with the daughter) campaign at Al-Azhar College, Thodupuzha, on Friday, he said that the Kerala society was proactive against the dowry system. Change after 1990s However, a change in social attitude came after 1990s. Demanding high dowry and instances of violence seeking more money for leading a luxurious life increased. Many women committed suicide. Society often failed to accept women returning home following domestic violence at the hands of her husband’s family. She was considered a liability. This should change and young women should be equipped to face the situation. It needed a change in mindset, he said adding that the third phase of the ‘Makalkoppam’ campaign was started with a view to empowering women to face the situation in future. In police stations He said that even in police stations, women did not get solace. This forced even strong women to take extreme steps in life. Women were becoming victims of cyber attacks and a change in approach was needed to accept the rights of women. They should be encouraged and empowered to stand on their feet. To achieve this a social change was needed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-change-in-societys-attitude-towards-dowry/article37834658.ece
04 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Two held in death of youth in gun fire||A special police team led by M.D. Sunil, DySP, Kalpetta, arrested two persons on Friday in connection with the death of a youth, who was shot dead on Monday night while guarding his paddy field at Vandiyampetta near Kambalakkadu in Wayanad district. The police identified those arrested as Chandran, 48, and Lineesh, 21, of Poolakkolly tribal hamlet at Vandiyampetta in the district. Jayan, 36, of Mele Chundarangode Kurichiya tribal hamlet was shot dead on Monday night while he was guarding his paddy field, along with three of his relatives, to prevent crop-raiding by wild animals. His relative, Sharon, 27, sustained bullet injuries in the incident and was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. During the interrogation, the accused said they had misfired at Jayan with a country-made rifle while they were hunting wild boars in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-in-death-of-youth-in-gun-fire/article37834599.ece
04 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Disaster management literacy to be implemented: Minister||Revenue and Housing Minister K. Rajan said here on Friday that a disaster management literacy programme would be launched in Kerala under the aegis of the Revenue Department in association with other departments including Health, Fire and Rescue Services, Police and educational institutions. Mr. Rajan was speaking after inaugurating the Koodali Smart Village Office building. He said basic literacy should be created on disaster management in the State. This was to create awareness among the people and to coordinate the relief activities so that the people could be informed in advance about natural disasters. This would help in overcoming the frequent natural calamities in Kerala, the Minister said. On the issue of land ownership, Mr. Rajan said that 50 years after the Land Reform Act, there were a number of issues that needed to be resolved. In addition to strengthening land tribunals and taluk land boards and expediting the issuance of documents to all eligible persons, it was also the duty of the government to confiscate land from illegal owners and distribute it to the landless. A dashboard would be launched in January to bring the land issues of the people on one platform, the Minister said. The Koodali Smart Village Office was built at a cost of Rs. 44 lakh. The single-storey building has five rooms, including the village officer’s office, office room and a public waiting room, as well as three toilets and a veranda. K.K. Shailaja Teacher, MLA, presided over the function. District Panchayat President P.P. Divya, standing committee chairman V.K. Suresh Babu, District Collector S. Chandrasekhar, ADM K. Divakaran and other officials attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/disaster-management-literacy-to-be-implemented-minister/article37834597.ece
04 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Prohibitory orders in Thalassery till Dec. 6||Kannur District Collector S. Chandrasekhar on Friday issued prohibitory orders within the limits of the Thalassery police station as a precautionary measure to maintain law and order in the area. Shops closed The action followed intelligence reports of likely violence and clashes. After the prohibitory orders were issued, shops and establishments closed in Thalassery. The Collector issued the orders under Section 144 of the CRPC effective from December 3 to December 6, banning unlawful assembly, travelling with weapons, chanting provocative slogans, any kind of demonstration and gatherings within the police station limits. The BJP and other Sangh Parivar organisations had decided to take out a big protest rally in Thalassery on Friday. However, considering the possibilities of clashes and violence, the Collector imposed the ban. But despite the prohibitory orders, the BJP and Sangh Parivar workers staged a protest march under the leadership of BJP district president N. Haridas. However, a large contingent of police personnel led by Kannur District Police Chief R. Ilango stopped the protestors, who staged a sit-in in protest. The situation in the region has been tense after the rally organised during the K.T. Jayakrishnan memorial march conducted by the BJP in Thalassery on December 1. The workers had chanted provocative slogans during the rally. This was followed by protests by organisations including the SDPI and the Indian Union of Muslim League.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prohibitory-orders-in-thalassery-till-dec-6/article37834596.ece
04 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Dilapidated side roads in city divisions crying for attention||Even as the Kochi Corporation has done patch works on a considerable number of arterial roads that it owns, innumerable dilapidated roads at the division level are crying for urgent upkeep. So much so that youth organisations and NGOs have put up boards seeking explanation from division councillors in many localities. “Residents, traders, motorists and pedestrians are very much agitated, since potholed roads are causing accidents and slowing down traffic. Especially vulnerable are two-wheeler riders. Ultimately, tax payers must get their due,” said Kuruvilla Mathews, State general secretary of Residents Associations’ Coordination Council (RACO). “Roads owned by PWD are relatively better maintained, while most corridors owned by the Kochi Corporation and the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) need urgent repairs. Commuting through even recently repaired roads is risky, since manholes have not been raised to the road level. This is particularly true of side roads of MG Road, where inadequate street lights worsen the risk of accidents. Even though most damaged portions of Thammanam-Pullepady road have been repaired, concrete paver blocks have given away at many places. A similar problem persists all along the GCDA-owned Kaloor-Kadavanthra road as well.” All this points to plain apathy or a nexus between unscrupulous officials of civic agencies, contractors and councillors, Mr. Mathews added. Responding to the condition of roads in many localities, Mayor M. Anilkumar said most arterial roads were repaired on a war footing, whenever rain took a break, during the past month. Money from the Chief Minister’s flood relief fund and the Corporation’s funds will be utilised to repair rest of the roads. Apart from intermittent rain, hassles in procuring bitumen for patch works are being addressed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dilapidated-side-roads-in-city-divisions-crying-for-attention/article37834611.ece
04 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KSRTC gears up to launch circular, shuttle services in Kochi||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is gearing up to launch a dedicated bus service in Kochi and Kozhikode for circular and radial-shuttle operations, buoyed by the feedback for the around 100 circular bus services that it launched in Thiruvananthapuram on November 28. In Kochi, the buses will most likely be 24 to 32 seater ones, capable of negotiating narrow roads. These 50 low-floor buses that are empirically estimated will come with wider doors, enabling easier boarding and disembarking, said Biju Prabhakar, Chairman and Managing Director of KSRTC. “Unlike Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi has a metro rail system along its key arterial roads and also a sizeable fleet of private buses. The proposed buses can thus operate circular services and also criss-cross the metro corridor, linking the High Court, the Collectorate, key government offices and other establishments. The radial-shuttle operations would link towns in Kochi’s periphery and also satellite depots of KSRTC at frequent intervals,” he added. GIZ, a German agency which is helping implement the Integrated Sustainable Urban Transport Systems for Smart Cities (SMART-SUT) project, under the umbrella of the Green Urban Mobility Partnership between India and Germany, and the SYSTRA – a consultancy for transportation and urban infrastructure solutions, are engaged in collecting data like passenger potential on different routes. They include routes which have little or no public transport connectivity. The routes being considered include Aluva-Fort Kochi, Aroor to Vypeen and Aluva, Vyttila-Thopumpady and Vyttila-Vyttila circular services, it is learnt. Readying signages and direction boards to help commuters board buses on different routes too is crucial. Bus stops mapped In Thiruvananthapuram, 278 bus stops were mapped with geo coordinates, while maps detailing the different routes and standardised bus shelters will be readied. The KSRTC was helped in this endeavour by GIZ which conducted a study prior to launching of the circular services. Celebrities would be roped in to woo commuters to buses which were colour-coded based on the seven circular routes where they operate, sources said. Systra is already doing a study on bus-route rationalisation for the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority, to gauge demand from commuters on different routes. French technical experts had arrived in Kochi for this in November. They are expected to shortly hold discussions with private bus operators. The Rs. 50 daily pass branded as ‘Good Day Ticket, availing which one can travel any number of trips in the new circular bus service in a day, is gaining popularity in Thiruvananthapuram, KSRTC sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/soon-ksrtc-shuttle-service-in-kozhikode/article37834605.ece
04 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Sanoo’s contribution to society lauded||Presenting the Chavara Sanskriti Puraskaram to writer M.K. Sanoo, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said on Friday that Mr. Sanoo was a true teacher who led generations of people into the light of learning. He commended Mr. Sanoo for remaining a teacher and a social figure who works for the moral and educational upliftment of society. He was able to internalise the ideals of Sree Narayana Guru, Swami Vivekananda and Fr. Kurakose Elias Chavara and to tread the path shown by them, Mr. Khan said. The Governor dedicated the Chavara Public Library, renovated with the help of the Library Science Wing of Rajagiri College, to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sanoos-contribution-to-society-lauded/article37834618.ece
04 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Excise registers case against Fort Kochi hotel||More than a month after it hosted a late night party and three persons, including two models, died while returning after attending it in a tragic accident, the excise department has registered a case against Hotel No 18 in Fort Kochi for serving liquor beyond the permissible time. Incidentally, the department had conducted a raid at the hotel on October 23 and found that liquor was served at the hotel till late at night. Following this, excise had suspended the bar licence of the hotel more than a week later on November 2, a day after the accident at Chakkaraparambu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-registers-case-against-fort-kochi-hotel/article37834612.ece
04 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Nonagenarian artiste sings for film after a long break||Ajay Joseph had nobody else but the name of veteran singer-actor Maradu Joseph to offer when his friend and filmmaker Saheer Ali wanted a voice from the yesteryear for his forthcoming movieA Dramatic Death. The 91-year-old Mr. Joseph, who had a career spanning nearly seven decades in Malayalam theatre, could not say no to the son of his close friend and music director Job Master. “My only request was that Ajay should be satisfied with my rendering and not consider me based on my long career,” he said. On Friday evening, Ajay recorded the song at a studio near Vazhakkala as his long-cherished wish of working with Mr. Joseph came true. “I had re-worked a famous song Adbhutham Chey Velankanni, Aarogya Mary Amma and Josephettan’s voice was apt for it,” he said. Besides producing music albums, Ajay had composed music for films such as “Kalkandam” and “Anchil Oral Thaskaran”. Mr. Joseph remarked in a lighter vein that he was still ready to take up further singing and acting assignments despite his age-related ailments. “I had worked with the veterans in Malayalam theatre, including P.J. Antony, Thoppil Bhasi, and N.N. Pillai. As a singer, I had the chance to work with noted music directors like Devarajan and Job Master,” he said. The veteran artiste recalled that he had the opportunity to play a variety of roles on stage. “My passion for acting and singing will continue till my death,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nonagenarian-artiste-sings-for-film-after-a-long-break/article37834615.ece
04 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Naval personnel’s cycle ride to Ezhimala flagged off||A total of 75 cyclists are part of a ‘cyclothon’ flagged off by Rear Admiral Antony George, Chief of Staff of the Southern Naval Command, on Friday to commemorate the 75th year of Independence. The event, in which the cyclists will ride to the Indian Naval Academy, Ezhimala, and back, also commemorates the 50th year of the victory in the Indo-Pak war of 1971. The event is named Astra Shakti in honour of the missile attack on Karachi harbour and is being undertaken by the Navy’s missile and gunnery school, INS Dronacharya. The cyclists will visit educational institutions en route to Ezhimala where they are expected to reach on December 8. Civilian cyclists interested to join them may call 8879350134 or 9869724930. Naval band concert Meanwhile, a navy band symphonic concert was organised by the Southern Naval Command band led by Lieutenant Commander Pradeep Kumar, Command Musician Officer, at Sagarika auditorium. Vice Admiral M.A. Hampiholi, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command, hosted the event in which Governor Arif Mohammed  Khan was the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/naval-personnels-cycle-ride-to-ezhimala-flagged-off/article37834616.ece
04 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Appointment of late MLA’s son quashed||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Friday quashed the appointment of the son of the late Chengannur MLA K.K. Ramachandran Nair in a supernumerary post of assistant engineer (electric) in the Public Works Department as a special case. The court issued the order as it found that the appointment was contrary to statutory provisions. In a petition seeking to issue quo warranto against the appointment, M. Ashok Kumar contended that the appointment of R. Prasanth, son of the late MLA, in the gazetted post made on compassionate grounds was illegal as the MLA was not a government servant. Scheme objective The objective of the scheme for compassionate appointment was to grant employment to a dependent family member of a government servant dying in harness. An MLA’s son did not come under the purview of the scheme. The Cabinet took the decision on January 24, 2018 even before he submitted his application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/appointment-of-late-mlas-son-quashed/article37834678.ece
04 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Extreme rain on the rise on south-west coast: study||A study on the factors that influence extreme rainfall on the south-west coast of India during the monsoons, carried out by researchers at the Cochin University of Science and Technology, has showed a systematically evolving chain of events, culminating in the extreme rainfall event. The research has been undertaken by a team at the Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research (ACARR) using meteorological datasets over the last three decades. “The work draws attention in the aftermath of the recent unprecedented pattern of rainfall activity and consequent torrential rain and deluge, especially in Kerala during the monsoons of 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021. The study shows a statistically significant increase in trend of extreme rain over the south-west coast,” says Ajil Kottayil, scientist at the ACARR.  The study, published in theInternational Journal of Climatology, finds that a heavy rainfall event during the monsoon is neither random nor sudden but is the consequence of pre-conditioning that can be quantified by factors that strengthen over a five-day period prior to the day of rain. The variables identified include large-scale convection, lower tropospheric cyclonic circulation, monsoon low level jet streams, humidity and meridional mean sea-level pressure gradient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/extreme-rain-on-the-rise-on-south-west-coast-study/article37834781.ece
04 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||C-Branch completes interrogation in Mofia case||The District Rural-C Branch probing the alleged suicide of Mofiya Parveen concluded the custodial interrogation of the accused in the case. The investigation team has returned the custody of the victim’s husband Mohammed Suhail and his parents Rukhiya and Yousuf on Friday. The team led by the investigation officer DySP V. Rajeev had taken the accused for evidence collection, including at the house of the accused where Mofiya was allegedly tortured. The investigation team has confirmed gathering evidence corroborating the victim’s alleged suicide note suggesting domestic violence and harassment over dowry as reasons for taking the extreme step. It has been found that the woman had allegedly faced mental as well as physical torture at the hands of her in-laws. Significantly, the team had also recovered visuals and posts made by Mofiya through her private social media handle describing her alleged ordeal at the hands of her in-laws. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104, Maithri - 0484-2540530, Thanal - 0495-2760000 and DISHA – 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/c-branch-completes-interrogation-in-mofia-case/article37834622.ece
04 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi metro offers free ride||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has offered free-of-cost commuting in metro trains between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. on Sunday. Commuters who have not yet travelled in the metro can thus make trips from Vyttila to Edappally and from Aluva to Edappally, between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. on the day. They must report at the ticket counters in these stations to avail of the offer in which they can check for themselves a fast, comfortable, safe and hygienic journey in the system of mass rapid transport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-metro-offers-free-ride/article37834619.ece
04 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held for cheating job aspirants||The Muvattupuzha police on Friday arrested a man on the charge of cheating job aspirants of crores of rupees by making bogus offers. The arrested man was identified as Arun Kurian, 33, of Kannur. Arun had allegedly promised the victims jobs in Canada, Russia, and Malaysia. He has cases at Koratty, Thrissur, Kalady, Kudiyanmala, Angamaly, and Kunnamkulam police stations, the rural police said. He, along with the rest of the gang, had allegedly cheated 20-odd persons in Muvattupuzha alone of Rs. 1.75 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-cheating-job-aspirants/article37834621.ece
04 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC sets aside verdict on Covishield dose gap||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Friday set aside a single judge’s verdict allowing those willing to take a second paid dose of Covishield vaccine four weeks after the first jab, instead of the 84-day gap. The Bench, comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali, passed the verdict while allowing an appeal filed by the Centre against the single judge’s order. It came on a writ petition filed by Kitex Garments Ltd and Kitex Childrenswear Ltd, Kochi, seeking a directive to the Centre to allow its workers to receive the second shot of Covishield before completing the stipulated 84-day gap between the two doses. Scientific advice Allowing the appeal of the Centre, the Bench observed that “we are of the view that the Government of India has acted in terms of scientific and expert advice, based on studies conducted by them, and therefore, it is not for the Constitutional courts to analyse the intrinsic aspects of the same, in order to arrive at a different conclusion, which is also impermissible in law.” Dismissing the contention of the companies that they have the right to liberty to make a choice between early protection and better protection, the court observed, “there is no scope for any such individual preference against the interest of the nation and citizens at large.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-sets-aside-verdict-on-covishield-dose-gap/article37834676.ece
04 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||New method for grading breast cancer||The Artificial Intelligence and Computer Vision Lab of the Department of Computer Science, Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat), has developed a technology for the grading of breast cancer in association with the Intel Technology Pvt. Ltd. A novel automated technique based on semi-supervised learning framework, combined with the deep neural network-based generative adversarial model, was developed by the researchers for discriminating the different cancer grades. The proposed work has been published in the IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics , according to an official release. The model is based on semi supervised learning (SSL) and it can considerably reduce the need of annotated data, besides reducing the time and cost. Intel has developed a hardware architecture with Intel Xeon scalable processors using distributed training to reduce the training time and to support the experimentation with multiple image resolutions without memory constraints. Four Intel Xeon scalable processors are used as a compute cluster without any deep learning accelerators for the model training, said the communication. The work was carried out under the expertise of Dr. Madhu S. Nair, Associate Professor, Artificial Intelligence and Computer Vision Lab, and Dr. Asha Das, former Research Scholar, Department of Computer Science at Cusat and at present Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science, Union Christian College, Aluva, with the technical support of Mr. Vinod Kumar Devarampati, Intel Technology Asia Pvt Ltd, Singapore, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cusat-develops-method-for-grading-breast-cancer/article37834613.ece
04 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||More may have fallen prey to job scam: police||The arrest of two more persons in connection with a job scam in Muvattupuzha is expected to lead to the receipt of more complaints from across the State. The scam was exposed when the Muvattupuzha police arrested one Shaji, 54, of Rajakkad in Idukki for cheating many job aspirants by luring them with the promise of largely unskilled jobs in Poland in August. He allegedly used a home nursing firm, Adona, in Muvattupuzha as a cover for the recruitment scam. “The scam got under way in 2019 and since then we have registered 10 complaints while one case each has been registered in Perumbavoor and Piravom police stations. The victims are spread across the State and we are expecting more complaints in the coming days,” said Muvattupuzha sub-inspector V.K. Sasikumar. Aneesh, 40, of Idukki, and Sanishmon Daniel, 37, of Ilamdesham, arrested on Thursday, were allegedly the main accomplices of Shaji and have been arraigned as second and third accused. "They were instrumental in luring job aspirants with job offers in Poland through social media. They feigned to be candidates themselves who were about to fly to Poland so as to win the trust of their targets. Victims paid between Rs. 1 lakh and Rs. 1.50 lakh for largely unskilled jobs like salesman, supermarket staff, etc. in Poland,” said Mr. Sasikumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-may-have-fallen-prey-to-job-scam-say-police/article37834620.ece
04 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Police protection for Mambram Divakaran||The Kerala High Court on Friday directed the police to ensure that adequate protection is given to Mambram Divakaran, an expelled Congress leader from Kozhikode contesting the election to the Mambram Cooperative Hospital Society. Justice Devan Ramachandran also ordered the police to ensure that effective protection was given to the election process as well. According to the petitioner, who is the president of the society, he was facing threat following his decision to contest the elections. He alleged that K. Sudhakaran, president of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee, had asked him not to contest the election. However, he stuck to his guns, and, consequently, he was expelled from the party. The election is scheduled for December 5. The court ordered that videography of the election process be arranged at the cost of the petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-protection-for-mambram-divakaran/article37834677.ece
04 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||State to launch veterinary mobile units||The government will soon launch mobile veterinary units with state-of-the-art facilities, Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J. Chinchurani has said here. She was inaugurating the Jeevanam poverty alleviation project in Kulasekharapuram grama panchayat on Friday. “The mobile veterinary units will have an X-ray machines and the service of a doctor, assistant and driver will be available at any time. Self-sufficiency in the dairy sector is one of the priorities of the government. A Gramasree portal has been launched to ensure benefits to the farmers where the Sheera Gramam project is being implemented,” she said. The Minister added that the Central and State governments would soon implement a joint scheme to insure the cows of all farmers in Kerala. C.R. Mahesh, MLA, presided over the function. Ochira block panchayat president Deepti Raveendran inaugurated the dairy development projects in the panchayat. Livestock farming, subsidy for cattle feed, and financial assistance for buying cows are among the various projects inaugurated. As part of Jeevanam, underprivileged farmers were given 296 buffalo calves and the best dairy farmers in the grama panchayat were honoured at the event. Ochira block panchayat vice president Suresh Thanuveli, Kulasekharapuram panchayat vice president A. Nasser, district panchayat member Girly Shanmughan, District Animal Husbandry Officer Suja T. Nair, and B.S. Nisha, Deputy Director, Dairy Development, were present on the occasion.  The Central and State governments to soon implement a joint scheme to insure the cows of farmers in Kerala. J. Chinchurani Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-launch-veterinary-mobile-units/article37834670.ece
04 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Premarital counselling needs to be made mandatory: women’s panel||Premarital counselling needs to be made mandatory, Kerala Women’s Commission (KWC) chairperson P. Sathidevi has recommended. She made the suggestion at the adalat held at Asramam here on Friday after observing the number of women who approached the commission with complaints of domestic violence immediately after marriage. “The bride and groom must attend pre-marital counselling at an approved centre before registering their marriage,” said Ms. Sathidevi. Neglect of elderly parents At the adalat, the commission also came across several complaints about children neglecting their elderly parents. The members pointed out the reluctance of children to ensure the care of their ageing parents as a matter of major concern. The observation was made while considering the complaint of an 85-year-old mother abandoned by her five children. The chairperson added that the work of ward-level vigilance committees should be made more efficient to address the problems of the elderly. A special monitoring system would be arranged with the help of the District Legal Services Authority to ensure compliance of settlement terms, she said. The commission considered 100 complaints, among which 22 were settled. Reports were sought in four complaints while 74 were rescheduled for the next adalat. Commission members Shahida Kamal, E.M. Radha, M.S. Tara, sub-inspector Anita Rani, and counsellor Sr Sangeetha, were also present. The adalat was followed by a workshop to frame guidelines for ensuring gender sensitivity in media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/premarital-counselling-needs-to-be-made-mandatory-womens-panel/article37834663.ece
04 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Minister promises to speed up Kollam-Shencotta electrification||Union Minister for Railways Ashwini Vaishnav has promised that steps will be taken to complete the electrification of the Kollam-Punalur-Shencotta railway line in a time-bound manner. He was replying to a question raised by N.K. Premachandran, MP, in the Lok Sabha recently. While electrification work of the stretch from Kollam to Punalur connecting Kerala and Tamil Nadu has been started, the Punalur-Shencotta reach has been accorded administrative sanction. As per the authorities, the work will be given priority considering it as an eco-friendly development initiative. A sum of Rs. 61.32 crore has been sanctioned for the electrification of the Punalur-Shencotta line and the tendering process will start soon. The work is expected to be complete by 2023. Meanwhile, the Kollam railway station has been included on the list of stations being upgraded to international standards and the construction work for the same will be directly handled by the Railway Construction Organisation. The stations for development have been selected on the basis of technical and financial studies. In Kollam, special arrangements will be made for the arrival and departure of passengers to develop it as a world-class station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-promises-to-speed-up-kollam-shencotta-electrification/article37834666.ece
04 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited||The Centre for Continuing Education, Government Polytechnic College, Ezhukone, has invited application for vocational courses. For details, call 9496846522.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited/article37834667.ece
04 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Local squads intensify efforts to catch fly-tippers red-handed||Ward-level people’s committees and Health Department squads under various local bodies in Kozhikode are intensifying efforts against the illegal dumping of waste in public places and unoccupied private or government land in villages and city suburbs. People’s committees have been told to catch the offenders red-handed to curb the practice that continues unabated despite the regular functioning of local waste collection and treatment services. The squads functioning in Kuttiyadi and Vadakara municipality have exposed two cases in which the fly-tippers were caught on the spot. In Kuttiyadi, the man caught was a local trader who was asked to take back the waste dumped and remit the fine amount. In Vadakara, it was a group of migrant labourers, who was caught while throwing kitchen waste and other rotten food items along a rural road. A local body member from Kuttiyadi said people’s squads on rotation basis were found more effective than the setting up of cameras to track offenders. “A strange development in the area is the entry of migrant labourers who are paid for discarding waste in isolated areas. Those who organise private parties and get-togethers are using such paid options to escape from responsibilities,” said C.V. Manoj, a local vigilance committee member from Vadakara. He said there were many unlicensed private agencies engaged in collecting septage and dumping it in isolated areas using the service of migrant workers. An isolated spot near Mokavoor that was used for illegal dumping of waste was restored to its normal state recently, thanks to the frequent intervention of people’s squads in the area. The illegal practice had resulted in the pollution of potable water sources. Police patrol squads had also supported the local residents in the surveillance activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-squads-intensify-efforts-to-catch-fly-tippers-red-handed/article37834601.ece
04 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||After two years, it’s ‘play’ time again||For nearly two years, Kozhikode, known for its strong theatre roots, missed the stage due to the outbreak of COVID-19. But, with ‘Shanthanormma’, a two-day short play festival, kicking off at the Town Hall here on Friday, the stage is awake once again. “With no sponsors and means to raise funds, the theatre fraternity pitched in to bear the expenses for each of the plays. They do not get much of remuneration either,” said singer Gulab Jan, who presided over the inaugural event. He said the groups were desperate to be back on the stage at any cost and end the era of uncertainty. The festival is being organised in memory of late theatre personality A. Shanthakumar. “Shanthan [Shanthakumar] has become the reason for the theatre scene in Kozhikode rising up post-COVID and it gives me goosebumps,” said Suveeran, filmmaker and theatre personality, who opened the session. Speaking of the experiments going on in theatre worldwide over the last two decades, he said Malayalam theatre still remained unaware of them. The festival is being organised by Theatre Culture, a collective of theatre groups in Kozhikode, and features eight short plays. Theen Meshayile Durantham , a play by Shanthakumar, is the inaugural play, and is being presented by Reperty Theatre, Parambil. Another play, Aaro Oral , written by Shanthakumar is also part of the festival and is being presented by Theatre Lovers, under the direction of M.M. Ragesh. The other plays being staged are Chaeru by Natakam Pookkunna Kaadu, Museum of Love by Manchadikkuru, Ee Manohara Theerathu by Nadakathara, Kathi by Creative Group, Kothi by Actors Group Exploration and Award by Edakkad Theatre Collective. The A. Shanthakumar commemoration meeting will be held on Saturday. Theatre-film personality Shaiju Anthikkad will deliver the commemoration lecture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curtains-up-in-kozhikode-again/article37834594.ece
04 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Society must support differently abled’||The society should keep in mind that the differently abled people are entitled to all benefits that the mainstream society enjoys, said Minister for Ports Ahammad Devarokovil here on Friday. Launching the Unarvu 2021 programme of the Department of Social Justice in Kozhikode on Friday, the Minister said society should support the parents of differently abled persons. He said the different abilities did not come under medical science any more, but social science. Several programmes were organised across the district on the occasion of International Day of Differently Abled. The National Trust, in association with district social justice office, Humanities Charitable Trust and Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi, organised a “Walk with celebrities” in which several differently abled children took a walk down S.M.Street along with noted personalities. District Collector N.Tej Lohit Reddy, District Social Justice Officer Ashraf Kavil, National Trust District convenor P.Sikander, corporation councillor S.K. Aboobakker, CRC director Roshan Bijlee, office bearers of the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi and others took part in the walk along with the children. NSS volunteers of Himayath Higher Secondary School helped the differently abled persons make purchases and browse through the shops on S.M. Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/society-must-support-differently-abled/article37834604.ece
04 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Samples of man sent for Omicron test||The samples of a health worker who tested positive for COVID-19 after returning from the United Kingdom recently have been sent for genome sequencing test to ascertain the presence of the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2  virus. The 46-year-old man arrived in Kozhikode on November 21 and visited four districts in the State. He tested positive on November 26. The samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune. Two persons in the U.K. were found to have been infected with the new COVID-19 variant on November 27. They had travelled to South Africa from where the Omicron variant was first reported. The Kozhikode District Medical Office said the travel and contact details of the U.K. returnee were handed over to medical authorities. He had travelled by train to Ernakulam district and Kayamkulam in Alappuzha district. His mother has also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and her samples were collected. They are under observation at their house while contact tracing is going on. The district authorities have stepped up efforts to meet eventualities arising out of the emerging Omicron threat. A special ward has been arranged at the Government District Hospital at the beach.  46-year-old man arrived in Kozhikode on November 21 and visited four districts in the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/samples-of-man-sent-for-omicron-test/article37834674.ece
04 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||A postcard campaign for students||The Department of Posts, in coordination with the Department of School Education and Literacy of the Ministry of Education, will organise a postcard campaign under Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav for students from Class IV to Class XII from schools affiliated to CBSE and State boards. A press release said that the aim of the campaign was to convey ideas of students to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on any of the two topics “Unsung heroes of freedom struggle” and “My vision for India in 2047” through post card. Seventy-five students, who contribute best entries at all-Indian level, would be invited to the annual school principal conference and get an opportunity to interact with the Prime Minister. For details, contact Calicut Postal Divisional Office (Phone: 0495-2383020) or the nearest post office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-postcard-campaign-for-students/article37834595.ece
04 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||NSS volunteers extend hand of help||Minister for Ports and Museums Ahammad Devarkovil on Friday launched the National Service Scheme’s ‘Prabhakiranam’ campaign for caring for differently abled children to mark the International Day of Persons with Disabilities in Kozhikode. During the week-long campaign, NSS volunteers will meet differently abled students near their schools and houses to exchange gifts and pleasantries with them. Opening the district-level observance, Mr. Devarkovil said efforts should be taken to ensure that the differently abled get the benefits of Central and State schemes. Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed presided over the event held at R.K. Mission Higher Secondary School. M.K. Jayaraj, Director, ULCCS Foundation, was the chief guest. The project coordinators of the NSS and the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan were present. NSS programme coordinators said the initiative would strive to spread the message of inclusive growth. Home visits will be conducted by the volunteers to reach out to bedridden students. The participation of 14,400 NSS volunteers from higher secondary schools would be ensured during the campaign, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-volunteers-extend-hand-of-help/article37834609.ece
04 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Madappally girls’ school turns co-educational||At a time when gender equity in education is the talk of the hour, Madappally Government Girls’ Higher Secondary School in Kozhikode has shown the way of allowing admissions to boys as well. General Education Minister V. Sivankutty approved the proposal and claimed that it was a progressive step in the direction of gender justice, gender equity and gender awareness. The Madappally Government Fisheries School that was founded in 1920 was later divided into Government Fisheries Technical School for Boys and Government Fisheries Technical School for girls as the number of students rose. The Technical School for Boys later on became the Government Vocational Higher Secondary School while the Technical School for Girls became the Madappally Government Girls’ Higher Secondary School. The latter school is now throwing its gates open for boys as well, with the support of its Parent Teacher Organisation. Uniforms The discussion on whether there was a need for separate schools for boys and girls has been going on in the State for some time, as is the discussion on gender neutral school uniforms. A girls school being converted into a co-educational institution was setting a new trend and deserved the support of the government, the Minister had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/madappally-girls-school-turns-co-educational/article37834602.ece
04 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Man injured in ‘wild boar attack’ dies||An autorickshaw driver from Koorachundu, who was under treatment following an accident allegedly caused by a wild boar, died of his injuries on Friday. It was on October 6 that Rasheed Alakkunnathu, 45, met with the accident at Kattippara and was admitted to Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. Though the local farmers claimed it as a clear case of wild animal attack, Forest Department officials were not ready to buy the argument and endorse the victim’s claim for any compensation. It had created widespread protest among the rural farmers, who had sought an investigation into the alleged apathy of the officials in approving the compensation request.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-injured-in-wild-boar-attack-dies/article37834606.ece
04 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||LJD State panel meet today||The State committee of the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) will meet in Thrissur on Saturday to endorse the disciplinary action taken against rebel faction leaders last week. An online meeting of the State office-bearers and district presidents had placed State general secretary V. Surendran Pillai under suspension and removed another general secretary Sheikh P. Harris from the post. State secretaries Angathil Ajaykumar and Rajesh Prem were also removed from their posts for serious violation of party discipline. The party had served show-cause notice on nine dissidents for holding a rebel meet to seek the ouster of party State president M.V. Shreyamskumar from the post. Sources said the meeting on Saturday would deliberate organisational matters and the emerging political situation in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ljd-state-panel-meet-today/article37834675.ece
04 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Man held for snatching phone||The Kakkur police on Thursday arrested a 21-year-old man who allegedly snatched a mobile phone and some documents from an elderly woman. The suspect, Thondiparambathu Nayeemuddin, was nabbed by a police team led by Inspector B.K. Siju. The incident took place near an industrial unit at Kannankara on November 23. The stolen purse and documents were recovered during the collection of evidence on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-snatching-phone/article37834607.ece
04 December 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Many tribal kids yet to reach schools for lack of transport||Hundreds of tribal children living in the forests in the State, including Nilambur tribal region, are yet to reach their schools even after a month since the schools reopened on November 1. Most civic bodies having tribal communities are yet to arrange a viable alternative for the travel of tribal children since the Scheduled Tribes Development Department withdrew the funds it gave for the children’s travel under the Gothra Sarathi scheme. Tribal children continue to lead a carefree life without bothering to attend the classes. Their parents too are not bothered after vehicles that used to transport the children under the Gathra Sarathi scheme stopped operating. Chaliyar grama panchayat in Nilambur taluk, which has more than 100 children staying away from schools because of the lack of transport facility, has prepared a project with own funds to carry the children to school. “We have invited quotations from vehicle operators. The issue will be solved soon. We are ready to take them (the tribal children) to schools,” said Noushad D., Chaliyar panchayat secretary. No alternative However, many other panchayats are yet to find an alternative. The Scheduled Tribes Development Department has asked the local bodies to find funds for the transport of tribal children when it stopped the vehicles. The District Planning Committee in Malappuram has asked the panchayats to submit projects for the tribal children’s transport before December 10. Into the jungle The children of Vennakkode hamlet, meanwhile, have gone into the jungle in search of butterflies and honey. “They will come back after two or three days,” said Mathi, the grandmother of one of the Kattunayakan children.  According to Mithra Jyothi Tribal Development Foundation, an NGO working for the uplift of the tribal community, the government had failed the tribal children by stopping the vehicles under Gothra Sarathi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-tribal-kids-yet-to-reach-schools-for-lack-of-transport/article37834751.ece
04 December 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||IUML to continue stir on Waqf postings||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) will take forward its concerted agitation against the government decision to make Waqf Board appointments through the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC). A leadership meeting of the party here on Friday decided to spearhead the agitation until the government withdraws its controversial move. “We will be in the forefront of the agitation until the government withdraws its decision to leave Waqf Board appointments to the PSC,” said IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty and officiating State president Syed Sadikali Shihab Thangal. Briefing the media, they said a Waqf protection conference would be convened in Kozhikode on December 9. The party had raised the issue at several forums, including the Assembly. “Yet the government looks adamant in its stand. The government should review its decision,” said Mr. Sadikali. The IUML leaders alleged that the government wanted to destroy the sanctity of Waqf properties by meddling with the authority of the board. No other State in the country was following such a system, and it would do a great harm to Waqf if the States ruled by the BJP adopt the Kerala model. However, they said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) was trying to communalise the issue. “It is not good for a State to impose decisions through communal and sectarian designs. The IUML is approaching issues that affect the people in general through an extremely secular attitude,” they said. ‘Bid to foment unrest’ (In Thiruvananthapuram, CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan accused the IUML of trying to use mosques to foment unrest. Places of worship should not be used for political motives, he said, welcoming the stand taken by the Samastha on the issue.) The IUML leaders said the decision to launch a campaign against the government move through mosques in the State was taken by religious organisations. When the Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama decided not to use mosques for that, the IUML withdrew from it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-to-continue-stir-on-waqf-postings/article37834680.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,KERALA||Tharoor moves Bill on HC Bench||Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor on Friday moved a private member’s Bill in Lok Sabha seeking to establish permanent Benches of the High Courts in the State capital. In Kerala, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Goa, Uttarakhand, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, and Chhattisgarh the State High Court is situated outside the capital city. The private member’s Bill was moved in Lok Sabha, after a gap of nearly two years. The private member’s business had been pushed back due to multiple reasons, curtailed hours due to COVID-19 protocol, and disruptions due to Opposition protest. Mr. Tharoor’s ‘Establishment of permanent Benches of High Courts at State capitals Bill’ too had been pending since 2019. Though the Bill is meant for the States concerned, it specifically mentions Kerala where the permanent seat is in Ernakulam which is nearly 200 km from the capital. Considerable expenses Explaining the necessity for bringing such a legislation, the Bill says, “It has been observed that the State is a principal litigant in a majority of cases pending in various High Courts. This had led to State governments incurring considerable expenditure on account of travel allowance and leave allowance given to the government employees for travelling from State capitals to the places of principal seats of the High Courts concerned for depositions.” Mr. Tharoor, in his Bill, argued that ever since the formation of Kerala in 1956, there has been a demand for establishment of a permanent Bench in the capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tharoor-moves-bill-on-hc-bench/article37834818.ece
04 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Documenting a heritage style||The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) is on a mission to document the traditional masonry gate arch named Kamanam found in old houses in the eastern part of Palakkad district. Starkly different from the traditional gate arches named Padippura that serves the purpose of a mini outhouse in Kerala houses, Kamanam has been found to be exclusive to Chittur, Palakkad and Alathur taluks of the district. “With a distinct Tamil influence, Kamanams are seldom found in other parts of the State. Although many of them have been demolished, there still are a few Kamanams scattered in different parts of eastern Palakkad. We are planning to document those surviving ones,” said Arun Narayanan, INTACH convener in Palakkad. INTACH is planning to bring out a book that can serve as a heritage souvenir of Palakkad with photographs, illustrations and text by architecture experts. Mr. Narayanan said the Kamanams would be featured in the work. Illustrations and photos  “Unlike a coffee-table book, ours will be one meant for treasuring. It will feature illustrations, sketches and photographs that can make a Palakkad native proud of their heritage,” said Mr. Narayanan. INTACH has sought the people’s help to identify Kamanams. “If you know of a house that has a Kamanam that you would like featured in the book, let INTACH know about it either through WhatsApp (9873440216) or email (intachpalakkad@gmail.com) with a photograph and location details,” he said. The Palakkad chapter of INTACH has resumed its periodic heritage walks and gatherings after a long gap brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. INTACH officials said that several programmes were on the cards with the objective of cultivating an interest among people for the preservation of heritage. Sketch walks INTACH had organised sketch walks at historical sites such as the Fort of Tipu Sultan at Palakkad and Killikurissimangalam near Ottapalam. Killikkurissimangalam was home to the 18th century poet Kunjan Nambiar. INTACH was instrumental in popularising the sketch walk culture across the country. INTACH had launched its Palakkad edition of sketch walk titled Varayo Vara at the Fort of Tipu Sultan a few of years ago under the guidance of cartoonist E.P. Unny.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/documenting-a-heritage-style/article37834777.ece
04 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||State’s health sector facing crisis: V.T. Balram||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) vice president V.T. Balram said here on Friday that the health sector in the State was facing a mega crisis and the recent series of infant deaths at Attappady mirrored this. He was speaking after inaugurating a day-long fast staged by KSU State president K.M. Abhijit in protest against infant deaths in Attappady. “When infants die within days after birth and mothers die soon after childbirth, it cannot be the failure of any particular government department. But it becomes the failure of the government in handling the matters that affect people,” the Congress leader said. Mr. Balram said that it was the achievements of the erstwhile Oommen Chandy government in the State that reflected in the survey results released by the NITI Aayog the other day. Welfare schemes “Neither the Congress nor the United Democratic Front (UDF) made any claims for their achievements. But we saw the people, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, making claims that it was the Left Democratic Front (LDF)’s achievement within hours after the survey results came out.” Mr. Balram accused the LDF government of scuttling several welfare schemes introduced by the UDF for infants and expectant mothers in Attappady. KSU district president K.S. Jayaghosh presided over the function. Youth Congress State president Shafi Parambil inaugurated the valedictory session after Mr. Abhijit broke his fast in the evening. A UDF team, led by Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, is set to visit Attappady on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-health-sector-facing-crisis-vt-balram/article37834747.ece
04 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Walayar case: court rejects CBI plea for victims’ dresses||A special court dealing with the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act here on Friday rejected a demand by the CBI inquiring into the Walayar children’s death case for material objects recovered from the crime scene. The CBI team had approached the court demanding the victims’ dresses for a dummy experiment. But the court rejected the CBI demand, asking it to conduct the dummy experiment with the same kind of dress. CBI officers said that they would speed up the investigation. The investigating team had questioned the first and the second accused, Madhu and Shibu, in the Malampuzha jail recently. Raising suspicion It was on January 7, 2017, that a 13-year-old girl was found hanging in her house at Attappallam, near Walayar. On March 4 the same year, her nine-year-old sister was also found hanging in a similar situation in the same house. The general finding that the younger sister was too small to manage to hang herself from the rafter of the house raised many suspicions about the death. The younger sibling was the only witness to the death of the 13-year-old girl. It was found in the postmortem report that both the children had been victims of sexual abuse. As suspicions about the deaths of the children strengthened, the blame game too increased. The police team that investigated the deaths was accused of neglect and failure. Several officers investigated the case at different points of time. Although the police slapped several charges, the POCSO court set free the accused in the absence of solid evidence. The verdict was widely viewed as a failure of the prosecution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walayar-case-court-rejects-cbi-plea-for-victims-dresses/article37834778.ece
04 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Steps for assessment of travellers at airports||All arrangements are in place at the State’s airports to receive travellers safely in the light of the new situation involving the Omicron variant of novel coronavirus, Health Minister Veena George has said. The aim is to find the infected as early as possible, treat them, and prevent onward transmission. Travellers should follow all COVID-19 protocols strictly. Travellers from abroad, if they test positive, will be moved to special wards in hospitals and those from high-risk nations who are negative will be asked to go in home quarantine. Kiosks have been set up at airports for RT-PCR tests and for the health assessment of travellers. At least five to ten kiosks will be readied at each airport. Ambulance service Health officials visited the Thiruvananthapuram international airport on Tuesday to review the arrangements. 108 ambulance service has been arranged. Those who test negative will be allowed to go home in their own vehicles. This vehicle should have only the driver and there should be a partition using plastic between the driver and the passenger seats. The driver should wear mask and face shield. The vehicle should take the passenger directly home without any stopover. The vehicle should be sanitised afterwards. Those in quarantine should confine themselves to a room with an attached bathroom and not interact with others. The room should be well-ventilated. After the seven-day quarantine, they should undergo RT-PCR test on the eighth day, as advised by health workers. If the person tests positive after the quarantine, all family members will also have to be tested. Even if the person is negative on the eighth day, he/she will have to be in self-observation for another week. During this week, the individual should not attend any function or go anywhere crowded. Mask should be worn properly within home and outside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-for-assessment-of-travellers-at-airports/article37834687.ece
04 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fresh bids soon for Neyyar plant||Having failed to get the Neyyar water supply project off the starting block, the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) is planning to try its luck again by inviting fresh bids for the construction of the water treatment plant (WTP). This will be the third time that the KWA is floating tenders for constructing the 120-mld (million litres a day) WTP at Neyyar after zooming in on a new site early this year, a KWA official said. Tenders will be issued in a day or two. While the technical specifications for the WTP and other conditions are not being revised, bids will be invited on the basis of the 2018 schedule of rates rather the 2016 rates as was done previously, according to officials. In 18 months Once the work is awarded, the contractor will be expected to complete the WTP and allied facilities in 18 months. At the present rate, the project is likely to be commissioned, at the earliest, in 2023. Although a selection notice was issued to a Thiruvananthapuram-based private firm for constructing the WTP at a cost of Rs. 74.24 crore recently, it had to be cancelled as the latter found the terms unacceptable. Designed as an alternative source to Thiruvananthapuram Corporation area, the Neyyar project envisages a supply of 100 million litres a day (mld) to the city, while 20 mld would be supplied to the Vilappil, Vilavoorkal, Maranalloor, and Malayinkeezhu panchayats. In addition to the WTP, the 120-mld project involves a floating intake system in the Neyyar dam reservoir and allied infrastructure. The construction of a transmission main to the capital city will be taken up as a separate project. The KWA had first awarded the contract for the plant at Neyyar in 2019. However, land disputes and the COVID-19 pandemic delayed the work, forcing the water utility to scout for an alternative site. Although bids were floated after identifying a new site, the project had failed to take off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fresh-bids-soon-for-neyyar-plant/article37834814.ece
04 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Active case pool climbs up slightly||The State registered 4,995 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 62,342 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. On Friday, 48.6% of the new cases were reported in fully vaccinated individuals. The State’s cumulative case burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 51,56,914 cases. The official cumulative case fatality stands at 41,124 as on Friday, with the State adding 269 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths. These include 44 deaths that occurred in the past few days and 225 deaths that have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government. The number of deaths added to the official fatality list after the death reconciliation exercise was 11,622 as on Friday. 44,637 patients The State’s active case pool, which had been declining rapidly, has been showing a slight increase for the past three days. On Friday, the active case pool had 44,637 patients. A total of 4,463 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 790, followed by Ernakulam 770, Kozhikode 578, Kottayam 532, Thrissur 511, Kollam 372, Kannur 284, Pathanamthitta 243, Malappuram 205, Alappuzha 195, Wayanad 158, Idukki 148, Palakkad 130 and Kasaragod 79 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-case-pool-climbs-up-slightly/article37834685.ece
04 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Families living in school agree to move out||The dispute over the alleged refusal of 14 families living at St. Roch’s School, Valiathura, to move out of the campus has been temporarily addressed by making arrangements to shift them to two nearby lodges. The families had been living at the school for years now and were reportedly refusing to move out without being provided permanent houses in place of the ones they lost to sea surge. Though schools in the State had reopened last month, the families were allegedly refusing to move out. On Friday, parents and teachers protested against the families, leading to a tense situation. The lower primary section had not begun functioning, while the upper primary and high school sections had thin attendance, it was alleged. The dispute over shifting of the families was settled late Friday night with the intervention of the Deputy Collector. People’s representatives said the families had been told that they would be provided housing in three years, and in the meantime they should shift to another place. The Veli youth hostel and the Valiathura godown had been suggested, but they refused to move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/families-living-in-school-agree-to-move-out/article37834822.ece
04 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||790 COVID-19 cases in district||The district logged 790 COVID-19 cases on Friday. The number of active cases stood at 7,232. The test positivity rate was 9.9%. The district reported 871 recoveries. The G. Karthikeyan Memorial Residential School in Thannimoodu ward of Nanniyode panchayat has been declared a micro-containment zone following a rise in infections, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. Kallazhi and Kannamba wards in Varkala municipality have been dropped from the list of containment zones as the infection rate is under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/790-covid-19-cases-in-district/article37834816.ece
04 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Child rights panel asks doctor to pay damages||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed that a compensation of Rs. 50,000 be paid to the son of a Wayanad resident by a doctor who failed to provide proper treatment to the child or further directions. Commission members K. Nazeer and B. Babitha directed that the compensation be deducted from the doctor’s salary. It directed the Health Secretary, Director of Health Services, and superintendent of Taluk Headquarters Hospital, Vythiri, to conduct a departmental inquiry into the lapses by the doctor and a staff nurse. ‘Examined by nurse’ The petitioner had alleged that on December 5, 2019, his 11-year-old son developed searing pain in his scrotum at night. The boy was taken to the Vythiri taluk hospital casualty where the doctor directed a male nurse to examine him which he did from afar. The boy was administered two tablets and an injection and sent off with a direction to see a surgeon. When the boy was taken to a private hospital next morning the parents were asked why they did not come earlier since an emergency surgery was required, and the child’s scrotum may have to be removed because of the delay. The complainant alleged that the taluk hospital casualty was closed when his son was brought there and was opened only for five minutes to examine the patient. The parent was not informed about the gravity of the problem. If his son had been referred to a hospital where an emergency surgery could be performed, his son’s scrotum would not have to be removed, he said. Hospital version The taluk hospital superintendent’s report said it was learnt from the doctor Deepa P. Soman and staff nurse Nufail that the casualty was not closed that night. The boy was examined by the doctor in the presence of the nurse. Because of the possibility of acute torsion of testes or acute epididymoorchitis, a paracetamol injection and mefenamic acid tablets were given to reduce the pain. The boy was asked to consult a surgeon as the hospital did not have a surgeon or doppler ultrasound scan. However, as the boy was taken to a surgeon only the next day, an orchidectomy was needed. The outpatient ticket mentioned surgery consultation, but the need for an emergency surgery was not impressed upon the petitioner or recorded on the OP ticket, the commission observed, adding that the doctor had violated the rights of the child, and should pay compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/child-rights-commission-asks-doctor-to-pay-compensation/article37834598.ece
04 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Differently abled children make a mark with craft||District Collector Navjot Khosa inaugurated an exhibition-cum-sale of craft products made by children of institutions for the differently abled in the district on Friday, International Day of Persons with Disabilities. The exhibition ‘Unarvu 2021’ was held at Public Library Hall, Palayam, by the District Social Justice Office in association with the district panchayat. The expo was aimed at mainstreaming the differently abled and drawing public attention to their problems. Sixteen special schools and 15 BUDS schools, and those of the Social Justice Department, the National Institute of Speech and Hearing, and Kerala Social Security Mission had arranged stalls. The Collector visited the stalls in which products made by the children during the pandemic were displayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/differently-abled-children-make-a-mark-with-craft/article37834813.ece
04 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bike rally by Madras Regiment concludes||A motorbike rally to commemorate the 263rd Raising Day of the Madras Regiment, the oldest regiment of the Indian Army, culminated at the Pangode military station on Friday. Lt. Gen. Manjinder Singh, Colonel of the Madras Regiment, flagged in the rally and felicitated the 1971 war veterans of the regiment. The General Officer Commanding recalled the evolution of the Madras Regiment. Officers and personnel of the Madras Regiment from various parts of the country took part in the rally which started on November 17. The participants were received at various places en route. Functions were organised to felicitate wives and mothers who sacrificed their dear ones for the country during the Indo-Pak war of 1971.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bike-rally-by-madras-regiment-concludes/article37834815.ece
04 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Attack on minorities’: CPI(M) protest on Dec. 7||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] will organise protests on December 7 against the “nationwide attacks unleashed by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on minorities”, CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has said. Briefing the media on the decisions taken by the party State secretariat here on Friday, Mr. Balakrishnan said the central leadership had called for nationwide protests in this regard. In Kerala, programmes would be organised by the party at the district and area level. The RSS had been targeting Christians, Muslims, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes across the country. In the past nine months, more than 300 incidents of violence against Christian places of worship had been reported. Violence was being unleashed against minorities citing 'love jihad' and protection of cows, Mr. Balakrishnan said. Mr. Balakrishnan said the CPI(M) aimed at rallying secular forces and forging a united front against attempts by the RSS to create a religious state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attack-on-minorities-cpim-protest-on-dec-7/article37834681.ece
04 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) district conferences from Dec. 10||CPI(M) district conferences will kick off on December 10 and will be completed in January ahead of the party State conference in Ernakulam from March 1 to 4, CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan told a press conference here on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-district-conferences-from-dec-10/article37834780.ece
04 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccination of kids: staff suspended||A grade II Junior Public Health Nurse (JPHN) at the Aryanad community health centre was suspended after she was found to have been in the wrong in an incident wherein two children were administered Covishield vaccine by mistake. The Health Services employee was issued suspension notice following an inquiry conducted by the district medical officer. The children who were administered the COVID-19 vaccine are doing fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-of-kids-staff-suspended/article37834821.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Training for dairy farmers||The Indigenous Milk Products Training and Development Centre, Oachira, is conducting a training programme from December 6 to 17 on manufacturing value-added products. Twenty-five dairy farmers who register first can attend the programme. Interested persons may call 0476-2698550, 80750 28868 or 99477 75978 and register their names before 10 a.m. on December 6. Participants should produce their Aadhaar card, bank passbook and COVID-19 vaccination certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-for-dairy-farmers/article37834661.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Show of talent||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/show-of-talent/article37834683.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In rhythm||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-rhythm/article37834749.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Search for solutions||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/search-for-solutions/article37834820.ece
04 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Organ donation can give second lease of life’||A mother gives life to a child, but any of us can give a second lease of life to people by donating organs, said Joint Collector Attada Siri. Participating in an awareness programme, organised by APHMIDC employees, at KSR Girls College here on Friday, Ms. Siri called upon the students to actively come forward to pledge their organs and donate them to the needy. Noting with concern that only 5% organ donation takes place in all cases of brain dead persons reported in the country, she underscored the need to raise awareness on organ donation among relatives. Anantapur Government Medical College principal Myreddy Neeraja said five vital organs from a drain dead person can be harvested within 30 minutes to help save another patient. The five organs, heart, lungs, liver, pancreas and kidney, can be transplanted, Ms. Neeraja said, adding that eyes, skin and blood/components could also be donated. Students of the college held placards urging everyone to donate organs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/organ-donation-can-give-second-lease-of-life/article37834721.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Doctor, contacts have only mild fever’||The 46-year-old anaesthetist from a Government hospital in Bengaluru, infected with the Omicron variant, and all his five contacts are largely asymptomatic, said doctors at Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, where they have been admitted. Following recommendations by the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, a 60-bed dedicated Omicron treatment facility has been set up at the hospital. Manoj Kumar H.V., dean and director of the Institute, told The Hindu on Friday that the doctor and all his five contacts have been accommodated on a separate floor. “The doctor’s contacts include his wife, who is also a doctor, his children (two daughters aged 5 and 14 years), another anaesthetist and a cardiologist from the same Government hospital. All of them only have a mild fever and we are treating them just with paracetamol. Until we get new guidelines from the Centre, the existing COVID-19 treatment and discharge protocol will be followed,” Dr. Manoj Kumar said. The doctor said all six persons will be tested after the tenth day and discharged if they test negative. Subsequently, they will be advised 10 days home quarantine. The genome sequencing reports of contacts are awaited, he said. Sources in the hospital where the anaesthetist is employed said all the 163 operation theatre staff and patients in the ICU were re-tested and found to be negative. No cluster so far “Although there are reports that the new variant is highly transmissible, we have not seen any spread or cluster reported in the hospital so far. He [the anaesthetist] along with the other two doctors (his contacts who have tested RT-PCR positive) had attended the conference on November 20 and have not reported for work since,” sources said. “Despite the high viral load, the doctor’s symptoms were mild. He isolated himself as soon as his sample tested positive and stayed under home isolation till November 24. The next day, he got admitted to a hospital and was discharged on November 27,” sources said. A day after five persons — all contacts of the 46-year-old resident — tested positive for COVID-19, the authorities have stepped up efforts at contact tracing. According to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahangara Palike (BBMP) health officials, so far, they have been able to identify 23 primary contacts and 207 secondary contacts of the five people. Contact tracing of four people has been completed, while that of the fifth person is still under way. All contacts will be isolated and tested, said civic officials. Road barricaded The road leading to the house of the health professional was barricaded. However, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta clarified that no express orders had been given to the zonal or ward health officials to take up such measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctor-contacts-have-only-mild-fever/article37834263.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five years after woman’s death, HC orders probe||Finding serious lapses, including failure to properly analyse the forensic report, the High Court of Karnataka has ordered further investigation into the death of a newly married woman that the police had termed a case of ‘suicide’ five years ago. Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order while allowing a petition filed by Bhaskar Rao Nimbalkar from Chhattisgarh, who is the father of deceased Khusbhoo Nimbalkar. The court directed the police to complete further investigation within three months and file a supplementary report to the jurisdictional court. Khushboo, who was married to Amit Sheshrao Tayade, was living in the city since marriage, and was found dead at her husband’s house in June 2016. Her father had alleged that she was murdered by her husband and others after being harassed for several months since her marriage in 2015. The Hebbbal police in Bengaluru, based on the final remark in the post-mortem report that the woman’s death was “due to asphyxia as a result of hanging”, had come to a conclusion that she had “committed suicide”. Post-mortem report However, the court found from the forensic report that “neck tissues underlying the ligature mark are dry, white and glistening... Thyroid cartilage and Hyoid bone are intact.” “If the death had occurred due to hanging, thyroid cartilage is the first to break. That being intact it would prima facie indicate that the death was not due to hanging,” the court observed, while pointing out that the police failed to analyse the post-mortem report in detail. Pointing out that “the difference between hanging and strangulation is delineated by the celebrated author P. Modi in the textbook of medicine which is referred to by the apex court in plethora of cases,” Justice Nagaprasanna said the investigating officer ought to have noticed the fact that the thyroid cartilage and hyoid bone were intact at the time when the post-mortem was carried out. Noticing from the records that none had seen the victim in hanging position as witnesses had said she was lying down with saree hanging to the fan, the court wondered why did the police visit her house two days after the death. Pointing out that the police did not record the statements of doctors in the two hospitals to which she was taken before she was pronounced dead at the second hospital, the court said the investigation report was silent on whether she was alive or not when taken to the hospital. The High Court also noticed that the police had not taken into consideration the statement and the WhatsApp chat details given by one of her friends, who alleged that the victim had told him that her “husband tried to kill her three times by pressing her neck.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-years-after-womans-death-hc-orders-probe/article37834213.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Air India employees move Madras HC||A trade union representing over 5,000 employees of Air India Limited has approached the Madras High Court to restrain the Centre from disinvesting the air carrier without first holding talks with the union for protecting the service conditions and other rights and entitlements of the existing workforce. Justice V. Parthiban on Friday ordered notices, returnable by January 7, to the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation, Air India Limited (AIL) and Talace Private Limited, a company set up by the Tata Group to acquire Air India. The notices were ordered on the writ petition filed by the Air Corporation Employees Union (ACEU). Acceding to a request made by senior counsel R. Vaigai, the judge also granted two interim injunctions restraining the official respondents from evicting employees from the residential accommodation that has been provided to them, and also from discontinuing their existing medical facilities. The judge also asked Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan to make sure that a counter affidavit on behalf of the Centre was filed by the next hearing. In an affidavit filed on behalf of the ACEU, its president C. Udayashankar stated that the union had its registered office in New Delhi and regional office in Chennai. He claimed it was the largest recognised trade union in Air India. Its members included cabin crew, aircraft equipment operators, drivers, instructors, supervisors, assistants, peons, helpers, safaiwalas and security staff, and women employees accounted for about 40% of its membership. As per a September 14, 2015 deed of recognition of the petitioner union, the management of Air India should consult the union on matters pertaining to the wage structure, service conditions and all other issues affecting the interests of regular non-managerial employees of the company, the ACEU said. Pointing out that AIL was a company wholly owned by the Government of India, the ACEU said the Centre was now in the process of 100% disinvestment of its stakes. Since the workforce of the air carrier was over 20,000, the petitioner union insisted on protecting their service conditions in the wake of the disinvestment. Job security till the age of 58 years, wage revision, rectification in anomalies in basic pay of cabin crew, were of the some of the issues to be settled, the union said. It urged the court to forbear the Centre, Air India and Talace from proceeding with the disinvestment process without taking appropriate measures to protect the terms and conditions of service and rights of the employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/air-india-employees-move-madras-hc/article37834211.ece
04 December 2021||ELURU:,ANDHRA PRADESH||Save crops, cattle: Collector||West Godavari District Collector Kartikeya Misra has advised farmers not to take up agricultural operations and to protect the harvested crops, as heavy rains are predicted in the next few days due to cyclone ‘Jawad’. He asked the farmers and the people to protect the cattle and other milch animals. With many farmers busy harvesting the kharif crop, Mr. Misra appealed to them to protect the paddy stocks. The Collector in a video-conference directed the officials to stay in the deployed places and monitor the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/save-crops-cattle-collector/article37834290.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on gene mutations to check rare diseases||Scientists at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and the Centre for DNA Fingerprinting & Diagnostics (CDFD) here are screening specific population groups in identified areas ailing from peculiar genetic diseases to check for the mutations to prevent them from moving into the next generation. Senior scientist and CDFD director K. Thangaraj on Wednesday said if the genetic mutation response is found in these groups during the ongoing study it will help in taking up counselling the populations concerned and halt the progression into the next generation. This is akin to what the Ashkenazi Jews have been successfully doing for the last few decades through community testing at the school level itself. “When the adults consent to marry, their genetic sequences are compared and either they are advised against marriage or told to keep checking for the genetic disease when pregnant. The Jews have eliminated some diseases through this process, so hopefully we too can do the same here,” he told an online gathering during the course of his presentation on ‘Human origin, health and disease’ organised by National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI). Dr. Thangaraj stated that initially Ancestral South Indians (migrating straight from Africa and Ancestral North Indians hailing from Europe through Africa, gave rise to many populations independently and during the last 2,000-4,000 years ‘admixing’ between these two founding populations of the country, gave rise to many diverse population groups. This is evident from our varied skin colours across the sub-continent. However, this ‘admixture’ was halted 1,900 years ago due to endogamous marriages (within the group), and the caste system which came up later perpetuated this leading to the present populations, he explained. “Genetically we are more homogenous, yet with every single population with a unique genetic affinity,” said the geneticist, adding that recessive genetic diseases increases in population in endogamous marriages with the abnormal chromosome having a chance to appear in the next generation. The director said there is no archaeological evidence of when early humans migrated to the Indian sub-continent though it is thought to have happened 65,000 years ago through genetic evidence. Whereas there is evidence to show the migration happened to West Asia 47,000 years ago, Australia 50,000 years ago, China 39,000 years ago and Europe 40,000 years ago after modern man migrated from Africa 160,000 years ago due to a mega drought.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-gene-mutations-to-check-rare-diseases/article37834835.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagan occupied with administrative functions’||It would be difficult for Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to appear for the trial at the CBI special court in Hyderabad as he was occupied with administrative functions, his counsel S. Niranjan Reddy told Telangana High Court on Friday. Presenting contentions before Justice Ujjal Bhuyan of the HC in a petition seeking exemption from personal appearance for Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy at CBI special court, his lawyer said that lot of security related protocols were also required to be followed to facilitate the CM’s appearance before the court. While adherence to security and other protocols make his appearance a complex task, his absence in A.P. would affect implementation and supervision of developmental activities undertaken there, the counsel argued. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who had appeared before CBI court while being Leader of the Opposition of AP in connection with the cases registered by CBI against him, secured the special court nod for exemption from personal appearances some times. He was given exemption from court appearance after assuming charge as Chief Minister. However, recently the special court wanted Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy to appear before it for trial of the cases. With the special court dismissing his petition seeking exemption from personal appearance, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy moved Telangana HC by filing a petition on the matter. There was a likelihood of lot of people coming to meet him at the court during his appearance and this would only cause inconvenience to general public, the lawyer said. He informed the court that earlier Mr. Reddy had appeared before the court every week before becoming the CM. On special occasions, he secured permission from the court for exemption from appearance. Dissatisfaction over ATRs Expressing dissatisfaction over failure of the State government to file action taken reports (ATRs) and counter affidavits in a PIL petition, the High Court on Friday said top officials would be required to appear before it if ATRs and counter affidavits were not filed by January 21, 2022. A Bench of CJ Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy passed this direction while hearing a PIL plea over encroachments along the Musi, Himayatsagar and Hussainsagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-busy-with-administrative-functions/article37834583.ece
04 December 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four of a family die within hours||Hours after her husband ended his life over financial problems and family disputes on Thursday, a 33-year-old woman along with her two children — aged nine and two years — was found dead in a lake at Andol in Sangareddy district on Friday morning. Police said that 40-year-old Chandrakanth, a private employee, had a heated argument with his parents at their residence at BHEL over his share in the property and also asked his wife Soujanya to join him. She was at her parents’ place in Ameenpur and soon after his call, she rushed to her in-laws place. Parent’s refusal Around 6 p.m., when his parents refused to divide the property, Chandrakanth locked himself inside a room, while Soujanya, threw away her phone, and left the house with the children. Hours later when Soujanya called other family members to know how the argument ended and what her in-laws have decided, using the phone of a passer-by, they informed her that Chandrakanth ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan. Jumps into water body Learning about his death, she allegedly jumped into the water body along with her children — Preetam and Sujitha. On Friday morning, Andol villagers noticed the bodies floating and alerted local police. Police verified the antecedents of the victims and alerted their counterparts in RC Puram. (Roshni — suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-of-a-family-die-within-hours/article37834553.ece
04 December 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||German Ambassador to turn flautist for jazz event||Hyderabad is set to host the 4th Hyderabad International Jazz Festival in a hybrid form in the Deccan Park area near Qutb Shahi Tombs Complex on December 5. While three groups performing live are from Hyderabad, Delhi and Mumbai, three other groups performing virtually are from Germany, Switzerland and the US. The concert is free and entry will be on a first-come, first-serve basis, but considering the recent rise in number of COVID-19 cases, vaccination certificate may be required to be shown at the entrance, according to the organisers. The garden amphitheatre at the Deccan Park has tiered seating and the Qutb Shahi tombs form a spectacular backdrop. Among the performers is German Ambassador Walter J. Lindner, who is part of The Revisit Project from Delhi. “India is such a huge country, I had no idea where I would perform. I will be performing in Hyderabad which is a very good opportunity and has an amazing backdrop, so I am very happy to do it,” said the Ambassador in an interview. “Let’s see how it goes but so far, so good. I think I am open to a lot of new ideas about new songs and collaborations with other musicians. At the moment, I am working on and thinking of doing something in the genre of Qawwali or Sufi music,” said Mr. Lindner when asked about Indian influences and collaboration. “Even A Journey’s Songbook contains two pieces influenced by India — Prem Joshua and another one by John McLaughlin — and another composition, Pushkar , which is done by me. So there is already some Indian influence to be found on my second last CD,” added the German Ambassador.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/german-ambassador-to-turn-flautist-for-jazz-event/article37834570.ece
04 December 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI conducts searches at six locations in Hyderabad, Kurnool||The Central Bureau of Investigation conducted searches at six places in Hyderabad, Nandyal and Kurnool, in connection with two cheating cases registered against Nandi Grain Derivatives Pvt. Ltd., SPY Agro Industries Ltd and their directors and unknown public servants and private persons for cheating Bank of Baroda and Union Bank of India to the tune of Rs. 70 crore. The searches led to the recovery of several incriminating documents, officials said. According to CBI officials, the bank alleged that Nandi Grain Derivatives represented by its directors entered into a conspiracy with others and availed loans from its Banjara Hills Branch, and later diverted the loan funds for purposes other than those for which the loan was given and also for personal gains. False statements They also submitted false stock statements to banks for concealing their irregularities, falsified their books of accounts and wilfully defaulted in repayments. An alleged loss to the tune of Rs. 61.86 crore (approx) was caused to the bank. Another case was registered against six persons, including, Undavalli Raja Gopal and Boppudi Seshagiri Rao of Prithviram Infra, Hyderabad, Naveha Enviro Engineers and Consultants, Hyderabad, Lorven Green Energy Projects Private Ltd., Hyderabad, Chandra Prakash and other unknown persons. It was alleged that the company had availed overdraft facility of Rs. 4 crore and LC of Rs. 2 crore with a total limit of Rs. 6 crore on October 26, 2016, for business purposes from Union Bank of India (earlier Andhra Bank), Defence Colony branch. It was further alleged that after availing the loan, the company committed default in repayment of the loan in violation of the terms of the loan agreement and the account slipped into Non-Performing Assets (NPA) on November 30, 2018. The bank declared the account a fraud on September 30, 2019, and reported it to Reserve Bank of India on October 19, 2019. “It was also alleged that the borrowers had diverted and misappropriated the borrowed funds and also mortgaged disputed, unidentified property. An alleged loss of Rs. 8.15 crore was caused to the bank,” CBI officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-conducts-searches-at-six-locations-in-hyderabad-kurnool/article37834221.ece
04 December 2021||IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relief camps for residents opened||After closing all spillway shutters but one by 10 a.m. after the water level fell to 141.80 ft, Tamil Nadu on Friday opened four spillway shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam by 3.30 p.m. following an increase in inflow. By 9 p.m., the five shutters were raised to 60 cm, releasing 4,008.7 cusecs to the Periyar. Meanwhile, the Idukki administration opened 20 relief camps in the downstream areas of Mullaperiyar when the water level reached the upper rule level of 142 ft at 5 p.m. Revenue authorities said people, instead of waiting for warning, should move to relief camps when the water level increased in the Periyar. No assurance from T.N. Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine visited the areas and evaluated the situation there. He said the government did not get any assurance from Tamil Nadu over prior information regarding opening of shutters at night. He said all arrangements were in place to evacuate people if Tamil Nadu released more water from the dam. The Irrigation department had again sent a letter to Tamil Nadu highlighting the issue. The Chief Minister had on Thursday written to his Tamil Nadu counterpart raising the State’s concerns. Water released at night From 2.30 a.m. to 3.30 a.m. on Thursday, ten of the 13 spillway shutters were raised to 60 cm to release 8,017.40 cusecs into the Periyar. This was the highest quantum of water being released to the Periyar this year. On Tuesday, nine spillway shutters were opened and around 5,600 cusecs was released between 2.30 a.m. and 6.30 a.m. The water level in the Idukki reservoir slowly increased after the release of water from Mullaperiyar. The water level at 4 p.m. on Thursday was 2,400.50 ft and 2,400.68 ft on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/relief-camps-for-residents-opened/article37834217.ece
04 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kodiyeri returns as head of CPI(M) in Kerala||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] Polit Bureau member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has returned to helm the party in the State. After remaining on ‘medical leave’ for a year, he returned to function as State secretary on Friday. Mr. Balakrishnan had proceeded on leave in November last year citing health reasons after nominating A. Vijayaraghavan, State secretariat member, to officiate as party State secretary in his absence. Son’s arrest However, the decision was seen by his detractors as having been forced by the arrest of his younger son Bineesh Kodiyeri by the Enforcement Directorate in Bengaluru in a case of money laundering related to narcotic drug trafficking. Bineesh was released on bail in October this year triggering speculation about Mr. Balakrishnan’s return to the post. Talking to The Hindu , Mr. Balakrishnan said neither his leave nor his return was related to the case against his son. The party, he said, would undertake an organised campaign with the support of cultural leaders, writers, historians and leaders in the field of science to counter the “far right-wing tendencies gradually taking root in Kerala.” He accused both the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) of trying to foment communal trouble. “To counter this, there is a need to create a generation which has an understanding of history, is rational and has scientific temper,” he said. SilverLine project Mr. Balakrishnan thinks that the government should not backtrack on its plan to implement the semi-high-speed rail project SilverLine, which has been opposed even by Left-leaning organisations such as the Kerala Sastra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP). “The project has been designed in such a way that its ecological impact is minimal and Kerala needs it for development,” he said. The party, he argued, faced no embarrassment after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arraigned former Uduma MLA K.V. Kunhiraman, CPI(M) Kasaragod district secretariat member, as an accused in the Periye twin murder case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kodiyeri-returns-as-head-of-cpim-in-kerala/article37834225.ece
04 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers receive warm welcome from people of Sydapuram||Braving curbs and enduring hurdles, farmers from Amaravati continued their long march towards Tirupati before halting for a break at Turimela village in SPSR Nellore district on Friday. People from different parts of Sydapuram mandal, slowly limping back to normalcy after battered by heavy rain for more than 20 days, extended a warm welcome to the farmers from the capital region. Walking cautiously on the slushy roads, farmers said it was unfortunate that the government, which boasted of empowering women by adopting Disha Bill, put hurdles to their march by removing even the mobile toilets which were part of the convoy. “The path we have chosen is not a bed of roses. We continue walking on the Turimela-Sydapuram road, submerged in a sheet of water in many stretches and in face of the curbs of various kinds put in place,” said a group of farmers, led by Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti convenor A.Siva Reddy, before pitching their tent at Sydapuram village for night halt after covering a distance of 10 km Petals showered A group of local people at Molakalapudi village showered flower petals on the group of 157 farmers and said their sacrifice of parting with their fertile land for a world-class capital would not go waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-receive-warm-welcome-from-people-of-sydapuram/article37834723.ece
04 December 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Farmers must adopt new technologies’||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Revenue Dharmana Krishnadas on Friday asked farmers to leverage the benefits of technology and understand latest techniques in farming activity to get more yield. Mr. Krishnadas was the chief guest at a Kisan Mela programme organised at Acharya NG Ranga Agriculture College in Naira. He visited various stalls and hailed the initiative by authorities for doing research on various crops. Minister for Animal Husbandry Sidiri Appalaraju urged agriculture scientists to explain the benefits of research to farmers in a simple manner. University Governing Body members S.V.S.R.K. Netaji were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-must-adopt-new-technologies/article37834729.ece
04 December 2021||SRIKAKULAM / VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Authorities brace for Cyclone Jawad||After the recent Cyclone Gulab, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts may face nature’s fury again in the form of Cyclone Jawad. As per the bulletin of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), heavy to very heavy rainfall and strong gales are likely on Saturday. The sea condition will be rough to very rough up to December 5, and fishermen are strictly advised not to venture into the sea. The IMD has advised the authorities to take steps to mitigate the flooding of roads and inundation of low-lying areas. It has cautioned the authorities about possible damages to vulnerable structures, and horticulture and standing crops. Heavy inflows into rivers from their catchment areas are expected. Control room State Agriculture Commissioner and Cyclone Jawad Special Officer H. Arun Kumar has reached Srikakulam to supervise the preparedness of the administration. Meanwhile, Srikakulam District Collector Shrikesh B. Lathkar said an exclusive control room (08942-240557) would continue to function round the clock to monitor the situation. “We have alerted the officials of Revenue, Fisheries and Irrigation departments to take steps to minimise the damage and shift people of the low-lying areas to the cyclone shelters,” he said. District Fire Officer Ch. Krupavaram said special disaster management teams were stationed at vulnerable places to extend a helping hand to the needy people. ‘Remain indoors’ Vizianagaram District Collector A. Suryakumari visited Bhogapuram and Pusapatirega mandals to inspect the facilities at the relief centres. She said that NDRF teams had already reached the coastal areas. “People should remain indoors for the next three days as heavy rain and gales are forecast. We have also announced holiday for all educational institutions on Saturday too. The Revenue, Transport and municipal authorities have been directed to coordinate the relief measures,” she added. Ms. Surya Kumari directed the municipal officials to take steps to minimise the impact of the cyclone. Along with Municipal Commissioner S.S. Varma, she visited places such as Dharmapuri, Tank Bund Road and other areas. Mr. Varma said special teams had been constituted to monitor the situation. He said focus would be on the areas located adjacent to the tanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/authorities-brace-for-cyclone-jawad/article37834737.ece
04 December 2021||TADEPALLIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agricultural Education Day celebrated||The management and students of Dr. YSR Horticultural University celebrated the birth anniversary of the first President of India Babu Rajendra Prasad, which was being celebrated as ‘Agricultural Education Day’, on the varsity campus at Venkaramannagudem village in West Godavari district on Friday. AP State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) Chairman Prof. K. Hemachandra Reddy attended as chief guest for the programme at Krishi Vignana Kendram on the university campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agricultural-education-day-celebrated/article37834834.ece
04 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete repair works on ghat roads by Dec-end: TTD chief||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Friday directed officials to complete restoration works on the second ghat road by December end. At a review meeting with IIT experts and engineering officials, he underscored the need to prevent the residual portion of damaged mountain cliffs from again falling on the road and bringing down the precarious boulders that are still positioned menacingly at higher altitudes at locations identified as sensitive by the experts team. The officials can also think on the lines of employing chemical technology in bringing down the rocks, he said adding that the management is ready to bear any amount of expenses. The entire damaged stretch of the ghat road including re-construction of parapet wall, railings, retaining walls and other related should be completed by the month end. TTD is rather forced to operate both the up and down vehicular traffic on a single ghat road much to the inconvenience of devotees who are subjected to grueling waiting hours. The authorities should take cognizance of this fact and expedite steps to bring the link road that connects both the ghat roads into use at least from Saturday. TTD Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy, member trustee Pokala Ashok kumar, JEOs Smt. Sada Bhargavi, Veerabrahmam, CVSO Gopinath Jatti, IIT expert K.S. Rao, Technical Advisor Ramachandra Reddy, Chief Engineer Nageswar Rao were prominent among others present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-repair-works-by-december-end-ttd-chief-tells-officials/article37834724.ece
04 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Facility to reschedule darshan||The TTD has opened the re-scheduling of darshan facility for devotees. According to Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy, pilgrims who could not visit Tirumala owing to rains between November 18 and December 10 despite possessing tickets can choose any date in next six months and come for darshan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/facility-to-reschedule-darshan/article37834738.ece
04 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM felicitates good Samaritans||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday felicitated the good Samaritans who had saved many lives during the recent flash floods that wrought havoc in the district. During his visit to the flood-hit areas near Tirupati, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy felicitated those who had risked their lives by getting into the swollen Swarnamukhi river, near Padipeta village in Chandragiri constituency, to rescue 30 persons caught in the swirling waters. Police constable of Tiruchanur Prasad, AFCONS project manager Ranga Swamy, and Padipeta residents S. Srinivasulu Reddy, A. Reddeppa, and T. Madhu were among those who had joined hands to save many lives. The Chief Minister appreciated them for their commendable role in reaching out to those in distress. He also visited Sri Krishna Nagar in Tirupati West that got submerged when water was released from the water bodies upstream. Accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, Ministers P. Ramachandra Reddy and M. Goutham Reddy, MPs M. Gurumoorthy (Tirupati) and P.V. Midhun Reddy (Rajampet), and Zilla Parishad Chairman G. Srinivasulu, the Chief Minister watched a photo exhibition of damages caused , and sought a report on the damage estimate from the respective officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-lauds-good-samaritans/article37834220.ece
04 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||National award for founder of Navajeevan Blind Relief Centre||K. Sridhar Acharya, the founder president of Navajeevan Blind Relief Centre, Tirupati, received the ‘National award for the empowerment of persons with disabilities (Divyangjan)’ for the year 2020 from President Ram Nath Kovind at New Delhi on Friday. The award comes in recognition of Mr. Acharya’s 44 years of selfless service to the cause of the visually-challenged people across the country. Started as Navajeevan Blind Relief Centre, it expanded into several charitable institutions like Navajeevan eye hospital, orphan home, home for senior citizens, Veda Patashala, Goshala, that also started handling self employment schemes and hunger elimination programmes under ‘Navajeevan Annalakshmi Pathakam’ in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Odisha. The ex-serviceman turned benefactor also conducted widow re-marriages. He believed imparting education will help in the empowerment of the visually- challenged persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/navajeevan-founder-bags-national-award/article37834728.ece
04 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SPMVV, TANA to promote Telugu culture in U.S.||Sri Padmavati Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Telugu Association of North America (TANA) for promoting Telugu culture and tradition, especially in the fields of literature, music and dance in the USA. At a meeting on ‘Strengthening of educational and cultural ties between USA and India’ organised at the university here on Friday, Vice-Chancellor Jamuna Duvvuru exchanged copies of the pact with TANA president Lavu Anjaiah Choudhary. Prof. Jamuna said the pact would enable the varsity conduct courses in music and dance for international students. “We will explore the opportunities towards further expansion of courses in other disciplines, TANA support for international students for internships in SPMVV and extending expertise of TANA members to the university,” she said. She later handed over course completion and marks certificates to the international students of advanced diploma in music and dance, which were received by Mr. Choudhary. Explaining the services rendered through four wings of TANA to carter to the needs of Telugu people in the USA in times of emergency, Mr. Choudhary interacted with students and assured them that TANA would extend moral and psychological support to Telugus in times of distress. TANA Prapancha Sahitya Vedika convener Chigurumalla Srinivas delivered a motivational talk, with his poetry adding extra flavour to the event. Under TANA’s prestigious programme titled ‘Pustaka Mahodyamam’, books were distributed to the students to inculcate passion for reading in them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spmvv-tana-ink-pact-to-promote-telugu-culture/article37834726.ece
04 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spiralling whitefly infestation makes a comeback in State||The infestation of Rugose Spiralling Whitefly (RSW) that gave a hard time to the coconut, oil palm, banana growers in the State in 2020 made a comeback again in September this year. Scientists, who took the infestation, say that the severity showed a downward trend in December 2019 and was nearly controlled the following year. According to information, the infestation has been reported in Nellore, East and West Godavari districts. Mango Research Station (MRS) principal scientist B. Kanaka Mahalakshmi says that efforts are on to create awareness on the controlling measures among the farmers. “Controlling measures by one or two farmers will not yield the desired results. The farmers in an entire village or area where the infestation has been identified have to take up the measures,” she says. The Rugose Spiralling Whitefly infestation was first reported in the nursery gardens at Kadiyam of East Godavari district during late December 2016. The pest may have come to the State through infested coconut seedlings obtained from Kerala. However, its incidence and severity reduced subsequently, the scientists say. They advocate bio-control measures to deal with the infestation eficiently. “Spraying of Isaria Fumosorosea, a bio-pesticide fungus, with high jet sprayers in an interval of 10 to 15 days when temperature is not high can yield good results. The spraying operations should be done early in the season as and when the infestation is idenitifed. It can have more impact and arrest the infestation,” says B.V. Chalapathi Rao of the Horticultural Research Station (HRS) at Amabajipeta. Bio-agent multiplication units Andhra Pradesh Agriculture Mission Vice-Chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy says that the problem has been brought to the notice of the government. “It has been suggested to establish bio-agent multiplication units under the schemes sponsered by the Centre such as Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojna - Remunerative Approaches for Agriculture and Allied Sector Rejuvenation (RKVY-RAFTAAR) and supply bio-pesticide to farmers in sufficient quantities,” he says. Horticulture Department officials say that the infestation can affect the yield by 15% to 20%. As part of the measures to control the infestation, the government has been supplying Isaria Fumosorosea to farmers, they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spiralling-whitefly-infestation-makes-a-comeback-in-state/article37834293.ece
04 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF 10th Battalion deploys 18 teams||Officials of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) 10th Battalion positioned 18 teams in the districts to be affected by Cyclone Jawad on Friday. “We have deployed our force with life-saving equipment such as boats, ropes, cutters, lifebuoys and other material. Instructions have been given to coordinate with the District Collectors, Joint Collectors, District Revenue Officers, Revenue Divisional Officers, Disaster Management and the police in the effected district,” said NDRF Commandant Zahid Khan. Eight teams headed by Deputy Commandant Akhilesh Kumar Chowbey were positioned in Visakhapatnam. Two teams were deployed in Vizianagaram under the supervision of Assistant Commandant D.N. Singh. Similarly, three teams were sent to Srikakulam district. Five teams were kept ready at the headquarters in Krishna district, Mr. Zahid Khan said. The NDRF teams visited the coastal villages in Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts, and alerted the villagers on heavy rains and strong gales forecast. “The teams visited the hamlets and asked the people not to stay in old and dilapidated houses. The force is monitoring the situation in the cyclone-affected mandals,” Mr. Zahid Khan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ndrf-10th-battalion-deploys-18-teams/article37834734.ece
04 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 children undergo free cardiac surgery at Andhra Hospitals||Thirty children have benefited from free heart surgeries performed at Andhra Hospitals with the support of actor Mahesh Babu and Healing Little Hearts, U.K., last week. A seven-member team of doctors from Alder Hey Children's Hospital, Liverpool; Royal Brompton Hospital, London; and John Radcliffe Hospital at Oxford, performed the complicated operations, P.V. Rama Rao, chief of children’s services at Andhra Hospitals, told mediapersons on Friday. The team comprised K. Vikram and Dileep from Andhra Hospitals and Ramana Dhannapuneni, Sukesh Mohta, Azza Kibeida, Kelly, Laura, Paola Lope and Victoria from the U.K. Dr. Rama Rao said the success rate was almost 100%, which was possible due to the team effort, and that the Andhra Hospitals’ children's heart institute had been successfully perofrming heart surgeries for the last six years. So far, 2,000 cardiac surgeries and interventions have been done, he said. Andhra Hospitals cardiac surgeon Dr. Srimannarayana, anesthetist Ramesh and paediatric cardiac intensivist Krishna Prasad were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30-children-undergo-free-cardiac-surgery-at-andhra-hospitals/article37834287.ece
04 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appointed members of AP Medical Council||The government has nominated G. Sudhakar, former professor of paediatrics at Kurnool, and Vijayawada-based psychiatrist Indla Rama Subba Reddy as individual members of the AP Medical Council for a period of five years, as per a G.O. issued by Principal Secretary (Medical, Health and Family Welfare) Anil Kumar Singhal on Dec. 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appointed-members-of-ap-medical-council/article37834289.ece
04 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meet on PRC yields no result||The Andhra Pradesh Civil Services Joint Staff Council meeting held at the Secretariat on Friday failed to break the deadlock over the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) report which, the Employees, Teachers and Workers’ Joint Action Committee (JAC) maintained was not all about fitment, and alleged that the Committee of Secretaries (CoS) did not even give an indication of the recommendations on a host of benefits due to them. Meanwhile, a statement from the CMO said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy assured the employees who met him in Tirupati that the PRC would be announced in 10 days. Addressing the media after the deliberations, JAC leaders Bandi Srinivasa Rao, Bopparaju Venkateswarlu, Venkatarami Reddy and others said they were not in a position to negotiate with the CoS as the PRC exercise continued to be shrouded in secrecy. The JAC leaders said the CoS did not have any information on the revised pay scales, annual increments, date from which monetary benefits were proposed to be paid, number of HRA slabs, demand to scrap CPS, hike in CCA, loans and advances, leave and medical benefits, special pays, gratuity, family pension, and 12 types of allowances, including TA and LTA, but they expected the JAC to discuss the issues raised by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/meet-on-prc-yields-no-result/article37834735.ece
04 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR cancels 40 trains||The South Central Railway cancelled 40 trains on Friday and Saturday following the threat posed by Cyclone Jawad. The cancelled trains with their numbers in brackets are as follows: Bhubaneswar - Rameswaram (20896); Howrah - Secunderabad (12703); Puri - Yesvantpur (22883); Howrah - Yesvantpur (12245); Bhubaneswar - Mumbai CSTM (11020); Purulia - Villupuram (22605); Puri - Tirupati (17479); Howrah - Hyderabad (18045); Howrah - Chennai Central (12841); Howrah - Mysuru (22817); Satragachi - Chennai Central (22807); Howrah - Yesvantpur (12863); Howrah - Chenna Central (12839); Patna - Ernakulam (22644); Silchar - Trivandrum (12508); Bhubaneswar - KSR Bengaluru City (18463); Bhubaneswar - Secunderabad (17015); Rayagada - Guntur (17244); Sambalpur - H.S. Nanded (20809); Dhanbad - Alappuzha (13351); Tata - Yesvantpur (12889); and Hatia - Bengaluru Cantt (18637). About 19 trains in the return direction were also cancelled, said SCR CPRO Ch. Rakesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-cancels-40-trains/article37834740.ece
04 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Minister's statement on Annamayya project baseless’||Water Resources Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav has asserted that the Annamayya project breached due to a flash flood which its gates could not withstand. ‘Facts suppressed’ Referring to a statement by Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on the damage to the project, Mr. Kumar pointed out that he (Mr. Shekhawat) should not forget that at least 150 people died in a similar incident in Uttarakhand when a dam burst in February this year, but the facts were suppressed. Massive flow Speaking to mediapersons on Friday, Mr. Kumar said the 5th gate of Annamayya project had opened and it had the capacity to let out 40,000 cusecs of water, but it received a massive flow of three lakh cusecs. Therefore, the project gave way to the deluge. False propaganda Mr. Shekhawat's statement in Parliament was baseless. Apparently, BJP MPs C.M. Ramesh and Y.S. Chowdary were behind the false propaganda, Mr. Anil Kumar alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ministers-statement-on-annamayya-project-baseless/article37834830.ece
04 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District braces as another cyclone comes calling||The district administration has declared holidays for all schools from Friday afternoon till Saturday in view of the heavy rainfall warning under the influence of Cyclone Jawad. In a release issued on Friday morning, District Collector A. Mallikarjuna instructed the Education Department officials to close the schools after lunch on Friday. Anticipating heavy rainfall, the district police have also been requesting tourists as well as locals not to travel on ghat roads due to the risk of landslides, uprooted trees, or water overflowing on to the roads. It may be remembered that the ghat road between Kasipatnam and Araku was inundated in rains during Cyclone Gulab in September this year. Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) officials have also requested people not to visit any waterfalls and to not venture into the streams. Police teams are also visiting several coastal villages in Visakhapatnam district and informing people about the cyclonic storm. Announcements are being made over loudspeakers requesting people not to venture out during the rains, as there is a possibility of flooding in some areas. Water levels at a few reservoirs and canals are also being monitored. Mr. Mallikarjuna has instructed officials to keep monitoring the levels of the seven reservoirs. Following instructions from the Collector, the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) officials have announced that the zoo would remain closed for visitors from December 3 to 5 as a precautionary measure. IGZP Curator Nandani Salaria asked visitors not to visit the zoo and said that all measures are being taken to protect the animals. NDRF teams have been deputed at Kailasagiri, Madhurawada and Gajuwaka areas. Rehabilitation centres have been set up at several places to shift people in case of any need. ENC on alert Thirteen flood relief teams (FRTs) and four diving teams of the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) have been kept on standby to be deployed for assisting in rescue and relief operations. Three FRT and two diving teams have been dispatched to Odisha from Visakhapatnam to augment the existing resources. Four ships are on standby with humanitarian assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR), diving, and medical teams to render assistance in the most affected areas along the Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts. Naval aircraft have been readied at the Naval Air Stations, INS Dega at Visakhapatnam and INS Rajali near Chennai to undertake aerial surveys of the most affected areas, casualty evacuation, and airdrop of relief material as required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakhapatnam-braces-for-rain-fury-yet-again/article37834732.ece
04 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plenty to choose from at Organic Mela||Farm-grown fresh vegetables, cooking oils, homemade organic snacks, assorted millets, and a variety of saplings and dry fruits can be found at the three-day Visakha Organic Mela which began here at the AS Raja Grounds in MVP Colony on Friday. The programme, being organised by the Gau Aadharitha Prakruthi Vyavasayadarula Sangham, was inaugurated by NABARD Chairman Ch. Govinda Rajulu. Former CBI Joint Director V.V. Lakshminarayana and members of various farmers association attended the programme. As many as 102 different stalls were set up by entrepreneurs and farmers at the mela, apart from several food stalls. While most of the stalls were from various parts of Visakhapatnam, several organic farmers have come from Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, Vijayawada, Guntur and Hyderabad as well. The stall owners explained to visitors how food habits and a sedentary lifestyle affect one’s health, and the advantages of following a traditional healthy lifestyle and good food habits. There was good demand for food groceries at several stalls. Vanil Organic Food Groceries, from Vizianagaram, sold snack varieties including millet-based, fruit-based, seed and nut-based, and coconut-based foods. The stall owners said that they have brought snacks ranging from Rs. 2 to Rs. 200. City-based ‘Nature’s Wealth’ was offering millets, organic pulses, traditional pickles, spice powders, organic desi rice varities, pooja essentials, and hair and skin products. Vijayawada-based 'Soorya Naturals' saw good demand for eatables and spice powders used in kitchen and general items. Sabbavaram-based 'Jagruthi' team sold pesticide-free organic vegetables. Organic farmers from Venkataramannagudem of West Godavari are selling strawberry jams prepared from strawberries grown in Lambasingi in Visakhapatnam Agency. A number of stalls were set up to suggest ideas for farming or taking up terrace garden development. The entrepreneurs are also selling seeds, types of pesticide-free liquids for growing vegetables. Vizianagaram-based Sri Prathima Biotech offered a hamper/kit which includes seeds and powders to develop terrace gardens. Several entrepreneurs are selling soaps, oils, dry fruits, natural health products, vegetable plants, pain oils, and tea powders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plenty-to-choose-from-at-organic-mela/article37834839.ece
04 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Presidential Fleet Review in February||If there is no major threat from the new mutant Coronavirus Omicron, the Eastern Naval Command will host the Presidential Fleet Review (PFR) and Milan as per the schedule in February 2022. Addressing the annual press conference on the eve of the Navy Day, here on Friday, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Eastern Naval Command Biswajit Dasgupta said this would be the second PFR being hosted by the ENC, scheduled for February 21, 2022. A flotilla of about 50 ships, comprising those from the Indian Navy, the Indian Coast Guard and merchant vessels would participate in the fleet review. This apart, about 50 naval aircraft would perform a flypast for the President. Last time the PFR was held by the ENC was in 2006, when Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam was President. Speaking about Milan, Vice Admiral Dasgupta said it would begin on February 25 and invitations had been sent to about 45 friendly foreign navies, and over 20 had confirmed their participation. The exercise would have a number of components, including a city march on the Beach Road, followed by on-sea exercises. Stalls woud be set up and there was a plan to host a defence expo during the meet, he said. Referring to a question on whether invitations had been sent to Pakistan and China, he said ‘No’. Navy Day is celebrated on December 4 every year to commemorate the decisive victory at sea in the 1971 conflict. But for the second year on the trot, this year also the week-long celebrations would be low key, keeping the COVID-19 pandemic in mind. “We will not have any operations demo, as done every year at RK Beach, and the illumination of ships will be decided based on the weather conditions with the impending threat of Cyclone Jawad,” the ENC chief said. Vice Admiral Dasgupta pointed out that despite the ongoing pandemic, ENC had been maintaining its operational capability and readiness and had actively participated in a number of HADR (Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief) operations. “We have not only jumped into action to save lives and provide assistance during natural calamities along the coast on the eastern seaboard, but ships from ENC had played a major role in the Samudra Setu operation to evacuate people from other countries after COVID pandemic hit the world. Our ships also assisted the government in bringing in relief material,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/presidential-fleet-review-in-february/article37834743.ece
04 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eastern fleet will soon have its own ‘Carrier Battle Group’: ENC chief||The day is not far when the Eastern Fleet, headquartered at the Eastern Naval Command in Visakhapatnam, will boast a Carrier Battle Group of its own, once the indigenously-built aircraft carrier INS Vikrant is commissioned into the Indian Navy. Hinting that the aircraft carrier was undergoing rigorous sea trials, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Eastern Naval Command Vice Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta said that once all the trials were over, INS Vikrant would be based in Viskhapatnam. And efforts were on to ensure that it was commissioned during August 2022, to commemorate the valedictory of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. After induction, the aircraft carrier may be based in the Western Command for about a year, as a certain infrastructure facility was getting ready here. “But once ready and the ship comes here, we shall have a ‘carrier battle group’ on the eastern seaboard,” he said. On the capability enhancement of the Eeastern Fleet, Vice Admiral Dasgupta said the three Delhi-class guided missile destroyers INS Delhi , INS Mysore and INS Mumbai , would be re-based in Visakhapatnam from the Western Command. “ INS Mysore is already here and is undergoing a refit, the other two destroyers are likely to be here by the Presidential Fleet Review, which is scheduled for February 21, 2022,” he said. This apart, the seven Nilgiri-class stealth guided missile frigates under Project 17 Alpha, being built at Mazagon, Mumbai, and at Garden Reach, Kolkata, would be part of the Eastern Naval Command,Vice Admiral Dasgupta said. Five anti-submarine warfare (ASW) shallow water crafts were also under construction. MiG29 K squadron Speaking about enhancement of air assets on the eastern seaboard, Vice Admiral Dasgupta said that the MiG29K, which is part of the air assortment onboard INS Vikrant , would have a squadron in Visakhapatnam. “It is on the cards, but held back momentarily due to some technical issue,” he said. Apart from the MIG29K squadron, the Navy is acquiring four more P8I aircraft in addition to the existing fleet of eight. “All the aircraft will be based at Arakkonam and this will enhance our long-range anti-submarine warfare (ASW), anti-surface warfare (ASuW), and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) capabilities,” the ENC chief said. “We are working to induct more long range UAVs, and have already inducted two for which tests are on to evaluate its performance. Moreover, our Kamov helicopter fleet is undergoing midlife upgrade in Russia and will soon be inducted back to enhance our ASW capabilities,” he said. He expressed happiness over the performance of HAL-built Advance Light Helicopters and said that by 2024, the ENC would have a couple of MH60 R (Romeos) helicopters that were being procured from the U.S. He said he was satisfied with the progress of the Naval Alternate Operations Base that was coming up at Rambilli in Visakhapatnam. It should have been ready by now, but due to technical reasons it had been delayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eastern-fleet-to-have-carrier-battle-group/article37834265.ece
04 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railways raises guard, sets up control room||The Waltair Division of the East Coast Railway (ECoR) has heightened preparedness to face possible exigencies due to the impending Cyclone Jawad. Railway officials are working in close coordination with the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), A.P. State Disaster Response Force( APSDRF), Fire Services Department and the district administration to ensure swift rescue and relief operations. More than 95 trains running over Waltair Division and East Coast Railway were cancelled in view of the cyclone threat for the safety of passengers. An emergency control room has been set up which will be in constant touch with railway stations over the Division and adjacent Divisions. To monitor and plan for any contingency, the divisions and zones would be in constant touch with the respective State governments.  Emergency Response Teams like Medical Relief Vans, Accident Relief Trains and Tower Wagons have been put on high alert and readiness to meet any eventuality. Intensive patrolling of vulnerable sections and locations was carried out. All vulnerable areas like bridges are being constantly monitored by the engineering wings and relief material has been kept ready for quick response. Sufficient stock of essential commodities, water and packed food items has been kept at stations in the affected region. A Disaster Management Cell was opened on Friday afternoon and help desks are also being operated at major stations to guide and help passengers in case of emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/railways-gears-up-for-cyclone-jawad/article37834730.ece
04 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga training at AU||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness (Yoga Village), Andhra University is conducting a ‘100 days Yoga Training Course’ from December 13 at Yoga Village. The timings for the programme are 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. Interested candidates may contact yoga instructor P. Pratap on 9985752215 or 9398019922.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yoga-training-at-au/article37834844.ece
04 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Build ramps for benefit of differently-abled: Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Friday said that the State Government has been providing all support and encouragement to the differently-abled persons to enable them to excel in various fields. The Minister was addressing a programme organised as part of ‘World Disability Day’ by the district administration at the VMRDA Children’s Arena in the city on Friday. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has introduced volunteer system using which pensions are being given to the beneficiaries right at their doorstep. Differently-abled persons are being benefited the most under this system, he said. The Minister also instructed the officials to construct ramps wherever necessary for the benefit of the physically challenged. Awards given away Cultural performances given by differently-abled children from different schools, NGOs and associations entertained the gathering. The Minister gave away awards to the differently-abled children who excelled in various competitions organised as part of the programme. Mr. Srinivasa Rao also distributed laptops among a few students. Deputy Mayor J. Sridhar and District Education Officer (DEO) Chandrakala attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/build-ramps-for-benefit-of-differently-abled-minister/article37834846.ece
04 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||EPDCL officials to keep a close eye on storm’s path||In view of the heavy rainfall alert under the impact of Cyclone Jawad, officials of EPDCL held a preparedness meeting on Friday. Senior officers and directors from various departments were appointed to monitor the operations in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and East Godavari districts. According to officials, control rooms were up at corporate offices, circle offices and divisional offices in all the four districts. Around 300 batches with a manpower of 4,000 were stationed for relief works. Each batch will be headed by one Line Inspector and contains workers and one supervisor along with vehicles. In every division, batches have been arranged with power saws and gas cutters for tree clearing works and for iron material fabrication. About 30 wireless sets with full charging are available with the staff. Officials said that the emergency materials like crimping tools, chain pulley blocks, ladders, tong testers, rain coats, helmets, and other kits were kept ready.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/epdcl-to-keep-close-eye-on-storm/article37834296.ece
04 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway Hospital does 100th knee replacement||The Divisional Railway Hospital-Waltair completed its 100th knee replacement surgery recently. No post-operative complications The first joint replacement surgery was done at the 134-bedded hospital on August 12, 2012, and by 2016, 25 knee replacements were completed at the hospital which is located in Dondaparthy in the city. The team, comprising Dr. A Gopi Krishna, honorary visiting surgeon (orthopaedics), Dr. M. Mahesh Kumar, Senior Divisional Medical Officer/Anaesthesia, and Dr. T. Mahendra, Divisional Medical Officer/Orthopaedics, under the guidance of Dr. M. K Ramakrishna, Chief Medical Superintendent, performed the 100th knee replacement successfully without any post-operative complications. Congratulating the medical team, Divisional Railway Manger Anup Satpathy said that this was a matter of pride for the Divisional Railway Hospital to perform such complicated surgeries with the available resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-railway-hospital-does-100th-knee-replacement/article37834295.ece
04 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM speaks to Collector||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy took stock of the measures being taken by the district administration on Friday. In a video-conference from Tadepalli with Collector A. Mallikarjuna, the Chief Minister asked him to shift people living in low-lying areas to rehabilitation centres. He also instructed officials to provide all the required facilities at the centres. The water levels in the reservoirs have to be monitored from time to time, he said. Dr. Mallikarjuna informed Mr. Jagan that 89 rehabilitation centres, including 47 under GVMC, were set up in the district. Special Officer J. Syamala Rao, Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha and GVMC Commissioner G. Lakshmisha attended the video-conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-speaks-to-collector/article37834848.ece
04 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Several trains cancelled||Several trains have been cancelled in view of Cyclone Jawad, the Railways said on Friday. The following trains, leaving their originating station on December 4, stand cancelled: 18551 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul and 18552 Kirandul-Visakhapatnam, 22879 Bhubaneswar-Tirupati express, 12703 Howrah-Secunderabad Express, 12245 Howrah-Yesvantpur, 11020 Bhubaneswar-CST Mumbai Konark Express, 20889 Howrah-Tirupati, 12842 MGR Chennai Central-Howrah, 18046 Hyderabad-Howrah, 15906 Dibrugarh-Kanyakumari, 12703 Howrah-Secunderabad, 18417 Puri-Gunupur, 12843 Puri-Ahmedabad, 12551 Yesvantapur-Kamakhya, 12864 Yesvantapur-Howarh, 12553 Yesvantapur-Bhagalpur and 12666 Kanyakumari-Howrah. The trains cancelled on December 5 are 22880 Tirupati-Bhubaneswar and 20890 Tirupati-Howrah. The trains cancelled on December 6 are: 12510 Guwahati-Bangalore Cantt and 02984 Agartala-Bangalore Cantt. Train 12510 Guwahati – Bangalore Cantt is cancelled on December 7 at its originating station. A release issued by the Waltair Division requested passengers to bear with the inconvenience. Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy said that Waltair Division was fully prepared with all the required equipment and manpower to deal with any exigency in the aftermath of the cyclone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/several-trains-cancelled/article37834842.ece
04 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 COVID-19 cases reported in district||The district has recorded 12 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Friday morning, according to a bulletin released by the Health Department of the district administration on Friday. As many as 59 persons undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered during the same period, the bulletin said. With the new cases, the overall COVID-19 tally rose to 1,58,980. The number of recoveries also increased to 1,57,525. The death toll remained unchanged at 1,103 as no COVID-19 death was reported in the last 24 hours. The active caseload has further declined to 352.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/12-covid-19-cases-reported-in-district/article37834845.ece
04 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Standing Committee meeting held||The Standing Committee meeting of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) council was organised here on Friday. Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari and Commissioner G. Lakshmisha attended the programme. A 26-point agenda was brought before the standing committee. Of them, 25 were approved, while one was kept pending for lack of complete information. GVMC Additional Commissioners and other officials attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/standing-committee-meeting-held/article37834847.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wardrobe essentials||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wear-it-keep-virus-at-bay/article37834833.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Livelihood concerns||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/livelihood-concerns/article37834745.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL urges unions to withdraw strike||The management of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd. (SCCL) has appealed to trade unions to withdraw their strike call from December 9 to 11 stating that it would result in financial loss not only to the company but also to workers and their families. In a meeting with the representatives of six workers’ unions, including Telangana Boggugani Karmika Sangham, AITUC, INTUC, HMS, CITU and BMS on Friday, directors of the company explained to them that privatisation of coal blocks was a policy decision of the Union Government and suggested them to fight against it in alternative ways, as striking work would badly impact production and despatch of coal. The directors also explained to the trade unions the efforts made by the company management to prevent the privatisation of four coal blocks in Singareni area. Stating that allocation of coal blocks was a policy decision taken by the Centre, they said it was not a matter involving just Singareni or Telangana but the entire country. The representatives of the trade unions stated that the very existence of SCCL would be forced into uncertainty with the privatisation of four coal blocks in its area and it would also have an impact on employment opportunities. They mentioned that farmers’ agitations had forced the Centre to withdraw the three farm laws and with the same resolve, they would protect the coal blocks from privatisation. Even if the Centre puts the coal blocks in Singareni area to auction, the workers’ unions would jointly oppose and block the operations in those blocks. Their fight was against allowing others take up mining in Singareni area and they would form a delegation to meet and explain the issue to the CM, Coal Minister and Prime Minister. They reminded the directors that it was with an united fight that they had brought back the company into profits when it went before the Board of Industrial Finance and Restructure (BIFR). They stated that the management would support alternative ways of protest without affecting the company’s operations and appealed them not to strike keeping in mind workers’ future and Telangana’s development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-urges-unions-to-withdraw-strike/article37834581.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||State logs close to 200 cases, 9 from ‘at risk’ countries positive||Maintaining the increasing trend in the COVID-19 cases, the State recorded 198 new infections on Friday, taking the total to 6,76,574. Two deaths were also reported, pushing up the death toll to 3,997 so far. On Friday, a total of 39,140 samples were tested for COVID-19 infection and reports of 1,325 samples were still awaited. Air passengers The bulletin stated that 219 passengers had arrived at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport here from “at risk” countries and on screening them, nine were found positive. Four more from other countries have also tested positive. All 13 samples of those tested positive were sent for genome sequencing to check for Omicron variant. Of the 198 cases reported on Friday, 82 were from GHMC area, 18 from Rangareddy, 15 from Sangareddy, 11 from Hanmakonda, nine from Medchal-Malkajgiri, eight each from Jagtial and Karimnagar and seven each from Khammam and Siddipet. Not a single positive case was reported from as many as seven districts. According to a bulletin issued by the Directorate of Health, 153 infected persons were declared recovered during the day taking their total to 6,68,854 so far. The case fatality rate has been put at 0.59% and recovery rate at 98.88%. On the status of vaccination, the bulletin said 2,76,319 doses were administered to eligible persons on Friday. In all, 3,84,96,415 doses have been given since the launch of vaccination drive in January. Of those, 1,32,16,137 persons have taken both doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-logs-close-to-200-new-cases-9-from-at-risk-nations-positive/article37834560.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Core city too has dog menace||Packs of stray dogs menacingly roaming the streets is no strange news in Hyderabad, where canine attacks and bite are regularly reported from several localities, especially from city fringes. The latest evidence is that even high-profile localities in the core city are not exempt from stray dogs, despite GHMC’s claims about successful sterilisation programme. Mother-dogs with pups in tow can be found even around the Chief Minister’s camp office, while they are in high numbers in fringe localities such as Hayatnagar and Mansurabad. Increased number of stray dogs are being reported from localities such as Necklace Road, Domalguda, Punjagutta, Banjara Hills, Begumpet, Nampally, and several other areas. “I was walking on the road near the CM camp office, when suddenly four-five dogs crossed my path, barking at one another. My first reaction was panic, as I had never encountered so many dogs,” said Smriti Jha, a HR professional staying at Begumpet. Packs of dogs could be seen on the Necklace Road and NTR Marg too, spots thronged by visitors during evenings and weekends. Over a year ago, GHMC had embarked upon a massive ABC-ARV (Animal Birth Control and Anti Rabies Vaccination) programme in city with a target of sterilising and inoculating a total 2.5 lakh stray dogs in a year. Officials claim that they could reach their targets, which means that over 50-55 per cent of the total 4.7 lakh dogs in the city have been sterilised and/or jabbed. However, as per official claims, not all localities have received equal attention. In Serilingampally Zone, the IT hub, all the circles have been covered including Serilingampally, Chandanagar, Patancheru/Ramachandrapuram, and Yusufguda, while only a circle or two have been covered in the rest of the city. Two circles, Qutbullahpur and Alwal in Kukatpally zone, Kapra in LB Nagar, Mehdipatnam in Khairatabad and Malakpet in Charminar zone are the only other circles covered in the drive. “All the sterilised dogs are given an earmarking for easy recognition. We vaccinate such dogs. If not earmarked, we pick them up for sterilisation,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/core-city-too-has-dog-menace/article37834573.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Decks cleared for power plant expansion||Decks have been cleared for expansion of the 19.8 megawatt capacity refuse derived fuel (RDF)-based waste-to-energy power plant at Jawaharnagar here to 48 MW with an expert appraisal committee of the Ministry of Environment and Forests recommending environmental clearance to the proposal. While recommending the proposal for EC, the expert panel has specified several conditions to safeguard environment. The expansion of the project is set to be taken up at its existing site of 31.5 acres out of 351.12 acres of the Integrated Solid Waste Management Project by Hyderabad MSW Energy Solutions P. Ltd, a subsidiary of Ramky Enviro Engineers Ltd. During the course of operation of the existing 19.8 MW plant the generation potential has been found to be peak up to 24 MW. Accordingly, it is being planned to augment the capacity to 24 MW without any additional use of water, fuel and without causing any additional impact of any kind and to construct another 24 MW waste to energy module adjacent to the plant in operation. The proposed expansion consists of two steam generators cable to burn 600 tonnes per day (TPD) segregated municipal solid waste (MSW) in each boiler with super heater steam outlet and two extraction-cum-condensing turbo generators. The power generated would be evacuated by TS-Transco. The expert appraisal panel has laid down certain conditions for recommending EC for expansion of the project inclding development of a green belt with Miyawaki plantation (three-row plantation) along the plant boundary with plant species having more than 90% survival rate and that one-third of the project area is kept under green cover. Epidemiological study Further, the expert committee has stipulated carrying out epidemiological study among population within 5 km radius of the project every two years and taking necessary measures in tune with the findings of the study including mitigation of malnutrition of 6.67% (current level) in the surrounding areas of the project. Establishment of a 24×7 online monitoring system for ambient air quality by linking it with the State and Central Pollution Control Boards, provision of sludge disposal system, proper handling of leachate and fly ash, monitoring of surface and groundwater quality on regular basis and others are among the conditions stipulated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/decks-cleared-for-power-plant-expansion/article37834771.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Goyal: Central team found variation in paddy records||Food and Public Distribution Minister Piyush Goyal informed the Rajya Sabha on Friday in response to a question raised by TRS MP K. Keshava Rao that a Central team had carried out physical inspection of paddy procurement in the State and found variation in records relating to the process. There was mismatch between projections of supplies to the FCI made by the State government and the actuals. In kharif of 2020-21, the targeted supply was 50 lakh tonnes but it gave only 32.66 lakh tonnes. In rabi for the same period, the agreement was to supply 24 lakh tonnes of boiled rice, which was subsequently raised to 44 lakh tonnes. But, the government has so far given only 27 lakh tonnes and another 17 lakh tonnes were still pending. Mr. Goyal said that the government had furnished a letter on October 4 assuring that it will not send boiled rice to FCI under any circumstances in future. The letter was in response to the Centre’s insistence that it will not buy boiled rice in future after 2020-21. The Centre agreed to lift 44 lakh tonnes of boiled rice for that year in rabi as a one time relief to the State at its request. If some more quantity of boiled rice was left in the State after 44 lakh tonnes was exhausted, the Centre agreed to purchase even that for the specific year. But, now the government was creating ruckus talking about future. The Centre had extended the deadline for supply of rice to FCI for 2020-21 by five times, yet the 17 lakh tonnes remained to be sent. Instead of meeting the target for kharif as finalised for 2021-22, the government was now doing nothing but politics by again raising the demand for boiled rice. The Minister expressed dismay that the State government created politics in the matter of rice procurement. The Centre was carrying on procurement for decades and there was nothing new to the process. He said the Centre’s decision to buy entire quantity of rice generated in the State only in kharif was also conveyed to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao when they met personally. As elsewhere in the country, the procurement of rice in Telangana was also increased every year. The procurement went up from 51.9 lakh tonnes in 2018-19 to 74 lakh tonnes in 2019-20 and 94 lakh tonnes in 2020-21. He recalled that the Centre had not rejected a single request of State in the matter of rice procurement in the past. Not satisfied by this reply, the TRS staged a walkout in the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/goyal-central-team-found-discrepancies-in-paddy-stocks/article37834584.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS among States with lowest COVID case fatality rate||Telangana has been placed among States with the lowest case fatality rate due to COVID-19. Case fatality rate, defined as number of deaths as a percentage of identified/ diagnosed cases, in Telangana is pegged at 0.6%. It is the lowest after Mizoram at 0.4% and Arunachal Pradesh at 0.5%. The Reserve Bank of India’s handbook “State Finances: A study of budgets 2021-22” outlined the state/union territory-wise COVID-19 impact and vaccination progress as on October 31. Accordingly, Telangana with 46% of its 3.7 crore population residing in urban areas reported 1,779 cases per one lakh population. Incidence of the pandemic in rural areas was less severe going by the quantum of cases per one lakh population. Deaths per one lakh population was pegged at 10 and vaccine doses administered per one lakh population stood at 85,538. Cases per one lakh population in the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh stood at 3,915 and deaths per one lakh were 27 with case fatality rate being 0.7%. The share of fully-vaccinated population was 26% as of October 31 as compared with that of 39% in Andhra Pradesh. The number of people having taken both doses of the vaccine is expected to go up significantly as the government has launched a special drive to cover the entire population before the year-end. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has been personally monitoring the progress of vaccination drive at the district and mandal levels. He visited Adilabad on Friday to review the progress in the north Telangana States. Mr. Somesh Kumar also visited Mahbubnagar district where he reviewed the vaccination status of adjoining districts including Gadwal, Narayanpet and Wanaparthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-among-states-with-lowest-covid-case-fatality-rate/article37834566.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kothagudem-Sathupalli rail line by Feb.; SCCL clears share||Singareni Collieries Company Ltd. (SCCL) has handed over a cheque of Rs. 62.17 crore to South Central Railway for timely completion of the Kothagudem-Sathupalli railway line taking the total share of its investment for constructing the new line to Rs. 618.55 crore. The line is expected to be completed by February next. The new rail line would not only save costs for the coal company but would also be an environment-friendly measure as taking the coal produced in the Sathupalli area mines to Rudrampur coal handling plant (CHP), which is located 70 km away by lorries every day was causing dust and noise pollution to the habitations on the way. According to SCCL officials, about 30,000 tonnes of coal are being transported by road from mines to the CHP every day and the completion of 53 km long Sathupalli-Kothagudem line would bring down the transportation costs as well as pollution. The cheque was handed over to SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya here on Friday by Executive Director (Coal Movement) J. Allwyn, General Manager (Marketing) K. Suryanarayana and GM (Civil) Ramesh Babu. The SCCL officials requested SCR to complete the rail line at the earliest and help make coal transportation easy. The SCR GM assured of completing the work by February. By handing over the Rs. 62.17 crore cheque, the SCCL has paid the entire amount of its share for the rail line construction. Meanwhile, at a review meeting held on Friday over the performance of CHPs and machinery, particularly mechanised shovels, directors of the company S. Chandrasekhar, N. Balaram and D. Satyanarayana Rao said reaching production target of 70 million tonnes was possible only with the increased use of machinery. They suggested use of machinery from a maximum of 14 hours now to 18 hours a day. They wanted the officials to improve the removal of overburden to at least 2 lakh cubic meters every day with the help of mechanised shovels. The directors also had a meeting with the lorry transporters’ representatives and told them not to have any interruptions as the company had already changed the charges formula linked to the fluctuation of diesel prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kothagudem-sathupalli-rail-line-by-feb-sccl-clears-share/article37834579.ece
04 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Prashanth Kishore doesn’t understand Congress’ spirit’||Telangana Congress working president and Sangareddy legislator T. Jayaprakash Reddy has taken strong objection to Prashanth Kishore’s reference to Rahul Gandhi on Congress leadership, and said it reflects the pollster’s lack of understanding of the Congress party’s values and sacrifices of its leadership. At a press conference here on Friday, he said that Indians of all hues understand the Congress and the Gandhi family’s contribution to the party and the country and new political entrants like Prashanth Kishore fail to understand the Congress party’s spirit that is an inalienable part of India’s political ethos. Mr. Jagga Reddy also said that the Congress is full of pollsters like Prashanth Kishore and the ‘experts’ need to understand it before commenting on the role of Congress and what it can do for the country. “Let him interact with real Congressmen and he will change his thinking,” he said. Targets Harish Rao Mr. Reddy said that Health Minister Harish Rao was engaged in camp politics for the local body MLC elections fearing the loyalty of TRS elected representatives. “At least they are respected by the party bigwigs, thanks to the Congress entering the fray. Or else the TRS top leadership wouldn’t even care the presence of the elected representatives,” he said. Mr. Reddy was confident that his wife and Congress candidate for Medak MLC elections, Nirmala Jagga Reddy, will secure more than the Congress strength of 230 members. “The very fact that TRS MPTCs, ZPTCs and municipal councillors have been sent on tours to neighbouring States is an indication of the fear we have instilled in them,” he claimed. The Congress leader also played an audio, reportedly of TRS Minster Koppula Eashwar, and claimed that he was threatening and offering money to vote for TRS candidates. “Will the Election Commission take action,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prashanth-kishore-doesnt-understand-cong-spirit/article37834586.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Consortium of national labs to upscale genome sequencing||A consortium of national laboratories across four city clusters of Bengaluru, Hyderabad, New Delhi and Pune performing genomic surveillance of coronavirus is in the process of upscaling the work as part of the national efforts led by Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), said top scientist Rakesh Mishra, the former director of Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) on Friday. Dr. Mishra, who is now the director of Tata Institute for Genetics and Society and is continuing to conduct research at his lab here, said the consortium is “continuously monitoring the situation in all the four cities and has upscaled its efforts to sequence as many samples as possible”. Apart from the CCMB and the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) in Bengaluru, the consortium includes CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in New Delhi, and the Pune Knowledge Cluster-Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, and CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory, also in Pune. Such an intensified effort enabled the NCBS, also a member-laboratory of INSACOG, in collaboration with the Strand Life Sciences and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike to detect, rapidly sequence and verify the existence of the Omicron variant in the samples collected from two coronavirus-infected individuals on Thursday. NCBS’s Satyajit Mayor conveyed the information to local and national authorities, and the Central government released a statement within four days of receiving the samples. Both the SARS-CoV-2 genomes have also been uploaded to the global repository for SARS-CoV-2 sequences, GISAID, so that they can be publicly available to the scientific community, he said. “This will aid in rapid response to contain the spread of variants of concern,” said Dr. Mishra. The consortium was established four months ago with support from The Rockefeller Foundation’s Pandemic Prevention Institute, and is led by the CCMB, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/consortium-of-national-labs-to-upscale-genome-sequencing/article37834562.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor calls for empowering persons with disabilities||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Friday called for the creation of enabling resources for the empowerment of persons with disabilities. She said it was important to ensure equal opportunities and access to facilities to persons with disabilities on a priority basis. Participating at an event at the National Institute for the Empowerment of Persons with Intellectual Disabilities (NIEPID), observing International Day of Persons with Disabilities, she stressed on the need to integrate divyang persons in everyday social, economical, political, and cultural spheres of life. She opined that better awareness on the issues and causes of intellectual disabilities will help reduce the incidence. Director of the NIEPID Major B.V. Ram Kumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-calls-for-empowering-persons-with-disabilities/article37834564.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Steps initiated to vaccinate all before month-end: CS||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has said that steps have been initiated to complete vaccination against COVID-19 in all districts under erstwhile Mahbubnagar district by administering 15 lakh doses before the month-end. The Chief Secretary, who visited Mahbubnagar district to review the progress of vaccination special drive with senior officials, directed them to prepare micro-level plans to reach the target. Officials concerned should identify places where the process was not up to expectation and ensure completion of vaccination by staying there, if need be. They should seek cooperation of the elected representatives wherever necessary and take steps to give publicity to the progress achieved on a daily basis, Mr Somesh Kumar said. The State government had decided to conduct special reviews at district level after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s instructions to expedite coverage of 100% people before the month end. He wanted Health officials to nominate special officers at mandal level to supervise the process. The list of villages under each sub centre should be prepared and steps should be taken to identify the number of people who were administered the second dose of the vaccine. Efforts should be made to constitute special teams for mobilising those who had not taken the vaccine so farwhile the vaccination teams should cover all villages taking assistance of panchayat secretaries, VROs, anganwadi workers and ASHAs. Special focus should be on primary health centres, sub-centres and villages where the rate of vaccine administration was low so that the teams could visit those places early during the day to cover those who were yet to take their first/second dose. Vaccination centres should be operated from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. daily, and steps should be taken to cover those attaining the age of 18 years in the coming days. There was no shortage of vaccine in the State, he informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/steps-initiated-for-100-vaccination-by-dec-end/article37834568.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Telangana did not apply for district medical colleges’ scheme’||The Central government has said that the Telangana government did not submit any proposals for new medical colleges under the Central government sponsored scheme for “Establishment of new medical colleges attached with existing district or referral hospitals”. ‘No proposal’ In response to a question raised by Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy in the Lok Sabha on Friday, Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Bharati Pravin Pawar informed that under phase-III of the scheme, all States were requested to submit proposals for consideration. However, no proposal has been received from Telangana for establishment of new medical college under this scheme. She further said that all l5 medical colleges approved under phase-III have already been allocated. Rs. 28.16 crore released She said that the AIIMS in Bibinagar was approved at Rs. 1,028 crore in December 2018 and the project is to be completed in 2024. Out of the approved cost, Rs. 28.16 crore has already been released. The Minister also said that MBBS classes commenced at AIIMS Bibinagar in 2019-20 academic year with an intake of 50 students and 62 students for the academic year 2020-21. For 2021-22, the institute will offer 100 MBBS seats. 35 medical colleges in TS There are 35 medical colleges in Telangana out of which 12 are in the government sector and 23 in private with an intake capacity of 5,240 MBBS seats and 2,231 PG seats, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-did-not-apply-for-district-medical-college-scheme/article37834588.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘No access to data of cancelled ration cards’||The Civil Supplies Department claimed to have no access to information of beneficiaries in their ePDS live data system once ration or food security cards of beneficiaries are cancelled, a response to a Right to Information request as revealed. The issue came light after activist S. Q. Masood sought information about the beneficiaries of public distribution of the Department so as to understand the rationale behind cancellation or deletion of what he said were lakhs of rations. Apart from maintaining that upon deletion of these cards, the officials do not have access to it under the ePDS live data, the department invoked Section 8 (1) (j) of the Right to Information Act, which exempts the government from sharing third party data. Hearing Mr Masood told The Hindu that the response of the Civil Supplies Department was received in March this year. Unsatisfied with the response, he moved the Telangana State Information Commission. A hearing was scheduled on November 18, in which he argued that certain stipulations, including Rule 23 of the Telangana Food Security Rules, 2017, which dealt with keeping records in public domain, enables providing such information to those who wish to access it. However, officers of the Civil Supplies Department maintained that the information sought pertains to third party information and continued to deny supplying the information. “I citied Rule 23 of the Telangana Food Security Rules, 2017 in support of providing information. Also, Section 4 (1) (b) (xii) of the RTI Act pertains to voluntary disclosure of information by the government, and includes how subsidies have been given and details of beneficiaries of these programmes. These are important stipulations to ensure transparency. The department officials said that the data is voluminous and they cannot access the information. We will have to wait for the order of the Hon’ble Information Commission,” he said. Mr Masood added that he is awaiting an order copy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-access-to-data-of-cancelled-ration-cards-activist-told/article37834575.ece
04 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Painter held for stealing gold from mother-in-law||A 29-year-old painter who stole over one kilogram of gold ornaments and Rs. 4 lakh from a Jogini’s house was arrested by Hyderabad police here on Friday. Announcing the arrest of Mandala Laxman from MK Nagar, Tarnaka, a native of Khanapur in Ranga Reddy district, Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said that the former was the husband of Jogini Rangamma’s (60) adopted daughter. Between November 23 and November 29 when Rangamma went to Varanasi on a pilgrimage, Laxman entered Rangamma’s house, turned off the CCTV cameras, broke open the locker and fled with the booty. After she returned from the pilgrimage, Rangamma noticed that the locker had been broken and the gold ornaments and some cash were missing. Soon, she approached Osmania University police and lodged a complaint, based on which a probe was launched and with the help of human intelligence, police apprehended Laxman near Arts Colleges Railway station. Laxman was addicted to vices and used to steal money from his mother-in-law’s house. “She has some ancestral property,” Joint Commissioner of Police (East Zone) M Ramesh said. He said the accused broke open the locker, using a drilling machine and screwdrivers, like a professional.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/painter-held-for-stealing-gold-from-mother-in-law/article37834772.ece
04 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man found dead||A security guard was found dead in his rented accommodation at Madhapur here on Friday. The victim, Himangshu Ray (29), migrated to the city from Assam in search of livelihood and living at Siddique Nagar. On Friday morning, he ended his life by hanging in the bathroom, due to financial problems and aversion to life, police said.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 in case of emotional breakdown at Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-found-dead/article37834773.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Decision on film ticket price hike soon: Minister||The State government will soon announce its decision on the proposal to hike cinema ticket fares, said Animal Husbandry and Cinematography Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav. He said the industry, which was among the largest employers, suffered immensely since the onset of COVID-19 pandemic. It was, however, on recovery mode since the coronavirus-related restrictions were eased. The Minister was speaking after a delegation from the film industry comprising producers and directors, including Dil Raju and S.S. Rajamouli, called on him on Friday. They elaborated on the problems faced by the industry on account of the steep escalation in production costs as well as spiralling rise in operation and maintenance charges that had plunged the industry into losses. Coupled with this was the impact of COVID-19 which had badly hit the film industry, they said, urging the government to take a decision on a hike in ticket prices at the earliest. Mr. Srinivas Yadav said the industry which faced a crisis like situation in the past two years was in recovery mode. Several big-budget films were on the anvil even as the effects of the pandemic were receding following initiatives taken by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao-led government. He responded positively to the request of the film industry representatives asserting that the government would conduct a study on the existing prices of film tickets in other States and take a decision that would not affect producers and exhibitors. He assured that the issue would be taken to the notice of the Chief Minister for a decision on the ticket price hike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/decision-on-film-ticket-price-hike-soon-minister/article37834567.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||E-auction fetches Rs. 475 cr. for HMDA||HMDA garnered over Rs. 333 crore on the second day of the online auction of plots in Uppal Bagayat layout, clocking sales worth Rs. 475 crore in the third edition of e-auctions pertaining to the layout. On Thursday, the urban development authority sold a total 23 plots to earn close to Rs. 142 crore revenue, registering the highest price so far in the bargain at Rs. 1,01,000 per square yard. Highest bid for the day was Rs. 72,000 per sq yd, while lowest was Rs. 36,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/e-auction-fetches-rs-475-cr-for-hmda/article37834577.ece
04 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Earmark 5% of Dalit Bandhu scheme for differently abled’||Five percent of the Dalit Bandhu scheme should be earmarked for the differently challenged Dalit community members, apart from providing 25% additional amount to them over an above the Rs. 10 lakh, said the Telangana Congress Physically Challenged department chief Muttineni Veeraiah. In an open letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao here, he said as per the Physically Challenged Rights Act of 2016 adopted by the government, 5% of all the schemes should be earmarked for the differently abled. So, the Dalits among these sections should get Rs. 12.50 lakh under the Dalit Bandhu scheme and the Chief Minister should immediately pass such an order officials, he said. Mr. Veeraiah said the CM has little respect for the differently abled as he never participated in the World Physically Day held every year on December 3. This is nothing but insulting these sections, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/earmark-5-dalit-bandhu-for-disabled/article37834587.ece
04 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Student found dead||A 17-year-old student was found dead at his house at Malaysian Township under KPHB Colony police station on Thursday. The victim, Rohith, younger son of Bhanoth Valya, a doctor at Gandhi Hospital, ended his life by hanging as he was allegedly stressed over his studies.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 in case of any emotional breakdown at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/student-found-dead/article37834576.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MLC polls: TRS complaint against Cong.||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has complained to the Election Commission (Chief Electoral Officer of Telangana) alleging that the Congress was resorting to corrupt practices in MLC elections for the Local Authorities Constituency (LAC) quota. In the complaint lodged with CEO Shashank Goel on Friday, TRS leaders M. Srinivas Reddy and Bharath alleged that Congress legislator Jagga Reddy was luring elected representatives of rural and urban local bodies, particularly MPTC and ZPTC members, by offering money and other monetary or personal benefits. They stated in the complaint that Mr. Jagga Reddy was getting paid news items published and offering Rs. 50,000 each to all voters for supporting K. Nirmala Reddy, his wife and the Congress candidate from Medak LAC. They even alleged that Congress was also organising camps for voters Assembly constituency wise in the erstwhile Medak district. The party was also offering Rs. 2 lakh each to all the 1,027 voters in the event of Ms. Nirmala Reddy winning the election in addition to a lavish trip. Stating that it was a case of brazen and open defiance of election process and violation of code, he requested the CEO to initiate immediate action against Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mlc-polls-trs-complaint-to-ec-against-congress/article37834578.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS MPs stage walkout from RS over paddy||The TRS raised the issue of paddy procurement by the Centre (Food Corporation of India) in Parliament on Friday and staged a walkout from the Rajya Sabha for not getting a satisfactory reply from the government. Raising the issue in Lok Sabha during the Zero Hour, party MP Nama Nageswara Rao sought to know from the government as to how much paddy would be procured by the Centre this year (2021-22) from Telangana as lack of clarity on the issue had pushed farmers into confusion and uncertainty. In Rajya Sabha, party MP K. Keshava Rao raised the issue and sought to know how much paddy the Centre was going to procure in Telangana this year. He stated that 94 lakh tonnes of rice was procured during 2020-21 and in spite of 60% increase in paddy extent during the kharif season this year, the Centre was not giving clarity on the quantity of procurement. Later, they staged a walkout for not getting a proper reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-mps-stage-walkout-from-rs/article37834582.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Asad opposes linking birth and death registration||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday said that he wrote to the Office of the Registrar General of India and opposed the amendments to the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, which seek to link registration of births and deaths to the population register. Taking to Twitter, Mr. Owaisi said, “Wrote to Office of Registrar General of India, Ministry of Home Affairs opposing the proposed amendments to link registration of births & deaths to #NPR, electoral rolls, passports, etc. It is a dangerous & illegal proposal that does not serve any public interest.” “By using data of registered births and deaths for updation of other databases, the government is proposing a grave and irreversible violation of the rule of law and the fundamental right to privacy,” Mr. Owaisi’s memorandum reads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/asad-opposes-linking-birth-and-death-registration/article37834589.ece
04 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Travel and tourism expo begins||The Yadadri temple being built at a cost of Rs. 1,400 crore will give a big boost to tourism in the State, said Minister for Tourism V. Srinivas Goud while inaugurating India International Travel Mart, a three-day expo on travel and tourism, at HITEX in the city on Friday. “The earlier rulers of the region ignored tourism but now with Ramappa and Pochamapally on the world map, Telangana gets its rightful place as a tourist destination,” said Mr. Goud, who also inspected the stalls put up by about 15 states apart from offerings by resorts and hotels. “The hospitality and tourism sector has been one of the worst-affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic and we are coming out of the slump. This event will show the way forward,” said a spokesperson of Federation of Telangana Chamber of Commerce in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/travel-and-tourism-expo-kicks-off/article37834571.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Youth held for harassment||A 19-year-old student from Jagtial was arrested and remanded in judicial custody, allegedly for sending out offensive messages to a girl and threatening to publicise her morphed pictures on Friday. P. Varun, who is pursuing a diploma, created fake profiles on Instagram, set pictures of unknown persons as profiles and harassed women after sending them invite, Rachakonda police said. In one case, it stated, the young man blackmailed a girl that he would morph her photos and upload them on dating websites. He even created a profile with the victim’s picture and sent friend requests to her family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-held-for-harassment/article37834768.ece
04 December 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||Auto driver arrested||An auto-rickshaw driver was arrested by Pahadishareef police on Friday for allegedly abducting and sexually harassing a four-year-old girl. As per acomplaint by the girl’s parents, on Thursday morning, when the child was not around the house, they found searching for her. She was traced at an isolated place near the residence with auto-rickshaw driver Ramesh. The parents stated that the girl had narrated the incident. Twenty-year-old Ramesh, a resident of Balapur, was booked for kidnapping and sexual harassment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/auto-driver-arrested/article37834769.ece
04 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||SCCL expedites efforts to scale up extraction||With just less than four months left in the current fiscal, the government-owned Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) has expedited its efforts to maximise the use of equipment for scaling up overburden removal and coal extraction, thereby achieving the overall annual coal output target of 680 lakh (68 million) tonnes by the end of March 31, 2022. The State-owned coal mining giant has set in motion an ambitious plan to produce 270 lakh tonnes of coal across all its mines in the remaining period of the present financial year to reach the set annual output target. The plan envisages increasing the daily coal production to 2.15 lakh tonnes across all the coal mines located in 11 areas of the company with paramount focus on quality of coal and safety of the workforce, SCCL sources said. It contains specific interventions to enhance overburden removal in the Opencast Projects (OCPs) up to 14.4 lakh cubic meters a day by optimally using the shovels and other equipment used in surface mining. It lays emphasis on ensuring prompt supply of adequate explosives as per the indent to facilitate blasting operations in OCPs, an essential component of the surface mining, in compliance with safety norms, sources added. The SCCL higher officials issued a set of guidelines to general managers of all the 11 coal mines to ensure efficient operation of equipment and boost productivity with safety of the workforce as top priority. The fresh guidelines included increasing the operating time of the shovels and other equipment from 14 hours to 18 hours a day, enhancing the capacity of the coal handling plants (CHPs) and ensuring availability of adequate number of trucks/lorries at the coal mines/CHPs for seamless transportation of coal to the thermal power stations as per the Fuel Supply Agreements (FSAs).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-expedites-efforts-to-scale-up-extraction/article37834590.ece
04 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Kangana’s car stopped in Punjab||Actor Kangana Ranaut’s car was on Friday briefly stopped at Kiratpur Sahib in Punjab’s Rupnagar district by a group of people, demanding an apology from her over her alleged remarks on the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws.  Video message In a video message on her Instagram account, the actor alleged she was “attacked” by a mob, who “abused” and “threatened to kill her”. Ms. Ranaut was on her way from Himachal Pradesh to the Chandigarh airport when the incident took place. Police said when her car reached the Bunga Sahib gurdwara near Kiratpur Sahib in Rupnagar, a group of men and women carrying flags of a farmer outfit, did not allow the car to move forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kanganas-car-stopped-in-punjab/article37834475.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Stalin flays passage of Dam Safety Bill||Chief Minister and DMK president M.K. Stalin condemned the BJP Government at the Centre over the passage of the Dam Safety Bill, 2019 in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, saying the Bill was against federalism and would snatch the rights of the States. “It is highly condemnable that the Union Government has adamantly passed the Dam Safety Bill, which is against federalism and the right of the States. The DMK had consistently opposed the Bill when the party was in Opposition, and now, we continue to do so when we are in power,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. The Chief Minister recalled the speech of DMK MP A. Raja in Parliament when the Bill was tabled in 2019. He said Mr. Raja had demanded, on behalf of the DMK, that the Bill be withdrawn as it was an attack on federalism and was being introduced in an urgent manner. When the Bill came up for discussion in the Rajya Sabha, DMK MP Tiruchi Siva had said it would infringe on basic rights and powers vested in State governments and would give additional powers to the Union government. Mr. Siva had also said the Bill violated Article 252-I of the Constitution, and now, the protection of the States’ powers had become a question mark, Mr. Stalin noted. The Chief Minister said DMK MP T.K.S Elangovan had demanded that the Bill be sent to a select committee. Opposition backing On a similar motion moved by Mr. Siva, voting had taken place and the other Opposition parties had supported the motion. “While the AIADMK, too, had supported the demand, the Union Government used its brute majority to decide that the Bill need not be sent to a select committee and passed the Bill,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/stalin-flays-passage-of-dam-safety-bill/article37834478.ece
04 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Bill will lead to disasters, says Vaiko||Rather than protecting dams, the Dam Safety Bill will lead to disasters, and Tamil Nadu will suffer as a consequence, MDMK general secretary Vaiko said. Speaking in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, Mr. Vaiko said when Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Karnataka were part of the erstwhile Madras Presidency, they were like brothers and sisters. “But now, these States are refusing to give us water. If the Dam Safety Bill is passed, Tamil Nadu will be badly affected,” Mr. Vaiko said. He said only weak dams would break. But the Kallanai,  built by Chola king Karikalan 2,000 years ago, is still strong and in use. “ Kallanai  is one of the wonders of the world. It will stand strong even after another 2,000 years,” Mr. Vaiko said. He said British Colonel John Pennycuick built the Mullaperiyar dam, which provided relief to farmers in six districts of Tamil Nadu. Mr. Vaiko said he was saddened by some people in Kerala falsely claiming that the dam would fall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bill-will-lead-to-disasters-says-vaiko/article37834476.ece
04 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Deadline for namaz in open over: Hindu groups||Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, a conglomerate of 22 local units of Hindu outfits, on Friday said the month-long deadline for allowing Friday prayers in open spaces in Gurugram had ended and it would not be allowed from December 10. Samiti’s president Mahavir Bhardwaj, in an interaction with media persons, said that December 4 deadline for offering Friday prayer (Jumma Namaz) at public places had ended. Following the opposition to offering of namaz in the open in 2018, the Muslim community members had been offering Friday prayer at 37 designated places across the city. But these were reduced to 20 after fresh protests earlier this year. “Muslims had agreed to reduce the number of designated open spaces from 37 to 20 and we had allowed them a month’s time to offer prayer at these places. The December 4 deadline for it is Saturday. We will not allow Jumma Namaz in the open at any of these 20 spaces from December 10. We want to bring it to the notice of the administration and the Government,” said Mr. Bhardwaj. Earlier, a large number of locals led by Bharat Mata Vahini leader Dinesh Bharti staged a protest at a site in Sector 37 with almost a face-off between the two groups. Men wearing saffron scarves raised slogans and called for stopping the prayer in the open. Some of them had parked their trucks at the ground claiming they did not have space to park them elsewhere. However, the police detained a few protesters and Muslims were allowed to offer prayer amid tight security. It is the second successive Friday that the site had witnessed protests. ‘Complete mayhem’ Gurugram Muslim Council member Altaf Ahmad said it was complete mayhem at Sector 37 where right-wing groups not only disrupted Jumma Namaz but also stripped Muslims of praying with dignity. “It is a deliberate attempt to disturb peaceful prayer and communal harmony of this cosmopolitan city. The permission for Friday prayer had been given by the administration in 2018, yet the fringe elements were allowed to reach the site. It is shocking and a sad reflection of events in this Millennium City,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/deadline-for-namaz-in-open-over-hindu-groups/article37834458.ece
04 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘Rights panel chief before Dec. 10’||The Maharashtra Government told the Bombay High Court on Friday that it will appoint Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission’s chairperson before December 10, which is International Human Rights Day. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told a Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M.S. Karnik that the file is with the Governor and the appointment will be made before December 10. The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Vaishnavi Gholave, 23, through advocate Vinod Sangvikar. The PIL says there have been no regular appointments made from July 2018 onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rights-panel-chief-before-dec-10/article37834481.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi ranks number one globally in CCTV coverage: CM||The Capital has surpassed cities like London, Washington and Paris and ranks number one in terms of CCTV coverage in the world, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday. He also announced the Government’s decision to increase the quantum of CCTV coverage in the city. After the installation of 1.40 lakh cameras under phase 2 of the project over the coming days to the existing tally of 2.75 lakh, Delhi will have a total of 4.15 lakh CCTV cameras, Mr. Kejriwal said. “Over the last seven years, 2.75 lakh CCTV cameras have been installed in each and every corner of the city. In the entire world, Delhi ranks the highest when it comes to the number of CCTV cameras per square miles in a city,” he said. 1,826 per square mile “In a survey conducted covering 150 States, Delhi came first with 1,826 CCTV cameras per square mile. Behind Delhi is London with 1,138 cameras per square mile, showing a vast difference. So, we are far ahead of London, New York, Singapore and Paris to the point that there is no comparison,” he also said. In India, he further said, Chennai bagged the second rank, but Delhi had thrice the number of CCTV cameras and 12 times the number in Mumbai. Women’s safety had improved on the one hand and on the other, these had significantly helped the police force in the investigation of a lot of crimes, and incidents caught on CCTV cameras had facilitated catching culprits. The CCTV cameras being installed now are being sourced from Bharat Electronics Ltd., which is under the Central Government. The cameras are extremely modern and state-of-the-art devices. Apart from having four megapixels, they are capable of sounding an alarm to alert the command centre they are connected to in case a camera has been damaged or a feature stops working. “Thirty days recording can be kept in these cameras. Only 3-4 authorised personnel will have access to the live feed, and will be able to view it from anywhere in the world. A command centre based in Delhi receives the live feed of all CCTV cameras for real-time monitoring. These devices have four megapixel cameras with night vision, providing optimum video quality,” he added.  In a survey conducted covering 150 States, Delhi came first with 1,826 CCTV cameras per square mile. Behind Delhi is London Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-ranks-number-one-globally-in-cctv-coverage-cm/article37834461.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||CCTVs an important probe tool: police||After Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement of successfully installing 2.75 lakh CCTV cameras across the city and his plans to install more than 1 lakh CCTV cameras, senior police officers have welcomed the move as they said that CCTV footage plays an important role in aiding the investigation and helps form crucial evidence in court. According to several police officers, the moment a crime occurs, be it an incident of theft or murder, investigators procure CCTV footage from cameras installed in the vicinity and analyse the chronology of the incident in order to identify and trace the accused persons. “CCTV recordings definitely aid the investigation as they help easily identify the accused…once an incident occurs, we procure CCTV footage from all cameras be it private or Government in order to analyse if it can help piece together the events,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said. Primary part The DCP said that collecting such footage is the primary part of any investigation and helps in taking the probe further. “Even if the accused flees with a DVR (digital video recorder) of one camera, which happens in some cases, there will be several cameras nearby which will trace him,” he added. A senior police officer said that there have been various cases where the police skim through and analyse several CCTV recordings and identify the suspect. “We always encourage residents and RWAs to install CCTV cameras outside their houses and in areas that are prone to theft so that most of the perimeter of an area can be covered,” the officer said. “CCTV cameras have helped crack several important investigations. After procuring them, we send them to forensic labs to ascertain its authenticity and ensure that the footage is not distorted and doctored, following which it forms a crucial piece of evidence before court,” the officer added. Specific training Another police officer, requesting anonymity, said that several constables are specifically trained to analyse such footage meticulously. “We have around three to four constables who go through these recordings so that we get a clue of what the accused look like as the CCTV cameras through their facial recognition system can also identify an accused even if he has wrapped a cloth around his face,” he said. “Once in a case, we had procured CCTV footage that was installed as far as 60 km through which we identified the suspects and managed to trace and nab them,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cctvs-an-important-probe-tool-police/article37834456.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||City’s air quality improves to ‘very poor’ level||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Friday wrote to Union Minister Bhupender Yadav, urging him to call a meeting of Environment Ministers of States in the NCR in view of the “serious situation” caused by pollution. Mr. Rai said the Government is doing everything in its capacity to curb the pollution level, but joint efforts are needed to have a greater impact. The city’s air quality on Friday improved to the “very poor” category from the “severe” level a day earlier. The AQI at 4 p.m., which is an average reading of 37 stations, was 346. The forecast shows that the AQI is likely to remain in the “very poor” category on December 4 and 5, with the winds likely to be relatively stronger thereafter with a possibility of rain on December 6, which is favourable for dispersion/removal of pollutants. Mr. Rai said that Delhi’s internal pollution is largely under control due to several measures but there is an urgent need for the Centre’s and other State Governments’ involvement to control the remaining 69% of pollution, which is external, contributing to Delhi’s poor air quality. “A report released by the Centre for Science and Environment on the basis of data presented by Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology says that Delhi’s internal pollution accounts for 31% of the total pollution in the city, while 69% is sourced from outside the city, of the NCR region. Hence, despite all our efforts to check the internal pollution, the overall pollution level is still evident,” Mr. Rai said. The Minister said that in his letter to the Union Minister for Environment, he also requested him to create a joint action plan with the Environment Departments and Ministers of various States so that the level of pollution can be reduced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/citys-air-quality-improves-to-very-poor-level/article37834451.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||Court dismisses Ansal brothers’ plea seeking to revoke sentence||Noting that polluters of the judicial firmament are required to be shown no leniency to maintain the sublimity of the institution, and recourse faith in general public in the administration of justice, a Delhi court on Friday dismissed the plea moved by Ansal brothers seeking suspension of the seven-year sentence awarded to them in the Uphaar evidence tampering case. The order was passed by Additional Sessions Judge Anil Antil, who dismissed the pleas of Ansals and the other accused, while noting the antecedents of the convicts, the impact of the public confidence in courts and more importantly the absence of any extraordinary circumstances meeting suspension of sentence. ‘Grave nature’ “...the crime involved in the present case is of a very grave nature, suspending sentence at this stage is not only against the established principles of criminal law but also shake the confidence of general public in the judicial system,” the order noted, while adding that it was trite to say that if the judiciary as an institution began to lose confidence of the public, our cherished value of democracy shall come under serious threat. The court also noted that the age of the convicts cannot by itself be the sole criterion to grant them relief, more so when the appellants themselves were involved in the procrastinated trial of the case. Medical status of the convicts also showed that besides suffering age-related ailments, no other diseases cited required immediate or urgent invitation, the court noted. Additional Public Prosecutor had earlier told the court that punishment to the convicts provided a solace to the victims in the case and reinforced their faith in the justice delivery system. A Delhi court had sentenced Sushil and Gopal Ansal to seven years in prison for tampering with the evidence in the 1997 Uphaar fire tragedy case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-dismisses-ansal-brothers-plea-seeking-to-revoke-sentence/article37834454.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||Liquor vends to be surveyed and verified: SDMC Mayor||South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) Mayor Mukesh Suryan on Friday said that the civic body will start conducting surveys to verify completion certificates, licensing forms, building by-laws and conversion charges of the newly opened liquor stores from December 6. This comes over a week after the SDMC passed a resolution, moved by Congress councillor Abhishek Dutt, to survey and verify whether all vends opening under its jurisdiction comply with its norms. Mr. Suryan said that many do not follow norms. “We have already started conducting a few surveys but the surveys will be conducted in full-swing from Monday. Civic body officials will verify the completion certificates, licensing forms, building by-laws and conversion charges of the newly opened liquor stores. If we find any violations, the liquor vends will be sealed. The Delhi Government has implemented the excise policy for its own benefit ; most of the private players who are opening new vends are linked to the Aam Aadmi Party,” he said. EDMC Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said the civic body has started conducting similar surveys too. Stiff opposition With the Government’s excise policy having kicked in from November 17, the BJP-led corporation and councillors from the Congress have sprung in opposition. According to the new policy, the city’s liquor business will be handled by private players and a total of 849 liquor vends were to be opened, of which 810 fall in the corporation areas. Mr. Dutt, a councillor from Andrews Ganj, said the new policy does not have a provision where the corporations were required to provide a no objection certificate before a liquor vend could open. SDMC Leader of Opposition, Prem Chauhan (AAP), said he welcomed the survey, but questioned whether the civic body was following a similar approach in other matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/liquor-vends-to-be-surveyed-and-verified-sdmc-mayor/article37834463.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||SDMC intensifies effort to implement RFID||South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) Mayor Mukesh Suryan on Friday said that the civic body is taking “tough measures” to implement radio frequency identification (RFID) tags for entry of vehicles at 124 toll plazas in the city. “The SDMC has installed boom barriers at 13 locations (of the 124) with automatic RFID devices while the remaining locations have people stationed with handheld devices. Close to 80% of the total vehicles enter through these 13 locations, including Kondli, Loni Main, Shahdara and Ghazipur,” he said. Mr. Suryan said the civic authority has “completely stopped” the entry of vehicles “without RFID tags” and that it is also a step to “curb air pollution”. “Enforcement teams have been deployed at toll plazas for inspection and taking action against vehicles not adhering to the guidelines. The RFID system ensures that commercial vehicles can enter the city by paying toll tax and environment compensation charge through a cashless mode,” the Mayor said.  The SDMC has installed boom barriers at 13 locations with automatic RFID devicesMukesh SuryanMayor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sdmc-intensifies-effort-to-implement-rfid/article37834453.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||Drive against pornography: 97 arrested||The Delhi police on Friday said that 97 people have been arrested and 160 cases registered in a drive against child pornography under operation ‘Masoom’ that began on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) K.P.S. Malhotra said that the Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations (IFSO) unit launched the operation. The police said that details of the violations pertaining to child pornographic material are received at the IFSO through the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), which has signed a memorandum of understanding with the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children (NCMEC), a private and non-profit organisation. This organisation was established in 1984 by the United Nations Congress and is based in the U.S. The organisation further ties up with the social media platforms like Facebook and Instagram. “The NCMEC checks the social media platforms and whenever it comes across any content found violating the privacy/obscene material about children, it is red-flagged. It procures the IP address of the user who has uploaded the content and shares with the NCRB,” Mr. Malhotra said, adding that the NCMEC further shares it with the IFSO, the organisation’s nodal agency in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/drive-against-pornography-97-arrested/article37834449.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||Capital sees 54 new cases, zero deaths||The Capital recorded 54 new COVID-19 cases and zero deaths, a health bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Friday said. A total of 62,221 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 0.09%. The total number of cases since the pandemic began stands at 14,41,244. There are 332 active cases in the city, of whom 120 are in home isolation. As many as 1.07,293 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the past 24 hours, of whom, 38,825 got their first dose. The cumulative beneficiaries vaccinated stand at 2,29,61,978, of whom, 89,96,646 have received both doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-sees-54-new-cases-zero-deaths/article37834452.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three foetuses found in dump in Ghazipur||Three foetuses were found in a garbage dump in east Delhi’s Ghazipur. The police have registered a case and begun probe. The police said that a PCR call was received at 8.40 a.m. regarding foetuses being found in a garbage dump at Sabzi Mandi. When officers reached, they found pre-mature babies of similar size with umbilical cord and placenta intact. A case under Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the Indian Penal Code was registered and investigation was taken up. “CCTV footage was checked and with the help of human intelligence, parents were identified and found. From initial inquiry, it has been revealed that the woman was pregnant for more than six months and was taking treatment from a hospital. Further inquiry is on,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-foetuses-found-in-dump-in-ghazipur/article37834459.ece
04 December 2021||Guwahati,||Assam CID files chargesheet in fake TET certificate case||The Criminal Investigation Department of the Assam Police on Friday filed the first chargesheet against 40 accused people — 33 teachers and seven middlemen — for allegedly obtaining and facilitating fake Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET) certificates in Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR). A detailed 1,175-page chargesheet listing 106 witnesses and 38 material objects was filed before the Kamrup Metro Chief Judicial Magistrate within 60 days from the date of the registration of the case on October 3, 2021, according to a press release issued by the police. A lecturer of a government college in Nagaon, and three State Government employees are among the accused middlemen. The case was registered by the CID following the orders of Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/assam-cid-files-chargesheet-in-fake-tet-certificate-case/article37834646.ece
04 December 2021||Islamabad,||Sri Lankan executive killed over ‘blasphemy’ in Pakistan||In a grisly incident, a Sri Lankan executive of a garment factory was lynched and his body set ablaze by angry supporters of a hardline Islamist party in Pakistan’s Punjab province over blasphemy allegations on Friday, police said. Priyantha Kumara, who was in his 40s, was working as the general manager of the garment factory in Sialkot district, some 100 km from here, a Punjab police official said. “Mr. Kumara allegedly tore a poster of the hardline Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) in which Quranic verses were inscribed and threw it in the dustbin. The poster of the Islamist party was pasted on the wall adjoining the office of Kumara. A couple of factory workers saw him removing the poster and spread the word in the factory,” the official said. Hundreds of men, enraged over the “blasphemy” incident, started gathering outside the factory from adjoining areas. Most of them were activists and supporters of the TLP. “The mob dragged the suspect (the Sri Lankan national) from the factory and severely tortured him. After he succumbed to his wounds, the mob burnt his body before police reached there,” the official said. The Imran Khan government had recently lifted a ban on the TLP after signing a secret agreement with it after which its chief Saad Rizvi and over 1,500 activists accused of terrorism were released from jail. Punjab Chief Minister Usman Buzdar termed it a very tragic incident and ordered the police to investigate the matter. Punjab government spokesperson Hassan Khawar said that “approximately 50 people have been arrested,” Geo News reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lankan-executive-killed-over-blasphemy-in-pakistan/article37833927.ece
04 December 2021||kabul,||Taliban chief decrees ban on forced wedding in Afghanistan||The Taliban decreed on Friday they were banning forced marriage of women in Afghanistan, a move apparently meant to address criteria the international community consider a precondition to recognising their government and restoring aid to the war-torn country. The move was announced by the reclusive Taliban chief, Hibatullah Akhunzada, who is believed to be in the southern city of Kandahar. “Both (women and men) should be equal,” said the decree, adding that “no one can force women to marry by coercion or pressure.” . Forced marriages have become more commonplace in the poor, conservative country, as the internally displaced marry off their young daughters in exchange for a bride-price. The decree did not mention a minimum age for marriage, which previously was set at 16 years old. The Taliban leadership says it has ordered Afghan courts to treat women fairly, especially widows seeking inheritance as next of kin. The group also says it has asked government ministers to spread awareness of women’s rights across the population. Friday’s announcement comes as thousands of girls from grades seven to 12 are still not allowed to attend school, and a majority of women have been banned from returning to their jobs since the Taliban takeover.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-chief-decrees-ban-on-forced-wedding-in-afghanistan/article37833932.ece
04 December 2021||Oslo,||17 suspected Omicron cases after Oslo party||At least 17 people who caught COVID-19 after a Christmas party with more than 100 guests in Oslo last week are suspected of having the Omicron variant, officials said on Friday. “So far, 60 people have tested positive (for COVID-19) with PCR tests, and four with antigen tests,” the city of Oslo said in a statement. “Seventeen are probably Omicron, but that has yet to be confirmed. So far, one case is confirmed to be Omicron after sequencing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/17-suspected-omicron-cases-after-oslo-party/article37833925.ece
04 December 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka detects first case of Omicron variant||Sri Lanka’s health authorities on Friday reported the first case of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 in a Sri Lankan national with a recent travel history abroad. Following the detection of the Omicron variant in South Africa, Sri Lankan authorities barred passengers travelling from or transiting via six countries — South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Lesotho, and Eswatini (Swaziland) — in the past 14 days. However, health officials and experts in Sri Lanka had indicated that the variant may have already entered Sri Lanka, and that closing borders alone could not prevent it from entering the country. Over 60 % of the country’s eligible population have obtained both doses of the vaccine. Sri Lanka has so far reported 5,65, 471 cases of COVID-19, of which some 10,000 are active. Over the last few weeks, the country has seen a marginal increase in daily cases — around 750 a day, reflecting a positivity rate of approximately 10 % of the total PCR tests conducted a day. A total of 14,399 persons have succumbed to the virus. Sri Lanka enforced a six-week lockdown until October 1 following a spike in infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-detects-first-case-of-omicron-variant/article37833930.ece
04 December 2021||New York,||Trump faces hurdles beyond January 6 probe||As Donald Trump's lawyers try to block the White House from releasing records to the congressional committee investigating the January 6 Capitol insurrection, the former President faces a flurry of other investigations that could come to a head in the coming weeks and the new year. That includes two major state criminal investigations — one in New York and one in Georgia — and lawsuits concerning sexual assault allegations, a fight over an inheritance and questions of whether he should be held personally liable for inciting the insurrection. Mr. Trump has long dismissed the investigations as “witch hunt”. Any charges — which would be the first against an ex-President — could affect both his businesses and his future political prospects as he mulls a rerun for presidency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-faces-hurdles-beyond-january-6-probe/article37833933.ece
04 December 2021||Dubai,||UAE buys record 80 Rafale jets for €14 billion||The United Arab Emirates signed a record €14-billion contract for 80 Rafale warplanes and committed billions of euros in other deals as French President Emmanuel Macron kicked off a West Asia tour on Friday. The biggest international order ever made for the French jets came as Mr. Macron held talks with Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed at the start of a two-day trip which will also take in Qatar and Saudi Arabia. The resource-rich UAE, one of the French defence industry’s biggest customers, also inked an order for 12 Caracal military transport helicopters for a total bill of more than €17 billion. The Emirates was the fifth biggest customer for the French defence industry with €4.7 billion euros from 2011-2020, according to a parliamentary report. France has faced criticism after some of these weapons were used during the UAE’s engagement in Yemen, where a Saudi-led coalition is fighting Iran-backed rebels in a war that has created one of the world’s worst humanitarian crises. French Defence Minister Florence Parly said the “historic contract” will contribute “directly to regional stability”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uae-buys-record-80-rafale-jets-for-14-billion/article37833934.ece
04 December 2021||Washington,||Biden warns Russia against Ukraine attack||President Joe Biden on Friday vowed to make it “very, very difficult” for Russian President Vladimir Putin to take military action in Ukraine, saying his administration is putting together a comprehensive set of initiatives to curb Russian aggression. The President offered the measured warning to Mr. Putin amid growing concern about buildup of troops on the Ukrainian border. “What I am doing is putting together what I believe to be will be the most comprehensive and meaningful set of initiatives to make it very, very difficult for Mr. Putin to go ahead and do what people are worried he may do,” Mr. Biden said. There are signs that the White House and Kremlin are close to arranging a conversation next week between Mr. Biden and Mr. Putin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-warns-russia-against-ukraine-attack/article37834249.ece
04 December 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka suffers major power outage||Sri Lanka experienced an island-wide power outage on Friday, for over five hours, amid persisting fears of a fuel crisis and a shortage of LPG cylinders. The outage was due to the failure of a key transmission line, a spokesman of the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) told Reuters . However, the power cut also disrupted water supply in many areas. The development comes amid growing resistance within the state-run CEB over the decision to award an energy deal to U.S.-based LNG company New Fortress Energy, giving it a monopoly over supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-suffers-major-power-outage/article37833929.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A drug bust opens a can of bitcoins||Self-proclaimed hacker Sri Krishna’s capacity to churn political waters belies his youth. At the age of 26, the computer science graduate from Bengaluru — who was caught in a drug bust last year where transactions were made in cryptocurrency -- has become the centre of an alleged bitcoin scam. It has shaken the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government after he took charge as Chief Minister in July. Questions have been raised after the Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah claimed that “influential Karnataka politicians” are involved in the drug and cryptocurrency scam. Political circles were abuzz with rumours of bitcoins belonging to Sri Krishna, or SriKi as he is called, disappearing while he was in custody. But the answers are proving to be elusive, the trail as shadowy as the world of cryptocurrency. As he walked out of prison on November 10 on bail, the media asked a visibly fidgety SriKi about the allegations and counter-allegations that have allegedly even reached the Prime Minister’s Office. He dismissed the claims as “bogus, a nuisance”. “Big people take big names,” he said with a smile. ‘Cover-up’ allegations Bommai, fresh from a setback with a defeat in the bypolls in his home district, has had to battle allegations of a “cover-up of a bitcoin scam” by the State police when he was Home Minister under then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. He reportedly complained to the party high command against two of his cabinet colleagues, both aspirants for the Chief Minister’s chair that he eventually won, for “spreading canards about him in the bitcoin scam.” SriKi’s voluntary statement written while in police custody has further muddied the waters even though it has no evidentiary value and his lawyer says he will deny it in court. In his statement he claimed he was part of several bitcoin exchange hacks including the infamous 2016 Bitfinex hack, one of the largest cryptocurrency heists in the world. He claimed to have stolen over 5,000 bitcoins. However, the police have not charged him for these specific claims on the grounds of lack of evidence. Is it self-aggrandisement on the part of a young hacker, or is there a kernel of truth to this? The ‘scam’ has since taken a life of its own. It is now alluded that “two top BJP functionaries in the State” and several senior police officials have been the beneficiaries of “thousands of bitcoins” that were diverted to their accounts for a cover-up. Not even the Opposition Congress explicitly made this allegation on record for want of documents to back the claim. Political circles in Karnataka are abuzz that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s office sought details of the case after it was tipped off by U.S. investigating agencies. However, there is no independent confirmation of the same. An RTI activist, A.R. Ashok Kumar Adiga, claimed he lodged a complaint with the PMO in May 2021. It began with a cannabis case last November. Suspecting the contents of a parcel of organic coffee to contain narcotics, a customs inspector at the Foreign Post Office, Chamarajpet, laid a trap. The parcel was addressed to one Arnav Gowda. On November 4, 2020, officials caught the person who arrived to collect it, Sujay Raj. Among the contents was 500 grams of hydro cannabis ordered on the darknet. The Kempegowda Nagar police who took up the probe uncovered a larger network of people who regularly partied together. Cops said they procured narcotics from dealers on the darknet using bitcoins as a mode of payment. A police head constable was involved in ensuring that their parcels evaded the authorities here. The case was transferred to the Central Crime Branch (CCB), a specialised investigation wing of Bengaluru City Police. Their probe into the bitcoin angle took them to Sri Krishna Ramesh, then 25, son of a chartered accountant from Jayanagar, an upper middle-class locality. He was arrested on November 18. “As soon as we brought him in, he started singing. The claims he made shocked us. He said he hacked several poker websites and bitcoin exchanges. He also confessed to have hacked into the State government’s e-procurement site and stolen Rs. 11.5 crore. There was a case pending with the CID. We realised we had arrested a high profile hacker,” said a senior CCB official. In his voluntary statement, SriKi claims to be a child prodigy who “learnt basics of web exploitation, java, reverse engineering and wrote my first bot for a game called RuneScape” when he was in Class IV. Between Classes IV and X, he claimed to have joined an Internet Relay Chat (IRC) channel ‘h4cky0u’, a community of over 50,000 black hat hackers and was promoted to be a moderator when he was Class IX. “While running the IRC network, I made several internet friends who changed my life by mentoring me in various aspects of crime, specifically financial, yet not unethical,” the statement said. “He was a nerd in school and was called ‘freaky SriKi’ by other kids who harassed him. This left a lasting impression and shaped his personality in many ways,” a senior police official who interrogated him multiple times told The Hindu. SriKi claimed to have been habituated to drugs while in pre-university. He started ordering narcotics from the darknet, and ran away to the Himalayas when he was 17 years old, but was brought back home by the police. Though he joined an engineering course, he dropped out as the “syllabus was too elementary”, he told the police. He later went to Eindhoven University of Technology, Netherlands where he completed his BSc. in Computer Science. SriKi claimed that while in the Netherlands, his driver, who would chauffeur him “around the country to deal in cash exchanges” stole bitcoins worth U.S. $3 million which he had accumulated through hacks. Starting from scratch, he described how he expanded his network of friends to Italy, Switzerland, Sweden, France and Germany. “This network of bitcoin traders quickly allowed me to recuperate my losses by marginalised trading after the hack of an exchange (Bitfinex),” his statement read. A heady life SriKi returned to Bengaluru in 2015 and befriended Omar Nalapad, son of Congress MLA N.A. Haris. He led a lavish lifestyle involving parties, substance abuse and prolonged stays at five-star hotels. He was a co-accused in an assault case in February 2018 involving Omar’s brother Mohammed Nalapad at the city’s posh UB City. He fled the city and was on the run in north India for six months till he secured bail in the case. The CCB has not questioned the Nalapad brothers in either the drug bust or the cyber crimes case against SriKi. The hacker claimed that he disassociated himself from the brothers after the assault. Police said their probe revealed the same. On his return to Bengaluru, SriKi acquired a new set of friends and hung out with a contractor Suneesh Hegde, his cousin Prasidh Shetty and others, all co-accused in the case now. Hegde told the police that they used to live at star-hotels, and while partying, Sri Krishna would hack poker websites, showing them the card of the opposite player helping them win big. “He claimed to have hacked and stolen several bitcoins and promised to give them to me. So I have till now spent over Rs. 2 crore on him,” Hegde claimed in his statement. However, eventually the two reportedly fell out as SriKi did not deliver on the promises he made. The duo are accused of carrying out ransomware attacks on several websites and fleecing money. A key witness in the case, Robin Khandelwal, 32, a bitcoin trader from West Bengal, told the police that SriKi befriended him online. The young hacker offered to sell 900 bitcoins he claimed to have stolen. He described how Sri Krishna convinced everyone to support his lifestyle by promising a huge windfall in bitcoins. But he did not part with any of it leading to bitter tiffs within the gang. Things came to a head when Hegde allegedly decided to ‘do something about this’. Khandelwal claimed that when he was in Bengaluru for a visit, Hegde took him and SriKi to his flat and forced them to remain there in an attempt to wrest the bitcoins from them. “Sri Krishna told me, ‘Let us not give the bitcoins I have to Hegde and his friends’. He suggested we flee from the balcony and we did that,” he said in the statement. In his statement, Sri Krishna said Hedge earned his loyalty and respect “since he seemed like a guy that could be trusted”, but added: “Little did I know that there lived a demon inside him waiting to extort the living hell out of me.” Khandelwal has since emerged as a key witness in the case as the hacker traded most of his bitcoins at his firm Robin Online Services. He told the police he has done business worth over Rs. 8 crore with SriKi. The latter would send him bitcoins with instructions to credit money into his friend’s accounts as he held no bank account. Khandelwal claimed he even booked a chartered flight for SriKi when he was on the run in the 2018 UB City assault case. In search of evidence SriKi claimed he was part of the group that hacked the cryptocurrency exchange Bitfinex in 2016. A total of 1,19,756 bitcoins were stolen in this hack. He told the police the “exchange was hacked twice” and in fact he was “the first person to do so”. The “second hack was led by two Israeli hackers working for the army.” He further said he transferred 2,000 bitcoins into his personal account, but “didn’t save anything and blew it up on [a] luxurious lifestyle”. The value of each bitcoin at the time of the hack was around $100-$200 which was “split in two ways with his friend Andy from the U.K.”. He then claimed to have hacked another bitcoin exchange, BTC-e.com, “which was a major financial profit for me” and stole 3,000 bitcoins (approximate profit: $3-$3.5 million). The exchange was shut down by U.S. agencies in 2017 and its founder Alexander Vinnik is currently serving a prison sentence in France for money laundering. But where are all these bitcoins? On January 12, 2021, the Bengaluru City Police said they recovered 31.123 bitcoins worth Rs. 9 crore from SriKi. Investigators changed the password of the wallet that reportedly belonged to the hacker on January 8. However, it did not take long for this claim to unravel. On January 22, when they reopened the wallet, they were shocked to find 186.8 bitcoins with the wallet reflecting live transactions between January 8 and January 22. Technical experts from Unocoin, whose exchange SriKi is charged with for hacking, submitted a report that the accused used public keys of wallets available on the internet to create a wallet and “modified the application to show fake transactions.” They insisted that the wallet was a live exchange. Following these revelations, former Minister for Information and Technology and Congress MLA Priyank Kharge demanded an inquiry into the fiasco. A senior police official, not involved in the probe, expressed surprise that a departmental probe had not been ordered into it. “The hacker should have been booked for hacking right under the nose of cops,” he said. Bengaluru City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said in a statement that “none of the bitcoins were transferred to the police wallet, so none were either recovered or lost.” Questions have been raised on the failure of the police to charge Sri Krishna on all his claims. None of the multiple chargesheets mentions any of the high value bitcoin hacks, triggering intense speculations of a “cover-up”. “The voluntary statement of the accused in police custody has no evidentiary value, unless corroborated with evidence. We have charged him only with crimes that we found digital footprints for in the electronic devices seized from him and his co-accused, including those not mentioned by the accused in his statement,” a senior police official said. The CCB has charged him with hacking 10 poker websites and three bitcoin exchanges, but not Bitfinex and BTC-e. The CID has chargesheeted him for hacking the government e-procurement portal and stealing Rs. 11.5 crore. Police estimates peg the profits the hacker claimed to have made through hacking as on the date of the crime at Rs. 72.9 crore, of which he has now been charged only for crimes worth Rs. 14.2 crore — Rs. 2.70 crore by CCB and Rs. 11.5 crore he stole from the government e-procurement website chargesheeted by CID. “Despite our best efforts, we were unable to find corroborative evidence to all the claims he has made in his statement. They may either be tall claims with no factual basis, or he may have used other electronic devices we haven’t been able to lay our hands on and later destroyed them,” said a senior CCB official. The Enforcement Directorate that has also taken up a probe has failed to nail the hacker down, so far. A senior ED official who has questioned SriKi multiple times said the hacker was very dodgy. “He suffers from withdrawal symptoms as he is habituated to narcotics. He makes tall claims, but is rarely coherent and consistent,” he said. The bigger picture As the newly anointed Chief Minister faced the first test of his political leadership during the bypolls in his home district, Hangal, the BJP lost the hotly contested seat and political circles were abuzz with a “bitcoin scam involving two senior BJP functionaries in the State”. According to claims, mostly coming from a faction-ridden BJP, investigative agencies in the U.S. flagged the case with their Indian counterparts during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the country in September.  The Hindu could not independently verify these reports. Amid these rumours, Bommai met the Prime Minister in New Delhi on November 11. After the meeting, the Chief Minister claimed that despite attempting to raise the issue, the Prime Minister cut him short and asked him “not to worry about the bitcoin scam allegations.” Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah was the first to question the Chief Minister openly on the alleged scam saying there were strong suspicions of a “cover-up”. Bommai has aggressively defended the government claiming they were the ones who arrested the hacker, uncovered the crimes while the Congress government had not probed him when he was a co-accused in the UB City assault case. “Congress leaders are making baseless allegations. A thorough probe would only lead the agencies to the sons of Congress leaders,” Bommai said. He also claimed the government had nothing to hide and they had flagged the case to the Enforcement Directorate (March 3, 2021) and the Interpol Division of the Central Bureau of Investigation (April 28, 2021). Questions have now been raised on the delay in alerting central agencies, especially since the hacker had been arrested in November 2020. The smoking gun Movement of large caches of hacked, stolen and blacklisted Bitfinex coins, when SriKi was in custody, has emerged as the smoking gun and is being speculated as an indication of the scam. On November 30, 2020, when SriKi was in CCB custody, blockchain tracker and analytics service Whale Alert, flagged 14 transactions where 5,045.48 bitcoins from the Bitfinex hack were moved to unknown wallets. In a second tranche of transactions, on April 14, 2021, when SriKi was in judicial custody, Whale Alert flagged 69 transactions where 1,0057.47 bitcoins were moved to unknown wallets, the biggest tranche of transactions of these stolen bitcoins since 2016. At the time, the value of bitcoins moved was estimated to be over Rs. 5,000 crore. Though no one will come on record, political circles are abuzz that several prominent politicians and cops were beneficiaries of these bitcoin transactions. “Whether some of the transferred bitcoins were from Sri Krishna should be a matter of an independent investigation,” said Randeep Singh Surjewala, AICC general secretary in-charge of Karnataka. However, as of now there is no evidence but for his claim to link Sri Krishna to the Bitfinex hack. City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant in a statement on November 13, dismissed links to the Bitfinex hack and the reported recent transactions of the hacked coins. “The claim made on Whale Alert that stolen bitcoins were transferred is completely unsubstantiated. And there is nothing to suggest it had originated from Bengaluru,” the statement said. Police further said representatives of Bitfinex company had neither shared any details of the alleged hack nor sought any information so far. The Opposition Congress has now demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the scam and the alleged cover-up by a Special Investigation Team (SIT). The BJP government has said since the central agencies were already probing the case, this was unnecessary. The alleged scam is only expected to become the litmus test for Bommai as the winter session of the Karnataka Legislature begins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-drug-bust-opens-a-can-of-bitcoins/article37833924.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||COP27, in Egypt, must focus on food systems||The United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) held in Glasgow between October 31 and November 12, 2021 with a huge gathering, generating headlines, criticisms, and some commitments. Governments did commit to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and put forth a record-shattering U.S.$356 million in new support from contributing national and regional governments to protect the most vulnerable. But this is not enough to stay below the limit of 2°C above pre-industrial levels. COP26 fell far short of the ground-breaking success many had hoped for. “Our fragile planet is hanging by a thread... It is time to go into emergency mode — or our chance of reaching net-zero will itself be zero,” said UN Secretary-General António Guterres. He added that we must “build [the] resilience of vulnerable communities against the here-and-now impacts of climate change. And make good on the $100 billion climate finance commitment to support developing countries.” Climate crisis and hunger The agenda of ending world hunger and malnutrition in all its forms by 2030 is facing formidable challenges as the climate crisis and hunger are linked inextricably, and that along with several major drivers have put the world off track. This has been more so after the COVID-19 pandemic has doubled the population under chronic hunger from 130 million to 270 million. Analysis by the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) shows that a 2°C rise in average global temperature from pre-industrial levels will see a staggering 189 million additional people in the grip of hunger. Vulnerable communities, a vast majority of whom rely on subsistence agriculture, fishing, and livestock and, who contribute the least to the climate crisis, will continue to bear the brunt of the impacts with limited means to cushion the blow. The absence of social protection measures such as food safety nets forces the food insecure to depend on humanitarian aid for survival. Across the world, up to 811 million people do not have enough food and as per the recent WFP estimates, 41 million people in 43 countries are at risk of sliding into famine. The poor and the vulnerable continue to be hardest hit. Even though they contribute least to greenhouse gas emissions, people in low-income countries face the worst impacts. The top 10 most food-insecure countries contribute 0.08% of global carbon emissions. Crop failures, water scarcity, and declining nutrition threaten millions who rely on agriculture, fishing, and livestock (it must be reiterated that they are those who contribute the least to the climate crisis). The climate crisis will impact food production and livelihoods but also, as per the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, threaten nutrition through multi-breadbasket failures. Adaptation is urgent Adaptation and resilience-building for poor and vulnerable communities are critical for food security. The focus though has been on reducing emissions and targets related as these are essential to protect livelihoods and the food security of millions. In its outcome document, the conference took note of how climate and weather extremes and their adverse impacts on people and nature will continue to increase with rising temperatures. There is a strong emphasis on the urgency of scaling up action and support, including finance, capacity-building, and technology transfer, to enhance adaptive capacity, strengthen resilience and reduce vulnerability to climate change in line with the best available science, and considering the priorities and needs of developing country parties. Significantly, the statement welcomes the national adaptation plans that deepen the understanding and implementation of adaptation actions and priorities. This is an area where India has a huge role to play with its ongoing and now substantial policy work at the national and State levels. The outcome document also extends an invitation to the IPCC to present at the COP27 (in Egypt) the findings from the contribution of Working Group II to its Sixth Assessment Report, including adaptation needs to further the understanding of global, regional, and local impacts of climate change, response options, and adaptation needs. Adaptation finance The recent pledges made by the developed countries on enhancing climate finance to support adaptation in developing countries to adjust to worsening climate crisis impacts were welcomed in the outcome document from COP26. It observed that the contributions made to the Adaptation Fund and the Least Developed Countries Fund, represent significant progress when compared with previous efforts. The current climate finance for adaptation and base of stakeholders remain insufficient to respond to worsening climate change impacts. “(COP) calls upon multilateral development banks, other financial institutions, and the private sector to enhance finance mobilization to deliver the scale of resources needed to achieve climate plans, particularly for adaptation, and encourages Parties to continue to explore innovative approaches and instruments for mobilizing finance for adaptation from private sources.” Mr. Guterres, at an emergency summit in Milan, Italy, at the end of September, had called for funding for developing nations, 50% for adaptation and resilience to the climate crisis. He said, “Adaptation needs are increasing every year.” “Developing countries already need $70 billion for adaptation, and that figure could more than quadruple to $300 billion a year by the end of this decade.” The WFP is working with communities to adapt to the changing climate that threatens their ability to grow food, secure incomes, and withstand shocks. It has supported 39 governments, helping them realise their national climate ambitions. In 2020, the WFP implemented climate risk management solutions in 28 countries, which benefited more than six million people so that they are better prepared for climate shocks and stresses and can recover faster. In India, the WFP and the Ministry of Environment, Climate Change, and Forestry are planning to develop a best practice model on adaptation and mitigation with potential support from the Adaptation Fund. Here are a few key areas or measures we should focus on. First, creating resilient livelihoods and food security solutions by protecting and improving the livelihood of vulnerable communities. Second, the adaptation of climate-resilient food crops, such as millets, for nutritional security. Third, enabling women’s control and ownership of production processes and assets and increased value addition and local solutions. Fourth, promoting a resilient agriculture sector by creating sustainable opportunities, access to finance, and innovation for small-holder farmers, with climate information and preparedness. Fifth, building capacity and knowledge of civil society and governments for vulnerability analysis to increase food security by addressing the link between food security and climate risk. Fixing broken food systems The climate crisis impacts all parts of the global food system — from production to consumption. It destroys land and crops, kills livestock, depletes fisheries, and cuts off transport to markets. This impacts food production, availability, diversity, access, and safety. At the same time, food systems impact the environment and are a driver of climate change. COP26 came after the pioneering UN Food Systems Summit in September, which was a wake-up call that food systems are unequal, strained, or broken as 811 million people are going to bed hungry. The United Nations Special Envoy for Food Systems Summit, Agnes Kalibata, has called for an unprecedented focus on food systems — food and agriculture — by ensuring that COP27 has a dedicated focus on this. Reimagining food systems requires us to look at food systems through the prism of climate change adaptation and mitigation, which must also entail making them resilient to climate change and pandemics while making them green and sustainable. We are on the cusp of transformation to make the world free of hunger by 2030 and deliver promises for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), with strong cooperation and partnership between governments, citizens, civil society organisations, and the private sector. This requires reimagining the food system towards balancing growth and sustainability, mitigating climate change, ensuring healthy, safe, quality, and affordable food, with investment from governments and the private sector in supporting farmers while maintaining biodiversity, improving resilience, and offering attractive income and work environment to smallholders and youth. Bishow Parajuli is United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) Representative and Country Director to India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cop27-in-egypt-must-focus-on-food-systems/article37833919.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Recast this apples-and-oranges ranking method||The ranking of State-run higher education institutions (HEIs) together with centrally funded institutions such as the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), the Indian Institute of Science, the National Institutes of Technology, central universities, etc. using the National Institutional Ranking Framework, or the NIRF (a methodology adopted by the Ministry of Education, Government of India, to rank institutions of higher education in India), is akin to comparing apples and oranges. The outline, institute data The NIRF outlines a methodology to rank HEIs across the country, which is based on a set of metrics for the ranking of HEIs as agreed upon by a core committee of experts set up by the then Ministry of Human Resources Development (now the Ministry of Education), Government of India. The rationale to compare State universities and colleges with the Ivy League of India, to which the Central government is committed to sponsoring resources and infrastructure, is inexplicable. The Central government earmarked the sums, Rs. 7,686 crore and Rs. 7,643.26 crore to the IITs and central universities, respectively, in the Union Budget 2021. According to an All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) 2019-20 report, there are 1,043 HEIs; of these, 48 are central universities, 135 are institutions of national importance, one is a central open university, 386 are State public universities, five are institutions under the State legislature act, 14 are State open universities, 327 are State private universities, one is a State private open university, 36 are government deemed universities, 10 are government aided deemed universities and 80 are private deemed universities. A close study of this data shows that 184 are centrally funded institutions (out of 1,043 HEIs in the country) to which the Government of India generously allocates its financial resources in contrast to inadequate financial support provided by State governments to their respective State public universities and colleges. Ironically, out of the total student enrolment, the number of undergraduate students is the largest (13,97,527) in State public universities followed by State open universities (9,22,944). Deficiencies in the focus The financial health of State-sponsored HEIs is an open secret with salary and pension liabilities barely being managed. Hence, rating such institutions vis-à-vis centrally funded institutions does not make any sense. Interestingly, no agency carries out a cost-benefit analysis of State versus centrally funded HEIs on economic indicators such as return on investment the Government made into them vis-à-vis the contribution of their students in nation building parameters such as the number of students who passed out serving in rural areas, tier-2 and tier 3 cities of the country and bringing relief to common man. While students who pass out of elite institutions generally prefer to move abroad in search of higher studies and better career prospects, a majority of State HEIs contribute immensely in building the local economy. Given the challenges State HEIs face in their day-to-day functioning, the NIRF seems to have taken cognisance of only the strength of institutions while completely disregarding the problems and the impediments they encounter, hence, disallowing a level-playing-field to State universities and colleges vis-à-vis their centrally funded counterparts. It must be noted that 420 universities in India are located in rural areas. Scare resources and the lackadaisical attitude of States preclude such institutions from competing with centrally sponsored and strategically located HEIs. Ranking parameters The NIRF ranks HEIs on five parameters: teaching, learning and resources; research and professional practice; graduation outcome; outreach and inclusivity, and perception. To take stock of the situation, let us first analyse two important NIRF parameters in the context of State HEIs. Teaching, learning and resources includes metrics viz. student strength including doctoral students, faculty-student ratio with an emphasis on permanent faculty, a combined metric for faculty with the qualification of PhD (or equivalent) and experience, and financial resources and their utilisation. In the absence of adequate faculty strength, most State HEIs lag behind in this crucial NIRF parameter for ranking. The depleting strength of teachers, from 15,18,813 (2015-16) to 15,03,156 (2019-20), as a result of continuous retirement and low recruitment has further weakened the faculty-student ratio with an emphasis on permanent faculty in HEIs. Research and professional practice encompasses a combined metric for publications, a combined metric for quality of publications, intellectual property rights/patents and the footprint of projects, professional practice and executive development programmes. As most laboratories need drastic modernisation in keeping pace with today’s market demand, it is no wonder that State HEIs fare miserably in this parameter as well while pitted against central institutions. Interestingly the share of PhD students is the highest in State public universities, i.e. 29.8%, followed by institutes of national importance (23.2%), deemed universities – private (13.9%) and central universities (13.6%), while the funds State HEIs receive are much less when compared to centrally funded institutions. As quality research publications and the number of patents filed in State HEIs are contingent on well-equipped laboratories, modern libraries and generously funded infrastructure, it is imperative for policymakers to reorient financial allocation strategies towards State HEIs. Similarly, three other NIRF parameters too offer little opportunity for State HEIs to compete with their better and conveniently placed competitors for ranking. The total enrolment in higher education has been estimated to be 38.5 million — 19.6 million boys and 18.9 million girls (female students constitute 49% of the total enrolment). Where State HEIs struggle There is another aspect: State HEIs are struggling to embrace emerging technologies involving artificial intelligence, machine learning, block chains, smart boards, handheld computing devices, adaptive computer testing for student development, and other forms of educational software/hardware to remain relevant as per the New Education Policy. Therefore, when these two are put together, ranking HEIs on a common scale purely based on strengths without taking note of the challenges and the weaknesses they face is not justified. It is time the NIRF plans an appropriate mechanism to rate the output and the performance of institutes in light of their constraints and the resources available to them. Milind Kumar Sharma teaches in the Department of Production and Industrial Engineering, M.B.M. Engineering College, Faculty of Engineering and Architecture, Jai Narain Vyas University, Jodhpur (erstwhile University of Jodhpur). The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/recast-this-apples-and-oranges-ranking-method/article37833921.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Pique and petulance||In filing a quick appeal against the grant of statutory bail to lawyer-activist Sudha Bharadwaj, the NIA has displayed nothing but pique and petulance over a well-reasoned order of the Bombay High Court. The bail order itself is a much-delayed relief, considering that the right to ‘default bail’ had accrued to her as early as January 2019, on completing 90 days in prison and when there was neither a charge sheet nor a lawful order extending the time limit for filing it from 90 to 180 days. The High Court is right in concluding that the Sessions Court had no jurisdiction to grant such an extension, and subsequently take cognisance of the charge sheet filed in February 2019, when a duly constituted Special Court under the NIA Act was already functioning in Pune. Further, the court has given the benefit of default bail — an indefeasible right under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. that arises when the investigating agency fails to submit its final report within the stipulated period — only to Ms. Bharadwaj, as only her application was pending at that time; while eight others had not specifically sought bail on that ground, even though they had questioned the legality of the manner in which the court had taken cognisance of the case against them. On this, case law favours the view that if one fails to seek statutory bail at the appropriate time, and a charge sheet is laid subsequently, the right to default bail is extinguished. The NIA’s appeal exemplifies the hard-line approach of the Union government in prosecuting the Bhima Koregaon case under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act based on a dubious premise that some violent incidents that occurred in the aftermath of the Elgaar Parishad event, on December 31, 2017, were part of a sinister Maoist conspiracy. A local investigation against the attack on a commemoration event organised by Dalits transmogrified into an anti-terrorism probe. After convincing the Supreme Court that it was not a case of suppression of political dissent, the Centre pursued the probe vigorously, and got bail denied to everyone — save for a temporary respite on medical grounds to Telugu poet-activist Varavara Rao. There is also no sign of an early trial. One of those held, Father Stan Swamy, succumbed to illness exacerbated by prison conditions. There are reports that some of purported evidence in this case may have been planted remotely on their devices. It is unfortunate that courts seem to be considering bail only on medical grounds, and in this one case, on the ground of default. It is time they examined the merit behind the sweeping claims in the charge sheet and also took heed of Supreme Court judgments that have granted bail even under UAPA if the trial is unlikely to be completed in the foreseeable future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pique-and-petulance/article37833914.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Corridors of death||The death of five elephants, four of them cows, caused by trains colliding with them, and all within a week, has again highlighted the gaps in efforts to reduce man-animal conflicts in the country. On November 26, the first accident occurred near Madukkarai in Coimbatore district, Tamil Nadu that has seen many an elephant death on a rail track stretch that extends up to Kanjikode, Kerala. The second accident was near Jagiroad in Assam’s Morigaon district, four days later. Both accidents were at night. Elephant deaths in railway accidents are not new in India. A reply by the Project Elephant division of the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change in May to a set of RTI questions highlighted reasons other than natural causes as having led to the killing of 1,160 elephants over 11 years ending December 2020; 741 deaths were due to electrocution; railway accidents accounted for 186 cases; poaching 169 and poisoning 64. The pattern of train accidents involving elephants has been studied by different stakeholders, including the Railways, Forest and Wildlife Departments and activists, especially with regard to the Madukkarai stretch. That a greater number of casualties getting reported are in elephant passages has been confirmed by the C&AG in its latest compliance audit report on the Ministry of Railways. There are effective solutions in the case of two causes: electrocution and train hits. Installing hanging solar-powered fences, as has been planned in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, and planting citronella and lemon grass, as done in Golaghat district, Assam, to deter elephants are some of the large-scale options. The authorities should ensure that there are no illegal electric fences or barbed wire fences, which, instead, can be replaced with the solar powered ones. Needless to say, the participation of local communities is crucial. The critical role elephants play in biodiversity conservation must be highlighted, especially to those living in areas close to elephant corridors. The Environment Ministry and Ministry of Railways should also expedite proposals for elevated wildlife crossings or eco-bridges and underpasses for the safe passage of animals. A finding of the C&AG was that after the construction of underpasses and overpasses in the areas under the jurisdiction of East Central and Northeast Frontier Railways, there was no death reported. The authorities should also expedite other recommendations made by the C&AG such as a periodic review of identification of elephant passages, more sensitisation programmes for railway staff, standardisation of track signage, installation of an animal detection system (transmitter collars) and ‘honey bee’ sound-emitting devices near all identified elephant passages. Of the 29,964 elephants in India, nearly 14,580 are in the southern region, and the State governments concerned and the Centre need to find lasting solutions to the problem of man-animal conflicts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/corridors-of-death/article37833915.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Australian wine may land ahead of FTA||India and Australia are confident of sealing an early harvest trade deal by the year end or early next month, which could include some market access concessions for Australian wines, Canberra’s special envoy to India and former Prime Minister Tony Abbott said on Friday. Mr. Abbott, who met Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday, said a good trade deal with India would not only strengthen the Quad but also set the tone for more such pacts between Australia, India and other major trading nations. Accusing China of ‘weaponising’ trade in recent years, Mr. Abbott, who was the Prime Minister when Australia signed a comprehensive free trade deal with China, said the Asian nation’s current trade tensions with many countries provide an opportunity for India to emerge as a reliable substitute in global supply chains. “And what we’ve seen from China, particularly us in Australia, is we’ve seen the weaponisation of trade, something like $20 billion worth of Australian trade has been arbitrarily disrupted, or suspended by China. It’s very difficult under these circumstances to see China as a trusted partner,” he said. “India is in a very different situation, with democracy, the rule of law and a good understanding that business and government are substantially independent of each other and the sanctity of contracts has to be respected. So, this is why I think that the difficulties with China certainly mean that India has quite a unique opportunity to step in, particularly with supply chains that need to be absolutely reliable,” Mr. Abbott said. ‘High ambition’ Terming the meeting with Mr. Goyal productive, he said that both sides were confident of a ‘very good, larger-rather-than-smaller’ early harvest trade deal by the end of this month or early next month, with a bigger Free Trade Agreement (FTA) to be concluded in 2022. There is very ‘high ambition’ from the Australian side as no other country can make a bigger contribution to the ‘Make In India’ initiative, the Australian envoy added. While India’s agriculture concerns could be protected through carve-outs in the FTA, Mr. Abbott said he hoped to ‘make progress’ on import duties on Australian wines in the early accord. “I think anyone who currently enjoys Australian wine knows just how good it is. And I am hoping that more and more people will have an affordable opportunity to experience this great Australian product in the months and years ahead,“ he said. “I want to stress that Australia is not a predatory trader, we are a free and fair trader. And our objective... is to partner,” he emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/australian-wine-may-land-ahead-of-fta/article37833885.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Security will aid fintech retain user trust: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked fintech firms to focus on ensuring greater security in their transactions to retain the trust of people who have embraced digital payments and financial technologies. Stressing that it is time to convert India’s fast fintech adoption, reflected in high volumes of UPI and other digital transactions, into a ‘fintech revolution that helps to achieve financial empowerment of every single citizen of this country’, the PM said certain considerations needed attention in this endeavour. “Achieving this huge scale means that people from all walks of life have shown immense trust by accepting digital payments and technologies. Trust is a responsibility that you have, and you need to ensure that interests of the people are secure.” He emphasised that fintech innovation would thus be incomplete without ‘fintech security innovation’. “India’s finance is a lifeblood for the economy and technology is its carrier. Both are equally important for achieving Antyodaya as well as Sarvodaya,” he said at the InFinity Forum organised by the International Financial Services Centres Authority and Bloomberg.  India’s finance is the lifeblood of the economy; tech is its carrier||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/security-will-aid-fintech-retain-user-trust-pm/article37833886.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||I am a big believer in blockchain tech: Ambani||Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani on Friday said he is a big believer in blockchain technology, and it is very important for a trust-based, equitable society. “Blockchain is a technology I believe in and it’s different from cryptocurrency,” Mr. Ambani said at the International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA)’s InFinity Forum. “It is a very important framework for just and trust-based transaction and trust-based society, which is a prerequisite for all of us.” Mr. Ambani said both data and digital infrastructure were strategically important for India and every other nation in the world. To a query on what will drive the growth of fintech, he said finance was at the heart of everything and “we have not digitised finance to its full potential.” “And the opportunity, as I see all these technologies emerging, is the opportunity to make sure that we actually adopt a decentralised model of finance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/i-am-a-big-believer-in-blockchain-tech-ambani/article37833888.ece
04 December 2021||New delhi,||Survey suggests fastest services growth since 2011||India’s services sector activity expanded at the second-fastest pace in more than a decade during November, driven by sustained rise in new work and improvement in market conditions, a monthly survey suggested. The seasonally-adjusted India Services Business Activity Index was at 58.1 in November, fractionally lower than 58.4 in October. The November figure points to the fastest rise in output since July 2011. For the fourth straight month, the services sector witnessed an expansion in output. In Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) parlance, a print above 50 means expansion. “The recovery of the Indian services sector was extended to November,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Although companies forecast higher business activity volumes, the expansion is expected to be restricted by price pressures. Meanwhile, the COVID-19 pandemic and the related travel restrictions reportedly caused a further drop in international demand for Indian services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/survey-suggests-fastest-services-growth-since-2011/article37833912.ece
04 December 2021||new delhi,||‘Joint global action needed to control tech’||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday called for a “collective global action” for effective regulation of ever-changing technology and tech-driven payment systems. So far, regulators are only ‘catching-up’ in regulating ever-evolving technology and hence, there is no one-point formula with which it can be regulated. Her comments also come against the backdrop of the government preparing to come out with legislation to regulate cryptocurrencies. “When you are looking at data as one of the revenue-generating options, to regulate it will have to be a collective effort,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/joint-global-action-needed-to-control-tech/article37833892.ece
04 December 2021||mumbai,||‘NBFCs’ bad loans may rise on RBI norms’||The recent clarification by the Reserve Bank of India on non-performing advances (NPA) may increase non-banking financial companies’ (NBFC) bad loans by a third, says a report. Last month, the RBI had provided clarification on income recognition asset classification and provisioning (IRAC) norms for banks, NBFCs and All-IndiaFinancial Institutions. “The RBI’s clarification on non-performing advances (NPAs) accounting is likely to increase NPAs by around one-third for non-banking finance companies (NBFCs),” India Ratings and Research said in a report on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nbfcs-bad-loans-may-rise-on-rbi-norms/article37833893.ece
04 December 2021||new delhi,||Govt. moots national retail trade policy||The government proposes to have a national retail trade policy for creating a conducive environment to streamline the growth of all formats of such trade, and stakeholder consultations are being held for that, Parliament was informed on Friday. Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash in a written reply to a query in the Rajya Sabha said a conducive environment can be created by simplifying rules and regulations. “The government proposes to have a national retail trade policy for creating a conducive environment for streamlining growth of all formats of retail trade,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-moots-national-retail-trade-policy/article37833894.ece
04 December 2021||New Delhi,||DoT releases bank guarantee of around Rs 9,200 cr of Airtel, VIL, Jio||The DoT has released bank guarantees of Rs. 9,200 crore of Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and Jio, deposited for licence fee and spectrum charges, sources said.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dot-releases-bank-guarantee-of-around-rs-9200-cr-of-airtel-vil-jio/article37833889.ece
04 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Preparing for shootout lottery||As a tie-breaker tool, shootouts probably pose the sternest of tests for teams. A few teams at the Junior World Cup here have had to face this challenge. Not easy “It’s not easy to train for it, because in training it looks easy. Under pressure, it’s a different thing altogether. So when we train for shootouts, if you don’t score you are out. It’s basically the same as in a match,” said Germany head coach Valentin Altenburg. According to South Africa head coach Sihle Ntuli, it’s a lot about the training. “We have trained the players a lot, so we have to be ready. The guys who took it (in the classification match against Pakistan) trained for a month. We just let them do what they have been practising. “We normally make two teams and make a competition. I think that helped us. I just share the stories (from the senior team) and moments with the players as much as possible. It’s a lot of pressure,” said Ntuli. Spain coach Alejandro Siri feels a bit of luck is also involved in the shootouts. “It’s a lottery. It’s a fight between the goalkeeper and the players. It’s different from the (penalty) strokes,” said Siri. Goalkeepers find time to practise saving shootout shots. “After penalty corner practice, we take five-six shootouts. The one who goes first takes three, the next one takes two,” said India custodian Prashant Chauhan. Crucial factors Training to save shootout attempts and maintaining one’s composure are crucial factors for a goalkeeper. “I kept calm and trusted my teammates. We practised for the shootouts in the last two months,” said Argentina goalkeeper Nehuen Hernando after his team’s shootout success against France in the semifinals on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/preparing-for-shootout-lottery/article37834311.ece
04 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Mayank’s unbeaten century puts India back on track||Ajaz Patel (four for 73) emerged as the unlikely ‘hometown’ hero but Mayank Agarwal’s sparking unbeaten century (120 n.o., 246b, 14x4, 4x6) overshadowed the New Zealand finger spinner’s exploits and helped stage India’s recovery on the first day of the second Test at the Wankhede Stadium here on Friday. Riding on Mayank’s fourth Test hundred, India recovered from 80 for three to end the proceedings of a shortened day’s play due to wet outfield at 221 for four. Mayank and Wriddhiman Saha will hope to carry on their unbroken association of 61 on the second morning to lead India to safety on a pitch that has been assisting spinners since day one. Injury blows While the groundstaff was busy making the outfield playable after unseasonal rain in the lead-up to the game on Friday morning, both the camps announced injury blows. Ajinkya Rahane (left hamstring strain), Ravindra Jadeja (right forearm) and Ishant Sharma (dislocated left little finger) were ruled out for India, while New Zealand suffered a blow with captain Kane Williamson (left elbow) declared unfit. As a result, India didn’t have to tinker with its batting line-up to accommodate Virat Kohli. Once Kohli marked his return to the team by winning the toss, Mayank and Shubman Gill took over when the game resumed at noon, two and a half hours after the scheduled start. Flurry of boundaries While Gill started with a flurry of boundaries off Tim Southee and Kyle Jamieson, Mayank was in his element once spin was introduced in the eighth over. Ajaz, the lef-arm spinner who migrated to New Zealand from Mumbai more than two decades ago, persisted with an aggressive mindset in a marathon spell. He was eventually rewarded handsomely, snaring three wickets in 10 balls. A delivery after Tom Blundell made a mess of a stumping attempt when Ajaz beat Gill in flight, he enticed an edge off the Indian’s willow to Ross Taylor at slips. Double breakthrough In his next over, he got a double breakthrough. A ball after a missed leg-before review, Cheteshwar Pujara charged down and was undone by the dip and was bowled. Four deliveries later, Kohli was adjudged leg-before with the bat and the pad close to each other and TV umpire Virender Sharma having no conclusive evidence to overturn Anil Chaudhary’s decision. From 80 for no loss, India was 80 for three in the space of 16 balls. From then on, it was a Mayank show with the opener displaying a wide array of strokes. The highlight was the lofted cover drive off Ajaz that broke the shackles and landed over the extra-cover fence. While Ajaz earned a fourth scalp, getting Shreyas’s inside-edge onto his pad that ballooned to Blundell, Mayank continued to sizzle and Saha batted effortlessly. A trademark cover drive off Daryl Mitchell ended Mayank’s two-year wait for a Test hundred. India will hope he carries on in the same vein on day two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mayanks-unbeaten-century-puts-india-back-on-track/article37834243.ece
04 December 2021||Auckland,||Don’t know if I will ever walk again, says Chris Cairns||Former New Zealand all-rounder Chris Cairns does not know if he will ever walk again but says he is lucky to be alive after a series of life-threatening surgeries left him paralysed waist down. The 51-year-old suffered an aortic dissection — an often fatal rare heart condition — in August and was on life support. He was saved by four open heart surgeries but he had a spinal stroke on the operating table. Four months later, he is living at the University of Canberra hospital in a special rehabilitation facility. “I don’t know if I will ever walk again and I have made my peace with that,” he was quoted as saying in stuff.co.nz . Will be different “It is now about understanding I can lead a full and enjoyable life in a wheelchair but at the same time knowing it will be different.” Cairns, who played 62 Tests and 215 ODIs for New Zealand between 1989 to 2006, is facing the possibility of spending the rest of his life in a wheelchair but he said he is simply “lucky to still be here”. “It has been 14 weeks since I had my injury and it feels like a lifetime when I look back. I have zero recollection of the eight or nine days when I had four open heart surgeries. “My wife Mel was with me the whole time and I have to refer back to her constantly with regards to what was going on. I was completely out of it.”  Cairns feels his sporting career is helping his recovery as he hopes to be able to walk again. “I will try and squeeze everything I can in over the next 12-24 months. Having been in a career when bones and muscles take six weeks to repair, there is no timeline here.”  “I hope I will be going back on family holidays with the kids but I may be wheelchair bound for the rest of my life. At least I have the chance to be here and live life in a different way if that happens.”  I have zero recollection of the eight or nine days when I had four open heart surgeries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dont-know-if-i-will-ever-walk-again/article37834548.ece
04 December 2021||Coimbatore,||Vishnu, Amir will fight it out||It is going to be a royal battle between the ever-versatile Vishnu Prasad (MSport) and an ambitious Amir Sayed (Ahura Racing) in the premier Formula LGB4 class in the third round of the 24th JK Tyre FMSCI National racing championship at the Kari Motor Speedway in Chettipalayam this weekend. The experienced Vishnu enjoyed a great start to the season, but could not prove his might in the second round as his car lacked the firepower. Amir made the best use of the situation for a maiden finish on top of the podium for his team. Can strike big But the championship leader Vishnu (34pts) from Chennai firmly believes that he has the ability to strike big. Amir knows that well and so do the other strong contenders, A. Sandeep Kumar, Arya Singh, Tijil Rao and T.S. Diljith, from Team Dark Don Racing. However, Ruhaan Alva of MSport faces no such big threat in the JK Tyre Novice Cup. The youngster from Bengaluru has maintained a clean slate and is sitting pretty at the top of the table with 60 points. Anish D. Shetty (Hubli) was the man in command in the JK Tyre Royal Enfield Continental GT Cup but a slight slip-up in the final race of the second round proved costly. The championship leader not only lost crucial points but also his position at the top to Allwin Xavier (Thrissur, 32 points). It is only two points that separate the two and Anish will look to take sweet revenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vishnu-amir-will-fight-it-out/article37833891.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Carlsen pressing for a win in Game 6||Magnus Carlsen escaped some serious time-trouble by reeling off five moves in the final minute of the first time-control against Ian Nepomniachtchi as the sixth game of their World chess championship title-match was tantalisingly poised after 48 moves in Dubai on Friday. Unlike most of the previous five games, the latest battle provided more intense exchanges. The situation became interesting when Carlsen chose to trade his queen for two black rooks. Amid mounting tension, Nepo seemed to have missed a winning continuation, as suggested by the computer-driven evaluation but it was obvious that the key move was not so easy to find under time-pressure. He let go of the advantage with this queen-move, instead of a pawn-capture, on the 36th turn and thereafter Carlsen came out better after the 40th move. After 40 moves, with both players armed with another hour on the clock for the next 20 moves, Carlsen was looking to improve his position while Nepo had to battle to salvage a draw. Viswanathan Anand, in the role of a commentator, maintained that Carlsen held some serious winning chances after the 40th move and suggested that Nepo forgot about the missed opportunity in the closing stages of the fourth hour of the contest and refocused on the task ahead. Carlsen was making slow progress without any clear plan of breaking Nepo’s fortress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-pressing-for-a-win-in-game-6/article37834231.ece
04 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,||TN storms into the quarterfinals||Tamil Nadu blanked Punjab 6-0 to take its tally to seven points, top Group H, and move into the quarterfinals of the National senior women’s football championship on Friday. Once again it was Sandhiya who led the charge, netting three more to take her tally to 12 goals from just three matches. Durga, Kowsalya and Priyadarshini were the other scorers. Bengal routs Telangana In Bengal’s 20-0 rout of Telangana, Huidrom Ranjita Devi netted nine goals. Naorem Sumila Chanu and Gita Das scored three each. The final day of the league phase also saw Assam (from Group C), Goa (Group D) and Maharashtra (Group E) making it to the last eight. After a day’s rest, the quarterfinals will be played on Sunday.  The results (preliminary league): Group C: Assam 2 (Sonia Marak 35, Mina Basumatary 49) bt Himachal Pradesh 1 (Poonam 52); Bihar 2 (Archana Kumari 55, Baby Kumari 59) drew with Rajasthan 2 (Riya Jasrotia 83 & 90+4).   Group D: Jharkhand 2 (Alisha Tigga 24 & 63) bt Delhi 1 (Anjali 55); Goa 3 (Rizella Cia Almeida 19 & 24, Sushmita Jadhav 45+3) bt Karnataka 0.   Group E: Maharashtra 1 (Trupti Deep 62) drew with Sikkim 1 (Suju Hangma Limboo 67); Jammu & Kashmir 1 (Pooja Devi 41) bt Arunchal Pradesh 0.   Group H: Tamil Nadu 6 (Durga 25, Kowsalya 45+2, Sandhiya 57, 84 & 90+2, Priyadarshini 87) bt Punjab 0; Bengal 20 (Huidrom Ranjita Devi 10, 20, 25, 34, 39, 47, 58, 71 & 90+2) Naorem Sumila Chanu 11, 18 & 55, Gita Das 13, 22 & 35, Dular Marandi 28 & 34, Kajal Das 68 & 84, Sandhya Maity 90) bt Telangana 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-storms-into-the-quarterfinals/article37833897.ece
04 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Germany proves too hot for India, meets Argentina||Germany, backed by solid homework, produced a clinical performance to outplay India 4-2 in the semifinals of the men’s Junior hockey World Cup at a rain-soaked Kalinga Stadium on Friday. Germany will meet Argentina in the summit clash on Sunday while India will face France for the bronze. Germany’s balance in defence and attack served it well. Its robust defence denied space to the hosts, neutralising most of the moves outside the circle. The well-built Germans, who pressed hard right through the contest, scored off their second penalty corner when Erik Kleinlein slotted home a rebound in the 15th minute. The Germans piled more misery by scoring thrice within four minutes in the second quarter. The Indian backline was rattled by the high intensity attacks and a hapless Pawan had a tough time under the bar. Philip Holzmueller’s hit, which lobbed in following a deflection, off a cross from the right resulted in the second goal in the 21st minute. Hannes Muller’s reverse hit, off a loose ball inside the circle, made it 3-0. India pulled one back as Rahul Rajbhar's pass, from a narrow angle, was deftly deflected home by Sudeep Chirmako in the 25th minute. However, Christopher Kutter converted a penalty stroke as Germany had the upper hand going into half-time. India was slightly better in the third quarter but continued to falter in basics, including passing. It was left to Boby Singh Dhami’s 60th-minute strike to make it 4-2. Argentina edged out France 3-1 in a shootout to enter the final after 16 years. The match ended on an unpleasant note after a minor scuffle between the French and Argentine players.  The results: Semifinals: Argentina vs France 0-0 (Shootout: Argentina bt France 3-1); Germany 4 (Erik Kleinlein 15, Philip Holzmueller 21, Hannes Muller 24, Christopher Kutter 25) bt India 2 (Sudeep Chirmako 25, Boby Singh Dhami 60).   5th-8th places: Belgium vs Spain 2-2 (Shootout: Belgium bt Spain 4-3); Netherlands bt Malaysia 9-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/germany-proves-too-hot-for-india-meets-argentina/article37834241.ece
04 December 2021||London,||All eyes on ‘action hero’ Stokes||Ben Stokes is poised to make his eagerly awaited return to international cricket in the Ashes — and for England it is not a moment too soon. The charismatic all-rounder has not played a competitive match since July, when he took an indefinite break to focus on his mental health and to rest an injured finger. Returning to duty But in October he made himself available for the five-Test series in Australia, which starts in Brisbane next Wednesday, and was duly added to an England squad captained by Joe Root, a close friend. It was a decision greeted with widespread joy by England fans, who had feared their side could be fatally weakened without Stokes in Australia, where the hosts are unbeaten in their past 10 Ashes Tests. Stokes’ figures — he has scored 4,631 runs, including 10 hundreds in 71 Tests at an average of just over 37 and taken 163 wickets at 31.38 — are solid rather than spectacular. But look beyond the numbers and there is a cricketer capable of match-changing spells with both bat and ball, as well as a brilliant close-catcher. Stokes led the charge with a match-winning 135 not out in England’s astounding one-wicket win over Australia at Headingley in 2019, an innings that has entered cricket folklore. Yet by that stage he had already made a telling impact with his lively fast-medium bowling, taking three wickets to keep England — dismissed for just 67 in the first innings — in the game. That stupendous innings in Leeds came just over a month after Stokes won the Man-of-the-Match award for an unbeaten 84 in the World Cup final at Lord’s, where England triumphed against New Zealand. Stokes made his Test debut in the second match of the 2013-14 Ashes in Australia, which England lost 5-0. Stokes’ career was put on pause in September 2017 following a fracas outside a nightclub that same month. The mainstay Stokes reminded the Australians he was still a force to be reckoned with when they toured England in 2019, scoring two centuries including his astonishing Headingley innings in the drawn series. He has become a mainstay of the England batting line-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-eyes-on-action-hero-stokes/article37834299.ece
04 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Fairytale finish for Sabarinath||Local lad V.S. Sabarinath complted his fine run in the State tennis championship by winning his maiden senior title at the TTC courts on Friday. The 17-year-old TTC trainee, who struck a purple patch to upset seeded players from the quarterfinals, scalped second seeded Ashik Hussain 6-3, 6-0 in the final. However, Sabarinath had to concede the boys under-18 final to Vignesh due to fatigue and cramps. Sabarinath was leading by a set when he withdrew midway through the second. Shrijana Thapa won the women’s singles crown after crushing top seed Nivedita Shankar 6-1, 6-1. Shrijana completed a double by claiming the under-18 title. She again beat Nivedita by the same margin.  The results (finals): Men: V.S. Sabarinath bt Ashik Hussain 6-3, 6-0. Doubles: K. Gautham & Arun Raj bt G.S. Sanjay & V.S. Visakh 7-5, 5-5 (concd).   Boys: Under-18: Vignesh S. Jeev bt V.S. Sabarinath 3-6, 3-0 (concd). Doubles: Vignesh S. Jeev & Ryan bt S.D. Adithyan & Adwaith 6-0, 6-1.   Under-16: Karan Thapa bt S. Adarsh 6-1, 4-6, 6-2. Under-14: V.S. Sreenath bt Abel Joe Manoj 6-1, 6-1.   Women: Shrijana Thapa bt Nivedita Sankar 6-1, 6-1.   Girls: Under-18: Shrijana Thapa bt Nivedita Shankar 6-1, 6-1. Under-16: Anushka Bhola bt A.R. Sreelekshmi 6-4, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fairytale-finish-for-sabarinath/article37834653.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Bengaluru FC will look to infuse fresh life||Bengaluru FC will look to infuse fresh life into what has been a pedestrian start to its Indian Super League (ISL) campaign, when it meets defending champion Mumbai City FC at the Bambolim stadium on Saturday. After a positive start against NorthEast United FC, Marco Pezzaiuoli’s side has been middling at best, losing 1-3 to Odisha FC and managing a dull 1-1 draw against Kerala Blasters. These are still early days, with just three games done, but another disjointed effort can call into question some of the new coach’s methods and performances of a few senior pros. Good recovery Mumbai City, on the other hand, recovered from a 1-3 loss to Hyderabad FC in brilliant fashion, demolishing the fancied ATK Mohun Bagan 5-1. Vikram Pratap Singh and Bipin Singh were irresistible on the flanks, while forwards Igor Angulo and Cassio Gabriel constantly threatened through the middle. Against NEUFC in the first match, BFC’s defence struggled against a similar kind of threat, and will now need to be doubly wary of Mumbai City’s impressive attack. But in the defeat to Hyderabad, the Mumbai backline was found lacking, a fact the BFC coach pointed to in his pre-match briefing. Both Mourtada Fall and Rahul Bheke have had trouble dealing with balls played behind them. “BFC play a very good style of football and if we don’t prepare ourselves as well as we need to, they will cause us problems,” said Mumbai City coach Des Buckingham. “They’re coached very well and have some excellent players within the system.”  BFC play a very good style of football and if we don’t prepare ourselves as well as we need to, they will cause us problems Des Buckingham Mumbai City FC coach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengaluru-fc-will-look-to-infuse-fresh-life/article37834297.ece
04 December 2021||Nassau,||Daniel Berger is back in the hunt||Daniel Berger returned from a layoff to shoot a superb six-under 66 in the first round of the Hero World Challenge at Albany Golf Course here on Thursday. Berger shared the lead with Abraham Ancer and Rory McIlroy. American Berger, playing his first competitive round since the Ryder Cup in September, stated that he needed the break. “It’s probably the longest break I've had in my career. It was a little scary taking over a month off, but mentally and physically, I needed it,” Berger said. Berger, the son of former Davis Cup tennis player Jay Berger, started the day with four straight birdies. McIlroy had an up and down day. He carded six birdies and an eagle, but slipped on the par-5 ninth with a shot into the water. He made up for it on the 14th, chipping in to get an eagle. “I’m happy with how I responded on the back nine after that (shot into the water). I had a 5-under in the back nine,” McIlroy said. On the mishit, McIlroy said, “I committed to the shot, but I just didn't make a great swing.” For World No. 12 Ancer, it was all about riding a wave of confidence. Earlier this year, he took the 2021 WGC-FedEx St. Jude Invitational title to become the fourth Mexican player to win on the PGA Tour and the first to win on the European Tour. Ancer believes that he belongs with the top guns. “I feel that I've been able to improve my game every year. I feel I can compete in big events and majors,” Ancer said. Justin Thomas held the lead briefly on seven-under, but a missed six-foot putt saw him make a double bogey on the 18th hole. Thomas played the round in sunglasses, having undergone LASIK surgery around 10 days ago.  Thomas, Webb Simpson and Brooks Koepka are tied fourth, one stroke behind.  The scores (top four): 66: Daniel Berger, Abraham Ancer, and Rory McIlroy; 67: Webb Simpson, Justin Thomas, and Brooks Koepka.   (The writer is in Nassau at the invitation of Hero MotoCorp).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/daniel-berger-is-back-in-the-hunt/article37834236.ece
04 December 2021||BERLIN,||Haaland’s presence a big boost for Dortmund||Bundesliga’s star strikers Erling Haaland and Robert Lewandowski go head-to-head on Saturday when Borussia Dortmund hosts Bayern Munich in a top-of-the-table clash. League leader Bayern heads to Signal Iduna Park just one point ahead of the second-placed Dortmund. Haaland, 21, who has scored 19 goals for Dortmund and Norway this season, found the back of the net with a stunning volley in last weekend’s 3-1 win at Wolfsburg. Lot of energy “He give us a lot of energy, he’s a player who can decide games,” Dortmund coach Marco Rose said of Haaland, who has overcome a hip injury. The same can be said of Bayern’s Lewandowski who, after scoring a record 41 Bundesliga goals in 2020-21, has backed it up this season with 25 goals for the club and five for Poland. Bayern has won all of its last six games against Dortmund, but the Bavarians could be missing two key midfielders for the game which will be played in front of a reduced crowd of 15,000 due to increasing COVID-19 cases. Joshua Kimmich is definitely out as he continues to quarantine at home after testing positive for coronavirus. Leon Goretzka is doubtful after leaving training on Thursday with a hip problem. Germany legend Lothar Matthaeus said this week that Haaland’s return, after missing five weeks of action, could see Dortmund end its poor run of results against Bayern. “Dortmund has a chance because Haaland is back and Bayern is missing a leader in Kimmich,” Matthaeus told the international media on Thursday. Bayern is looking to win its 10th straight German league title this season. Matthaeus is concerned Bayern will want to seize the chance to assert itself over its nearest league rival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/haalands-presence-a-big-boost-for-dortmund/article37834302.ece
04 December 2021||Madrid,||Challengers aim to reduce the gap||Real Sociedad will attempt to halt Real Madrid’s march away from LaLiga’s chasing pack on Saturday in a battle of first against third at the Reale Arena. Madrid has stormed seven points clear at the top of the table after seven consecutive victories in all competitions, with nine wins and a draw recorded in its last 10. Clear favourite Two wins in four days against tough opponents in Sevilla and Athletic Bilbao has seen Madrid emerge as clear favourite in the title race and it remains to be seen now which of those sides beneath it, if any, can keep up. Real Sociedad was on top only a few weeks ago, but a draw with Valencia and defeat by Espanyol has checked the momentum of Imanol Alguacil’s side, which will be desperate to avoid a third consecutive disappointment on Saturday. It might take encouragement from Madrid’s performances, which have not been as convincing as the results. Both Sevilla and Athletic squandered numerous chances at the Santiago Bernabeu and Real Sociedad will believe its attacking talents like Alexander Isak, Mikel Oyarzabal and David Silva can cause problems. Not luck “Seven wins out of seven is not luck,” Madrid coach Carlo Ancelotti insisted. “This team has character. When we don’t win with our quality we have other strengths we can use.” There are also question marks over Madrid’s freshness for this fixture after a demanding couple of weeks during which Ancelotti has continued to stay loyal to a consistent core of players. Only one or two positions have been rotated and that could leave some of Madrid’s more seasoned veterans — like Karim Benzema, Luka Modric, Toni Kroos and Casemiro — lacking physical sharpness. Madrid might also have one eye on next week’s final Champions League group game at home to Inter Milan. Barca cannot afford to take fifth-placed Real Betis lightly on Saturday, with five points still separating Xavi Hernandez’s team and La Liga’s top four. Sevilla, meanwhile, in fourth go up against Villarreal in 12th, with Sevilla looking for a morale-boosting victory before it plays away at Salzburg on Wednesday. Atletico Madrid, the reigning champion, could yet be Real Madrid’s closest challenger in the league after a 4-1 thrashing of Cadiz last weekend offered signs it could be turning a corner. Atletico host struggling Mallorca on Saturday before a crunch trip to Porto on Tuesday, with a demanding week ending with the Madrid derby at the Santiago Bernabeu next weekend.  The fixtures: Saturday: Sevilla v Villarreal, Barcelona v Real Betis, Atletico Madrid v Mallorca, Real Sociedad v Real Madrid. Sunday: Rayo Vallecano v Espanyol, Elche v Cadiz, Levante v Osasuna, Celta Vigo v Valencia. Monday: Getafe v Athletic Bilbao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/challengers-aim-to-reduce-the-gap/article37834650.ece
04 December 2021||BENGALURU,||Pranjala rallies to enter the semifinals||Y. Pranjala came through a tough three-setter 6-7(3), 6-4, 6-4 against Vaidehi Chaudhari to enter the last four of the $15,000 KSLTA ITF World Tennis Tour women’s tennis tournament at the KSLTA courts here on Friday. The fourth seed will now meet Shrivalli Rashmikaa Bhamidipaty, who overcame qualifier Akanksha Dileep Nitture 7-6 (4), 6-4. Top seed Rutuja Bhosale eased past Pratyusha Rachapudi 6-0, 6-3 and will meet third seed Sowjanya Bavisetty, who defeated So-Ra Lee of Korea 6-0, 6-4. Pranjala began shakily, losing serve in the opening game. She recovered but her opponent matched her good play and the match stretched to a tie-break. Once there, Vaidehi took it 7-3. The second set was proceeding very much the same way until Pranjala broke in the ninth game and held serve to take it 6-4. In the third set, the duo traded breaks before a decisive break towards the ends gave Pranjala the set 6-4 and with that a place in the semifinal. In doubles, Vaidehi and Mihika Yadav ousted fourth seeds Sharmada Balu and Sravya Shivani Chilakapudi 6-1, 3-6, [10-7] to enter the title round. The other semifinal between Sai Samhitha Chamarthi-Soha Sadiq and top seeded pair of Sowjanya Bavisetti-Rutuja Bhosale was interrupted by rain and will continue on Saturday.  The results (Indians unless specified): Singles (quarterfinals): Rutuja Bhosale bt R. Prathyusha 6-0, 6-3; Sowjanya Bavisetty bt So-Ra Lee (Kor) 6-0, 6-4; Y. Pranjala bt Vaidehi Chaudhari 6-7 (3), 6-4, 6-4; Shrivalli Rashmikaa Bhamidipathy bt Akanksha Dileep Nitture 7-6 (4), 6-4.   Doubles (semifinals): Vaidehi Chaudhari & Mihika Yadav bt Sharmada Balu & Sravya Shivani Chilakapudi 6-1, 3-6, [10-7]; Sai Samhitha Chamarthi & Soha Sadiq vs. Sowjanya Bavisetti & Rutuja Bhosale 4-5 (to continue on Saturday) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pranjala-rallies-to-enter-the-semifinals/article37834313.ece
04 December 2021||PUNE,||Vaishnavi stuns Sagandikova||Vaishnavi Adkar knocked out top seed Aruzhan Sagandikova of Kazakhstan 6-2, 6-4 in the girls’ semifinals of the ITF grade-3 junior tennis tournament at the Deccan Gymkhana on Friday. It has been a successful return to the international circuit for Vaishnavi after she underwent surgery for an ACL tear and lost nine months. She won the title in Guwahati and finished runner-up in Delhi in the ITF junior circuit. Vaishnavi will face Sara Saito of Japan in the final. In the boys’ semifinals, Woobin Shin of Kroea led 7-6(2), 4-1 when Yuvan Nandal retired with an arm injury. In the boys’ doubles semifinals, Muni Ananthmani and Rushil Khosla beat top seeds Tanapatt Nirundorn and Woobin Shin 4-6, 7-6(1), [12-10].  The results (semifinals): Boys: Woobin Shin (Kor) bt Yuvan Nandal 7-6(2), 4-1 (conceded); Tanapatt Nirundorn (Tha) bt Max Batyutenko (Kaz) 6-4, 7-5.   Doubles: Muni Ananthmani & Rushil Khosla bt Tanapatt Nirundorn (Tha) & Woobin Shin (Kor) 4-6, 7-6(1), [12-10]; Max Batyutenko (Kaz) & Artur Khairutdinov (Kaz) bt NIshant Dabas & Chirag Duhan 6-4, 6-4.   Girls: Vaishnavi Adkar bt Aruzhan Sagandikova (Kaz) 6-2, 6-4; Sara Saito (Jpn) bt Zhanel Rustemova (Kaz) 6-4, 7-6(4).   Doubles: Yun-Yun Li (Tpe) & Sara Saito (Jpn) bt Erkezhan Arystanbekova & Zhanel Rustemova (Kaz) 7-5, 6-2; Aruzhan Sagandikova (Kaz) & Honoko Umeda (Jpn) bt Vaishnavi Adkar & Rutuja Chaphalkar 7-5, 3-6, [10-7] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vaishnavi-stuns-sagandikova/article37834440.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Ahmedabad franchise, SA tour on AGM agenda||The fate of the Ahmedabad franchise in the IPL and India’s tour of South Africa are set to be discussed during the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s 90th Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Kolkata on Saturday. Although the 24-point agenda for the meeting, circulated among the BCCI affiliates on November 13, specifies neither issue, they will be debated as part of the “any other business” with the permission of the chair point. LoI withheld Despite CVC Capital being announced as the franchise owner for Ahmedabad in October, the alleged involvement of its promoters in betting has resulted in withholding the Letter of Intent so far. While the BCCI has approached its legal consultants for advice, it is likely that the AGM will form a sub-committee and authorise it to take a final call on the matter. The developments regarding the revised schedule for India’s tour of South Africa will also be tabled at the AGM. Curtailed tour The outbreak of the new COVID-19 variant (Omicron) has resulted in the Indian team requesting a curtailed tour. The BCCI office-bearers are likely to come up with a revised schedule. Meanwhile, the AGM is expected to finalise Cricket Committees. A former India captain is likely to be appointed head of the Cricket Committee while Brijesh Patel is expected to be reappointed IPL governing council chief. There may be a minor tweak in the senior selection committee.  Brijesh Patel is expected to be reappointed IPL governing council chief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ahmedabad-franchise-sa-tour-on-agm-agenda/article37834228.ece
04 December 2021||Madrid,||Russia enters semifinals||World No. 2 and US Open champion Daniil Medvedev led Russia past Sweden and into a second successive Davis Cup semifinal on Thursday. Medvedev defeated World No. 94 Mikael Ymer 6-4, 6-4 to secure the crucial winning point. Russia faces Germany on Saturday for a place in Sunday’s final. Earlier, fifth-ranked Andrey Rublev had battled back to defeat 171st-ranked Elias Ymer, the older brother of Mikael, 6-2, 5-7, 7-6(3). Russia also made the semifinals in 2019 when the last edition of the Davis Cup was played. Medvedev has won all three singles rubbers he has played in this year’s competition and is yet to drop a set. However, he looked weary on Thursday, hitting 20 unforced errors and nine double-faults against his unheralded Swedish opponent. Russia captain Shamil Tarpischev was in charge of his 100th Davis Cup tie having led the former Soviet Union team for the first time in 1974.  The results (quarterfinals): Russia 2 Sweden 0 [Andrey Rublev bt Elias Ymer 6-2, 5-7, 7-6(3); Daniil Medvedev bt Mikael Ymer 6-4, 6-4] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/russia-enters-semifinals/article37834233.ece
04 December 2021||Brisbane,||Lyon says Australia capable of whitewash||Spinner Nathan Lyon believes his team can sweep the Ashes series, saying England will have doubts about its own chances given its poor record in Australia. The tourists have lost nine of their last 10 Tests in Australia going back more than a decade and haven’t won in Brisbane — where the opening Test starts next Wednesday — since 1986. Veteran Lyon, who is one wicket away from claiming 400 Test scalps, told fellow spin great Shane Warne in a question-answer session for News Corp. that the record would weigh on England. “I think England will have some doubts because a lot of their senior players have been here on tours before and they haven’t won a Test out here,” Lyon said. “If you look at the likes of Joe Root, Ben Stokes and these guys, I think they’re going to be confident. But I think there’ll be some doubt in their minds (about) the Australian side and the way the Australian team go about their business here. “So I’m not sure if it’s fear — because no doubt they’ll have their belief within their squad. But I know in the Australian cricket team, we have the belief that we can win the Ashes 5-0.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-capable-of-whitewash/article37834550.ece
04 December 2021||BENGALURU:,||Priceless Gold claims main event||Rajesh Narredu-trained Priceless Gold (Yash Narredu Up) claimed the Prince Ardent Trophy, the main event of the races held here on Friday (Dec 3). The winner is owned by Poonawalla Racing & Breeding rep. by Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla, Mrs. Y. Poonawalla, Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole and Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Mukul A. Sonawala & M/s. DT Racing & Breeding.  1. SMARTY JONES PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): ICELANDIC (Akshay Kumar) 1, Sacrament (Neeraj) 2, Divine Blessings (Antony Raj) 3 and Defining Power (Dhanu Singh) 4. 1-3/4, 1 and nose. 1m, 27.48s. Rs. 66 (w), 17, 16 and 14 (p), SHP: 38, Thp: 31, Fc: 365, Q: 120, Trinella: 637 and 321, Exacta: 1,197 and 392. Favourite: Defining Power. Owners: Poonawalla Racing & Breeding rep. by Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla, Z. Poonawalla, Mrs. Michelle Y. Poonawalla, . Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z Poonawalla & Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla, & Mr. Chaduranga Kanthraj Urs. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  2. MAHANADI PLATE (1,600m), rated 00 to 25, 4-y-o & over: SHAN E AZEEM (Dhanu Singh) 1, Impelling Power (Darshan) 2, Mrs Thatcher (Neeraj) 3 and Amalfi Sunrise (Arshad) 4. Shd, 1/2 and 1-1/2. 1m, 42.25s. Rs. 192 (w), 51, 21 and 24 (p), SHP: 97, Thp: 58, Fc: 1,031, Q: 540, Trinella: 14,0421 and 1,337. Exacta: 37,977 (c/o). Owner: Mr. Syed Muheeb. Trainer: M. Rajendra Singh.  3. DARIA DAULAT TROPHY (2,000m), rated 20 to 45: ANTIBES (S. John) 1, Scintillating Lass (J.H. Arul) 2, Faith Of Success (Neeraj) 3 and Pissarro (Akshay Kumar) 4. 1-1/4, 1/2 and 2. 2m, 8.77s. Rs. 15 (w), 11 and 22 (p), SHP: 41, Thp: 26, Fc: 55, Q: 77, Trinella: 307 and 14, Exacta: 380 and 88. Favourite: Antibes. Owners: Mr. Shiven Surendranath rep. Diamond Band Rac. Syn. Pvt. Ltd. Mr. Kersi H. Vachha, Mr. Haider Soomar & M/s. Mr. Arun Alagappan Racing LLP. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  4. PRINCE ARDENT TROPHY (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, 4-y-o & over: PRICELESS GOLD (Yash) 1, Watchmystars (P.S. Chouhan) 2, Wings Of Desire (Arshad) 3 and Regal Music (B. Nayak) 4. 3-3/4, dist. and 1. 1m, 12.50s. Rs. 35 (w), 16, 10 and 16 (p), SHP: 35, Thp: 31, Fc: 104, Q: 25, Trinella: 227 and 104, Exacta: 1,408 and 1,041. Watchmystars. Owners: Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd rep. by Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla, Mrs. Michelle Y. Poonawalla, Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole and Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Mukul A Sonawala & M/s. DT Racing & Breeding. Trainer: Rajesh Narredu.  5. TUNGABHADRA PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o & over: FOUR WHEEL DRIVE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Drusilla (J.H. Arul) 2, Smithsonian (Vishal Bunde) 3 and Flaming Orange (Arvind Kumar) 4. 1-3/4, 2-3/4 and 5-1/2. 1m, 26.84s. Rs. 18 (w), 12, 16 and 23 (p), SHP: 33, Thp: 43, Fc: 36, Q: 30, Trinella: 453 and 305, Exacta: 3,579 and 2,386. Favourite: Four Wheel Drive. Owners: Mr. Akshay Karan, Mr. Syed Nawaz Hussain & Mr. V. Krishna Das. Trainer: S. Dominic.  6. TUNGABHADRA PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o & over: GARAMOND (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Memoriter (Chethan K) 2, Classic Charm (Kiran Rai) 3 and Jack Ryan (Likith Appu) 4. 2-1/2, 2 and 1-1/4. 1m, 26.82s. Rs. 19 (w), 13, 15 and 24 (p), SHP: 52, Thp: 46, Fc: 121, Q: 131, Trinella: 2,240 and 827, Exacta: 11,236 and 4,815. Favourite: Garamond. Owner: Mr. Marthand Singh Mahindra, Mr. R. Shiva Shankar & Mr. G. Surendranath. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala. Jackpot: Rs. 4,648 (eight tkts.); Runner: 839 (19 tkts.). Treble: 2,615 (two tkts.); (ii): 138 (81 tkts).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/priceless-gold-claims-main-event/article37833904.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||CFC, SCEB fail to score||Chennaiyin FC and SC East Bengal played out a goalless draw in an ISL match at Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Friday. CFC would be disappointed to have missed out on three points. having been the dominant side and creating more than a handful of chances. Improved show East Bengal, on the other hand, produced an improved performance on the defensive front. The Kolkata giant’s first clean sheet of the season ended its two-match losing streak. Unlike in the first two matches, CFC pressed high right from the start and decided to take the attack to the opposition. The first chance of the evening came as early as the ninth minute when Mirlan Murzaev found himself in a good position near the edge of the post but his shot was saved by East Bengal ’keeper Suvam Sen.  The East Bengal custodian played a crucial role a few minutes later, sticking his hand out at the right time to stop a shot from Lallianzuala Chhangte. CFC’s best opportunity of the opening period came in the 40th minute when Regan Singh’s cross found Rahim Ali on the right. The Indian striker did well to get a shot on target but Suvam intercepted the shot with an outstretched leg. Same story The second half witnessed a similar story: CFC producing promising runs and the moves fizzling out in the final third. Against the run of play, East Bengal had a golden chance when Amir Dervisevic sent in a perfect free-kick but Raju Gaikwad missed a simple header that went straight into the ground and bounced over the bar.  The r esult: Chennaiyin FC 0 drew with SC East Bengal 0.   Saturday’s matches: NEUFC vs FC Goa (7.30 p.m.); BFC vs MCFC (9.30 p.m.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cfc-sceb-fail-to-score/article37834239.ece
04 December 2021||KUALA LUMPUR,||Indian men in final, women bow out||The top-seeded Indian men’s team reached the final of the Asian team squash championships here on Friday with a 2-0 victory over defending champion and third seed Hong Kong. India will take on Malaysia in the final on Saturday. This will be India’s third final after two unsuccessful forays in 1981 and 2012. Earlier, the Indian women’s team lost to Hong Kong 2-1 in the semifinals. Hong Kong meets Malaysia in the women’s final.  The results (semifinals): Men: India bt Hong Kong 2-0 [Ramit Tandon bt Henry Leung 4-11, 11-5, 11-8 11-5; Saurav Ghosal bt Tsz Fung Yip 10-12, 11-6, 11-6, 15-13); Malaysia bt Japan 2-0 [Ng Eain Yow bt Ryosei Kobayashi 11-4, 11-2, 11-1; Ivan Yuen bt Tomotaka Endo 11-3, 11-9, 11-7].   Women: Hong Kong bt India 2-1 [Tze Lok Ho bt Sunayna Kuruvilla 9-11, 11-7, 11-4, 11-8; Liu Tsz-Ling lost to Joshna Chinappa 11-9, 5-11, 7-11, 5-11; Tong Tsz Wing bt Urwashi Joshi 12-10, 11-4, 11-6]; Malaysia bt Japan 2-1 [Rachel Arnold lost to Satomi Watanabe 5-11, 2-11, 4-11; Aifa Azman bt Risa Sugimoto 11-4, 11-4, 11-5; Ainaa Amani bt Rafu Takahashi 11-3, 11-2, 11-5] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-men-in-final-women-bow-out/article37834248.ece
04 December 2021||BENGALURU:,||Perfect Rendition for Classic Story Trophy||Perfect Rendition, who has been well tuned, is expected to score in the Classic Story Trophy (1,200m), the chief event of the races to be held here on (Dec. 4). False rails (average width of 8m from 1,600m to the winning post) will be in position.  SUTLEJ PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 25, 2-00 p.m.: 1. Commandpost (4) Rajesh Kumar 60, 2. Osibisa (6) M. Naveen 59.5, 3. Florencia (3) P. Mani 59, 4. Orogenesis (7) Chandrashekar 59, 5. Altamonte (5) Salman Khan 57.5, 6. Eco Friendly (8) P. Sai Kumar 57, 7. Southern Power (1) Nazerul 56.5, 8. Proudwish (9) J.H. Arul 56 and 9. Scintilla (2) Indrajeet Singh 56.  1. COMMANDPOST, 2. SOUTHERN POWER, 3. ALTAMONTE   SHARAVATI PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45, 5-y-o & over, 2-30: 1. Rorito (4) Mark 60, 2. Brooklyn Supreme (5) Chethan K 58, 3. Marco Polo (8) J.H. Arul 57, 4. Mighty Red (7) Kiran Rai 56.5, 5. Sainthood (6) P. Sai Kumar 56, 6. Legendary Princess (3) Ranjeet Singh 55.5, 7. Aferpi (2) L.A. Rozario 55, 8. Star And Garter (1) Antony Raj 55 and 9. Trensetter (9) Rayan Ahmed 53.  1. STAR AND GARTER, 2. LEGENDARY PRINCESS, 3. SAINTHOOD   LINGANAMAKKI PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 3-15: 1. Karanveer (—) (—) 60, 2. Rule The Law (1) Kiran Rai 60, 3. The Inheritor (4) M. Naveen 60, 4. Thunderstruck (6) R. Marshall 60, 5. Unique Style (3) S. Saqlain 60, 6. Secret Source (5) Rayan Ahmed 59.5, 7. Quiet Style (2) Vivek 58.5 and 8. Morganite (7) A. Imran Khan 58.  1. MORGANITE, 2. THUNDERSTRUCK, 3. THE INHERITOR   R.W.I.T.C CUP (1,100m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3-45: 1. Belvedere (10) Arshad 57, 2. Chiraag (2) P. Mani 57, 3. Enrichment (6) Saddam H 57, 4. Oswald (5) Dhanu Singh 57, 5. Immaculate (7) Arvind Kumar 55.5, 6. Mallory (3) Vivek 55.5, 7. Millbrook (9) Antony Raj 55.5, 8. Perfect Justice (1) D. Patel 55.5, 9. Promise Kept (8) Darshan 55.5 and 10. Sodashi (4) Rayan Ahmed 55.5.  1. BELVEDERE, 2. OSWALD, 3. MILLBROOK   CLASSIC STORY TROPHY (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, 4-15: 1. Set To Win (6) M. Naveen 60.5, 2. Aachen (3) Salman Khan 57.5, 3. Schafenberg (4) Shreyas Singh 57.5, 4. The Response (2) Arvind Kumar 55, 5. Alberetta (8) L.A. Rozario 54.5, 6. Osiris (8) Ajeet Kumar 54, 7. Harmonia (7) J.H. Arul 52 and 8. Perfect Rendition (1) Dhanu Singh 50.5.  1. PERFECT RENDITION, 2. AACHEN, 3. SCHAFENBERG   LINGANAMAKKI PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 4-45: 1. Lagopus (2) P. Surya 62.5, 2. Land Of Liberty (6) Rajesh Kumar 58.5, 3. Obsidian (8) Dhanu Singh 58.5, 4. Fictioneer (7) R. Pradeep 57.5, 5. De Villiers (4) N.S. Parmar 56, 6. Twinkle Feet (3) Arshad 55.5, 7. Livisilla (5) Likith Appu 54.5 and 8. Johnnie Black (1) Aakash Chavan 52.5.  1. DE VILLIERS, 2. LIVISILLA, 3. OBSIDIAN   SUTLEJ PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 25, 5-00: 1. Bul Bule Hind (3) Arvind Kumar 62.5, 2. Crimson Heart (5) Ajeet Kumar 61.5, 3. Nostradamus (10) L.A. Rozario 61.5, 4. Gazebo Talk (8) P. Siddaraju 61, 5. Hafnium (6) Chandrashekar 61, 6. Lightning Flame (1) Ashok Kumar 60, 7. Code Of Honour (9) Vishal Bunde 59, 8. Extraordinary (2) P. Sai Kumar 59, 9. Impeccable (7) Yash 59 and 10. Raw Gold (4) Salman Khan 58.  1. CODE OF HONOUR, 2. IMPECCABLE, 3. CRIMSON HEART  Days best: DE VILLIERS  Double: BELVEDERE — CODE OF HONOUR  Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7; Treble: 2, 3 & 4; (ii): 5, 6 & 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/perfect-rendition-for-classic-story-trophy/article37833895.ece
04 December 2021||KOCHI,||Lakshadweep holds Puducherry||They had been whipped 8-0 by Puducherry a couple of days ago but for nearly 40 minutes on Friday, the Andaman and Nicobar men appeared to have consumed some magic potion. With a heady mix of stout defending and a goalkeeper Abdul Aziz who held fort brilliantly, the islanders kept Kerala from scoring during that phase in the Santosh Trophy South Zone qualifiers at the Nehru Stadium here. But the magic began to wear off soon after that. And Kerala woke up and made amends for its poor finishing by scoring thrice in an eight-minute spell late in the first half and then added six more in the next half to finish with a 9-0 victory that carried it to the top of the four-team Group-B after its second win. Jessin Thonikkara and substitutes Nijo Gilbert and Muhammed Safnad scored two goals each for the host. Midfielder Arjun Jayaraj’s goal, the host’s fifth, was the best of the lot. Jayaraj, the team’s key player, had a nice one-two with a teammate before sending a fiery shot that beat the goalkeeper Aziz hollow. Meanwhile, Lakshadweep surprised as it forced Puducherry to a 1-1 draw with both the goals coming off penalties. The next set of matches, which will decide the group winner, will be played on Sunday.  The results: Kerala 9 (Nijo Gilbert 29 & 81; Jesin Thonikkara 45+1 & 45+2; Arjun Jayaraj 70, Muhammed Safnad 80 & 90+3; Salman Kalliyath 85) bt Andaman & Nicobar 0; Puducherry 1 (John Maju 17-pen.) drew with Lakshadweep 1 (K.P.P. Abdul Hashim 90+4-pen.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakshadweep-holds-puducherry/article37834404.ece
04 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mahaveer wins gold||Mahaveer Singh shot 584 and won the 25m centre fire pistol gold in the 64th National shooting championship on Friday. Vijayveer Sidhu also shot 584, but the 43-year-old Mahaveer prevailed, on the basis of better score of inner 10s 23x to 21x. Gurpreet Singh won the bronze one point behind. The results: 25m centre fire pistol: 1. Mahaveer Singh 584 (23x); 2. Vijayveer Sidhu 584 (21x); 3. Gurpreet Singh 583.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mahaveer-wins-gold/article37834436.ece
04 December 2021||Bali,||Sindhu loses final group match||Already assured of a semifinal berth at the BWF World Tour Finals, P.V. Sindhu on Friday suffered a 12-21, 21-19, 14-21 defeat to top seed Pornpawee Chochuwong of Thailand in her third and final group-A women’s singles match here on Friday.  Other results: Lee Zii Jia (Mal) bt K. Srikanth 21-19, 21-14.   Ashwini Ponnappa & N. Sikki Reddy bt Chloe Birch & Lauren Smith (GBr) 21-19, 9-21, 21-14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-loses-final-group-match/article37834229.ece
04 December 2021||JEDDAH,||Hamilton sets the pace||Lewis Hamilton made the early running on the new track in Jeddah as he clocked the fastest time in the opening practice session on Friday for the Saudi Arabian Grand Prix. Hamilton posted a time of 1min 29.786secs on the new street circuit with series of high-speed swerves that appeared to get the thumbs-up from the drivers. Valtteri Bottas set the third fastest time, 0.25secs behind his teammate Hamilton. Red Bull’s Max Verstappen produced his best lap right at the end of the session to split the two Mercedes, coming in 0.056secs behind the Briton.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamilton-sets-the-pace/article37834303.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Prince of Kolkata||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prince-of-kolkata/article37834315.ece
04 December 2021||MUMBAI,||It was more about grit, says Mayank||From losing his place, being pushed lower down the order in Australia to missing out on the series in England after being hit on the helmet in the nets just before the opening Test, Mayank Agarwal has had a roller-coaster ride over the last 12 months. No wonder then that the opener was elated with his unbeaten century on the first day of India’s second Test against New Zealand.  “This innings was more about grit and determination, just to stick with the plan, be disciplined. I know I didn’t look good sometimes but I got the job done,” he said on Friday. He admitted that the tips from head coach Rahul Dravid and Sunil Gavaskar helped him immensely. “When I was selected (for the series), Rahul bhai spoke to me. He asked me to control what is in my hands. Gavasakar sir told me that I should consider keeping the bat a bit low initially in my innings.”  Gavasakar sir told me that I should consider keeping the bat a bit low initially in my innings— Mayank   Obviously this is kind of what dreams are made of— Ajaz Patel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-was-more-about-grit-says-mayank/article37834245.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Tanvi posts win||Top-seeded A. Tanvi Reddy of Chetan Anand Badminton Academy defeated S.V.S.S. Vyshnavi of P. Gopi Chand Badminton Academy 15-8, 15-7 in the girls’ second round of the MK'S junior badminton championship at DPS (Nacharam) on Friday.  The results: Boys: U-15: Third round: P. Sai Shreyas bt Venu Charan 15-6, 15-1; Dhruv Sethi bt K. Kaushik Reddy 15-8, 15-4; V. Shashank bt L. Sai Rishwanth 15-13, 15-7; Vedant Siddheshware bt J. Anirudh Reddy 15-8, 15-11; S.S.P. Reddy bt Mayank Yadav 15-7, 15-6; S. Saharsh Reddy bt K. Abhiram Reddy 15-12, 15-12; K. Mahendra Varma bt S. Samanyu 15-2, 15-3; Rakshit Garg bt K. Manav 15-6, 15-3; K. Abhishek bt S. Dinesh Karthik 15-0, 15-2; C. Lalramsanga bt Sathwik Siva Kumar 15-11, 15-11; Avi Basak bt Bala Pranay 15-7, 15-7; Srikar Venkata Praneeth bt T. Ruthvik 15-8, 15-6; G. Uma Maheshwar Reddy bt G. Ram 15-7, 15-12; V.S.M. Reddy bt D. Yuvaraj 15-10, 15-13; A. Govind Kadam bt A. Akshith 15-13, 15-7; Pranit Somani bt P. Sai Ashwath 15-7, 15-7; Vishnu Kedar w\o T. Abhiram Tripuraneni; Varshith Sai bt Nithin 15-4, 15-3.   Girls: U-15: Second round: A. Tanvi Reddy (1) (CABA) Bt. SV.S.S. Vyshnavi 15-8, 19-17; Shivanjali Thite bt Pooja Reddy 15-2, 15-2; Riya Patil bt G. Abhinethri 15-3, 15-4; C.R. Shravya bt K. Nakshathra 15-3, 15-9; D. Jashvitha bt Advitha 15-3, 15-1; Matte Isha bt Diya Sukruthi 15-8, 15-3; K. Vaishnavi bt A. Nethra 15-2, 15-1; K. Sai Hasini bt M. Snigdha 15-9, 15-5; Rishita Pandey bt Shriya Komiya 15-6, 15-12; Nafisa Anjum Khan bt Rishitha Mukthevi 14-16, 15-10, 15-13; H. Avni Reddy bt C. Amrita Rao 15-10, 15-13; M. Keerthy bt Parineeta Randhir 15-1, 15-1; M. Harini Reddy w\o G. Poojitha; P. Jaahnavi Sai bt S.N. Neha 15-6, 15-6; Dhriti Sahasra bt Ananya 15-12, 15-5.     Hasini Varma bt Tanishka Randhir 15-10, 15-9; Aradhana bt K. Sarali 15-2, 15-4; R. Sirisha bt Vijaya Lakshmi 18-16, 15-9; Avanthika bt Jyoshika 15-3, 15-7; R. Sphoorthy bt Manasi 15-3, 15-10; Praanjala Nisarga bt Sameeksha Reddy 15-7, 9-15, 15-12; P. Yasasri bt Sargun Naik 15-0, 15-0; A. Harshika bt K. Varshinie Reddy 15-7, 15-9; D. Lakshmi Ridhima bt M. Jaya 15-9, 15-13; Ski Deep Kaur bt Revilla R. Padmini 15-5, 15-12; Saanvi Reddy bt P. Sahasra 15-11, 13-15, 21-20; Michelle Jose bt Thanmai 15-1, 15-8; D. Kaivalya bt B. Shravani 15-5, 15-9; M. Sahithi bt Vaibhavi Singh 11-15, 15-8, 15-13; P. Sarvani bt Madhava Madhura 15-3, 15-3; H. Aaradhya Reddy bt Nuthana 15-1, 15-2; Durga Esha bt M. Aditi 15-1, 15-0.    Former national tennis champion in the hearing impaired category (deaf) Shaik Jafreen, was presented the ‘Best Sportsperson with Disability’ award for the year 2020 by the President of India Dr. Ram Nath Kovind in Delhi on Friday. The 24-year-old Jafreen was a bronze medallist in the 2017 Deaf Olympics in mixed doubles, silver medallist in the 2018 Slovenia Deaf Open. The MCA final year student at St. Ann’s College in Hyderabad also won a bronze in women’s doubles in the 2015 Asia Pacific Deaf Games after winning gold in both singles and doubles in the first National deaf tennis championship in 2012. “I am really delighted to get this Award which should inspire me to realise my immediate goal of winning a gold in the 2021 Deaf Olympics to be held in Caxias do Sul City in Brazil later this month,” Jafreen communicated through her father-cum-mentor Shaik Zakeer Ahmed.     Mahabubad scored a five-wicket win over Khammam in the TCA inter-district (under-25) one-day league cricket championship match at Mahabubabad.  The scores: Khammam 120 in 30.4 overs (M. Tagore 36, K. Ravinder 4/25) lost to Mahabubabad 124/5 in 19.4 overs (Md. Ruhan 35) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tanvi-posts-win/article37834552.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Rising Star BC wins title||Rising Star Basketball Club won the men’s Mysore District basketball league title in the final match played here. Spartans BC won the B division title, while Mysore BC won the C division title in the men's section. DYES, Mysuru, won the title in the women's section.  The results: A div.: Rising Star BC 62 (Supradeep 28) bt Aryans BC 46 (Vijay Murali 15).   B div.: Spartan BC 54 (Abi 26) bt Nationals BC 47 (Raj 21).   C div.: Mysore BC 69 (Parikshith 18) bt YCSC 54 (Mical 13).   Women: DYES, Mysuru (Meghana 23) bt Mysore BC 19 (Varsha 8) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rising-star-bc-wins-title/article37834701.ece
04 December 2021||BENGALURU,||Ajith’s spell in vain for TN||Left-arm spinner S. Ajith Ram’s five-wicket haul went in vain as Tamil Nadu was knocked out by Goa in the pre-quarterfinals of the BCCI men’s under-25 State ‘A’ tournament on Friday. Chasing 208 for victory, TN was struggling at 158 for seven in the 31st over when rain stopped play. Under the VJD method, Goa won by nine runs.  The scores: Goa 207 in 46.3 overs (Suyash S. Prabhudessai 36, Tunish Sawker 86, S. Ajith Ram 5/43, V. Gowtham 3/28) bt Tamil Nadu 158/7 in 30.2 overs (S. Aravind 48, U. Mukilesh 32 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ajiths-spell-in-vain-for-tn/article37834354.ece
04 December 2021||Bhopal,||Vidya, Shrikrishna emerge champions||Vidya Pillai of Karnataka and S. Shrikrishna of PSPB scored contrasting victories and emerged champions in the ladies’ and men’s 6-Red snooker in the Sage-National billiards & snooker championship here on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidya-shrikrishna-emerge-champions/article37833907.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Delve deep into philosophy||The whole world is pervaded by Goddess Shakti, lovingly called Ambal by Her devotees, said M.A. Manickavelu in a discourse. Those who do not realise Her all-pervasiveness have impure thoughts, and end up in hell. Abirami Bhattar, in his Abirami Andadi, says that he keeps away from such people. Bhattar says if one has Her blessings, then one can understand the Vedas, and will ultimately realise the Supreme Truth. But understanding the Vedas requires meditation and focused thinking of Ambal. Ramakrishna Paramahamsa used to narrate a story to illustrate the need for delving deeply into philosophy. There was a man who used to go to the forest to cut wood. One day he heard a voice asking him to go deeper into the forest. When he did, he found copper, which he was able to sell. The next day the voice asked him to go even further and this time he found silver. The third day, he was asked to go into the heart of the forest, where he found gold. Had he not gone deep into the forest, he would not have found gold. Likewise, sacred texts must not be studied superficially, but deeply. We must try to get to the core of the texts and understand the inner meaning of the works. And for such study, of course, we need Her grace. Only with God’s grace can we understand God. Siva Puranam says that one worships at His feet because of His mercy. We all know that there are many philosophical texts to read. Merely knowing of their existence is not going to help us. One may know the entire time-table of trains in a region by heart. But if we do not buy tickets to travel to a destination, can we get there, simply because we know the time of departure and arrival of trains? In the same way, we must resolve to read sacred works and study them diligently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/delve-deep-into-philosophy/article37833966.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 07:32 IST,||Sudoku — December 4, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-4-2021/article37834871.ece
04 December 2021||Change at the helm:,||Parag Agrawal||Twitter got a new boss and it unleashed a wave of jokes and trolls. There have been awkward surname connections to someone digging up Parag’s Twitter exchange from 2010 with friend and playback singer Shreya Ghoshal. But let’s say former CEO Jack Dorsey’s endorsement of Agrawal — curious, probing, rational, creative, etc. — now counts as appraisal goals!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/parag-agrawal/article37834632.ece
04 December 2021||Nagaland:,||Hornbill Festival||The Northeast State’s annual crowd-puller is back. The opening day, December 1, saw over 12,000 visitors! While it is unclear if popular contests like the one on the world’s spiciest chillies will be revived this year, this 10-day edition of Nagaland’s ‘festival of festivals’ includes exhibitions, walks, and handloom and cuisine showcases. At Kisama village. @hornbillfestivalofficial||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hornbill-festival/article37834628.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||New policy announcement||Suddenly all around me everyone seems to be getting married. At the risk of revealing my age, these are mostly entitled offspring of hapless old friends, with a few old friends themselves going in for their second and third attempts. It looks like people want a last chance to make someone miserable before the world ends. Well, that someone isn’t going to be me. And this is my new set of conditions as a wedding and allied-event guest. If the bride and groom arrive late for their own reception, I will sit on their gaudy flower-bedecked throne and have myself beautified to the fullest extent (by my hair and make-up team that will accompany me for all future wedding-related celebrations) till they arrive. This may include a full body wax. My team’s daily ‘bata’ and conveyance will be borne by the hosts, of course. The gifts brought by the early-bird guests, obviously, will automatically become mine. If I see a drone camera covering the event, I will shoot it down with the catapult I have carried in my pocket ever since I read my firstDennis the Menace. I don’t see any reason for anyone to have an aerial view of a wedding. This is not North by Northwest we are covering, this is a scared (not a typo) union of two people who don’t know any better. When it is time to give my gift, I will not bring dishonour to my family by standing in queue to give someone something. Queues by their very definition were created for receiving. I will not demean the concept in this manner. Either the bride and groom can wait at the entrance like they used to in the ‘90s to receive guests (hint: it is called reception), or I’ll chuck the gift at them from where I’m sitting. I have a pretty good arm. There will be a return policy on my gifts. If the union doesn’t make it past the one-year mark, I will expect my gift back. Goods once damaged will not be accepted. My team will come and collect in cash. A 10% sympathy discount will be offered as consolation, keeping in mind the condition of the couple’s parents. Anything more than 365 days, and the gift remains with the recipients. Fair is fair. At the sangeet , if I am made to watch a dance item performed by the bride, her parents, the groom, his parents or all the uncles and aunts from both sides who have been rounded up from assisted-living facilities, I will be performing my own solo number. It will be an 11-minute River Dance-Kathakali fusion number about the triumph of good over evil. If camera people block my view, my staff will gently escort them to the parking lot and confiscate their equipment. Why should I get a gift, drive all the way, and have hell finding parking space if I’m going to be watching the ceremony on TV? Under extreme circumstances, I may have my people hack into TVs and play The Shining at the time of thali tying. Coming to drinks and dinner, I will be served good whisky, not the Royal Challenge pretending to be Black Label from the second drink onwards. If a fake is detected, I will drink my own liquor and charge the host club rates. If the dinner is a buffet, again, I will not stand in queue. The bride and groom may serve me, say thank you for coming, and all will be forgiven. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/new-policy-announcement/article37834631.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Rock and heritage walk||Sign up forretro rock and popby Goan band A26 atSir Mutha Venkatasubba Rao Concert Hall, Chennai. Resurgence is on December 5, at 7 p.m. Rs. 400 @5oh9.com. Meanwhile, the indoor heritage walk through the home of Tamil Isai Sangam, Raja Annamalai Manram, where art deco meets traditional Chettinad style, is in much demand. Listen to historian V. Sriram share stories of the building, which is home to a museum of instruments. December 4 (3.30 p.m. to 5 p.m.)Rs. 850 atpastforward.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/rock-and-heritage-walk/article37834712.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Lights come on||Shiny Christmas trees are coming up in hotel lobbies. While The Leela Palace promises a white Christmas tree, mulled wine, gingerbread cookies and mince pies, the festivities are picking up speed at The Westin Chennaitoo, starting on Saturday atthe Lobby level, 4.30 p.m. - 6.30 p.m. As for treats, ITC Grand and the Taj Hotels have surprises ahead, but the most awaited is The Park Chennai’s super premium cakes. There will only be 12 of these, we are told! @theparkchennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lights-come-on/article37834713.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||For a cause||Pack holiday gifts in Aham Bhumika’s hand-embroidered totes with vibrant Indian motifs. The Bhopal-based NGO is at@ahambhumika. Rs. 650 onwards. For more totes, as well as 2022 diaries and table-top calendars, try Parivarthan for Parkinson’s Foundation. Members have engaged in therapeuticwarliart sessions, and the fabric-bound diary has 12warliart pieces drawn by them and caregivers. Made by Tamarind Chutney. Rs. 300-Rs. 600. 9381035979.@parivarthanparkinsons||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/for-a-cause/article37834714.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Attakalari or Goa?||In Bengaluru, curtains go up on the 10th edition of The Attakalari India Biennial(AIB)hosted by the Attakkalari Centre for Movement Arts. December 2021 to February 2022. Themed ‘Inspire Bengaluru’, it goes hybrid for the first time. Live stage performances and workshops are part of the schedule. festival@attakalari.org. But if you want to amp up the party, tickets for the two-day Sunburn Goaare now available.At Vagator Beach on December 27-28. Rs. 8,000 onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/attakalari-or-goa/article37834715.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Stollen and chocolate||The Iron Ore Mountain Stollen by SAPA Sourdough and Pastry in Mysuru is travelling across the country this season. A tango of flavours and textures, made of spice-infused flour, loaded with butter and rum-soaked dry fruits, it is a nod to the iron ore mountain range in East Germany wherethis stollen style originated. @sapabakery.Japanese brandRoyce’has brought back Nama Hazelnut, a limited edition chocolate with hazelnut and paired with Hokkaido cream. royceindia.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/stollen-and-chocolate/article37834629.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Some cheer, some healing||Soak up the Xmas spirit with a ‘Mommy and Me’ workshop, for three- to five-year-olds by Rainbow Fish Studio, Chennai. Craft themes includeChristmas penguin, Gingerbread man,etc. Saturdays, December 4-18. Workshops are available for older kids, too. Rs. 900 - Rs. 2,400. 9952018542. A nine-week course for adults ‘Connect: Healing through Art’, centered around art-making processes to navigate healing. Via Zoom, once a week. Register@aruboseon Instagram. Sessions look at mind, body and soul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/some-cheer-some-healing/article37834630.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||India wild||Jangala,a coffee table bookby wild life enthusiasts Lara and Siddharth Morakhia, captures striking images of India’s wildlife. Jewellery designers and founders of The Diya Project, the duo chronicles their expeditions to some of India’s wildest landscapes. Rs. 29,759.laram.in.Takashi Murakami and RTFKT Studios ‘Clone X’ NFTauctionhas dropped. The collection is set to become one of the most sought-after series. In the future, the assets could be used on metaverse platforms. etc.@rtfktstudios||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/india-wild/article37834633.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||TWO by design||Power mash-ups like Versace with Fendi are the biggest trend in the fashion world now, but it looks like old-school collabs with influencers and designers aren’t going anywhere anytime soon. This season’s pick of the crop:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/two-by-design/article37834626.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Making music at the museum||When I was in college at the Faculty of Fine Arts MSU, Baroda, the museum was a place students went to play hooky. It was never to look at the replica of the Dancing Girl of the Indus Valley Civilisation, the stunning collection of Chola bronzes, or the giant skeleton of the whale that hung from the ceiling. That was only appealing to nerds like myself. Fortunately, in the last 20 years, things have changed. Museums are no longer dusty and desolate; they are well lit, multisensorial interactive spaces that are led by an enthusiastic team of curators and collaborators, coming up with new ways of engaging their audience. And it is heartening that the change is happening in both public and private sectors, working across artistic disciplines. Internationally, the Louvre and Tate are working with augmented reality to allow immersive experiences. Recently, Victoria & Albert in London invited visitors to tumble down the rabbit hole with their Curious Alice exhibit that worked with virtual reality. In India, too, museums such as Bhua Daji Lad (BDL), Kiran Nadar Museum of Art, and CSMVS (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya) have upgraded and updated their approach and programming. “Museums have become vibrant institutions of learning and entertainment. In India, this potential is only just being recognised, and we have a lot of catching up to do,” says Tasneem Mehta, BDL’s managing trustee.  No dusty    instrumentshere   AtBengaluru’s Museum of Art & Photography (MAP), the experiment is with music. This weekend, it is hosting Art is Life: SoundFrames . A three-day digital festival — in collaboration with the Berklee College of Music, Boston — it will present over 25 events inspired by music, including concerts, performances, panel discussions, film talks, educational workshops and exhibitions. Featuring will be more than 65 artists from around India and the world such as Ambi and Bindu Subramaniam of SubraMania, Grammy winner Ricky Kej, musical talents from IndianRaga, young Hindustani maestro Pandit Sanjeev Abhyankar and the Darbari Qawwals of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya Dargah. The festival is jointly curated by MAP’s director, Kamini Sawhney, and Annette Philip, artistic director of the Berklee India Exchange and an award-winning musician, educator, and arts entrepreneur. “Art is at the heart of any community. The digital museum intends to bring together its various aspects, not just the visual arts,” says Sawhney, explaining how the Art is Life festival, launched last year, had a great response. “We are celebrating its anniversary with the theme of music, as a positive response to the pandemic.” Looking beyond artefacts “At MAP we have always been about reimagining the museum so that it is not just a repository of objects, but also of ideas, conversations and interactions. A community can’t be collaborative without tapping into its creative aspect, which is why we must be inclusive to all aspects from folk to classical, popular to traditional,” says Sawhney. The idea is one she shares with Phillip. “Both our institutions hope to not only preserve and sustain cultural conversations about and through the arts, we both actively engage and welcome community participation in the creation of art and music,” Phillip tells me by email. “I believe this is the first of many dynamic collaborations Berklee will have with MAP going forward.” While the entire programme is “stunning”, she concludes that she is particularly excited about Women of the World, Ricky Kej and Sounds of the City.  From December 3-5. The digital festival is also accessible to the visually-disabled and incorporates Indian sign language.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/making-music-at-the-museum/article37834122.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||New policy announcement||Suddenly all around me everyone seems to be getting married. At the risk of revealing my age, these are mostly entitled offspring of hapless old friends, with a few old friends themselves going in for their second and third attempts. It looks like people want a last chance to make someone miserable before the world ends. Well, that someone isn’t going to be me. And this is my new set of conditions as a wedding and allied-event guest. If the bride and groom arrive late for their own reception, I will sit on their gaudy flower-bedecked throne and have myself beautified to the fullest extent (by my hair and make-up team that will accompany me for all future wedding-related celebrations) till they arrive. This may include a full body wax. My team’s daily ‘bata’ and conveyance will be borne by the hosts, of course. The gifts brought by the early-bird guests, obviously, will automatically become mine. If I see a drone camera covering the event, I will shoot it down with the catapult I have carried in my pocket ever since I read my firstDennis the Menace. I don’t see any reason for anyone to have an aerial view of a wedding. This is not North by Northwest we are covering, this is a scared (not a typo) union of two people who don’t know any better. When it is time to give my gift, I will not bring dishonour to my family by standing in queue to give someone something. Queues by their very definition were created for receiving. I will not demean the concept in this manner. Either the bride and groom can wait at the entrance like they used to in the ‘90s to receive guests (hint: it is called reception), or I’ll chuck the gift at them from where I’m sitting. I have a pretty good arm. There will be a return policy on my gifts. If the union doesn’t make it past the one-year mark, I will expect my gift back. Goods once damaged will not be accepted. My team will come and collect in cash. A 10% sympathy discount will be offered as consolation, keeping in mind the condition of the couple’s parents. Anything more than 365 days, and the gift remains with the recipients. Fair is fair. At the sangeet , if I am made to watch a dance item performed by the bride, her parents, the groom, his parents or all the uncles and aunts from both sides who have been rounded up from assisted-living facilities, I will be performing my own solo number. It will be an 11-minute River Dance-Kathakali fusion number about the triumph of good over evil. If camera people block my view, my staff will gently escort them to the parking lot and confiscate their equipment. Why should I get a gift, drive all the way, and have hell finding parking space if I’m going to be watching the ceremony on TV? Under extreme circumstances, I may have my people hack into TVs and play The Shining at the time of thali tying. Coming to drinks and dinner, I will be served good whisky, not the Royal Challenge pretending to be Black Label from the second drink onwards. If a fake is detected, I will drink my own liquor and charge the host club rates. If the dinner is a buffet, again, I will not stand in queue. The bride and groom may serve me, say thank you for coming, and all will be forgiven. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/new-policy-announcement/article37834145.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Leader by example||On the last night of November, the words ‘Virgil was here’ were scrawled across the Miami sky in drone lights as a thousand people raised their eyes to remember and salute a designer whose contribution to fashion went far beyond, well, fashion and firmly into the realm of culture. Louis Vuitton showed Virgil Abloh’s Spring-Summer 2022 menswear collection to both the fashion community and the Virgil community — encompassing art, music, the whole darn internet — gathered together one last time for the man they loved. I am far more affected by Abloh’s passing than I really should be, given that I have no strong personal connection to him, his designs, or indeed the brands he helmed. Perhaps it is because his great power, and what Abloh ultimately stood for, was possibility. He opened doors that have been sealed shut for as long as any of us can remember. He built a path for Black kids like him with big dreams and endless ambition, and showed them that it could be done. He was showing the world, yes, but it always felt like he was showing the kids. Everyone who speaks of Abloh speaks of his unrelenting optimism, his kindness and compassion, his generosity and warmth — qualities uncommon in fashion. After his passing, social media was awash with stories of him helping his community, giving back, offering words of encouragement, advice and mentorship to young ones. Having read a story in Vogue about a group of young skaters in Ghana, Abloh reached out quietly to the reporter to help build them a skatepark, which was completed this year. He fundraised regularly for organisations working towards reducing poverty and gun violence. Last year, he raised $1 million to launch his Post-Modern scholarship fund for Black students to make the fashion industry a more inclusive place, to help level the playing field. Many Virgil Abloh quotes have been referenced over the last few days. One of my favourites is where he talks about his brand Off-White: “It’s targeted towards the demographic that can afford it. But for the demographic that can’t afford it, it’s meant so that you start the competing brand that’s better than Off-White.” And perhaps the most special thing about Abloh was that he would happily help you do it.  Aishwarya Subramanyam is a journalist and former editor of Elle magazine .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/leader-by-example/article37834110.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Raveena Tandon: the reluctant actor||About three decades ago, Raveena Tandon stepped in front of a film camera for the first time. The film, starring Salman Khan, was GP Sippy’s Pathar Ke Phool . This month she makes another debut with Netflix’s Aranyak and it comes from the Sippy stable again, this time produced by Rohan Sippy. “I fell for Kasturi Dogra,” she says about her character –— a cop in a small town in the hills of North India. Directed by Vinay Waikul, the show that also stars Parambrata Chatterjee and Ashutosh Rana revolves around a dead tourist, a harried local cop desperately trying to balance work and personal life, and a town full of mysteries. Becoming Kasturi Dogra In the early years of her career, Tandon often spoke about her childhood ambition of joining the IPS, so playing a cop was an added bonus. “It's always a matter of pride for me when I don the uniform, even if it's for reel.” But the actor found it challenging to slip into character. “We’re lucky to come from privileged families, with emotional support and the backing to be able to do and achieve what we want in our jobs. But there are so many women out there who don't get the kind of emotional backing or even just a helping hand with running their households,” she says. 100% or nothing Coming from a school of thought that her career wasn’t her whole life, Tandon, 47, has always managed to carve out time for things that are important to her. In 1995, she adopted two girls — Pooja and Chhaya — and a decade later when her children Rasha and Ranbirvardhan were born she was a hands-on mother. “I am often asked why I take on so little work. I don't want it to become so hectic that I can't enjoy what I’m doing. When I do take up work, I want to give it 100%,” she concludes.  Aranyakdrops on   Netflix on December 10   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/raveena-tandon-the-reluctant-actor/article37834179.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Scenes from a warming planet||Three-time Oscar winner, Emmanuel Lubezki, has shot the latest edition of Lavazza’s calendar. With striking photographs highlighting the planet’s natural environments, some emblematic of the impact of the climate crisis — disappearing glaciers, rocks, and water bodies — it is themed ‘I Can Change The World’. And it carries forward the concept of ‘The New Humanity’ that the Turin-based coffee company launched last year. Lubezki, a cinematographer known for his extraordinary skill with natural light, says the six subjects are “each portrayed in 12 shots taken at six different moments of the day — dawn, sunrise, daytime, sunset, twilight, nighttime”. In focus are men and women who engage in social and environmental activism through varied art forms: musician Ben Harper; Saype, a pioneer of sustainable land art; Afghan refugee rapper Sonita Alizada; jewellery designer Shilpa Yarlagadda; marine biologist Cristina Mittermeier; and street dancer Shamell Bell. We speak to Lubezki, fondly known as Chivo, and Yarlagadda about working on the 2022 edition:  Emmanuel Lubezki :‘We live in a moment of discord’  In an interview you said that since you’re not known as a still photographer, you had doubts about taking up this project. This project was kind of an evolution of what I’ve been doing as a cinematographer. I used a technique that I’ve been practising for many years: to treat the artistes almost as directors, inviting them to share their ideas on how they wanted to be portrayed. Most of our conversations were practical. Strangely, when you start talking about practical things, you get to know about people’s personalities. It was important to portray them in authentic landscapes, and showing the environments as immersive as possible. Having said that, the journey was complicated and difficult because of Covid: it was hard to travel and plan things. How is this collab for the Lavazza calendar different from their earlier ones?  All the locations we shot in have been affected by global warming. Also, all these artists are people that give every hour of their lives to make the world a better place, and this was an honour for me. It was an important collaboration, also to bring attention to what they are doing, to celebrate them. What did you learn from this project?  I realized that we live in a moment of discord, of fracture. These artists reminded me of the things that bring us together: music, nature and art.  Shilpa Yarlagadda:‘ women deserve an equal opportunity to fail and succeed’ Tell us about the environmental/social issue you are raising in the 2022 calendar?  I was passionate about raising awareness for gender equality. I’m keen on helping women have the same opportunities in business as men. In the US, less than 2.2% of venture capital funding goes to female entrepreneurs despite higher startup success rates that female-founded companies have. I think women deserve an equal opportunity to fail and succeed in business but failure has been held against us more. What did you have in mind when choosing the landscapes?  With Chivo, I wanted to work with a natural landscape that could tell the origin story of a diamond - which is why we wanted to photograph in front of a volcano. Kimberlite is a rare type of magma that the natural diamonds we work with come from. We had to shift locations a few times due to Covid-19 restrictions. We were initially going to photograph at the Iceland volcanoes but in the end shot in Los Angeles. Lubezki has played with light and different times of day. Was there a particular reason he finalised the night/evening sky for your images?  It really allowed the jewellery and churidar I wore to sparkle with the evening light. It showcased light in the darkness quite nicely and it represents uplifting female entrepreneurs out of the shadows and into the light where they can shine brighter with more support from other women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/scenes-from-a-warming-planet/article37834117.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Thank you, Virgil Abloh||When we look back at the history of civilisation, there will be some poignant defining moments in every field, moments which made the industry do a complete 180 degree on whatever was happening till then. When Virgil Abloh decided to purchase old Ralph Lauren ware for 40-odd dollars, paint over them, and then sell them for more than 10 times the price under his newly-christened brand, Pyrex Vision, few knew he would change the world of fashion forever — swiftly and so slickly that even the biggest of names would have to fall in (this new) line. But Pyrex wasn’t even about the profits; it had a far deeper message: one of representing youth culture and shining the light on what will soon come to be defined as streetwear. It was a mirror being held up to the fashion stalwarts, to show them just how apathetic the entire industry was to the voices of the current generation. Virgil with one little move, got everyone to sit up and take notice. And all this when he was barely getting started. ‘ I am not a fashion designer’  A young engineering graduate who also got an architecture masters along the way and interned at Fendi’s Rome office (with Ye, who earlier went by Kanye West) in the late noughties, Virgil never claimed to be a fashion designer. As he said, he was “riding the wave” every day in the world of design, observing it, studying it, and envisaging when and where it will break. In 2013, when he founded Off-White — which he defined as the grey between black and white — out of Milan, his influence grew. His first releases, although rooted in deep design with rich historical allegories, were interpreted in a manner that everyone could connect with. It was quite polarising — the zip ties, Caravaggio canvasses, Bauhaus influences, those ubiquitous double quotes. People either loved it or completely derided it, there was no sitting on the fence with what Virgil presented you with. He claimed to be merely an observer who took things as they were and changed them by 3%, so much so that they were recognisable and yet completely new. It reminds strongly of French artist Marcel Duchamp’s sculpture for an exhibition in Paris in 1917, wherein he sent them a common male urinal (signed R Mutt) but labelled it as a fountain. Virgil was not a copycat, as many had once alleged; he was just utterly brilliant at repurposing. To use a cliché, he saw things as they weren’t and questioned, why the hell not.    In the league of legends   The ultimate validation then would have come in the form of his many collaborations, from the Nike ‘The Ten’ series to being appointed the artistic director of menswear at Louis Vuitton, and also heading Kanye West’s brand, Donda, as creative director. But the real influence was on the street, where he encouraged people to come up with their own iteration of the Off-White design language. His double quotes have possibly become the most recognisable graffiti motifs since Banksy’s works. Since 2019, Virgil was battling a rare and deadly form of cancer and yet, through his arduous treatments and therapies, he kept it all tightly sealed and work continued as usual. His new collections were now the most awaited event of the year, as the cynosure of all fashion critics who would sit patiently, part waiting to tear him down but always curious to see just how next he would enthral and redefine the idea of fashion and style. One of his last shows, in 2020, was in Tokyo for Louis Vuitton, where he showcased some very obvious and heavy Ghanaian influences, a pandemic-era show where he asked some heavyweight questions about the connection between provenance and ownership. He didn’t shy away from being influenced by elements from his own life and everything around him; rather he embraced them with alacrity, pride and just that right amount of smirk-inducing chutzpah. On November 28, Virgil Abloh, 41, finally succumbed to the cardiac angiosarcoma that had tried to retard his success story but so far failed. The work he leaves behind will continue to evolve fashion and design forever. His works and influence will be spoken of in the same league as Warhol, Basquiat and Haring. He wasn’t a fashion designer, he was a visionary. He didn’t design, he interpreted it, extracted it and exhibited it from life quotidian and made us all sit up and notice all that we weren’t all along. Off-White, to me, isn’t just a brand that put streetwear all the way up there right next to haute couture, it was the language of a one-man tour de force which, now, we are all learning and will be using as the common medium of communication that talks across generations, cultures and socio-economic divides. If fashion ever wielded the power to unite and define an era, we are all living it right now, all thanks to the works of this one man. We should be so lucky. Thank you, Virgil, for everything.  Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/thank-you-virgil-abloh/article37834167.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||For the||For Good Earth, 2021 has been all about celebrating the brand’s silver anniversary. And it’s been quite multi-faceted: with limited-edition launches, revisiting of classics — such as Iris Garden, a 20-year-old vintage design now revived with a fresh colour palette — and the launch of a new collection, Bosporus. The most recent is a collab with British artist Rebecca Campbell for a line of tableware (as part of the Bosporus collection). “We worked together through online meetings, amidst lockdowns, and across two continents and time zones,” shares founder Anita Lal, explaining that it was the artist’s “whimsical yet poetic interpretation of nature and its many elements” that drew Lal to her. With the many whimsical elements Campbell created, “the collection evolved and grew into a comprehensive collection of platters and bowls, with many gift sets for tea and coffee along with a gorgeous dinner service”. Edited excerpts from an interview with Lal. The collaboration with Rebecca Campbell. Rebecca Campbell has an eye for whimsy and detail. She comes from the lush Ireland countryside. During her early travels to India, she encountered iconic Mughal miniature paintings, which inspired her to incorporate animals, gardens, flowers, and fruits into her works. I had seen and loved her series of delightful vignettes. Apart from her amazing talent, I found Rebecca one of the nicest persons to work with. The pomegranate motif is intrinsic to Good Earth. How different is Campbell’s interpretation? The anaar or pomegranate has long been revered as a symbol of fertility, prosperity, and abundance. When I gave Rebecca the theme of Pomegranates and Roses, she created a tree laden with ruby red fruit entwined with a rose creeper, and that was the start of a magical universe that included a pavilion and leopards and peacocks and hummingbirds and so much more. Rebecca used watercolours and sometimes gouache. Watercolour has such a wonderful luminous quality, and she wanted to keep the colours sharp, fresh and jewel like. How did the collection evolve? There is a delightful Persian cookbook named Pomegranates and Roses , and both the book and its name have remained with me for years. I wanted to create a tableware collection that would embody this by capturing the delight of alfresco meals. Rebecca created the intertwined images of the two fragrant edibles: ruby red pomegranates and deep pink roses, ingredients that elevate cuisines across central Asia and the Mediterranean. Her sketches were converted into decals and applied to fine bone china dinnerware by women artisans at the Good Earth atelier on the outskirts of Delhi.  From Rs. 3,500 onwards, on goodearth.in and Good Earth stores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/for-the/article37834135.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||C for ‘civil’, not ‘criminal’||Remember the 2015 floods in Chennai? And how groups of citizen volunteers set up info banks, organised food packets, rescued stranded people and so on? Ordinarily too, citizen groups ensure waste segregation in households, organise beach clean-ups, or beautify pavements. Perhaps you give toys to an NGO that works with orphans. Or you know someone who teaches the Constitution in local schools. Such volunteers and social groups are not exactly dangerous or deranged people out to wreck society, but I would forgive you if you thought so. After all, Ajit Doval, the country’s National Security Advisor, made an extraordinary statement recently claiming that civil society is “the new frontier of war”. According to Doval, civil society is being subverted to destabilise the country. But ‘civil society’ is not a creature with horns. It is simply concerned citizens getting together to create or demand change — they could be community self-help groups or NGOs, labour unions or charities, temple, wakf or church organisations, a bunch of CAs or teachers. When nurses go on strike to demand fair wages, it’s as much ‘civil society’ in action as farmers protesting or citizens demanding that CAA be withdrawn. Popularised in the 80s, the term basically refers to citizens who are outside the government, non-state players, those who don’t have formal administrative power but wield the most important power in a democracy — people power. If a democracy is by, of and for the people, it’s civil society that gives a face and voice to that amorphous entity called “the people”. This voice can influence elected governments to enact good laws or change bad ones. Take Section 377, a colonial era law that classified gay sex as an “unnatural offence”. The government didn’t magically sit up one morning and decide to remove the outdated law. It took decades of concerted action by civil society groups to force the government to decriminalise gay sex. As it did for the RTI Act or the Vishakha Guidelines to be passed. To pretend that civil society has suddenly become a fifth column out to destabilise the nation takes quite a leap of imagination. But Doval took that leap, stretching sinew and credulity. As did Chetan Bhagat in a column he wrote after the farm laws were repealed. Showing the consistency of a chameleon, Bhagat first claimed that those who opposed the laws “never applied logic”, went on to classify them as “left-wing, elite-woke-whatever”, and ended by conceding that “as far as protests are concerned, perhaps most of them were genuine as well”. Meaning what exactly? The protests are genuine, but the protestors are “elite-woke-whatever”? I wonder how Chetan & Co would describe the massive anti-corruption protests of 2011 that ultimately brought down the Congress-led government. That too, incidentally, was led by the same ‘civil society’ that’s causing Doval such alarm today. Human rights activists, lawyers, students, NGOs, the intelligentsia — they all participated. It even led to the emergence of the Aam Admi Party which went on to later win elections. Nobody was termed ‘anti-national’ or ‘seditious’ for demanding the government’s ouster then. Urban Naxals, anti-nationals, Khalistanis, tool-kit conspirators, jihadists — an amusing lexicon has emerged in recent years to describe civil society members, with trolls and TV channels amplifying the slurs. What’s less amusing is that such words essentially delegitimise vast swathes of citizens and criminalise voices critical of the ruling regime. It’s a piquant situation. On the one hand, mobs that carry out the most ‘uncivil’ actions like disrupting prayers, forcibly shutting down meat shops, or engineering riots, get away scot-free. But let people assemble and stage a peaceful protest, and everything in the rulebook, from traffic laws to accusations of child neglect, is thrown at them. Gandhi said non-violent protest can be “mightier than the mightiest weapon of destruction devised by the ingenuity of man”. It’s a deep fear of this that makes governments so inimical to the idea of civil society. There’s much the NSA could have told the graduating police officers — such as upholding the Constitution or steering clear of communalism and casteism. Instead, he warned them against the dangers of fellow citizens. Real criminals are so terribly passé these days.  Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/c-for-civil-not-criminal/article37834176.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Still Goan Crazy||Twenty-seven years ago, ‘ Ek Ho Gaye Hum Aur Tum ’, from the soundtrack of Bombay , composed by AR Rahman, was one of the biggest hits of the time. By then, Rahman was known for his atypical choice of singers to break the playback mould, which seemed to include a select list. Of course, there was also an element of surprise for listeners when they looked up the song credits to see who had sung the latest hit. ‘ Ek Ho Gaye Hum Aur Tum ’, better known as ‘ Hamma Hamma ’, was sung by Remo Fernandes, a detail that the singer forgot to mention to the TV crew that met him in Goa to work on a documentary on his life and music back in the 90s. As he writes in his autobiography, Remo, published by HarperCollins, “Well... you walk into a studio, hear a song for the very first time in your life, record it, walk out and never hear it again for months, so obviously you totally forget it. Until suddenly, without warning, it is released.” As Remo talks to us from his home in Siolim, he looks back on his short stint in Hindi cinema with the sort of quiet affection one feels for a favourite relative one meets occasionally — not too distant and yet not too close. “After the success of Jalwa , if I really wanted to stay in films; I would have at least attended its premiere and rubbed shoulders with all the producers and directors. I would have tried to get more and more assignments,” says the 69-year-old Padmashree awardee, who was approached by film producer Gul Anand to co-compose the music for the Hindi film Jalwa , which was released in 1987 and featured Naseeruddin Shah and Archana Puran Singh in lead roles. Laying it bare An icon of the 1980s, known for songs such as ‘ The Flute Song ’ and ‘ O Meri Munni ’, Remo says he has never been the sort to chase fame and film projects. “Here I was, sitting quietly in Goa doing my thing when suddenly Gul Anand approached me and, in the same year, Shyam Benegal [to make music for films]. I was writing my songs in English and I’d just released an album of old Goan and Portuguese songs. The film world suddenly happened to come to me. I didn’t go to Bombay or approach any filmmaker. It was not at all my scene because I didn’t even know well enough to think of it,” says Remo, who also composed the brilliant soundtrack for the Benegal film Trikal , released in 1985. Writing an autobiography was not on his list of priorities — creating music took up most of his time. “There were different phases [in making music]. In the beginning, they were all romantic songs. They were all about different girls,” he says of tracks such as ‘ Don’t Let Her Get Away ’. He writes about his many relationships with a candour that is rare amongst Indian artistes. Of his companion Zenia, to whom he has dedicated the autobiography, he writes: “She made me discover a third new thing about me: that I could turn voluntarily, willingly, and happily monogamous after all.” He engages the reader with humour, wit, and an incredibly visual writing style, which makes Remo a compelling read. Encouraged by friends, he wrote two chapters in 2009; they were enthralled by his many anecdotes including those from his hitch-hiking days across Europe and college days studying architecture at the JJ School of Arts in Mumbai. But it was during the lockdown, in 2020, that he returned to complete the autobiography.  Remo is as much about his life as it is an evocative ode to Goa. Whether he is tracing his family tree where he talks about his “strict” grandfather Dr Bailon Fernandes who forbade his sons to play music, or growing up in Panjim, which he describes as a “doll town” with houses built of plastered laterite stone, or about why he wrote ‘ Down w ith Brown ’, Goa is at the centre of it all. Porto to Panjim The opening sentence of the first chapter conveys his deep love for the idyllic beach paradise that is a world unto its own: “I knew the cracks on our old footpath by heart.” It is this bond that draws him back during the winter months from Porto in Portugal, which has been a second home to him since the mid-2000s. “I like to come back to Goa and do some shows during Christmas,” he says. The reason he moved to Porto is also undeniably linked to Goa. The small coastal city in Northwestern Portugal reminded him of his childhood in Goa, well before it was liberated from Portuguese rule. Goa is where he learnt Portuguese and sang ‘ Herois do Mar ’ (Heroes of the Sea), Portugal’s national anthem as part of Mocidade Portuguesa (Portuguese Youth), the Portuguese equivalent of the National Cadet Corps (NCC). But most importantly, without Goa, there would be no music in Remo’s life. The two are inextricably bound together and you hear them in the Mando, Konkani folk songs that are as integral to his journey as a musician as say, a film song such as ‘ Jalwa ’, which as he says, “brought him recognition across the streets of India”. He recalls listening to students who lived in the hostel from across his house sing Portuguese songs such as ‘ Surumbai ’, ‘ Barra de Damao ’ and ‘ Maria Pita Che ’ when they felt homesick. The students were originally from Daman and Diu, which were also Portuguese colonies at that point. In the late 90s, Remo would go on to reinterpret ‘ Maria Pita Che ’. So impressed was Ian Anderson, the legendary flautist and bandleader of British rock band Jethro Tull, with the song that he backed Remo on the track during a concert in Dubai in 2005. Remo recalls that he was nervous ahead of the concert, an unfamiliar feeling for someone who first took to stage when he was only six. But things turned around as soon as he stepped on stage, he writes in his autobiography. “As soon as I announced that I was from Goa, there was a roar of approval from the multinational audience, and that set the ball rolling. They were soon singing ‘ Maya Ya ’, clapping their hands, dancing in the aisles; the ice was melted, the party had started. I was home.” The magic lay in a three-letter word: Goa.  Published by HarperCollins, Remo (Rs. 799) is available at leading book stores.   The writer is an independent journalist and a faculty of journalism at FLAME University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/still-goan-crazy/article37834173.ece
04 December 2021||Hornbill Festival Nagaland:,||Instapic||The Northeast state’s annual crowdpuller is back — day one saw over 12,000 visitors! While it is unclear if popular contests like the one on the world’s spiciest chillies will be revived this year, this 10-day edition of Nagaland’s ‘festival of festivals’ includes exhibitions, walks, and handloom and cuisine showcases. At Kisama village. @hornbillfestivalofficial||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapic/article37834137.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Rock and heritage walk||Sign up forretro rock and popby Goan band A26 atSir Mutha Venkatasubba Rao Concert Hall. Resurgence is on December 5, 7 pm. Rs. 400 @5oh9.com. Meanwhile, the indoor heritage walk through the home of Tamil Isai Sangam, Raja Annamalai Manram, where art deco meets traditional Chettinad style, is in much demand. Listen to historian V Sriram share stories and the history of the building, home to a museum of musical instruments. December 4, 3.30 - 5 pm.Rs. 850 atpastforward.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/rock-and-heritage-walk/article37834139.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Stollen and chocolate||The Iron Ore Mountain Stollen by SAPA Sourdough and Pastry in Mysuru is travelling across the country this season. A tango of flavours and textures, made of spice-infused flour, loaded with butter and rum-soaked dry fruits, it is a nod to the iron ore mountain range in East Germany wherethis stollen style originated. @sapabakery.Japanese brandRoyce’has brought back Nama Hazelnut, a limited edition chocolate with hazelnut and paired with Hokkaido cream. royceindia.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/stollen-and-chocolate/article37834141.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Some cheer, some healing||Soak up the Xmas spirit with a ‘Mommy and Me’ workshop, for three to five-year-olds by Rainbow Fish Studio. Craft themes includeChristmas penguin, Gingerbread manetc. Saturdays, December 4-18. Workshops are available for older kids, too. Rs. 900 - Rs. 2,400. 9952018542. A nine-week course for adults ‘Connect: Healing through Art’, centered around art-making processes to navigate healing. Via Zoom, once a week. Register@aruboseon Instagram. Sessions look at mind, body and soul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/some-cheer-some-healing/article37834143.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Attakalari or Goa?||In Bengaluru, curtains go up on the 10th edition of The Attakalari India Biennial(AIB)hosted by the Attakkalari Centre for Movement Arts. December 2021 to February 2022. Themed ‘Inspire Bengaluru’, it goes hybrid for the first time. Live stage performances and workshops are part of the schedule. festival@attakalari.org. But if you want to amp up the party, tickets for the two-day Sunburn Goaare now available.At Vagator Beach on December 27-28. Rs. 8,000 onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/attakalari-or-goa/article37834147.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||India wild||Jangala,a coffee table bookby wild life enthusiasts Lara and Siddharth Morakhia captures striking images of India’s wildlife. Jewellery designers and founders of The Diya Project, the duo chronicle their expeditions to some of India’s wildest landscapes. Rs. 29,759.laram.in.Takashi Murakami and RTFKT Studios ‘Clone X’ NFTauctionhas dropped. The collection is set to become one of the most sought-after series. In the future, the assets could be used on metaverse platforms. etc.@rtfktstudios||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/india-wild/article37834149.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Lights come on||Shiny Christmas trees are coming up in hotel lobbies across the city. While The Leela Palace promises a white Christmas tree, mulled wine, gingerbread cookies and mince pies, the festivities are picking up speed at The Westin Chennaitoo, starting today atthe Lobby level, 4.30 - 6.30 pm. @westin.Chennai. As for treats, ITC Grand and the Taj Hotels have surprises ahead, but the most awaited is The Park Chennai’s super premium cakes. There will only be 12 of these, we are told! @theparkchennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lights-come-on/article37834151.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||For a cause||Pack holiday gifts in Aham Bhumika’s hand-embroidered totes with vibrant Indian motifs. The Bhopal-based NGO is at@ahambhumika. Rs. 650 onwards. For more totes, as well as 2022 diaries and table-top calendars, try Parivarthan for Parkinson’s Foundation. Members have engaged in therapeuticwarliart sessions, and the fabric-bound diary has 12warliart pieces drawn by them and caregivers. Made by Tamarind Chutney. Rs. 300-Rs. 600. 9381035979.@parivarthanparkinsons||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/for-a-cause/article37834153.ece
04 December 2021||Parag Agrawal:,||Talking point||Twitter got a new boss and unleashed a wave of jokes and trolls. There have been awkward surname connections to someone digging up Parag’s Twitter exchange from 2010 with friend and playback singer Shreya Ghoshal. But let’s say former CEO Jack Dorsey’s endorsement of Agrawal — curious, probing, rational, creative, etc — now counts as appraisal goals!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article37834155.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||TWO by design||Power mash-ups like Versace with Fendi are the biggest trend in the fashion world now, but it looks like old-school collabs with influencers and designers aren’t going anywhere anytime soon. This season’s pick of the crop:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/two-by-design/article37834132.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||South cities’ office vacancies rise||Office vacancies in Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai rose the most by 4.2%, 3.9% & 2.78% respectively in H1 FY22 vs same period in FY2021; in contrast, Pune and Kolkata saw vacancy levels reduce. These three cities saw new office addition of 12.95 mn sq. ft. area in H1 FY22, accounting for 58% share of total new completions. With increased new office completions, the main southern cities are witnessing a rise in their office vacancy levels despite high net absorption, as per latest ANAROCK data. Hyderabad has the highest vacancy levels at 15.20% in H1 FY22 as against 11.30% a year ago. As much as 4.5 mn sq. ft. new office space was added in the city in H1 FY22. In Bengaluru, office vacancy levels increased to 10.75% in H1 FY22 against 6.55% in H1 FY21. The city witnessed maximum new office completions in the period — approx. 7.3 mn sq. ft. Chennai saw the lowest vacancy levels at 10.40% in H1 FY22 as compared to 7.62% in H1 FY21. The city witnessed new office addition of 1.15 mn sq. ft. area in first two quarters of the present fiscal year. Prashant Thakur, director & head - Research, ANAROCK Group says, “Rising vacancies in the main southern cities can largely be attributed to increased new office space additions in the period. Altogether, the three cities saw new office space addition of 12.95 mn sq. ft. area in H1 FY22, accounting for nearly 58% share of the total new completions in top seven cities (approx. 22.2 mn sq. ft.). However, despite this rise, the current office vacancy levels in the south cities are still lower than in other top cities like NCR, MMR and Kolkata.” Rise of coworking In another notable trend, the demand for coworking spaces is on the rise. COVID-19 has clearly redefined the need for office spaces; businesses are heavily focused on cost optimisation to tackle unprecedented crises such as lockdowns in the future. The cost advantage of coworking spaces clearly outstrip the possible risk factors. Evidently, the pandemic has been a growth catalyst for the coworking sector, and this growth is likely to be manifold over the next two to three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/south-cities-office-vacancies-rise/article37834180.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Dividing a land and a house||I own a half undivided share in a land area of 2,340 sq.ft., while my brother owns the remaining half undivided share, ground and first floor building. He owns 1,290 sq.ft. and the remaining area of 1,050 sq.ft. is kept as open land. Now we would like to divide the above property among ourselves in such a way that 1,290 sq.ft. of land along with a built ground and first floor will be owned by one brother and the open land of 1,050 sq.ft. will go to another brother. Kindly inform the procedures to be followed to achieve the above division. Deenathayalan Chennai If both of you are joint owners of the entire land and the building thereon, you can divide the property by metes and bounds by executing a Deed of Partition and having the same registered in the office of the sub-registrar having jurisdiction. Prior to execution of the document, you have to obtain approval from the local authority for subdividing the plot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/dividing-a-land-and-a-house/article37834190.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Rain, rain, don’t go away||The recent flooding in many neighbourhoods in the city is a clear indicator of lack of a focussed plan to channel or collect our rain water. This has caused a lot of inconvenience to us, leave alone the fact that we were not able to collect this pure water for future use. Although long-term Government intervention is needed to change this situation, we can all make a conscious effort to look at our plots, streets and neighbourhoods as smaller hubs that we can try to make better. Looking back in time, decentralised rain water harvesting systems planned and maintained by local communities were common. The step wells of Gujarat and Rajasthan bear testimony to such planning. Shallow wells were popular as it was easy to visually identify water levels, and they were an indicator of water availability for the community during various times of the year. This translated to the conscious use of water. Rain water systems were planned taking into account ground slope, soil structure, and the communities’ needs. In today’s context, to start with, there are a few measures we can all take within our individual plots: 1. Ensure 100% of rain water from our rooftops is planned to be captured directly for domestic use. Rain water filters at base of down pipes will ensure adequate filtration. Roof slopes and water pipes should be checked and cleaned periodically. 2. Ensure all the rainwater that falls on the ground is either percolated into the ground or led into a natural pond (if space permits) or a well. One way to facilitate percolation is to minimise the amount of hard surface or paving on the ground. It is also imperative that rain water pipes designed for percolation are planned taking into account the terrain as well as the type of soil present to ensure maximum percolation into the ground. In case of places with high water table, wells or ponds could be used after providing adequate slopes on ground. 3. Construct channels covered with grates at entry points to the plot to ensure any water from outside due to level differences is arrested at the gate. This can then be connected to a pond or well within the plot. Looking outside our plots, we should ensure the roads and streets abutting our homes are planned with adequate slope to storm drains along the sides. This water can be collected at neighbourhood level into localised wells or tanks. Also it is imperative for new home buyers to check that adequate provisions have been made to collect and channelise rain water within their plot or community rather than focussing only on the total built up area. If we can each ensure our plots, streets and neighbourhoods are designed well, it can go a long way in preventing flooding, appreciating the rain and also effectively use our rain water.  The author is the founder of Green Evolution, a sustainable architecture firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/rain-rain-dont-go-away/article37834193.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Let there be light||A beautifully designed light in a room, either in the centre or at a far corner, is an exciting feature. This festive season, Peekaboo Interiors’ signature collection of lights is set to not only brighten up a room but elevate the surrounding interiors as well. The children’s section is divided into many zones as per age and growth of the child. The kid’s nursery, named Heirloom, is gilded with nine candle bulbs fitted in an opulent white chandelier illuminating warmth and peace keeping the infant comfortable and calm. The toddler grows into a Savannah zone, where a jungle experience waits for the tiny tots with pendant lights made of natural materials like bamboo hung with a jute rope. For the traveller in every child, Wanderlust zone with glider light flies below a floating cloud light. There are two play zones named Raindrops and Confetti, where a red cycle pendant adorns the wall paper.   Apart from these, one can find a collection of pendant lights inspired by lampshades fitted with badges, tassels and butterflies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/let-there-be-light/article37834198.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||FIVE YEAR FOCUS||REALTY RATES  Segment 2016 2021  (INR per sq.ft.)   Luxury NA NA apartments  Premium 6,250 6,300 apartments   Budget 5,200 5,400 apartments  Strategic Consulting, JLL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/five-year-focus/article37834195.ece
04 December 2021||F,||Demand for residential units in Coimbatore increases||or more than a year now, Coimbatore has seen a growing demand for residential units that most of the promoters do not have ready-to-occupy stocks. Gugan Ilango, president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India, Coimbatore, says the uptick in demand began in June last year and since then there is no looking back. Several promoters had inventory before the COVID-19 and currently, the ready-to-occupy residential unit stock is low among the CREDAI members. In fact, some of them are launching new projects too, he says. There is a need for a house now among many and that is fuelling the demand. The market in Coimbatore has seen a huge shoot up in demand. K. Paneerselvam, who heads the Coimbatore chapter of Builders’ Association of India, says the real estate and housing markets are doing good especially during the last three months in Coimbatore. All segments of residential projects, especially independent houses and villas, are seeing a surge in purchase. However, what is turning out to be a subject of concern to the builders and the promoters are the high cost of construction materials. “The costs are abnormally high,” says Mr. Ilango. No shortage There is no shortage in availability of raw materials. But the prices are an issue, agrees Mr. Paneerselvam. What is visible to the customers are the high prices of cement and steel. But prices of all other materials have also seen a hike. Prices of wires and PVC materials have shot up 100 % to 150 %. Paints and hardware items also cost high, they say. “There is no suspension of construction activity. Promoters have to meet delivery schedules because of RERA guidelines. But the costs are going to be high for the customers,” points out Mr. Ilango. EMI costs Customers who buy houses in the price range of Rs. 30 lakh to Rs. 70 lakh are the worst affected as the EMI costs will increase for them. Similarly, builders who take up construction of smaller houses (600 sq.ft to 700 sq.ft) are hesitant because the buyers of this segment are price sensitive, they add. On the issues related to m-sand and blue metal availability, Mr. Paneerselvam said Coimbatore and nearby areas had several quarries that ensured availability of these materials at competitive prices. Other cities, especially Chennai, was hit by shortage in availability of these materials, Mr. Panneerselvam said. Though the builders and promoters are hopeful of the market continuing to look up in the coming months, they want measures to bring down the raw material prices.  M. Soundariya Preetha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/demand-for-residential-units-in-coimbatore-increases/article37834201.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Dividing a land and a house||I own a half undivided share in a land area of 2,340 sq.ft., while my brother owns the remaining half undivided share, ground and first floor building. He owns 1,290 sq.ft. and the remaining area of 1,050 sq.ft. is kept as open land. Now we would like to divide the above property among ourselves in such a way that 1,290 sq.ft. of land along with a built ground and first floor will be owned by one brother and the open land of 1,050 sq.ft. will go to another brother. Kindly inform the procedures to be followed to achieve the above division. Deenathayalan Chennai If both of you are joint owners of the entire land and the building thereon, you can divide the property by metes and bounds by executing a Deed of Partition and having the same registered in the office of the sub-registrar having jurisdiction. Prior to execution of the document, you have to obtain approval from the local authority for subdividing the plot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/dividing-a-land-and-a-house/article37834203.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Rain, rain, don’t go away||The recent flooding in many neighbourhoods in the city is a clear indicator of lack of a focussed plan to channel or collect our rain water. This has caused a lot of inconvenience to us, leave alone the fact that we were not able to collect this pure water for future use. Although long-term Government intervention is needed to change this situation, we can all make a conscious effort to look at our plots, streets and neighbourhoods as smaller hubs that we can try to make better. Looking back in time, decentralised rain water harvesting systems planned and maintained by local communities were common. The step wells of Gujarat and Rajasthan bear testimony to such planning. Shallow wells were popular as it was easy to visually identify water levels, and they were an indicator of water availability for the community during various times of the year. This translated to the conscious use of water. Rain water systems were planned taking into account ground slope, soil structure, and the communities’ needs. In today’s context, to start with, there are a few measures we can all take within our individual plots: 1. Ensure 100% of rain water from our rooftops is planned to be captured directly for domestic use. Rain water filters at base of down pipes will ensure adequate filtration. Roof slopes and water pipes should be checked and cleaned periodically. 2. Ensure all the rainwater that falls on the ground is either percolated into the ground or led into a natural pond (if space permits) or a well. One way to facilitate percolation is to minimise the amount of hard surface or paving on the ground. It is also imperative that rain water pipes designed for percolation are planned taking into account the terrain as well as the type of soil present to ensure maximum percolation into the ground. In case of places with high water table, wells or ponds could be used after providing adequate slopes on ground. 3. Construct channels covered with grates at entry points to the plot to ensure any water from outside due to level differences is arrested at the gate. This can then be connected to a pond or well within the plot. Looking outside our plots, we should ensure the roads and streets abutting our homes are planned with adequate slope to storm drains along the sides. This water can be collected at neighbourhood level into localised wells or tanks. Also it is imperative for new home buyers to check that adequate provisions have been made to collect and channelise rain water within their plot or community rather than focussing only on the total built up area. If we can each ensure our plots, streets and neighbourhoods are designed well, it can go a long way in preventing flooding, appreciating the rain and also effectively use our rain water.  The author is the founder of Green Evolution, a sustainable architecture firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/rain-rain-dont-go-away/article37834204.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Let there be light||A beautifully designed light in a room, either in the centre or at a far corner, is an exciting feature. This festive season, Peekaboo Interiors’ signature collection of lights is set to not only brighten up a room but elevate the surrounding interiors as well. The children’s section is divided into many zones as per age and growth of the child. The kid’s nursery, named Heirloom, is gilded with nine candle bulbs fitted in an opulent white chandelier illuminating warmth and peace keeping the infant comfortable and calm. The toddler grows into a Savannah zone, where a jungle experience waits for the tiny tots with pendant lights made of natural materials like bamboo hung with a jute rope. For the traveller in every child, Wanderlust zone with glider light flies below a floating cloud light. There are two play zones named Raindrops and Confetti, where a red cycle pendant adorns the wall paper.   Apart from these, one can find a collection of pendant lights inspired by lampshades fitted with badges, tassels and butterflies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/let-there-be-light/article37834202.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||For Pplus Brief reports||G Square has launched G Sqaure Springfields, a gated plot community in Coimbatore. A release from the company said Springfields at Sulur comprises 186 residential plots ranging from two to seven cents each and seven commercial plots starting from four cents. N. Eshwar, Chief Executive Officer, G Square, said, “We are overwhelmed with the phenomenal response that we have received for our earlier projects – Blue Crest and Manchester. It’s good to see people in Coimbatore adopting to the ‘plot perfection’ culture that we have brought into the city with our projects.” The starting price for Elite plots at Springfields16 lakh and it is 24 lakh for premium plots. The king sized plots cost 35 lakh and commercial plots 4 crore. The community has over 20 amenities, including play area, aroma garden, amphi theatre, and pergola. The DTCP approved plots have water and electricity connection each, according to the release.   The Beautiful Homes store by Asian Paints, inaugurated in Coimbatore recently, is an one-stop shop for home décor and home furnishings. Amit Syngle, Managing Director and CEO, Asian Paints, inaugurated the second store recently at Sukrawarpet. Spread over 8,000 sq. ft., the Beautiful Homes store has one of the widest range of furniture displays with an entire floor dedicated to the showcase of the varied pieces from the category. The store has also launched a bespoke bath display area for customers who are looking for a luxurious bathing space for their homes. Adopting a ‘Phygital’ (physical + digital) experience, the Coimbatore store will help customers make quick decisions to suit their home decor needs. The store also has a wide range of fabric swatches, a release says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/for-pplus-brief-reports/article37834199.ece
04 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Travel history is not enough: experts||In the wake of an anaesthetist from a government hospital in Bengaluru, who did not have any travel history, getting infected with the Omicron variant, COVID-19 experts here said that travel history alone should not be the deciding factor for genome sequencing of samples. While the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), which monitors the genomic variations of the pandemic, has mandated random sequencing of samples (at least 10%) that test positive from among clusters, among the fully vaccinated and children, experts said health professionals at testing centres should be more vigilant and watch for parameters such as low cycle threshold (CT) values that indicate a high viral load. “Although the fully vaccinated anaesthetist did not have a travel history, we sent his sample for genome sequencing as his viral load was high and the CT value was less than 15. CT value indicates the number of cycles needed in the RT-PCR test to amplify the viral RNA to a detectable level. The lower the CT value, the higher the viral load - because the virus has been spotted after fewer cycles,” said a senior doctor from the hospital. In a tweet, TAC member Giridhar R. Babu, who also heads Lifecourse Epidemiology at Indian Institute of Public Health in Bengaluru, said: “Travel history can distract the detection of cases and clusters. Especially, when it is absent. Presumptive diagnosis by health professionals and proactive approach is critical.” Sequence cluster samples V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said it is important now to identify clusters of cases and do genomic sequencing. Asserting on the importance of contact tracing now, Dr. Ravi said the principles of contact tracing principles should be followed in toto. “While it is difficult for a person to recall whom all he met in the last 10-15 days,we have to watch out for cluster outbreaks where even one of the contacts is involved.” C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said the focus is on genome sequencing now. “The variant may have been in circulation in many countries. However, the detection of the variant in South Africa has prompted other countries to sequence more and more samples,” he said. “Better surveillance and genomic sequencing apart from reporting in a timely manner are the need of the hour now. The next three months are crucial, especially with Christmas and New Year celebrations ushering in,” the doctor asserted. S-gene target failure Quoting the World Health Organisation (WHO), U.S. Vishal Rao, member of the State’s Genomic Surveillance Committee, said the S-gene is not present in the Omicron variant. “This is the result of the multiple mutations that the variant has undergone and is a marker to identify the variant,” he said. “The S-Gene dropout or as we say the S-gene target failure (SGTF) is one of the proxy indicators to (ascertain) whether or not it is the Omicron variant,” Mr. Rao explained. “Thermo Fischer TaqPath assay can therefore be used as proxy test for this variant, pending sequencing confirmation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/travel-history-is-not-enough-experts/article37834215.ece
04 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||OBC leader Jagdish Thakor to head Congress party in Gujarat||Almost nine months after the resignation of Gujarat Congress president and Leader of the Opposition Amit Chavda and Paresh Dhanani respectively, the Congress on Friday appointed senior OBC leader Jagdish Thakor as the party chief and tribal legislator Sukhram Rathwa as the Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly. The high command has chosen Mr. Thakor, a former parliamentarian and legislator and grassroots leader from north Gujarat, to steer the party during the crucial Assembly polls to be held in December 2022. According to party insiders, Mr. Thakor was chosen as a consensus candidate amid bitter infighting in the State where the Opposition party has not been able to dislodge the BJP since 1998. “I thank the party high command for this opportunity. We will all work hard to ensure the party wins the Assembly polls next year,” he told media persons as he arrived from Delhi on Friday afternoon. On Friday evening, the party convened its legislature party meeting in which seasoned legislator Sukhram Rathwa was elected as the CLP leader, replacing Paresh Dhanani, a Patidar leader from Saurashtra. By appointing an OBC as party chief and a tribal leader as CLP leader, the Opposition party is apparently focusing on wooing OBCs, tribals, Dalits and Muslims, who are traditional voters of the Congress party in Gujarat. In Gujarat, Thakors and Kolis are considered the largest caste group with significant presence in all the regions of the State. Thakors are particularly dominating in north and central Gujarat while Kolis dominate in Saurashtra and South Gujarat. ‘Important to woo OBCs’ “It is good that the party is focusing on the communities which have been traditionally Congress inclined. Also, since the BJP has appointed a Patidar leader Bhupendra Patel as Chief Minister, it’s all the more important for the Congress to woo OBCs,” a senior legislator said. Besides the party chief and CLP leader, the Opposition party is likely to appoint few leaders from different communities as the working presidents. Presently, Patidar youth leader Hardik Patel is a working president of the State party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/obc-leader-jagdish-thakor-to-head-congress-party-in-gujarat/article37834485.ece
04 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Singer Moosewala inducted into Cong.||Controversial Punjabi singer Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu, known as Sidhu Moosewala, on Friday joined the Congress party here inviting sharp criticism from the Bharatiya Janata Party. Mr. Moosewala, who had been surrounded in controversies for allegedly promoting ‘gun culture’ and violence in his songs, joined the Congress in the presence of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu. Mr. Moosewala has been booked in multiple cases by the Punjab Police for glorifying gun culture under different sections of the Indian Penal Code and also under the Arms Act. Mr. Channi said Mr. Moosewala, being a heartthrob of millions of his fans across the globe, would prove to be an asset for the party as he was connected with the grassroot. “Mr. Moosewala with his new assignment after entering the arena of politics would serve the people the way he earned name and fame in the world of music by the dint of his hard work,” he said. Mr. Navjot Sidhu said that Mr. Moosewala created ripples in the Punjabi music with his ever-growing popularity, especially amongst the youth. Mr. Sidhu said Mr. Moosewla with his unbound talent and huge following would follow the footsteps of his parents to serve the mankind. After his joining, Mr. Moosewala said the Congress was the only political party that offers a healthy platform, especially to the ordinary people with modest backgrounds to serve the society. ‘Warning bell’ BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh, accused the Congress of promoting gun culture and separatist forces in the border State. Reacting to the induction of Sidhu Moosewala in the Congress, Mr. Chugh said it has exposed the Congress’s nefarious designs to destabilise Punjab. Mr. Chugh said in December 2020, Mr. Moosewala had sung songs glorifying Bhindranwale (the spearhead of the Khalistan movement) and other separatist leaders, and Congress’s support to such a person was a warning bell for the State. “The Congress is giving dangerous signals to the youth which would lead to the destabilisation of the State. As it is, already Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu’s proximity with Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, Pakistan Army chief Bajwa has been a matter of serious concern and now the State Congress has started supporting people who glorify gun culture,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/singer-moosewala-inducted-into-cong/article37834469.ece
04 December 2021||Kochi,||Sewage discharge chokes Periyar||An increase in discharge of sewage from cities and towns has resulted in the deterioration of water quality in the Periyar, according to the Kerala State Pollution Control Board. The worsening water quality has been detected along the three river stretches that include Idukki, Idukki-Ernakulam border (Neriamangalam) to Aluva and Mangalapuzha branch in Thrissur district and Aluva to Eloor ferry, covering industrial areas in Eloor, Edayar and Kalamassery. Water quality All results, except a few, are showing that the worsening of water quality is due to sewage intrusion particularly from cities and towns. Certain drains carry severely polluted wastewater from identified discharge points from town areas and unidentified sources in industrial areas, especially the Eloor-Edayar stretch, said an updated status report on the condition of the Periyar filed before the National Green Tribunal. The coliform content, indicating faecal contamination, was higher than the permissible limits owing to sewage intrusion into the river. But the levels of biological oxygen demand and the coliform count were within the limits along the main stream of the river, it said. The findings revealed that small and medium industries located along the identified stretches may be resorting to unauthorised discharged into the river. These units were found not having effluent treatment plants as prescribed by the board. However, the report claimed that the industrial units that had installed effluent treatment plants were found complying with the standards stipulated by the board. The issue of unauthorised discharge from industrial units has been placed before the government. A study is under way to install a common effluent treatment plant in Edayar industrial area. The Kerala Water Authority has been entrusted with the execution of the project. The board said that it was awaiting guidelines from the Central Pollution Control Board for fixing the environment compensation on local bodies in Idukki district that failed to comply with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. On the delay in the completion of the final draft of the Periyar Rejuvenation Action Plan, officials cited that some more time was needed as personnel entrusted with the task were middle-level officers lacking powers to give administrative sanction for projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sewage-discharge-chokes-periyar/article37834223.ece
04 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Ex-DGP, former Akali Dal leader from Punjab join BJP||Several prominent people from Punjab on Friday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), including former Director General of Police Sarbdeep Singh Virk. ‘Would strengthen BJP’ They joined the BJP in New Delhi in the presence of Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, the party’s in-charge for the Punjab Assembly polls. Mr. Shekhawat said the party would get strengthened further in Punjab with the induction of these people. Mr. Virk, former chairman of the Punjab Cooperative Bank Avtar Singh Zira, steel industrialist Harcharan Singh Ranauta and former Shiromani Akali Dal MLA Sarabjit Singh Makkar were among those who joined the BJP. BJP’s Punjab State general secretary Jeevan Gupta said all the new members came into the party-fold after getting influenced by the farmer-friendly and people-friendly policies of the BJP. “All these people will strengthen the organisation by making the people of their respective areas aware of the policies of the Central Government and the ideology of the party,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-ex-dgp-former-sad-leader-join-bjp/article37834473.ece
04 December 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal Government employees to get 48 holidays in 2022||West Bengal has announced a list of holidays for the State Government employees for 2022, a largesse that’s a repeat of the preceding two years. As per the State Government’s 2022 calendar, unveiled last week, the total number of public holidays in West Bengal stood at 48. It’s a different matter that 11 of these happen to be Sundays, something that beneficiaries are unhappy about. “The debt-ridden Government is unable to hike our dearness allowance — the DA we earn is about 30% less than what the Central Government employees get — that’s why it is compensating us with holidays,” a civil servant told The Hindu . The officer, unlike many other State Government employees, didn’t seem too perturbed about the fact that many of the public holidays fall on a Sunday in 2022. “The Government, I am sure, will make up for this,” the officer said. Making up for clash In fact, the list already makes up for one clash: usually, the day after Saraswati Puja is also a holiday but since the next day is a Sunday, the day before Saraswati Puja has been declared a holiday. The Government employees will also get to stay away from work for one-third of the month of October, thanks to Durga Puja. Puja holidays begin on September 30 and stretch to October 10. Kali Puja will see a three-day closure. It was in late 2019 that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, often accused by her adversaries of being partial to Muslims, had doubled, in the 2020 calendar, the number of holidays given for several Hindu festivals. She obviously had an eye on the Assembly elections. But those extra holidays are now a permanent part of the State Government calendar. Saraswati Puja, Holi, Chhat and Id-ul-Fitr are now marked with two-day holidays. The festivals of Shivaratri and Janmashtami were also notified as public holidays in late 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bengal-government-employees-to-get-48-holidays-in-2022/article37834647.ece
04 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Hooda flays BJP-JJP Govt. over job ‘scam’||The Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda on Friday accused the Haryana Government of patronising the irregularities in jobs through the Haryana Public Service Commission and the Haryana Staff Selection Commission and asked the Government to initiate an investigation within 15 days. “If the Government does not announce a Central Bureau of Investigation inquiry within 15 days, then a big ‘Yuva Aakrosh’ rally would be organised in Sonipat on December 19,” he said in Panchkula. Mr. Hooda was participating in a protest rally held by the Haryana Youth Congress members on the irregularities in recruitment issue. “The recruitment scam in Haryana had left behind all the scams in the country and that the Vyapam scam of Madhya Pradesh also got dwarfed in front of this scam. Through the protest, the youth have tried to make their voice reach the ears of this deaf Government. The youthis facing the highest unemployment rate in the country. The data in the monthly report of the CMIE, besides the annual report of the NITI Aayog, makes it clear that Haryana has the highest unemployment rate in India. Both the HPSC and the HSSC have the same formula — give a sack of notes to get a job, leave the form completely blank,” he said. Mr. Hooda said till 2014, Haryana was at the forefront of per capita income and per capita investment. “Haryana used to show the way to the other States in terms of employment and people used to come here for employment. But today, our unemployment rate is four times the average unemployment of the country,” he said. “No new investment, new factory was established in the State during the BJP rule. Projects like the international airport, rail coach factory were moved to other States.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hooda-flays-bjp-jjp-govt-over-job-scam/article37834472.ece
04 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha CM lashes out at Oppn. for disrupting Assembly session||Breaking his silence over the Mamita Meher murder case, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday came down heavily on the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress for causing continuous disruptions in the proceedings of the winter session of the Odisha Assembly. The State Assembly failed to transact any legislative business since the beginning of the session as the two Opposition parties persisted with their agitation seeking removal of Minister of State for Home Dibya Shankar Mishra for his alleged link with the accused of the woman teacher’s murder. “I am deeply concerned that there are attempts to prevent one of our colleagues — a member of the August House -- from discharging his duties. The Indian Constitution has given crucial responsibility to the legislature and its members enjoy certain safeguards and privileges for helping them discharge their duties without fear, intimidation and pressure,” said Mr. Patnaik reading out a statement in the Assembly. ‘Wrong precedent’ “It will be a travesty if the members of the House are not allowed to discharge their constitutional duties. This is also setting a wrong precedent and such attempts can be misused anytime,” he said. Mamita Meher, teacher at Sunshine English Medium School, Mahaling in Kalahandi district, had gone missing on October 8 and her body was traced on October 19. She was reportedly strangulated to death by Gobina Sahu, promoter of the school. Sahu admitted to have strangulated the teacher to death in order to prevent her from disclosing his extra-marital affairs. Minister Mishra was often seen on campuses of educational institutes promoted by Sahu. Opposition parties allege the murder accused was being shielded by the Minister for which he managed to escape from police custody. Terming the death of Mamita Meher as sad and an unfortunate incident, Mr. Patnaik assured that his government would ensure that the perpetrators of the crime are brought to justice as per law in the shortest possible time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-cm-lashes-out-at-oppn-for-disrupting-assembly-session/article37834480.ece
04 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Kangana’s car stopped in Punjab’s Rupnagar||Actor Kangana Ranaut’s car was on Friday briefly stopped at Kiratpur Sahib in Punjab’s Rupnagar district by a group of people, demanding an apology from her over her alleged remarks on the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws. In a video message on her Instagram account, the actor alleged she was “attacked” by a mob, who “abused” and “threatened to kill her”. Ms. Ranaut was on her way from Himachal Pradesh to the Chandigarh airport when the incident took place. Police said when her car reached the Bunga Sahib gurdwara near Kiratpur Sahib in Rupnagar, a group of men and women carrying flags of a farmer outfit, did not allow the car to move forward. They were demanding an apology from the actor for her comments against farmers protesting the Centre’s three farm laws, they said. Her car was stopped for over half an hour. Heavy police force from Rupnagar reached the spot. Ms. Ranaut also spoke to some protesting women, said police. After police persuaded them, the protesters allowed the actor’s car to proceed. The actor, while sitting in her car, made a video of the incident. “A mob surrounded me as I entered Punjab. They are calling themselves farmers. They are attacking me, abusing me and threatening to kill me,” she said in the video posted on her Instagram account. “In this country, this kind of mob lynching is happening openly. If I would not be having security with me, what situation would be there, what would happen? The situation here is unbelievable,” she said. “There is so much police presence, still my car is not being allowed to go. Am I a politician, do I run a party, what is this behaviour. Unbelievable,” the actor said. The actor said the incident is the result of the politics being played over her name. ‘Would have been killed’ “See how the mob has surrounded my car. There would have been lynching openly had police not be here. Shame on these people,” she said. The actor while sitting in her car also spoke to some women protesters and compared one of them to her mother. “I studied in Punjab. You are like my mother,” she could be heard saying this to a protester.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kanganas-car-stopped-in-punjabs-rupnagar/article37834642.ece
04 December 2021||AJMER,||Longest in-country migration route of lesser florican from Rajasthan tracked||In a major discovery, the longest in-country migration route of lesser floricans, the endangered birds of the bustard group, has been tracked for the first time from Rajasthan to Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district. The mystery of the fast-disappearing birds may soon be resolved with the help of satellite transmitters fitted on them. The telemetry exercise was undertaken in the Shokaliya landscape of Ajmer district to trace the journey of lesser floricans from their breeding grounds to their places of origin, presumably in down South. Following initial failures, the scientific experiment has succeeded in locating a bird which travelled a distance of 1,000 km after breeding during the monsoon. Lesser florican, taxonomically classified as Sypheotides indicus , is a small and slender bird species belonging to the bustard group, found in tall grasslands, for which Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) has launched a recovery programme. The endangered bird is observed in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and some other regions during the monsoon season, when it breeds and later disappears with its chicks to unknown places. The bird is listed as “critically endangered” on the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s Red List of Threatened Species and its population has been identified as “decreasing”. The experiment for fitting the U.S.-made satellite transmitters with solar-powered batteries was taken up near Shokaliya village in Ajmer district’s Bhinai tehsil. The first attempt, made in 2014, revealed that the male bird was loitering within a distance of 60 km, after which the battery failed and the signals stopped. Two subsequent experiments in which the transmitters were applied on the back of male birds depicted that the lesser floricans had flown to Agar, near Ujjain, and a grassland habitat between Banswara and Ratlam. The signals were emitted till the tiny gadgets continued to function, making it difficult to decipher the birds' migration route and their residing spot for rest of the year. The latest instance of migration detection is that of a male lesser florican which took a zigzag flight from Shokaliya and has passed through Shevgaon tehsil, west of Ahmednagar in Maharashtra, covering a distance of 1,000 km from its breeding ground. The transmitter's signals were received for some time continuously from the same region until the battery finally failed. ‘Very little information’ WII scientist Sutirtha Dutta told The Hindu that this was the longest distance covered by a tagged lesser florican to the knowledge of conservation scientists and environmentalists. “Very little is known about their migration, as only a few birds have been tagged as yet,” Dr. Dutta said, adding that telemetry would help the experts understand the ecology and seasonal movements between breeding and non-breeding areas which were poorly known at present. The extensive study on lesser floricans' migration has been launched as part of the bustard recovery programme, which is a conservation initiative for the critically endangered Great Indian Bustard and the endangered lesser florican. The WII is implementing the project in partnership with Forest Departments of several States and the International Fund for Houbara Conservation. Unprotected agricultural fields in Shokaliya are the strongholds of lesser florican's breeding population, which forages on insects amid the grass and crops of amenable heights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/longest-migration-route-of-lesser-florican-from-rajasthan-tracked/article37834465.ece
04 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘Maharashtra Govt. to appoint rights panel chief before Dec. 10’||The Maharashtra Government told the Bombay High Court on Friday that it will appoint Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission’s chairperson before December 10, which is International Human Rights Day. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told a Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M.S. Karnik that the file is with the Governor and the appointment will be made before December 10. The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Vaishnavi Gholave, 23, through advocate Vinod Sangvikar. The PIL mentions on March 6, 2001, the commission was constituted, and it consists of one chairman, one judicial member, one expert member, one secretary and one special inspector general of police. “There have been no regular appointments made from July 2018 onwards. On April 27, 2021, the acting chairperson, the only adjudicating member retired,” it states. On May 25, 2021, Ms. Gholave filed a Right to Information query seeking details on the vacant posts in the commission. On May 28, she received responses that, “out of the total sanctioned 51 posts only 26 posts are filled, and the rest 25 posts are vacant. All three adjudicatory members’ posts are lying vacant, and the post of Chairperson has been vacant for more than three years.” The PIL adds, “The commission has 21,545 pending cases till the month of March 2021 which is the highest in a decade and the inaction of the State Government, is only to be blamed for this sorry state of affairs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtra-govt-to-appoint-rights-panel-chief-before-dec-10/article37834640.ece
04 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘NCB wants to take over top 5 drug cases from Maharashtra police’||Maharashtra Minister and Nationalist Congress party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Friday questioned the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) letter to Maharashtra police asking the latter to transfer ‘top five’ cases with the Anti-Narcotics Cell of the State police to the Central agency. ‘Shah’s directions’ “NCB Director General S.N. Pradhan wrote to Maharashtra Director General of Police on November 24 asking a list five cases fit to be handed over to the NCB. This has been as per the directions of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. We want to know the criteria for selecting five cases. Are they the ones which garnered maximum publicity?” asked Mr. Malik. The Minister termed it as attempt to infringe on State’s rights as there is not provision in the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act for such take-over. As per the letter, the NCB is asking the State to transfer five cases with inte-State and international ramifications. Mr. Malik, who has been targeting the NCB since the Aryan Khan case, pointed out that it is the State police’s Anti-Narcotics Cell which has unearthed drug rackets in the State and not the NCB. “If NCB unit is not working, then close it down,” he said. ‘Bid to extort money’ Reiterating his earlier allegations that the NCB officers were extorting money, Mr. Malik questioned whether seeking transfer of five case is another attempt to extort money. “Let the State police do its work and you do yours. What is the reason for interfering in other agency’s work. Is it to claim control on every investigation?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ncb-wants-to-take-over-top-5-drug-cases-from-maharashtra-police/article37834483.ece
04 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||600 NSUI members quit party unit in Meghalaya||It has been one setback after another for the Congress in Meghalaya. Some 600 members of the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), the student wing of Congress, quit from the State’s East Khasi Hills district on December 2. This coincided with the NSUI in Assam winning five posts in the election of the Postgraduate Students’ Union of Gauhati University. The 600 followed their State president Bansharailang Pyngrope in quitting the NSUI, attributing their move to the “business-like approach” of parliamentarian Vincent H. Pala, who took over a few months ago as the president of the Meghalaya Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC). “We were left like orphans in view of the latest political developments in the MPCC,” Mr. Pyngrope said in a letter to NSUI national president Neeraj Kundan. He complained that the State Congress chief “does not have any regard for hard work, sincerity and dedication”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/600-nsui-members-quit-party-unit-in-meghalaya/article37834474.ece
04 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya HC against checking entry of citizens||The High Court of Meghalaya has said the entry of Indian citizens through the implementation of the Meghalaya Residents’ Safety and Security Act, 2016, may not be regulated. The State Government had referred to Article 19(5) of the Constitution while drawing up the Act. But a Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice T. Diengdoh observed that the grounds on which entry to or movement within the State may be regulated have not been spelt out in the impugned statute or in any rules framed thereunder. “The challenge here is to the validity of the Act and the possible draconian manner in which it may be implemented as appropriately apprehended by the petitioners,” the court order reads. A PIL was filed earlier challenging the constitutional validity of entry-exit gates in the State. The petitioners submitted that gates were set up for checking the documents of those seeking to enter the State. They also submitted that without any objective parameters being set, such check-posts may be impermissible and the exercise of authority thereat may be wholly arbitrary. The Bench said since the advocate representing the State sought time to obtain instructions, “let the matter stand over for some time”. The matter has been listed on February 2, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/meghalaya-hc-against-checking-entry-of-citizens/article37834470.ece
04 December 2021||Lucknow,||Four arrested for beating up policeman||Four persons were arrested on Friday for allegedly beating a sub-inspector in Nirala Nagar area here after his car hit another vehicle, police said. The incident took place on Thursday when S-I Vinod Kumar's car hit another vehicle outside the venue of a marriage ceremony following which he was beaten up by some persons. The police swung into action after a video of the incident went viral on social media. The arrested accused have been identified as Pravendra Mathur, Pranjal, Priyank and Ashish Shukla. Police Commissioner D.K. Thakur said Mr. Kumar was beaten and an attempt was made to snatch his mobile phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/four-arrested-for-beating-up-policeman/article37834466.ece
04 December 2021||Tikamgarh,||Three M.P. policemen killed in U.P. accident||Three police personnel from Madhya Pradesh, who were going to Haryana in an SUV along with two others from Uttar Pradesh in order to rescue a kidnapped girl, died in a road accident on Yamuna Expressway in Mathura in U.P. on Friday morning, an officer said. The three policemen belonged to Budera police station in Tikamgarh district of M.P., he said. Three others, including a police head constable, sustained injuries in the incident and were admitted to a hospital in Mathura, the officerl said. “The police team was going to Haryana when their vehicle crashed into a road divider," Tikamgarh Additional Superintendent of Police M.L. Chourasia said. The deceased have been identified as police head constable Bhawani Prasad (52), constables Hira Devi Prajapati (32), Kamlendra Yadav (28), he added. Two others — Preeti and Dharmendra — whom the police were taking from Uttar Pradesh to help them out in rescuing the kidnapped girl from Tikamgarh, were also killed in the accident, the ASP said. Police head constable Rathi Ram, SUV driver Jagdish Lodhi and one Ravi Raikwar have sustained injuries, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-mp-policemen-killed-in-up-accident/article37834639.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Come rain or shine||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/come-rain-or-shine/article37834645.ece
04 December 2021||December 04 2021 00:00 IST,||For the holiday table||For Good Earth, 2021 has been all about celebrating the brand’s silver anniversary. And it’s been quite multi-faceted: with limited-edition launches, revisiting of classics — such as Iris Garden, a 20-year-old vintage design now revived with a fresh colour palette — and the launch of a new collection, Bosporus. The most recent is a collaboration with British artist Rebecca Campbell for a line of tableware (as part of the Bosporus collection). “We worked together through online meetings, amidst lockdowns, and across two continents and time zones,” shares founder Anita Lal. She explains that it was the artist’s “whimsical yet poetic interpretation of nature and its many elements” that drew her. With the many whimsical elements Campbell created, “the collection evolved and grew into a comprehensive collection of platters and bowls, with many gift sets for tea and coffee along with a gorgeous dinner service”, Lal says. Excerpts from an interview with Lal. The collaboration with Rebecca Campbell. Rebecca Campbell has an eye for whimsy and detail. She comes from the lush Ireland countryside. During her early travels to India, she encountered iconic Mughal miniature paintings, which inspired her to incorporate animals, gardens, flowers, and fruits into her works. I had seen and loved her series of delightful vignettes. Apart from her amazing talent, I found Rebecca one of the nicest persons to work with. The pomegranate motif is intrinsic to Good Earth. How different is Campbell’s interpretation? The anaar or pomegranate has long been revered as a symbol of fertility, prosperity, and abundance. When I gave Rebecca the theme of Pomegranates and Roses, she created a tree laden with ruby red fruit entwined with a rose creeper, and that was the start of a magical universe that included a pavilion and leopards and peacocks and hummingbirds and so much more. Rebecca used watercolours and sometimes gouache. Watercolour has such a wonderful luminous quality, and she wanted to keep the colours sharp, fresh and jewel-like. How did the collection evolve? There is a delightful Persian cookbook named Pomegranates and Roses , and both the book and its name have remained with me for years. I wanted to create a tableware collection that would embody this by capturing the delight of alfresco meals. Rebecca created the intertwined images of the two fragrant edibles: ruby red pomegranates and deep pink roses, ingredients that elevate cuisines across central Asia and the Mediterranean. Her sketches were converted into decals and applied to fine bone china dinnerware by women artisans at the Good Earth atelier on the outskirts of Delhi.  From Rs. 3,500 onwards, on goodearth.in and Good Earth stores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/for-the-holiday-table/article37834627.ece
