05 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fresh cases in Maharashtra and Gujarat take Omicron tally to 4||Two more persons in India tested positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus on Saturday, taking the tally to four. A 72-year-old in Gujarat and a 33-year-old in Maharashtra, both men, were confirmed by the health authorities as affected by the variant. The elderly person had travelled to Jamnagar from Zimbabwe via Mumbai. Officials confirmed to The Hindu that he had “mild symptoms” but his vaccination status could not be confirmed. It is unclear, however, if he is an Indian national or a non-resident Indian. “A person has been found Omicron positive in Jamnagar. We have isolated him and are monitoring him. A micro-containment zone has been created where he is living. We will be tracing and testing all his contacts,” Manoj Aggarwal, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Gujarat, said. The 33-year-old, who is unvaccinated, arrived in Mumbai on November 24 from Cape Town through Dubai and Delhi. Earlier this week, two persons in Karnataka were confirmed with the new variant. Madhavi Joshi of the Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre, which tested the 72-year-old’s genome sample, stated that the Omicron variant was confirmed and it had the ‘S gene dropout’. The S gene is a spike protein gene, and the use of a particular RT-PCR test called Taqpath returns a ‘negative’. It is useful to quickly screen for a suspected case of Omicron but only a genome sequencing exercise can actually confirm the variant. The Mumbai man, residing under the Kalyan-Dombivali Municipal Corporation limits, had mild fever on November 24. He had no other symptoms and is being treated at a COVID-19 Care Centre. Thirty-five of his contacts have been traced and they have all tested negative for COVID-19. Stay alert The Union Health Ministry on Saturday directed Mizoram, Odisha, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala to heighten surveillance in “light of the emergence of Omicron”. The States have either reported a high caseload or some of their districts are exhibiting a high positivity rate. They have been directed to increase surveillance of international travellers, continue monitoring of emerging hotspots, and conduct prompt and comprehensive contact tracing of positive individuals and follow-up for 14 days. They should send all positive samples for genome sequencing, identify early cases through adequate testing and review health infrastructure preparedness, including in rural areas and for paediatric cases.  (With inputs from Mahesh Langa in Ahmedabad and Alok Deshpande in Mumbai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-tally-hits-4-as-gujarat-maharashtra-report-a-case-each/article37848298.ece
05 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘Parallel front to UPA will bolster BJP’||Two days after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee slammed the Congress questioning the existence of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) during her Mumbai visit, the State’s ruling Shiv Sena on Saturday said keeping the grand old party away from national politics would mean strengthening fascist powers. “Mamata held political meetings in Mumbai. Her politics is not pro-Congress. She eliminated Congress, Left and BJP from Bengal. Despite that playing politics by keeping Congress out of national politics would mean helping fascist powers,” said an editorial in party mouthpiece Saam a na . The editorial further added that one can understand BJP and Prime Minister Nasrendra Modi wishing the end of Congress as that’s their agenda. “But it is dangerous if those who are fighting against Modi and identical trends are wishing the same. Congress’ fall in the last 10 years is undoubtedly worrying. But plans to stop Congress from rising again and capturing its place are risky,” the editorial added. ‘Opposition needs UPA’ The editorial claimed that unless the Congress crosses 100 seats in Lok Sabha it will not change the scenario at the national level. “Mamata Banerjee’s question on UPA is a million-dollar one. But similarly, even the NDA is not in existence today. Modi’s party does not need NDA, but the Opposition needs UPA. Forming a parallel front to UPA is like strengthening BJP,” the editorial said, adding that UPA can be pushed ahead by keeping differences with Congress intact.  Ms. Banerjee, during her visit to Mumbai, had met Sena leaders Aaditya Thackeray and Sanjay Raut. She could not meet party chief, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, due to his health problems. The editorial also slammed the G-23 leaders within the Congress questioning what any of those leaders did to improve present situation of the party. “Each and every person in this group enjoyed power through Congress. What did they do to improve the party’s situation? Isn’t it an excellent coincidence that BJP’s wish of Congress not doing well in 2024 is echoed by these leaders?” it said. ‘Alliance compulsion’ Trinamool leaders hit back, with Sougata Roy saying the Sena itself was part of the BJP-led NDA. “It joined hands with the NCP and the Congress for the CM’s chair,” the TMC MP said. Echoing him, TMC’s Bengal general secretary Kunal Ghosh said the Shiv Sena comment is out of its “alliance compulsion” in Maharashtra. “We are cobbling up an opposition front as the Congress has failed to do so,” he said.  (With inputs from PTI)   Congress’ fall in the last 10 years is undoubtedly worrying. But plans to stop Congress from rising again and capturing its place are risky  Saamana editorial||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/parallel-front-to-upa-will-bolster-bjp/article37848464.ece
05 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Centre wants stricter containment in State||The Union Health Ministry has yet again written to the State pointing out the high number of new COVID-19 cases and deaths being reported by Kerala daily. In the light of the emergence of the new SARS-CoV-2 variant, the presence of which has already been confirmed in the country, it is important that Kerala takes immediate steps to check disease transmission in the population and reduce fatalities, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has said in a letter to State’s Principal Secretary (Health) Rajan N. Khobragade. Kerala has reported 1,71,521 cases in a space of 30 days ending on December 3, which account for 55.87% of the total new cases reported in the country. The letter points out that 13 out of the 14 districts have been reporting a high quantum of cases weekly and of particular concern is Thiruvananthapuram (5,541), Ernakulam, (4,976), Kozhikode (3,676), Thrissur (2,903) and Kottayam (2,478). Weekly positivity rate Four districts have been showing a high weekly positivity rate of more than 10%, those being Thiruvananthapuram (11.61%), Wayanad (11.25%), Kozhikode (11%) and Kottayam (10.81%). Nine districts have a weekly test positivity rate between 5% and 10%. The letter draws attention to the slight increase in weekly new deaths from 1,890 deaths (week ending November 26) to 2,118 deaths (week ending December 3) and points out that four districts - Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kollam - have been reporting a higher number of weekly new deaths. In this situation, Kerala needs to ensure better compliance with the test- track- treat- vaccinate policy so that the situation of increased spread of infection is brought under control, the letter says. All States have been asked to enhance surveillance at airports to monitor international travellers as well as surveillance at any emerging hotspots of infection in the population. States have been asked to increase testing and to ensure that all COVID-positive samples be sent to the INSACOG laboratory network. Health officials maintain that the State continues to remain at a relatively high plateau when it comes to new cases. This picture of a prolonged plateau is unique to the State, where disease transmission is being sustained at a low level in the community rather than as huge waves as has been seen in rest of the country.  Four districts have been showing a high weekly positivity rate of more than 10%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-wants-stricter-containment-in-state/article37848621.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||Panel to pursue farmers’ demands||Deciding to continue with the farmers’ agitation, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), in a crucial meeting on Saturday, formed a five-member committee to discuss its remaining demands with the Government. The committee consists of Ashok Dhawale, Balbir Rajewal, Gurnam Charuni, Shivkumar Sharma ‘Kakkaji’ and Yudhvir Singh. The SKM emphasised that these names were not for the MSP committee, as sought by the Central Government. Instead, a release said the panel had been mandated to discuss the pending demands from the SKM’s six-point letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week. Demanding immediate withdrawal of cases lodged against farmers during the agitation, farmer leaders also expressed regret at Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar’s statement in Parliament wherein he said that there was no record of farmers’ deaths during the agitation. Insisting that oral assurances won’t do, Mr. Sharma said farmers would not return home until cases against them were withdrawn. “We have had painful experiences of the past,” he said. Describing the Minister’s statement in Parliament as “reprehensible”, he reminded that the Government had yet to respond to the SKM’s letter in writing. ‘Govt. running away’ “The Government has data of each and every death. There are records in police stations, post mortems were conducted ... the Government is running away from its responsibility,” Mr. Sharma said. Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union, said, “The next meeting is scheduled for December 7, with the next two days kept for the Government to respond to the SKM and work with the five-member committee to resolve the agitation to its logical conclusion.” Describing the five-member committee as the “authorised body” to discuss all pending issues with the Government, Mr. Tikait said the committee would also decide who would talk with the different State Governments. On the SKM agreeing to form a smaller committee, Mr. Tikait said that earlier there was an apprehension that a smaller committee might come under pressure to agree to amendments in the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-to-pursue-farmers-demands-with-centre/article37848293.ece
05 December 2021||GUNTUR,||Former CM Rosaiah no more||Former Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh and former Governor of Tamil Nadu Konijeti Rosaiah died in Hyderabad in the early hours of Saturday. He was 88. Mr. Rosaiah was one of the senior Congress leaders and had served in the Cabinets of several Chief Ministers, including Marri Chenna Reddy, N. Janardhana Reddy, K. Vijaya Bhaskara Reddy and Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. Mr. Rosaiah had a record of presenting 16 budgets, including eight as Finance Minister, on the floor of the Legislative Assembly. A quintessential congressman, he was always loyal, trustworthy and had acted as a troubleshooter for many Chief Ministers. Leaders cutting across political affiliations mourned his demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-cm-rosaiah-dead/article37848294.ece
05 December 2021||Mangaluru,||Samples of three persons from high-risk countries negative: DC||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao said on Saturday that the samples of three persons, who arrived in the district from high-risk countries in the past five days, have turned negative for COVID-19. They are presently under home quarantine. Their swabs will be compulsorily tested again on the eighth day of the arrival. Speaking to presspersons in Udupi, the Deputy Commissioner said that nine of 69 persons, who arrived from Kerala in the last one week, have tested positive and 12 of 266 persons, who came from Maharashtra, have also tested positive. In addition, 91 international passengers arrived in the past five days. Presently 5,000 samples are being tested in the district daily. The test positivity rate stood at 0.4 % and the district had 88 active cases. All new patients have been subjected to home quarantine. All those who arrived from Kerala are under observation for a week. Such persons will be tested again after a week of their arrival. They should produce the negative certificate prior to the 72 hours of their travel, Mr. Rao said. The health officials are randomnly checking the swabs of high school and college students, teachers, traders, employees at malls, staff at hotels, bars and offices. Nodal officers have been appointed to 25 private hospitals to ensure availability of beds and oxygen at the time of admitting COVID-19 patients, the Deputy Commissioner added. The upper limit of persons who can participate in functions, marriages has been fixed at 500. The Deputy Commissioner appealed to the people to follow the COVID-19 guidelines, wear a mask, and avoid crowding. He asked people to get themselves vaccinated at the nearest health facility and to cooperate in preventing the spread of the infection. Chief Executive Officer of the zilla panchayat Y. Naveen Bhat and the Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/samples-of-three-persons-from-high-risk-countries-negative-dc/article37848717.ece
05 December 2021||Bhubaneshwar / Kolkata,||Weakened storm Jawad drenches coastal Odisha||The weakening of cyclonic storm Jawad into a deep depression brought little cheer to farmers in Odisha as vast stretches of coastal farmlands were flooded following incessant rain on Saturday, while coastal districts of West Bengal braced for heavy rain over the weekend.  “It [cyclonic storm Jawad] is likely to move nearly northwards and weaken into a deep depression during next six hours and then move north-northeastwards along Odisha coast and reach near Puri around December 5 [Sunday] noon. Subsequently, it is likely to weaken further and continue to move north-northeastwards along Odisha coast towards West Bengal coast,” a bulletin issued by the Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata, said on Saturday. The weather office predicted heavy to very heavy rain (7-20 cm) at one or two places in North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, East and West Midnapore and Jhargram districts. P. K. Jena, Special Relief Commissioner, Odisha, said though the India Meteorological Department predicted a significant drop in wind speed associated with Jawad, there was no change in rain forecast for the region. “There have been reports of light to moderate rain in many parts of coastal Odisha. We have received information of damage to ready-to-harvest crops. We have directed district administrations to conduct damage assessment soon after the ongoing atmospheric system completely withdraws from the State,” he said. 68 mm of rain Paradip town in Jagatsinghpur district recorded the highest 68.1 mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8 a.m on Saturday, while Astaranga in Puri district received 47 mm and the coastal pockets of Jagatsinghpur, Puri and Ganjam recorded an average of 40 mm rain. The unseasonal rain has affected crop fields in Puri, Jagatsinghpur and Ganjam districts. “We are worried about the rain which will cause havoc. The harvesting season is just round the corner. If the crops bend down under the impact of heavy rain, it will be very difficult to get them up again,” said Prashant Rout, a villager from Jagatsinghpur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weakened-storm-jawad-drenches-coastal-odisha/article37848335.ece
05 December 2021||Bhubaneshwar / Kolkata,||Weakened Jawad drenches Odisha||The weakening of cyclonic storm Jawad into a deep depression brought little cheer to farmers in Odisha as vast stretches of coastal farmlands were flooded following incessant rain on Saturday, while coastal districts of West Bengal braced for heavy rain over the weekend. “It [cyclonic storm Jawad] is likely to move nearly northwards and weaken into a deep depression during next six hours and then move north-northeastwards along Odisha coast and reach near Puri around December 5 [Sunday] noon. Subsequently, it is likely to weaken further and continue to move north-northeastwards along Odisha coast towards West Bengal coast,” a bulletin issued by the Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata, said on Saturday. Paradip town in Jagatsinghpur district recorded the highest 68.1 mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8 a.m on Saturday. The unseasonal rain has affected crop fields in Puri, Jagatsinghpur and Ganjam districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weakened-jawad-drenches-odisha/article37848295.ece
05 December 2021||VILLUPURAM,||Auroville residents protest uprooting of trees||Over 300 residents of Auroville on Saturday resorted to a protest after around 30 trees were uprooted in the core area of the international township to pave the way for laying a road for the contentious Crown project. The project envisages the establishment of four zones — industrial, cultural, residential and recreational — growing radially out of the Matrimandir. The Town Development Council has been tasked with evolving an action plan for the project. A member of the Auroville’s Resident Assembly said the Crown project had been a contentious issue for years, and the move to uproot trees with earth movers had come as a shock to the residents. “Trees are being uprooted without following due community process. The community has not agreed to this and some groups in Auroville are trying to destroy our forests and go ahead with the project,” he said. “An environmental impact assessment was done by the community and we even suggested an alternative route for the project, which was less costly,” another member of the Resident Assembly said. But the Town Development Council and the Auroville Foundation are going ahead with the project. “The earth movers have left and we have ended the protest. The Resident Assembly will now sit and discuss the next course of action,” the member said.  An environmental impact assessment was done by the community and we even suggested an alternative route for the project Member Auroville’s Resident Assembly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/auroville-residents-protest-after-30-trees-were-uprooted/article37848400.ece
05 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Russia set to ink AK-203 rifle deal||The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) has given its final approval for a deal with Russia to manufacture over six lakh AK-203 assault rifles in India, Government sources confirmed on Saturday. The deal, estimated to be worth over Rs. 5,000 crore, is scheduled to be signed on December 6 during the visit of Russian President Vladimir Putin to India. “In an endeavour to provide a big boost to self-reliance in defence manufacturing in India, the Government has approved the plan for production of over five lakh AK-203 assault rifles at Korwa, Amethi in U.P.,” a government source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-russia-set-to-ink-ak-203-rifle-deal/article37848755.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Finance Minister calls for overhaul of TNPSC exams||Finance and Human Resources Management Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Saturday made a strong pitch for overhauling the examinations conducted by the Tamil Nadu Public Services Commission (TNPSC), saying that the “model is incompatible with the present circumstances.” “As far as we are concerned, a lot of changes are required in the basic structure of the examinations. You cannot find a better day than today for the changes, as the government has changed after 10 years,” he told reporters. He said the TNPSC had to conduct 70 to 80 types of examinations, and the process was creating a bottleneck. Amendments planned “Do we need so many tests? Is there a need for checking specialisation in TNPSC again and again? Forward projection planning is necessary to foresee the vacancies. We are discussing the issue and there will be more amendments,” Mr. Thiaga Rajan said. He said the urgency was explained by the statistics that there were only nine lakh employees in service, even though the sanctioned strength was between 14 lakh and 15 lakh. “There are a lot of vacancies. But the entire TNPSC ecosystem can recruit a maximum of 10,000 persons in best of times. Today’s backlog is around 30,000 and it will take another two or three years for the TNPSC to recruit them. That is why we have relaxed the age limit of employees for two years,” he explained. Even though Mr. Thiaga Rajan said human resource was more important to a government, he admitted that there was not adequate fund to fill all the vacancies. Asked whether standardisation would solve the problem since each department’s requirement was different, Mr. Thiaga Rajan said he had not taken any decision. “It is for the Chief Minister to decide. I do not want to go too far ahead of myself,” he added. “But I will make some points. There are engineering graduates and diploma holders in government departments. There is no standardised qualification in treasury and audit departments. It is not as if we are already picking up only specialists. There is an image. But the truth is far from the reality. What you scored 30 years ago alone is not enough. Training can equip a candidate with required qualification. Marks scored in the TNPSC examination alone could not be considered as merit,” he said. When told that a section of English medium students were planning to approach the court against making Tamil compulsory for TNPSC examinations, Mr. Thiaga Rajan said it was an individual’s right to do so. “But we do not expect a candidate to possess knowledge of a Ph.D scholar in Tamil language. A candidate should have the knowledge of 10th standard Tamil with 40 per cent marks in the examination. It is a sensitive topic and we are not doing it for sloganeering,” he pointed out. Mr. Thiaga Rajan said the calendar for TNPSC examination would be released soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/finance-minister-calls-for-overhaul-of-tnpsc-exams/article37848374.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||No deaths yet, says WHO||The Omicron variant has been detected in at least 31 countries but no deaths have yet been reported, the WHO said on Friday. The U.S. and Australia became the latest countries to confirm locally transmitted cases of the variant. The WHO has warned it could take weeks to deter- mine how infectious the variant is, whether it causes more severe illness and how effective the vaccines are against it. “We’re going to get the answers,” an official said.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-deaths-yet-says-who/article37848299.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,||First dose of COVID vaccine coverage in T.N. crosses 80%||With 20.98 lakh doses administered during the 13th mega vaccination camp on Saturday, Tamil Nadu’s first dose coverage crossed 80% of the eligible population while the second dose coverage stood at 47.46%. “When compared to the recent mega camps, the response was good on Saturday. While Omicron is a variant of concern, it is time that those who are yet to get the first dose and those who are due for the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine, ensure that they take the dose on their own during the daily camps,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. During the mega camp, 7,50,147 persons received the first dose and 13,48,565 persons received the second dose of vaccine. The State’s eligible population for vaccination was 5,78,91,000. While the first dose coverage stood at 80.44%, the second dose coverage — fully vaccinated — was 47.46%. The national COVID-19 vaccination status as on December 2 was 83.7% for first dose and 47.5% for second dose, according to data from the Health department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-dose-coverage-of-vaccination-crosses-80-in-state/article37848411.ece
05 December 2021||Bhubaneshwar / Kolkata,||Weakened Jawad drenches Odisha||The weakening of cyclonic storm Jawad into a deep depression brought little cheer to farmers in Odisha as vast stretches of coastal farmlands were flooded following incessant rain on Saturday, while coastal districts of West Bengal braced for heavy rain over the weekend. “It [cyclonic storm Jawad] is likely to move nearly northwards and weaken into a deep depression during next six hours and then move north-northeastwards along Odisha coast and reach near Puri around December 5 [Sunday] noon. Subsequently, it is likely to weaken further and continue to move north-northeastwards along Odisha coast towards West Bengal coast,” a bulletin issued by the Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata, said on Saturday. The weather office predicted heavy to very heavy rain (7-20 cm) at one or two places in North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, East and West Midnapore and Jhargram districts. No change in forecast P. K. Jena, Special Relief Commissioner, Odisha, said though the India Meteorological Department predicted a significant drop in wind speed associated with Jawad, there was no change in rain forecast. “There have been reports of light to moderate rain in many parts of coastal Odisha. We have received information of damage to ready-to-harvest crops. We have directed district administrations to conduct damage assessment soon after the ongoing atmospheric system completely withdraws from the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weakened-jawad-drenches-odisha/article37848754.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Astounding Ajaz||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/astounding-ajaz/article37848333.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Astounding Ajaz||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/astounding-ajaz/article37848477.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Schools expect to see a dip in attendance||With the government issuing directions that only students whose parents have received two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine will be allowed entry into schools, managements of many institutions are expecting physical attendance to dip from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-expect-to-see-a-dip-in-attendance/article37848331.ece
05 December 2021||Nalanda,||Tried, convicted and sentenced in 25 minutes||It took just five witnesses and a 25-minute trial for a court to convict and sentence a minor accused of rape in Bihar’s Nalanda district recently. The manner in which the case was fast-tracked has raised several questions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tried-convicted-and-sentenced-in-25-minutes/article37848461.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||AAP launches ‘MCD Badlaav Campaign’||With an aim to remove the BJP from power in the municipal corporations, the Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday launched the ‘MCD Badlaav Campaign’. Election to the three civic bodies is scheduled for April next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aap-launches-mcd-badlaav-campaign/article37848463.ece
05 December 2021||Mangaluru,||Two deaths deaths, 30 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported one COVID-19 death and 22 new cases on Saturday. After the discharge of 13 patients following treatment the active cases were at 149. The test positivity rate was at 0.29 %. Udupi district reported a death and eight new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-deaths-deaths-30-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article37848716.ece
05 December 2021||Mumbai,||Chargesheet filed against Param Bir, Sachin Vaze||The first chargesheet was filed on Saturday against suspended Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and suspended Assist- ant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze in an extortion case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chargesheet-filed-against-param-bir-sachin-vaze/article37848683.ece
05 December 2021||Panaji,||‘Something good is going to happen in Goa polls’||All divine forces are coming together and something good is going to happen this time, AAP convener and The Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday, in a cryptic remark months ahead of the Goa Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/something-good-is-going-to-happen-in-goa-polls/article37848684.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Schools expect to see a dip in attendance||With the State government issuing directions that only students whose parents have received two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine will be allowed entry into schools, managements of many institutions are expecting physical attendance to dip from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/schools-expect-to-see-a-dip-in-attendance/article37848552.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Veteran actor Shivaram passes away||Veteran actor Shivaram, 83, who was undergoing treatment for brain haemorrhage at a private hospital in Bengaluru, passed away on Saturday morning. He had collapsed at his residence on Tuesday night while performing puja ahead of his departure on a pilgrimage to Sabarimala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/veteran-actor-shivaram-passes-away/article37848553.ece
05 December 2021||Chennai,||OPS, EPS file papers for AIADMK leadership roles||Former Chief Ministers O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday filed nomination papers for the posts of coordinator and co-coordinator respectively, of the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ops-eps-file-papers-for-aiadmk-posts/article37848372.ece
05 December 2021||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu records 731 COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu saw a marginal rise in COVID-19 infections on Saturday, as 731 people tested positive. Chennai and Coimbatore recorded a rise in cases as 136 and 130 people tested positive, respectively. Six people died in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-records-731-covid-19-cases/article37848373.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A reservoir of history||A portmanteau of Mullayar and Periyar rivers, the Mullaperiyar dam, which is 126 years old, is in Idukki district of Kerala. An outcome of the 1886 agreement between the then Travancore princely state and the British government, it diverts the west-flowing rivers to the east through a tunnel for irrigating about 58,650 hectares in five dry southern districts of Tamil Nadu, which owns, operates and maintains the dam. Concerns over the safety of the dam were first raised in November 1979, after which the dam’s water level was lowered to 136 feet from its full level of 152 ft. Since the mid-1990s, Tamil Nadu has been demanding the restoration of the water level on the ground that it had completed most of the strengthening work. The Supreme Court, in February 2006, allowed water to be stored up to 142 ft and asked Tamil Nadu to carry out the balance work. When Kerala enacted a law in March 2006 against raising the water level beyond 136 ft, the matter again went to the SC, which, in May 2014, reiterated its previous ruling and held the Kerala law unconstitutional. But the controversies did not die down. In mid-October, when southern and central districts in Kerala were lashed by torrential rain and landslides, the safety of the dam again became a matter of concern. It was under these circumstances that the excess water was released from the dam through the spillway gates during October 29-November 7. As the water release resumed in the early hours of November 30 in the wake of the water level reaching 142 ft as per the the regulations approved by the Central Water Commission, Kerala Chief Minister Pinaryai Vijayan wrote to his Tamil Nadu counterpart M.K.Stalin to ensure that the shutters were opened “only after sufficient warnings” and “during daytime.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-reservoir-of-history/article37848283.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Five years of solitude for the ex-guerrillas||Five years after a landmark peace accord that brought to end a conflict that lasted more than five decades in Colombia, the United States has finally revoked its designation of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) as a foreign terrorist organisation. FARC had disbanded from being a guerilla military organisation as part of the peace accord signed with the Colombian government in 2016, into an overground political force called the Comunes (commons in Spanish). But splinter groups that did not accede to or abide by the accord continue to be designated as foreign terrorist organisations — dissident groups such as the La Segunda Marquetalia and the FARC-EP (People’s Army). This indicates that the accord continues to retain its discontents with some former FARC combatants refusing to give up on what they term is armed struggle, but what many suggest is a strategy in “their economic self-interest” to run some of the rackets that were common during the insurgency. The accord was difficult to achieve — FARC had taken a lot of losses in terms of combatants, leaders and control over territory in the run-up to the 2016 accord, but was still capable of continuing a war of attrition that began as a left-wing peasant struggle in the 1960s but later degenerated into a mixture of guerilla warfare and a criminal enterprise that thrived on hostage taking and later made economic gains from taxing narco-trafficking and growing narcotic plants. But FARC’s leadership managed a deal with the Colombian government, then led by the Nobel Peace Prize winning President Juan Manuel Santos, that promised not just the disbanding of FARC, but the recognition of its newly formed political group, protection to their leaders and other concessions such as agrarian reforms such as expanding land registration and redistribution to landless farmers. A recent report by the International Crisis Group says this - “the peace accord has enabled Colombia to put the trauma of nationwide conflict and wartime atrocities behind it, but.. the plan to reintegrate thousands of fighters through cooperatives hit numerous snags. Close to 300 demobilised FARC have been killed, while authorities struggle to pin down the guilty parties”. Mixed picture The picture is therefore one of flux, even if there have been significant gains in maintaining the peace since the long civil war ended in 2016. FARC’s political leaders hoped to gain a peace dividend and to reap it into political prominence as a progressive organisation, but they have so far failed electorally. The Comunes still retain 10 automatic seats in Congress through the peace accord, till 2026, but merely won 0.18% and 0.36% of the popular vote in the 2018 parliamentary elections to the House of Representatives and the Senate respectively. The former guerilla leader Rodrigo Londono Echeverri who goes by the nom de guerre Timoleon Jimenez alias Timochenco and who served as the commander-in-chief of FARC, is now the president of the Comunes. The Comunes were initially organised as the Alternative Communal Revolutionary Forces after the disarmament of FARC was complete in 2017, before members changed the name to the present Comunes. The Comunes maintains a centralised structure similar to what was present during its military past. Only one civilian has joined the party’s 15-member Political Council, which is dominated by ex-combatant leaders, and while this has lent continuity and coherence to the overground party, it has not helped it garner electoral support. A population wary with the erstwhile FARC’s activities, which included rampant hostage taking for ransom, and other atrocities that were done during the armed conflict, has refused to dissociate its leaders from their past. Following its disastrous performance in the 2018 Congressional elections, the Comunes’ candidates could not improve upon it substantially in the 2019 local elections, winning just two mayoral elections in coalition with other left wing parties. The Comunes have also had difficulty in gaining acceptance from other progressive and left-wing forces in the country. The second placed candidate in the 2018 presidential elections, Gustavo Petro (himself a former member of the urban guerilla organisation, M-19 in the 1980s) has refused to incorporate the Comunes into the progressive coalition, the Historic Pact for Colombia, even though many of the ex-combatants are expected to individually support his candidacy in the 2022 vote. In other words, while the stigma of the activities of FARC during the later years of the civil war has meant that the political force born out of it has remained unpopular, the mainstreaming of the rural insurgency has allowed the widening of the base of supporters for the political left in Colombia. Mr. Petro had won the highest ever tally for left-wing candidates with 8 million votes but that was not enough to defeat Ivan Duque from the right-wing in 2018. Ahead of the 2022 vote, however, Mr. Petro has channelled even more groups into a larger progressive opposition which is expected to get support from the ex-combatants from across rural Colombia. Costs of transition Transitioning into a political force has also not come without losses for the ex-FARC combatants. FARC, during its guerilla struggle, had been wary of mainstreaming because of experiences of an earlier period in the 1980s when it had founded a leftist political party called the Patriotic Union (UP). Formed out of peace negotiations with the then President Belisario Betancur’s government, the UP functioned as an openly communist party but was decimated and later exterminated due to systematic assassinations and oppression led by government sponsored paramilitary groups and drug organisations well into the 1990s. Reminiscent of that violence, a number of ex-combatants have been targetted by paramilitary groups even today, but the government has promised to bring the groups to book besides offering protection to the ex-FARC combatants. So far, this promise of the peace process has had a mixed outcome and has weighed on some combatants who have refused to demobilise, fearing retribution. Worse, fear among the ex-combatants has hurt their economic and social reintegration. In a way, the situation today has favoured the argument by observers that the peace accord has managed to achieve, by and large, the government’s objectives — the demobilisation of FARC and a relative peace that was thwarted for decades — while barely bringing the substantive reforms that FARC set out to do following the accord. In Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s iconic book, One Hundred Years of Solitude , the character General Aureliano Buendia fights several wars, wins none and is finally disillusioned with civil war. Buendia could well have been a metaphor for FARC, which led the world’s longest running guerilla movement that began as an extension of the various rural Marxist-Leninist uprisings in Latin America and elsewhere but later degenerated into a violent movement that combined idealistic aims with criminal enterprise either as reaction to oppression or as tactics for survival. Now, it has embarked on a new journey where it carries the weight of the past, but a return to peace has brought some succour to the people that FARC has claimed to represent. Even the notoriously sceptical U.S. government has taken note of this which explains the removal of its designation as a foreign terror organisation.  In Focus What began as a left-wing peasant struggle in the 1960s, FARC later transformed into a mixture of guerilla outfit and a criminal enterprise that thrived on hostage taking and taxation of narco-trade As part of the 2016 peace accord with the Colombian government, FARC transformed into an overground political force called the Comunes Splinter groups that do not accede to the accord such as the La Segunda Marquetalia and the FARC-EP continue to be designated as foreign terrorist organisations   As part of the peace agreement, the Colombian govt. agreed to recognise Comunes, FARC’s political group, protect its leaders and implement agrarian reforms||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-years-of-solitude-for-the-ex-guerrillas/article37848245.ece
05 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Russia set to ink AK-203 rifle deal worth Rs. 5,000 crore||The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) has given its final approval for a deal with Russia to manufacture over six lakh AK-203 assault rifles in India, Government sources confirmed on Saturday. The deal, estimated to be worth over Rs. 5,000 crore, is scheduled to be signed on December 6 during the visit of Russian President Vladimir Putin to India. “In an endeavour to provide a big boost to self-reliance in defence manufacturing in India, the Government has approved the plan for production of over five lakh AK-203 assault rifles at Korwa, Amethi in U.P.,” a government source said. The 7.62 x 39 mm calibre AK-203 rifles will replace the INSAS rifles inducted over three decades ago. Having an effective range of 300 m, they are lightweight, robust and easy-to-use. Increased effectiveness “They will enhance the operational effectiveness of the Indian Army in counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism operations,” the source said. Mr. Putin is scheduled to visit India on December 6 and 7 for an annual summit, during which the two countries will also hold the inaugural 2+2 ministerial dialogue. The project will be implemented by Indo-Russian Rifles Private Ltd (IRRPL) jointly with the erstwhile OFB (now Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited) and Munitions India Limited of India and Rosoboronexport (RoE) and Kalashnikov Concern of Russia. Modified proposal In February 2019, India and Russia signed an Inter-Governmental Agreement for AK-203 rifles, following which the IRRPL was set up. The Ministry of Defence already floated a Request For Proposal (RFP) to the joint venture for the supply of 6.71 lakh rifles but the final deal had been held up over the high cost of each rifle. The RFP has now been modified to 6.1 lakh after a recent deal for 70,000 rifles through the emergency route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-russia-set-to-ink-ak-203-rifle-deal-worth-rs-5000-crore/article37848215.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||Parliament an embodiment of people’s will, says President||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday inaugurated the centennial year celebration of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) in the Central Hall of Parliament on Saturday. The PAC is one of the most powerful financial committees of Parliament. Speaking at the function, President Kovind said that Parliament was the embodiment of people’s will and parliamentary committees work as its extension. “It is a welcome division of labour as they allow the Houses to discuss and debate all issues while select groups of the Members of Parliament can devote more focus on select matters. The importance of the framework thus created cannot be overstated,” he said. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, and Chairperson, Public Accounts Committee of Parliament of India, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, along with Union Ministers, MPs and presiding officers of the State legislative bodies, were present in the House. Mr. Naidu, in his address, called for harmonising the expenditure on freebies under welfare obligations of the Governments with developmental needs, and urged the PAC of Parliament to examine this aspect to enable wider public discussion. “While ensuring the welfare and social security of the needy people is an important obligation of the Governments, it is time that there is a wider debate on harmonising the welfare and development objectives. Expenditures must be carefully balanced so that both the short-term and long-term development objectives get equal attention,” he said. The Vice-President urged the PAC to reinvent itself to more effectively ensure financial discipline in the context of the Union Government’s budgetary expenditure increasing from a mere Rs. 197 crore in the first Budget to Rs. 35 lakh crore now, marking an increase of 17,766 times, making its monitoring that much more complex and challenging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parliament-an-embodiment-of-peoples-will-says-president/article37848221.ece
05 December 2021||Srinagar,||Compensation eludes Uri’s survivors||Over 70 victims of cross-border shelling and landmines from Kashmir’s Uri tehsil, including those who lost limbs, have fought for compensation for decades. Now, the Government’s move to create two categories of victims and set a cut-off date for ex gratia payment has finally come under the Jammu & Kashmir High Court’s scanner. Hearing the petition, the High Court Bench, comprising Chief Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Mohal Lal, admitted the case on the ground that “there is no rational basis for classifying the victims in two classes and fixing 24.08.2016 as the cut-off date for such a classification”. The court, on November 16, directed the Government to file its response within a period of six weeks, and has set the next hearing for February 14, 2022. “Our Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petition is a legal battle to pay equal and uniform compensation of Rs. 10 lakh [each] to all the victims affected by shelling and landmine blasts, without adhering to any cut-off date,” Syed Musaib, an advocate, told The Hindu . Fresh guidelines According to the fresh guidelines framed by the Government, an amount of Rs. 3 lakh would be given for each death or permanent incapacitation to the affected family under a scheme in cases that occurred before August 24, 2016, and Rs. 5 lakh in each case after the cut-off date. “The compensation amount even at Rs. 5 lakh is very nominal. It’s very low for the rehabilitation of permanently disabled victims,” Mr. Musaib said. According to a report by the Human Rights Law Network (HRLN), there are victims who have been demanding compensation for over two decades now. Mohmammad Shafi, a resident of Churanda village, lost his left foot in a landmine blast 20 years ago while working as a porter near the Army’s ‘TIKA’ post. However, he is yet to get any compensation. “Recent artificial limb was provided by the Army to Shafi and [he] is just receiving financial assistance of Rs. 1,000 from the Social Welfare Department, which is not enough,” the HRLN report pointed out. Mohammad Isaq, a resident of Charunda village in Uri, had to have his right leg amputated after he accidentally stepped on a landmine on June 5, 2013 while working as a porter with the Army at the Renuka Post. “Initially, he was provided with a one-month salary but nothing later. Only Rs. 2000-3000 was provided for the medical treatment but the rest of the cost was borne by the family,” the report said. Mr. Shafi and Mr. Isaq belong to villages near the Line of Control (LoC) beyond the fence set up by the Army to create a special zone till ‘Zero Point’. There are hundreds of such victims living in other districts of Jammu & Kashmir bordering Pakistan and Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (POK) who have not been granted any compensation despite the victims’ families’ struggle to secure it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/compensation-eludes-uris-survivors/article37848235.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Twitter’s new helmsman||Early last year, amid news that one of Twitter’s large investors was pushing for a leadership change at the social media network, NYU marketing professor Scott Galloway told NPR, “I think product development has been anaemic. I think their business model is flawed. But more than anything, you know, the lowest lying fruit here is to find a full time CEO.” The reference was to the fact that co-founder Jack Dorsey wasn’t just heading Twitter; he was also the CEO of the financial services company Square. Pushing for a change was powerful investor Elliott Management. A truce was eventually worked out, giving Mr. Dorsey a breather, and Elliott and private equity firm Silver Lake board seats. A Reuters report said at that time that, “In reaching the agreement with Twitter, Elliott keeps a close eye on Dorsey while also giving the company more time to formulate long-term plans and repair missteps, people familiar with Elliott’s thinking said.” More than a year-and-a-half later, Twitter now finally has a full-time CEO. A few days ago, the baton passed from Mr. Dorsey to Parag Agrawal, its chief technology officer. It was just 10 years ago that Mr. Agrawal joined Twitter as a software engineer. This was after a BTech from IIT-Bombay and a doctorate from Stanford University, where his thesis was about presenting “efficient techniques for managing and integrating uncertain data”. He needed just six years to become its CTO, a role in which, as Reuters reported, “he oversaw Twitter’s technical strategy and was responsible for improving the pace of software development while advancing the use of machine learning across the company”. While the selection of an Indian-origin person to a global CEO role isn’t rare any more, the development was nonetheless a matter of great interest in India. What is rare about Mr. Agrawal’s rise to the top job is he is one of the few CTOs to have been pushed up to the top job. Also, at 37, he is the youngest to head an S&P 500 company. Mr. Dorsey, announcing his resignation to his employees, wrote that Mr. Agrawal “has been my choice for some time given how deeply he understands the company and its needs. Parag has been behind every critical decision that helped turn this company around.” Mr. Dorsey further added: “My trust in him as our CEO is bone deep.” Flow of news Twitter carries enormous clout in the flow of the news in the world. But this clout has rarely translated into the kind of commercial success that, say, Facebook has managed to taste. Its ability to monetise adequately has almost always been under scrutiny. It has also never managed to scale up beyond a few hundred million users, much less than the billions that the Meta (Facebook) family of social networks have. But its problems don’t stop there. Like other social platforms, it has been pulled up by authorities across the world over its interpretation of what is acceptable content and what is not. But we have a hint of the new CEO’s thought process regarding this. In an interview with MIT Technology Review last year, Mr. Agrawal said, “Our approach to it isn’t to try to identify or flag all potential misinformation. But our approach is rooted in trying to avoid specific harm that misleading information can cause.” Mr. Agrawal, as the head of tech, has been credited with speeding up implementation in a company that has faced criticism that it doesn’t bring on new features fast enough. And over the years, it has indeed added new elements to its primary offering. The changes include increasing the character limit, building a Snapchat-like feature that makes sure content disappears after 24 hours, creating a social audio feature a la Clubhouse, and introducing a subscription service. But they haven’t decisively shifted Twitter’s growth trajectory upwards. Mr. Agrawal has also played an important role in Mr. Dorsey’s pet project Bluesky, an attempt at building a decentralised standard for social media. This is seen as a solution that promises to support free speech while minimising the impact of abusive online behaviour. While giving up his role, Mr. Dorsey said Twitter has finally broken away from being a “founder-led” company, which he felt was “severely limiting and a single point of failure”. How this translates into choices that the new CEO makes remains to be seen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/twitters-new-helmsman/article37848241.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The kingmaker of Iraq||He was once seen as one of the most dangerous militia leaders in the U.S.-occupied Iraq. Now, he has an outsized influence in deciding who should rule the country. When results of the October parliamentary elections were formally announced earlier this week by Iraq’s Independent High Elections Commission, Moqtada al-Sadr’s political bloc, the Sadrist Movement, won 73 seats out of 329. The elections were held amid high volatility. The country has witnessed protests for months. The government of Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi was struggling to ensure law and order amid growing violence by different groups. The Popular Mobilisation Forces, militia groups backed by Iran, remained outside the state control. Above all, Iraq’s economy is in tatters. That Mr. Sadr’s bloc won the most number of seats in an election held in such circumstances shows the Shia cleric’s growing influence and popularity in a country that has never fully recovered from violence unleashed by the 2003 U.S. invasion. Mr. Sadr derives much of his authority and support from his family name. His father was the revered Grand Ayatollah Mohammed Sadeq al-Sadr, who stood up to Saddam Hussein and was executed by him. The fall of Hussein, whose Ba’ath party ruled Iraq under its tight grip for decades, opened political opportunities for other politicians, especially leaders from Iraq’s majority Shia community. Mr. Sadr mobilised his supporters and launched a political movement with a military wing — the Mahdi Army, named after Muhammad al-Mahdi, the Imam who Shia Muslims believe has disappeared (in “occultation”) and would return to redeem the world. Mr. Sadr rejected the post-Saddam provisional government and asked the U.S. forces to leave. In an interview with CBS immediately after the U.S. invasion, Mr. Sadr said, “Saddam was the little serpent, but America is the big serpent.” In the post-Saddam chaos, when al-Qaeda in Iraq, under the command of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, unleashed a wave of sectarian attacks against the Shias, Mr. Sadr’s militia emerged as a protector and defender of the Shias community. He built his base in Sadr City of Baghdad (previously Saddam City), particularly among the underclasses, and the Mahdi Army took the fighting often to U.S. troops. As Iraq slid into a sectarian civil war and the U.S. troops found it difficult to establish order, Mr. Sadr rose as a parallel authority among the country’s Shias. Political evolution But in Iraq’s fractious polity where it’s impossible for any political leader or bloc to establish dominance, Mr. Sadr has transformed himself to widen his base. He disarmed his militia, formed a political coalition and positioned himself as an Iraqi nationalist, rather than a Shia religious leader. He remained opposed to both U.S. presence and Iran’s growing influence in the country. At home he allied with Sunnis, communists and political independents. He also called for improved ties between Iran and the Sunni Gulf kingdoms, including Saudi Arabia. The transformation was relatively successful. In the 2018 election, Mr. Sadr’s coalition won 54 seats. His bloc emerged as the main rival of Al-Fatah alliance, the bloc comprising the pro-Iran militias and political groups. Three years later, when Mr. Sadr’s seat share in Parliament went up by 19, the al-Fatah coalition suffered a crushing loss and secured only 17 seats. The election victory doesn’t mean that it’s easier for Mr. Sadr to decide the future course of Iraq. Government formation in Iraq is a painful and prolonged process. Once the results are ratified by the Federal Supreme Court, President Barham Salih will convene the new Parliament, where the largest political bloc (the Sadrist Movement) will be invited to nominate the PM. Mr. Sadr could practically decide whether PM Kandhimi should get one more term or another leader should be chosen. But then, he should start negotiations to form a coalition that will have a majority in the 329-member Parliament. With the Fatah having already dismissed the election results, it would not be easy for Mr. Sadr to put together a sustainable coalition. But notwithstanding the difficulties of day-to-day politicking, the results underscore one thing — Moqtada al-Sadr is the most influential cleric-politician in today’s Iraq.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-kingmaker-of-iraq/article37848243.ece
05 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Packed agenda awaits Putin in short visit||Ahead of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s December 6 visit, India and Russia appear to differ on the Indo-Pacific region and its various dimensions. President Putin will pay a short visit on Monday evening and return after attending the annual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during which the bilateral focus is expected to be on the ongoing delivery of the S-400 missile defence systems and big-ticket defence agreements. Russia’s position on India’s Quad initiative with the U.S., Australia and Japan and the idea of “Indo-Pacific” was countered by Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on November 26 during the Russia-India-China (RIC) meeting where he favoured the “Asia-Pacific” which he described as more “inclusive”. The “Indo-Pacific”, according to Mr. Lavrov, is an unequal partnership. Mr. Lavrov and Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu will arrive here on Sunday to participate in the first “2+2” meeting with their counterparts S. Jaishankar and Rajnath Singh. Issue-based cooperation Informed sources indicated that India considers both Asia-Pacific and Indo-Pacific structures are meant for “issue-based cooperation”. They said Moscow had been appreciative of India’s demand to maintain “open and inclusive” sea channels which will also benefit the Chennai-Vladivostok maritime corridor that is aimed at connecting Russia’s far east with India. The coming months will witness increased cooperation to boost industrial activities in the region from where 11 Governors are expected to participate in the Vibrant Gujarat summit in January. The ghlight of Monday’s visit will be the ongoing delivery of the S-400 missile defence systems that have increased the chances of India coming under CAATSA (Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act). India has however maintained that its defence procurement policy is guided by “strategic autonomy” which prioritises national security interests. Both sides are expected to seal several defence deals on Monday which is being described as the “Day of Russia”. An agreement to manufacture AK-203 assault rifles will be a high point of the day. Both sides are also expected to sign the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS) which will make Russia the seventh country that India has similar agreements with. Another important agreement may be the over 10-year defence cooperation. The Igla-S shoulder-fired missiles may also come up for discussion. The discussion is expected to focus on Afghanistan and other “hotspots” where tense situation is prevails. Spill over of terrorism India’s concern about spill over of terrorism from Afghanistan and Pakistan is expected to feature in this section. However, it is not clear if the tension along the Line of Actual Control with China will come up for discussion. Russia has maintained a cautious position throughout the Sino-India tension starting with the Galwan clashes of June, 2020 and the delivery of S-400 systems is expected to help India establish strategic balance in the region. President Putin’s visit is taking place against the backdrop of a worsening COVID-19 crisis in Russia which has mobilised its military along the border with Ukraine for a possible armed confrontation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/packed-agenda-awaits-putin-in-short-visit/article37848202.ece
05 December 2021||Kolkata,||Suvendu takes a leaf out of Trinamool to strengthen BJP||As defections, electoral setbacks and internal squabbles continue to plague the West Bengal unit of the BJP, the Leader of the Opposition in State Assembly Suvendu Adhikari appears to remain undeterred and is seen regularly touring the districts of south Bengal, particularly his home turf of Purba Medinipur and the adjoining Paschim Medinipur districts. On November 30, while addressing a gathering in his constituency Nandigram, Mr. Adhikari urged the villagers to set up a “Committee against Police Atrocities (CAPA)”. He has announced a new programme under the call “back to the villages” which will take place between December 15 and December 19, when CAPA will be set up. For those familiar with the political history of West Bengal, CAPA is reminiscent of the resistance of the people of Nandigram against the then Communist Party of India (Marxist) Government in 2007. Key role The People’s Committee Against Police Atrocities (PCAPA) was another committee that had come up in Lalgarh in Paschim Medinipur in 2008. Both organisations were being supported by the Trinamool Congress, and at that time Suvendu Adhikari played a key role in leading these mass movements. Political observers feel that the BJP leader is trying to organise mass-based resistance on similar lines which had catapulted the Trinamool to power in 2011. A few days ago, while visiting the family of deceased BJP worker Bhaskar Bera, who was allegedly killed in political violence, Mr. Adhikari promised BJP workers that he would ensure that the murder is probed by central agencies The BJP leader has also been active in taking up legal action against the ruling party, by approaching the Calcutta High Court on a host of issues including defection of elected MLAs from the BJP to the Trinamool Congress. Amidst the tumult in the West Bengal BJP, Mr. Adhikari is slowly but surely scripting his rise in the party. “If the BJP gained anything from the 2021 Assembly polls it is Suvendu Adhikari. Not only does he know West Bengal like it was at the back of his hand, he is also well versed with the style of functioning of Trinamool Congress and the West Bengal government,” political observer and professor of political science at Rabindra Bharati University Biswanath Chakraborty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/suvendu-takes-a-leaf-out-of-trinamool-to-strengthen-bjp/article37848208.ece
05 December 2021||Srinagar,||Trail talk: Kashmiri skier slaloms smoothly into Winter Olympics||Arif Khan, a 31-year-old from the Kashmir Valley, is all set to represent India at the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics. He has practised skiing consistently for eight to nine months a year in about minus-25 degrees Celsius to make it to the coveted sports competition. In an exclusive interview to The Hindu from Europe, Mr. Khan, the son of a ski tour operator from a hilly pocket of north Kashmir’s Baramulla, said he had been preparing for the last four years to realise his dream to participate in the Winter Olympics. He won the spot for India in Alpine Skiing at the Entry League FIS event in Dubai in November this year. Participating in winter sports events around the world since 2005, Mr. Khan has represented India more then 127 times. Fit and fine “It takes physical fitness, the ability to be quick at turns between the gates, while going down icy slopes at speed. I ski eight to nine months a year. In Gulmarg, I can ski for just three or four months because of the change in snow conditions. One of the most challenging parts of this sport is enduring severe cold, and training in minus-20 or minus-25 degrees Celsius,” Mr. Khan said. Mr. Khan, who hails from the Tangmarg hill station that is adjacent to the famous north Kashmir ski resort of Gulmarg, attributed his success to his father Yaseen Khan, who introduced him to skiing when he less than 10 years old. “My father has played the main role in my career. He raised me as an athlete and provided me with support whenever it was needed,” Mr. Khan said. Mr. Khan’s entry into the Olympics has again put a spotlight on India’s winter sports talent at a time when the games are fading into oblivion for lack of thrust. “I see the upcoming Olympic event will be a challenging one because everything is prepared artificially, like snow on the race slopes, but I expect a good performance because I am training on the same [artificial] snow conditions in Europe at the moment. It shouldn’t be that difficult during the races,” Mr. Khan said. But he is less than happy with the infrastructure available to skiers in the country. More infrastructure “What I have experienced as a winter sports athlete so far is that reaching to the Olympic standard requires solid infrastructure in terms of building ski slopes, which should be recognised by the international ski federation. We need more ski lifts, regular maintenance of slopes, national and international-level events to be conducted in the country, and facilities for athletes in terms of training, coaching and equipment,” he said. Mr. Khan is hopeful that if the infrastructure is upgraded in Kashmir, “we will have the top-level athletes within the country in the next four years”. “We have all the basic facilities in Gulmarg. I believe we will have advanced infrastructure developed in the near future and that will help us win medals at the international standard of Alpine skiing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trail-talk-kashmiri-skier-slides-smoothly-into-winter-olympics/article37848233.ece
05 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Focus on fitness spurs Indians to smartwatches||Driven by a pandemic-induced shift in consumer awareness about health and fitness, smartwatches are seeing tremendous growth in India. Shipments surged fourfold to a record in the July-September quarter. “The third quarter of 2021 was the biggest quarter for smartwatches,” said Anshika Jain, Senior Research Analyst at Counterpoint. “We have seen that because of COVID-19, there has been a change in customer preferences. People are shifting to smartwatches from traditional watches. They are looking for health-related features such as tracking steps, SPO2 level, heart rate or their sleep pattern on an ongoing basis… this is a triggering factor,” she added. While the overall wearables market in India, which includes earwear, watches and wristbands, was 23.8 million units in the third quarter, watches continued to be the fastest-growing category with 4.3 million shipments during the period. Wristbands, which offer a lower-level of functionality, saw a seventh consecutive quarter of annual decline, according to data released by IDC. The demand for smartwatches extends beyond youngsters, as many health features appeal to the older generations as well, Ms. Jain observed. Madhav Sheth, CEO, realme India, and president, realme International Business Group, pointed out that while fitness trackers and smartwatches had earlier been popular only among fitness or tech enthusiasts, these products had become a ‘necessity’ during the COVID-19 pandemic. Amit Khatri, co-founder of Noise, said while the pandemic helped accelerate the momentum and adoption by consumers, wrist wearables had, however, transitioned into a lifestyle product. “Another big factor pushing demand for smartwatches is the increase in productivity,” Mr. Khatri said. “Users have access to a lot of apps on the watch itself, they can read messages on it, they don’t need to take out the phone to take a call… if they are driving, they can see who is calling.” Indian brands dominate The smartwatch segment is currently dominated by Indian brands, which had cornered almost 75% of the Indian smartwatch market in the last quarter, compared with 38% in the year-earlier period. Ms. Jain further pointed out that the entry price had gone down significantly from about Rs. 8,400 last year to about Rs. 5,400 now, which was helping onboard first time buyers. She added that brands were currently distinguishing themselves in terms of look and feel of the product rather than the specifications. However, going forward the differentiation would have to be how accurately features such as measuring blood pressure, SPO2, thermal sensors, etc. perform, along with a smooth user interface. Mr. Khatri added that the growth that this segment was seeing was “very much sustainable”. “We are right now at 4-5% penetration of mobile phones. I feel capturing 15-20% of the smartphone market is a decent number to aim for so there is enough headroom for brands to grow.” Echoing a similar view, Mr. Sheth said, “In the coming years, we believe that the demand will further increase as smartwatches can connect with one’s smartphone/laptop/earbuds etc., offering a connected and convenient lifestyle.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/focus-on-fitness-spurs-indians-to-smartwatches/article37848236.ece
05 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Culture mapping of 80 villages kicks off||Culture mapping of 80 villages associated with noted personalities in history, in particular the freedom movement, unique crafts and festivals has been started as a pilot project, Culture Ministry officials said. The project is expected to be completed this financial year, they added. From Sempore in Kashmir to Kanjirapally in Kerala, villages with a connection to the freedom movement as well as those with their own art practices have been selected for the project, being conducted by the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA). Sachidanand Joshi, member-secretary of IGNCA, said the institution was assigned the work in September. “The aim is to create a database related to our villages and the culture, customs and traditions there,” he said. E-commerce platform In a reply to MP K.C. Ramamurthy’s question in the Rajya Sabha on December 2, Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy said the project would lead to a “national register and interactive database of artists and art practices from the villages of India”. Each artist would be given a unique ID and an e-commerce platform set up. “The work under the mission involves coordinating the data collection through ground and field surveys conducted on the basis of detailed formats and questionnaires, mobile application, interactive web-portal and an over-the-top (OTT) platform to showcase ethnographic documentaries/ cultural events/ festival/ melas etc. of villages,” the reply stated. On the list of villages selected, as detailed in Mr. Reddy’s reply, is Sempore or Pandrenthan in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir that is associated with 14th Century mystic Lal Ded or Lalleshwari. From Ladakh, the pilot project included Choglamsar and Wanla villages, known for wood carving. Khatkar Kalan village in Punjab, which has a memorial of Bhagat Singh; Reni village of Uttarakhand, where the Chipko movement started; and Kathputli Colony in Delhi, known for the “migrant kathputli artists”, are also on the list.  Sites of religious importance, including Shringverpur in Uttar Pradesh which, the Minister said, was “associated with Lord Rama - Lord Rama stayed here for one night after Nishadraj Guha”, were also included in the list of villages. Two villages in Tamil Nadu — Ettayapuram (the birthplace of poet Subramania Bharathi) and Thiruchigadi (a village of “women potters”) — are also on the list. Kanjirapally village, associated with Accama Cherian, an Independence activist known as the Jhansi Rani of Travancore, was on the list. While the Culture Ministry had launched the culture mapping mission in 2017, the project had been slow to take off, before it was handed over to the IGNCA this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/culture-mapping-of-80-villages-kicks-off/article37848327.ece
05 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh has a new language this time||In a bid to build a broader social alliance of backward castes and Dalits to dislodge the BJP in Uttar Pradesh in 2022, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav has not only accommodated leaders from the ‘Bahujan’ stream of caste politics but now has also incorporated its language in his election campaign. Proportional power In fact, Mr. Yadav, through an albeit fledgling caste arithmetic and political messaging promising backward castes a share in power and honour as per their population, seems to have taken a leaf out of the politics of Kanshi Ram. The BSP founder had popularised the clarion call for OBCs and Dalits of Jiski jitni sankhya bhari, uski utni hissedari — each community or caste bloc should get representation as per their share in the population — to challenge the dominance of the upper castes. With the BSP under Mayawati diluting that project and shifting to a strategy of ‘ sarvajan hitai, sarvajan sukhai (for the good and development of all)  relying more on appeasement of dominant castes, particularly Brahmins, to supplement the traditional Jatav vote, the ‘Bahujan’ space has since 2014 been occupied by the BJP. However, the saffron party’s discourse has been completely different, laced with Hindutva. In the process, the BJP has managed to bring together the numerically dominant non-Yadav OBCs and non-Jatav Dalits, along with its traditional support base of ‘upper castes’, to create a winning formula. In his rainbow coalition, Mr. Yadav has not only formed alliances with five OBC-based parties, which have support bases among Jat, Kurmi, Chauhan, Maurya-Kushwaha and Rajbhar castes, but now is also openly embracing elements of social justice politics. He had completely shied away from this plank in the last Assembly election where his main pitch was “ Kaam bolta hain (work will speak)”. Caste census The Samajwadi chief is aggressively pitching for a caste census for the OBCs, who are numerically the most dominant bloc in the State — estimated to be about 40-45% — and taking potshots at the traditional ‘upper caste’ background of the BJP. At a rally in Lalitpur on Thursday, Mr. Yadav said the BJP’s was unwilling to carry out a caste census as true count of the castes would expose the party’s true composition and stated that “those who cannot do a caste census cannot think of your welfare.” He then promised the OBC castes bhagidhari (representation), samman (honour) and haq (due rights) as per their population. All these terms are closely linked to the social justice politics in the State. “ Abadi zyada hain, zyada samman dene ka kaam karenge (If your population is more, you will get more honour),” he said, stating that this was a “new SP,” which talks of the “rights and honour of all” and “representation of all.” In Hardoi on November 27, Mr. Yadav, while promising voters he would carry out a caste census in U.P. if voted to power, also tried to counter the BJP’s frequent allegation that the SP patronized the Yadav caste at the cost of others. Mr. Yadav accused the BJP of trying to make castes fight and spreading divisiveness. Targeting the OBC background of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has in U.P. campaign repeatedly flaunted his identity, without naming him, Mr. Yadav said, “Those who don’t want to do caste census have paper certificates”. “But those who are standing here have original certificates. They know that when there will be a caste census, their numbers won’t be prominent. They are not that many in numbers the way they are accounting for it,” he added. Appeal to Dalits Apart from trying to woo the scattered OBC castes, Mr. Yadav is also trying to make inroads into the Dalit vote. Dalits comprise 21.5% of the State’s population and even today the BSP commands the largest share of its vote, especially the Jatav sub-caste to which Mayawati herself belongs. Over the last two-three years, Mr. Yadav has added several key Dalit leaders from the BSP to his party from across the state, including Inderjeet Saroj, Tribhvan Dutt, Mithailal Bharti, Yogesh Verma and OBC leaders propagating an Ambedkarite ideology such as R.S. Kushwaha, Lalji Verma and Ram Achal Rajbhar. To win the trust of the Dalits, Mr. Yadav regularly evokes B.R. Ambedkar and the threat to reservation and constitutional provisions from the privatization spree under the BJP Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-has-a-new-language-this-time/article37848217.ece
05 December 2021||Dehradun,||We believe in empowering all people: Modi in Uttarakhand||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched development projects worth more than Rs. 18,000 crore to poll-bound Uttarakhand on Saturday, and said his Government believed in the development of all and not in serving a particular community, caste or religion and using them as a “vote bank”. The Prime Minister alleged that 10 years of rule by the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance were a “waste” for Uttarakhand and the country. He said that his Government was making up for the lost time by doubling the speed of infrastructure and connectivity projects, while kickstarting the BJP’s campaign for the 2022 Assembly polls with a a rally at the Parade Ground here. He addressed the public meeting after the inauguration and foundation laying of 18 projects worth Rs. 18,30 crore including the Rs. 8,600-crore Delhi-Dehradun economic corridor, Asia’s biggest elevated wildlife corridor and a new bridge as an alternative to Rishikesh’s iconic Lakshman Jhoola. Welfare of all Terming vote bank politics one of the perversities that have entered the country’s polity, Mr. Modi said unlike other parties that believed in keeping people weak so that their dependence on them never ended and their “crown” remained intact, the BJP believes in empowering them and making them independent. He alleged that efforts launched in the field of connectivity and infrastructure development by then PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee at the beginning of the century came to a halt during the 10 years of UPA. Terming the projects as unprecedented work in infrastructure development in Uttarakhand, he said the development of the hill State was the “double-engine” Government’s topmost priority. Drawing a comparison, he said the UPA built only 288 km of national highways in Uttarakhand in seven years from 2007 to 2014 while the BJP Government at the Centre had built 2,000 km of national highways in the State in the 7.5 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-believe-in-empowering-all-people-modi-in-uttarakhand/article37848219.ece
05 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC condemns red tape in sexual harassment cases||The right against sexual harassment at workplace is part of the fundamental right to a dignified life and it takes a lot of courage for a subordinate to overcome the fear to speak up against a lewd superior, the Supreme Court has held in a judgment. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said the courts should not be “hyper-technical” while dealing with sexual harassment cases, and be aware of the odds that a survivor has to overcome to bring to light the sexual misconduct. “It is important to be mindful of the power dynamics that are mired in sexual harassment at the workplace. There are several considerations and deterrents that a subordinate aggrieved of sexual harassment has to face when they consider reporting sexual misconduct of their superior,” Justice Chandrachud wrote. The judgment highlighted a rising trend of invalidation of proceedings inquiring into sexual misconduct on “hyper-technical interpretations of the applicable service rules”. At times, court turns the legal process into a punishment in cases under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition, and Redressal) Act 2013. The case involved an appeal filed against the Calcutta High Court decision to quash a sexual harassment proceeding initiated on the complaint of a Border Security Force constable against his superior.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-condemns-red-tape-in-sexual-harassment-cases/article37848200.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||TRS member Banda Prakash resigns from Rajya Sabha||Telangana Rashtra Samithi MP Banda Prakash resigned from the Rajya Sabha on Saturday. His resignation was accepted by House Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu. On Tuesday, Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao nominated Mr. Prakash to the Legislative Council, along with five others. Mr. Prakash was to retire from the Upper House in April 2024. According to sources, Mr. Rao’s daughter Kalvakuntla Kavitha, whose term as MLC would expire in January, could be nominated in his place. His nomination to the Council is also linked to the TRS’s humiliating defeat in the Huzurabad byelection where party turncoat Eatala Rajender had won on BJP ticket. Mr. Prakash and Mr. Rajender belong to the Mudiraj community. Sources claim that he is likely to be inducted in the Cabinet in the next reshuffle to win over the community. The byelection result has spurred the TRS to distance itself from the BJP. Change in stance Mr. Prakash told The Hindu that though the party had sided with the BJP on many controversial legislation in Parliament, the ruling party has done precious little in return for Telangana. The TRS, in the ongoing winter session, has firmly placed itself with the Opposition bloc. In both the Houses, the party members have been protesting against the Central Government’s paddy procurement policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trs-member-banda-prakash-resigns-from-rajya-sabha/article37848223.ece
05 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sirsa trashes SAD allegations||Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who recently joined the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP), after leaving Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday trashed allegations leveled by SAD leadership that the BJP coerced and used dirty tricks to induct him into the party. Mr. Sirsa said he had joined the BJP with the sole agenda to serve the Sikh community and the BJP had provided him a platform which will help resolve Sikh issues prevailing for long. He said that Sikhs residing both inside and outside Punjab were looking up to him to take up their issues. Mr. Sirsa said that he was surprised at these allegations levelled by Akali leadership. “If the BJP had to coerce me, the party would have asked me to join as the president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) and not as an individual. I joined voluntarily because after breaking alliance with the BJP, the Akali Dal was not in a position to work on resolving Sikh issues as there was no one left to help them out,” he said. Mr. Sirsa said that he had left SAD without levelling any sort of allegations, unlike many others who blamed the Grand Old Party for turning into a family-centric party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sirsa-trashes-sad-allegations/article37848224.ece
05 December 2021||Patna,||‘Nitish should address issues raised by me’||Bihar Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Nikki Hembrom, who had earlier alleged that Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had used “foul” language against her at a National Democratic Alliance (NDA) legislators’ meeting, said on Saturday that Mr. Kumar was “like a guardian” to her and that he must address the issues of tribal people she had raised at the meeting. The BJP MLA from the Katoria (Scheduled Tribe) Assembly constituency in Banka district is also national secretary of the BJP ST Morcha. She had earlier accused Mr. Kumar of calling her “beautiful” during a meeting of ruling NDA legislators on November 29. “I was shocked and hurt over what Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said, which was objectionable. I cannot speak of it again and again but that was an individual issue and Mr. Kumar is like a guardian to me. He [Mr. Kumar] must address the issues I raised for the welfare of tribal people,” Ms. Hembrom told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nitish-should-address-issues-raised-by-me/article37848197.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Panel to pursue farmers’ demands with Centre||“Now that the bigger issue of farm laws has been resolved, we feel a smaller committee could take a call. However, the nine-member core committee of the SKM will also continue to work,” he said. At the meeting held at the Singhu border, the umbrella body of the 40 farmer unions did a balancing act by including farmer leaders of different hues in the committee to ensure unity. Observers say, the SKM took note of the overtures by the government to reach out to individual leaders, while deciding the members. Mr Rajewal and Mr Charuni represent farmer unions of Punjab and Haryana respectively and have indulged in the game of one-upmanship in the past. In fact, sources said, Mr Rajewal was approached by the BJP’s central leadership in the last few days. Mr Sharma is a farmer leader from Madhya Pradesh, whose presence runs counter to the government’s propaganda that the SKM is being controlled by farmer leaders from three States. Mr. Dhawale is the president of All India Kisan Sabha, the peasant’ front of Communist Party of India, and provides the ideological moorings to the SKM. Mr. Singh is the general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union that has influence in the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The six pending demands of the farmers include legal entitlement for all farmers to realise remunerative MSP for any agricultural produce that they sell; withdrawal of Electricity Amendments Bill 2020/2021; deletion of section 15 in the law related to setting up of a Commission for Delhi Air Quality regulation, and three issues that have arisen as part of the ongoing struggle — withdrawal of cases foisted on protesting farmers and their supporters in various states. In a joint statement, the SKM said, “Farm unions of India have a bitter experience from the past of securing only oral assurances and ending their agitation and finding that governments renege on the meagre oral assurances too. We will not end this agitation without formal responses on each of the issues being raised by us. We want to see all the cases foisted against farmers as well as their supporters as part of this movement to be withdrawn and such an assurance coming formally.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-to-pursue-farmers-demands-with-centre/article37848198.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Weakened storm Jawad drenches coastal Odisha||P. K. Jena, Special Relief Commissioner, Odisha, said though the India Meteorological Department predicted a significant drop in wind speed associated with Jawad, there was no change in rain forecast for the region. Paradip town in Jagatsinghpur district recorded the highest 68.1 mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8 a.m on Saturday. The unseasonal rain has affected crop fields in Puri, Jagatsinghpur and Ganjam districts. “We are worried about the rain which will cause havoc. The harvesting season is just round the corner. If the crops bend down under the impact of heavy rain, it will be very difficult to get them up again,” said Prashant Rout, a villager from Jagatsinghpur district. As the cyclonic storm weakened during the day, Odisha did not have to carry out large scale evacuation. A total of 1,500 persons were evacuated to safer places and 300 pregnant women were shifted. The administration was focusing on dealing with situation due to waterlogging in low-lying areas in the event of heavy rain. The sea condition will be rough to very rough and fishermen are advised not to venture along and off West Bengal coasts till December 5. Teams of coast guard have also been deployed in coastal areas of the State. Meanwhile, teams of the State police and the National Disaster Response Force have been deployed in the coastal areas. The administration has been making announcement for people to remain alert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/weakened-jawad-drenches-odisha/article37848206.ece
05 December 2021||Mumbai,||Chargesheet filed against Param Bir, Sachin Vaze||The first chargesheet was filed on Saturday against suspended Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and suspended assistant police officer Sachin Vaze in an extortion case against them. The chargesheet filed by the Mumbai Crime Branch includes Sumit Singh, alias Chintu, and Alpesh Patel, who are currently in police custody, and accused Riyaz Bhati and Vinay Singh, alias Babloo. Param Bir Singh’s protection from arrest granted by the Supreme Court will end on December 6. On November 13, the Mumbai Crime Branch initiated the process to declare Mr. Singh an absconding accused. On November 17, he was declared an absconding accused. However, the order was soon cancelled. He was suspended on December 2 over “irregularities and lapses”. The case is about builder-hotelier Bimal Agarwal complaining about alleged extortion by Mr. Singh and Mr. Vaze. An FIR was filed by him at Goregaon on August 21 against all the accused. Mr. Agarwal alleged that Mr. Vaze, at Mr. Param Bir Singh’s behest, extorted Rs. 9 lakh from him for not conducting raids in two bars owned by him. They are booked under Sections 384 (punishment for extortion), 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion), 388 (extortion by threat of accusation of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chargesheet-filed-against-param-bir-sachin-vaze/article37848211.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Fresh cases in two States take Omicron tally to 4||The States have either reported a high caseload or some of their districts are exhibiting a high positivity rate. They have been directed to increase surveillance of international travellers, continue monitoring of emerging hotspots, and conduct prompt and comprehensive contact tracing of positive individuals and follow-up for 14 days. They should send all positive samples for genome sequencing quickly to INSACOG laboratories, identify early cases through adequate testing and review health infrastructure preparedness, including in rural areas and for paediatric cases. Madhavi Joshi of the Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre, which tested the 72-year-old’s genome sample, stated that the Omicron variant was confirmed and it had the ‘S gene dropout’. The S gene is a spike protein gene, and the use of a particular RT-PCR test called Taqpath returns a ‘negative’. It is useful to quickly screen for a suspected case of Omicron but only a genome sequencing exercise can actually confirm the variant. The Mumbai man, residing under the Kalyan-Dombivali Municipal Corporation limits, had mild fever on November 24. He had no other symptoms and is being treated at a COVID-19 Care Centre. Thirty-five of his contacts have been traced and they have all tested negative for COVID-19. India is a part of a list of at least 30 countries where the variant has been detected, though so far the evidence does not suggest it is more lethal than the Delta variant. However, the sharp rise in cases in South Africa and the significant number of mutations it bore that potentially gave it a growth advantage are what prompted the World Health Organization (WHO) to label it a Variant of Concern within days of it being reported by the South African medical authorities. 9,000 cases a day India currently reports around 9,000 coronavirus cases a day, with the bulk of them being reported out of Kerala.The INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium),which is in charge of testing a portion of positive samples to ascertain their genomes, in an update on Monday, underlined that most of the cases being detected in India were of the Delta variant and its associated sub-lineages. But the emergence of Omicron is unsurprising, as global travel to many countries has eased in recent months, including in and out of India, though with the advent of Omicron, the country has again imposed restrictions, with strict screenings mandated for those travelling from “at-risk” countries.  (With inputs from Mahesh Langa in Ahmedabad and Alok Deshpande in Mumbai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-tally-at-4-as-two-states-report-a-case-each/article37848213.ece
05 December 2021||Nalanda,||Tried, convicted and sentenced in 25 minutes||It took just five witnesses and a 25-minute trial for a court to try, convict and sentence a minor accused of rape in Bihar’s Nalanda district recently. While sentencing the 14-year-old to two three-year terms, the Principal Judge at the Nalanda Juvenile Justice Board (JJB), Manvendra Mishra, said, “There should be an awareness campaign in society to prevent such behaviour and also to instil good sanskaar (values) towards women.” The accused, he said, showed the “ability to commit the crime; he cannot be set free in the best interest of society”. However, the manner in which the case was fast-tracked has raised several questions. The case (No.165/ 2021) was lodged at the Nalanda police station under Section 377 (unnatural sex) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on October 8, 2021. The police filed a charge-sheet against the accused, a 14-year-old boy, on November 25. The JJB court heard the case on November 27, pronounced the verdict and sentenced the boy to two three-year terms, both to run concurrently, on the same day. The accused and the victim, a four-year-old girl, both belong to a Scheduled Caste community, are distantly related, and live in the same village in Nalanda district. “It was a heart-wrenching incident. There is common belief in society that justice is always delayed in the Indian judicial system. But based on the merit of evidence and the production of all five witnesses in the case, the court pronounced the verdict in a day. The role of the Investigating Officer and the Assistant Prosecution Officer in the case was very important too,” Usha Kumari, a member of the JJB in the case, told The Hindu . Asked how the entire proceedings were completed so soon, Assistant Prosecution Officer Jai Prakash said, “For three-four days, my mind was occupied with this heinous crime. When sufficient evidence along with the oral submission of the victim and other witnesses was done, everything became clear and the verdict was passed.” According to those present in court, the trial lasted only 25 minutes. “The defence lawyers took the first 15 minutes, the prosecutor presented the facts for 10 minutes. The honourable judge, after being convinced with the arguments of both sides, pronounced the verdict without any delay,” Mr. Jai Prakash said. “The judge ordered that the victim be brought to the court and face the accused. The girl was terrified, tearful and tightly held her mother’s sari throughout. This seemed to convince the judge in favour of the prosecution’s argument,” said a lawyer. However, one of three defence lawyers, Abhay Kishore, told The Hindu that he “never thought all five witnesses and the evidence would be produced before the court in a single day”. Asked if he was satisfied with the verdict, Mr. Kishore said, “As a defence lawyer, I cannot be satisfied with such a quick verdict, but I do respect the court’s decision.”  Based on the merit of evidence and the production of all five witnesses in the case, the court pronounced the verdict in a day Usha Kumari Member of Juvenile Justice Board||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tried-convicted-and-sentenced-in-25-minutes/article37848228.ece
05 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. to clear all Air India dues this fiscal||Air India will pay back all its debt and dues owed to banks, oil companies, airports and aircraft lessors by the end of this financial year, a senior government official said. On Friday, the government sought Parliament’s approval for infusion of Rs. 62,057 crore into its company or special purpose vehicle (SPV) that hosts Air India’s residual debt, liabilities and some assets. “Most of Air India’s loans were overdue. One option was to issue government guaranteed bonds but that could take us several years to make repayments. Where the loans are not due yet, banks would be required to enter into a fresh contract with the SPV, which they may not want to do since it doesn’t house a lot of assets. Therefore, the money sought from Parliament will help us make all settlements and clean-up the airline,” said the senior government official. The special purpose vehicle, known as Air India Assets Holding Limited, will receive the equity infusion from the government. It will then proceed to make settlements. When asked if this would be done within this fiscal, the official replied, “Yes”. Explaining the break-up of the equity infusion sought from Parliament, the official said, “Rs. 61,562 crore is Air India’s debt as of August 31, 2021. In addition to this there are excess current liabilities of Rs. 15,834 crore, which gives us a figure of Rs. 77,396 crore. Out of this if we remove debt amount of Rs. 15,300 crore to be taken on by Tatas, we get an amount of Rs. 62,096 crore. This was an estimate at the time and has now been determined as Rs. 62,057 crore.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-to-clear-all-air-india-dues-this-fiscal/article37848231.ece
05 December 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Attempt to arrest activist draws flak||Activists expressed concern over attempts by the Odisha police to arrest an anti-displacement campaigner from a coastal village in Jagatsinghpur district, which is bracing for Cyclone Jawad, on Saturday. Police teams in the early hours of Saturday knocked on the doors of Debendra Swain, an elected member to a panchayati raj institution who is spearheading a movement against Odisha’s largest greenfield steel project proposed in the vicinity of his village, Dhinkia. “Police came to arrest me from my Dhinkia home around 3.30 a.m. When we did not open the door, they tried to break it open. This was when all our fellow villagers woke up and confronted the police,” Mr. Swain said. The JSW Utkal Steel Limited, led by industrialist Sajjan Jindal, has proposed to establish a 13.2 million tonnes per annum (MTPA) capacity steel plant at an estimated investment of around Rs. 55,000 crore on land that was previously acquired for a steel project by South Korean steel major POSCO. The POSCO project had to be shelved due to local resistance. Dhinkia was the epicentre of the anti-displacement movement at the time. A couple of days ago, the Jagatsinghpur district administration, with help of the police, tried to recognise Patna and Mahala, which are hamlets of Dhinkia, as separate revenue villages. After the boundary demarcation, villagers uprooted the concrete poles. The police teams had to return following stiff resistance from villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/attempt-to-arrest-activist-draws-flak/article37848229.ece
05 December 2021||IMPHAL,||Myanmar keen on reopening border gate||Myanmar is keen on reopening the International Border at Gate no. I with India to resume legalised border trade, officials said. India had sealed the border following reports of increasing number of COVID-19 infected persons at Namphalong and Tamu towns bordering Manipur. Officials in Tengnoupal district, under which the border town Moreh falls, said that a letter on the subject was received by the District Collector from Kyaw Auntt Maung, chairman of the Tamu district administration. It says that it had taken the decision since the COVID-19 pandemic is under reasonable control in both the countries. However there was no mention about the international Gate no. II. The official letter gave no time table on the reopening of the border trade legalised in 1995 since the reaction of the India government is not foreknown. Though officially the border is sealed a large number of traders and smugglers are sneaking into Myanmar to fetch various contraband goods including gold, drugs and other electronic items. Assam Rifles guarding the border areas are seizing contraband goods worth crores of rupees all these days. Official sources said India is in no hurry to reopen the border. Security forces are of the view that insurgents sneak into Manipur. In the latest ambush on November 13 insurgents killed five Assam Rifles including the commanding officer, his wife and son in Manipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/myanmar-keen-on-reopening-border-gate/article37848230.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Soft ripples||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/soft-ripples/article37848239.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘BJP in talks with Dhindsa, Amarinder’||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said that the BJP is in talks with former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and former Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa to forge an alliance with their parties ahead of the Assembly election. During an interaction followed by his keynote address at the HT Leadership Summit 2021, Mr. Shah ruled out the possibility of farmers’ protests impacting elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, saying after the repeal of the farm laws, no other issue remains. He sai the BJP would once again form the Government in Uttar Pradesh with a comfortable majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-in-talks-with-dhindsa-amarinder/article37848225.ece
05 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Keshav Prasad Maurya sparks a fresh row||Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Keshav Prasad Maurya on Friday triggered a fresh row, saying people wearing lungis and netted skullcaps used to intimidate and scare traders in the State before the BJP came to power in 2017. Addressing traders in Prayagraj ahead of the 2022 Assembly election, Mr. Maurya took a dig at the law and order situation under the previous Samajwadi Party Government with the communally laced remark, though he did not name any community. He asked those gathered at the event to remember all of this and if the audience saw goondas any longer under the BJP rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/keshav-prasad-maurya-sparks-a-fresh-row/article37848226.ece
05 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||DMK member moves Private Bill on NEET||DMK member in the Rajya Sabha P. Wilson on Friday introduced a Private Member’s Bill that would give the States the choice to opt out of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions into medical courses. Mr. Wilson proposed to amend the National Medical Commission Act, 2019, and Dentists Act, 1948, to give the States the choice to opt out of NEET for undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma medical and dental courses and the National Exit Test for MBBS students to obtain a practitioner’s licence. In Tamil Nadu, the demand to do away with NEET has been an important issue as several students have allegedly died by suicide over the issue. The DMK MP moved another Private Bill to amend Article 130 of the Constitution and provide for permanent regional Benches of the Supreme Court in New Delhi, Chennai, Mumbai and Kolkata, with a Constitution Bench in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dmk-mp-moves-private-bill-on-neet/article37848227.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||One crore jabs given on Saturday||The number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in a day crossed one crore on Saturday after more than two months, taking the total jabs given so far to over 127.5 crore, amid fears of the Omicron variant. Four cases of the variant have been reported in India so far. “India achieves another 1,00,00,000 #COVID19 vaccinations today! With the #HarGharDastak campaign in full swing, the world’s #LargestVaccinationDrive is accomplishing new feats under PM @NarendraModi ji’s leadership,” Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-crore-jabs-given-on-saturday/article37848287.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||AAP will soon become a clone of BJP: Chidambaram||Congress leader P. Chidambaram on Saturday said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will soon become a clone of the BJP as it is imitating the saffron party. “The more the AAP imitates the BJP, the less relevant it will become,” he said on Twitter. He also hit out at the BJP for changing three Chief Ministers in Uttarakhand in five years.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-will-soon-become-a-clone-of-bjp-chidambaram/article37848209.ece
05 December 2021||Guwahati,||Assam’s highest civilian award for Ratan Tata||The Assam Government has named industrialist and philanthropist Ratan Tata for Assam Baibhav, the State’s highest civilian award. Announcing the names of 19 personalities chosen for three categories, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said Mr. Tata would be honoured for his contribution towards furthering cancer care in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assams-highest-civilian-award-for-ratan-tata/article37848203.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||Veteran journalist Vinod Dua dies at 67||Veteran journalist Vinod Dua, who started his career with Doordarshan and went on to make his mark in the digital space, died in Delhi on Saturday. He was 67. The last rites of the pioneering television journalist, who was hospitalised with COVID-19 earlier this year and lost his wife to the virus in June, will be performed at the Lodhi crematorium on Sunday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/veteran-journalist-vinod-dua-dies-at-67/article37848205.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi court grants bail to Peter Mukerjea in INX Media money laundering case||A Delhi court granted bail to former media baron Peter Mukerjea in the INX Media money laundering case linked to former Minister P. Chidambaram. Special Judge M.K. Nagpal granted relief to Mukerjea, the erstwhile director of INX Media. The court had earlier granted interim bail to Mukerjea till the pendency of his regular bail application.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-peter-mukerjea-in-inx-media-money-laundering-case/article37848286.ece
05 December 2021||Agartala,||Tripura State Rifles jawan kills 2 colleagues, surrenders to police||A jawan of the Tripura State Rifles (TSR) on Saturday shot dead two of his colleagues at an ONGC gas drilling site in Sepahijala, Tripura. The incident occurred at the company’s security post in Konaban, where a unit manned by 5th Battalion TSR has been deployed. Sources said the accused committed the crime after his superiors turned down his leave application and detailed him for refresher training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tripura-state-rifles-jawan-kills-2-colleagues-surrenders-to-police/article37848210.ece
05 December 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Ariyalur administration strengthens pandemic control measures||The district administration has cautioned commercial establishments to uphold COVID-19 norms and ensure all staff members are vaccinated. With the threat of a new variant of COVID-19 looming large, the administration has strengthened measures for pandemic control. Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi has instructed businesses, wedding halls, restaurants, vehicle operators, theatres and private schools to ensure that all their staff members are fully vaccinated. The health infrastructure too has been scaled up, she says. While the district is reporting only an average of one fresh case per day and no deaths in recent days, efforts to vaccinate eligible sections of the population is under way. The new Omicron variant detected in South Africa is far more contagious and also has a higher probability of a relapse, the Collector has warned, adding that that COVID-19 protocol must be followed diligently. Instructions She has urged the public to wear masks and maintain personal distance and personal hygiene. Officials of the health department have been instructed to monitor travellers visiting the district from other countries. Public must take both doses of vaccine and fine levied for those who flout the norms will be high under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act. She has reiterated that only 100 people will allowed at a marriage hall for any event and urged the Regional Transport Office to ensure that all drivers operating vehicles-on-rent have taken both doses of vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ariyalur-administration-strengthens-pandemic-control-measures/article37848485.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rasika Ranjani Sabha seeks to crowdfund its loan repayment||Saddled with a loan of Rs. 10 crore incurred from constructing a new building, the 93-year-old Rasika Ranjani Sabha in Mylapore plans to crowdfund its loan repayment. The sabha was established in 1929 and then too the founders A.K. Ramachandra Iyer and Loganatha Mudaliar had taken a loan of Rs. 83,000. “M.S. Subbulakshmi performed a concert for us and gave us Rs. 25,000. The balance was met through funds from membership drives. The building was reconstructed in 1958 too,” said sabha president and industrialist A.R. Santhanakrishnan. Speaking at the inauguration of the sabha’s December 2021 festival titled “Music in Perpetuity”, he said they had tied up with GoCrowdEra, which has given a blueprint as to how the proposal should be taken forward. “The idea is to make the public participate so that along with repaying loan, we can also create a corpus. We urge the members of the public to donate liberally for artistes and this organisation that promotes art and culture,” he said. The Centre had graciously granted Rs. 6 crore to the sabha as a special case, Mr. Santhanakrishnan added. M. Murali of Sri Krishna Sweets said that just the mention of the name Rasika Ranjani Sabha or RR Sabha in short, brought happy memories. It has a hoary past. Violin vidhushi and guru A. Kanyakumari said that she came to the city in 1968 and at that time used to come to the sabha to listen to concerts. Then, she has performed as an artist. She urged sabhas and the listeners to encourage instrumentalists. The inaugural was preceded by Nagaswaram performance by Sembanar Koil S.R.G.S. Mohandass and Mylai K. Selvam. It was followed by a lec-dem on Harikesanallur Muthiah Bhagavathar by Harikesanallur Venkatraman and N. Gayathri Ravi. Office-bearers, including T.R. Rajagopalan, Srinivasan K. Swamy, Aruna Prabha Ranganathan, R. Nagarajan, Chella Vaidhyanathan and N. Anush Shankar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rasika-ranjani-sabha-seeks-to-crowdfund-its-loan-repayment/article37848413.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rain boosts city’s water table||Abundant rain this northeast monsoon has led to a remarkable improvement in groundwater level in the city with the average going up by nearly 3.12 metre in November compared to the previous month. According to the data available with the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB), the groundwater was available at a depth of 2.3 metres in November in the city compared to 5.42 metres in October. Similarly, it has improved by at least one or two metres compared to November last year. Adyar zone recorded the maximum improvement in water table in the city and groundwater was available at a depth of 0.54 metre. The densely populated Royapuram zone saw relatively less recharge as the water table stood at 4.81 metre in November. The water table remained at 1 to 3 metres in most other zones in the city in November. Madhavaram, Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar and Teynampet zones are among those localities that have seen a considerable recharge as water level increased by 5 to 7 metres within one month. The CMWSSB is collating the groundwater data through its real-time online monitoring system and digital water-level recorders in borewells sunk at 200 locations across the city. Salinity down Hydrogeologists and experts said the groundwater is available within one metre in some of the core areas and salinity has also reduced up to 70%. What made this year’s inundation different from 2015 floods was that shallow aquifer had become saturated even before the onset of northeast monsoon and was not caused by water discharge into rivers. There was not much space left for floodwater percolation. Sekar Raghavan, Director, Rain Centre, said consistent and above normal rain since October last year, comfortable storage in reservoirs, copious drinking water supply through pipelines this year and better rainwater harnessing methods led to the improvement in the water table. Residents in many core areas did not draw groundwater for their needs and the reserves were available in plenty. “In areas like R.A. Puram, where open wells usually have water level at 20 feet depth, had water at a depth of 7 ft. in August. It indicated that the rainwater recharge and percolation potential was limited and waterlogging was bound to happen by first spell of monsoon rains,” he said. Residents must tap shallow aquifer through open wells or sink tube wells for a depth of 30 feet to deplete groundwater sources and help floodwater recede. Recharging deep aquifer through borewells was difficult and could be done by opting for slotted casing pipes, he added. The government must consider water metering system for domestic consumers to motivate them to use shallow groundwater source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-boosts-citys-water-table/article37848425.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State inks MoUs to strengthen mental health initiatives||Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) were signed between the National Health Mission-Tamil Nadu and three non-governmental organisations on Friday to strengthen measures to provide mental healthcare to the elderly and prevent suicides and for the early diagnosis and treatment of cancer among children. One of the MoUs was signed with the Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF) to train medical personnel, working in the geriatric wards created by the State Government in district headquarters hospitals, on geriatric mental health, particularly dementia care. Another MoU was signed with Sneha, an organisation working towards suicide prevention, to strengthen government initiatives to prevent suicides. The third was signed with the organisation, CanKids KidsCan, to address the gap in early detection and treatment of cancer among children. Progressive measures Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said the MoUs with the three organisations were part of a series of progressive measures being taken the government to strengthen public health. He highlighted the recently launched Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam scheme, which provides healthcare at the doorstep, and the soon-to-be-launched Innuyir Kappom initiative that will help reduce road accident fatalities. He said the State Government was taking steps to ban the sale of cow dung powder, the consumption of which was becoming a widely prevalent method of committing suicide. The State will also look at imposing stringent restrictions on the sale of rat poison, he said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the MoUs were an example of how NGOs that work in specific areas could complement the government’s measures. Training personnel Darez Ahamed, mission director, NHM-Tamil Nadu, said some of the focus areas, as part of the collaborations, would be training personnel and strengthening fine-tuning standard operating procedures and protocols. R. Thara, vice-chairperson, SCARF, said strengthening elderly care was significant for Tamil Nadu, as the State had nearly 11% of its population in the elderly age group — one of the highest in the country. She said the prevalence of dementia was particularly on the rise among the elderly, and that required additional focus. Lakshmi Vijayakumar, founder, Sneha, said the number of people ending their lives by suicide, particularly among the younger age groups, had significantly increased in the State. She said the use of pesticides to commit suicide was the highest in Tamil Nadu, when compared with the other States. Rajajalakshmi Ravikumar, southern regional director of CanKids KidsCan, said there was an urgent need to take proactive measures for the early detection of cancer, as only 60% of cancer cases among children are detected at the right stage.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available at Sneha's helpline 044-24640050 and the State Government’s health helpline 104)   The MoUs signed with the three organisations were part of a series of progressive measures being taken by the government to strengthen public health. Ma. Subramanian Minister for Health and Family Welfare||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mous-to-strengthen-mental-health-initiatives/article37848507.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Do relief work on a war footing’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday visited the flood-affected areas of Porur, Mangadu and Iyyappanthangal, and urged officials to take up relief work on a war footing. The women of Mahalakshmi Nagar in Mangadu, which is still under water, waded through knee-deep water to make a representation to the Chief Minister. They told him that they struggled to even come out and children were not able to go to schools. The women wanted Mr. Stalin to ensure that the stagnated water is drained as soon as possible. Mr. Stalin urged officials to take steps to drain the water quickly from the area. Armed with a map of the affected areas and accompanied by party MP T.R. Baalu, Rural Industries Minister T.M. Anbarasan and other officials, the Chief Minister also inspected the Porur lake and the subway in Mangadu, where excess water from the lake had entered. He also distributed relief to the affected. Later, addressing a meeting at the party headquarters, Mr. Stalin said though it was usual for people to lodge complaints against the government in difficult times, no one had pointed a finger at him during his visits to the flood-hit areas. “People told me that they have faith in me. They are confident that I will fulfil their demands. When I waded through water, women advised me not to. Our Ministers, MLAs and MPs have got similar reactions from the people, because we have done in six months what the AIADMK have failed to do in 10 years,” he said. A release said Mr. Stalin has been visiting flood-hit areas in the State from November 7, reviewing relief works and giving orders to officials to expedite operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-relief-work-on-a-war-footing/article37848405.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GCC plans permeable pavements||The Greater Chennai Corporation is planning to build permeable pavements across the city to reduce run-off and mitigate the effects of waterways built with cement concrete, said Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi. Speaking at a panel discussion on “Building A Resilient Chennai, Water and Climate Challenges” organised by the Chennai International Centre, Mr. Bedi said the presence of waterways built with cement concrete was one of the major causes for flooding in the city during recent rain. He said the Corporation had decided not to use cement concrete for roads or pavements henceforth in the city. Various other proposals had been made to adopt technology to mitigate flooding, promote retention and holding ponds, he said. “Playgrounds, parks and low-lying areas should be used as holding ponds without flooding the neighbourhood. Canals and waterways need to be widened and deepened,” said Mr. Bedi. Pointing to the flooding of residential areas caused by cement concrete waterways during monsoon, Mr. Bedi said water from Anai Eri was flooding residential areas developed along private waterways in the southern parts of the city. “Chettinad Enclave was flooded for 10 to 15 days. Somebody had posted it on social media. I responded and went there. We found that the apartment was standing on what once used to be farmers’ patta land where private channels used to take the run-off water from Anai Eri to Narayanapuram Eri. Urban planning does take care of the government waterways but does not take care of the private waterways. That should be considered. There are issues in urban and land use planning,” said Mr. Bedi. Stressing on the need for diligent implementation of stormwater drain projects in Kosasthalaiyar and Kovalam basins with the guidance of civil society, Mr. Bedi said: “We want residents to watch GCC projects. We are implementing the Kosasthalaiyar project in north Chennai at a cost of Rs. 3,220 crore and Kovalam at a cost of Rs. 1,714 crore. We are putting permanent pumping stations across the city. We have reduced the distance between manholes to 2.6 metres. We have adopted engineering solutions in Bazulla Road. We need some good engineering solutions from all of you also,” said Mr. Bedi. Spaces around lakes Sundaram Climate Institute founder Mridula Ramesh said the government should create performance spaces around lakes. “A simple lake can provide 100 jobs. An eight-hectare lake in Madurai Mariamman Theppakulam created a source of livelihood for 126 people in March ahead of the pandemic. The 26-hectare Kodaikanal lake has created 1,500 jobs. We should explore options to make non-functional watebodies functional. We get most of our rain in 100 hours. India has the most temporally skewed rainfall. Our demand is year round. How to match the demand? The answer is storage,” said Ms. Ramesh. “We are good at saving lives, but not quite good at saving livelihoods. Climate change has made the dry season drier and wet season wetter,” said Ms. Ramesh. ‘Monitor water use’ Environmental Foundation of India founder Arun Krishnamurthy said there was no monitoring system in each residential area about the quantum of water received and drained. “Over 300 watebodies got revived. Why did we get flooding? Everything does not need to be concrete beautified. There is nil or absolutely minimal water sensitisation in residential areas. I don't know where my fresh water comes from. What is the quantum and quality of water I am sending out of my home? I do not understand the topography I live in, my coastal belt, my estuary, lakes and the ponds, the system connection they have. The civic society has no monitoring system of water usage,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gcc-plans-permeable-pavements/article37848384.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Giving a boost||Secretary for Tourism, Culture and Religious Endowments Department B. Chandra Mohan said that the Department of Tourism has launched many social media campaigns to attract tourists to the State by showcasing its hidden potential and promote many emerging sectors. “One of our visions through social media is to bring out unique perspectives of Tamil Nadu. Our strategy towards social media is to collaborate with the audience, who are constantly bringing to us the local secrets of Tamil Nadu,” he said. Tamil Nadu Tourism received an award in the category “Promoting Religious and Pilgrimage Tourism” at the ITCTA Awards held at New Delhi in August. The State also bagged three awards at the India Today Tourism Conclave and Awards 2021. The Best Mountain Destination Award went to Coonoor, the Nilgiris, while the vibrant Pongal celebrations won the Best Festival Destination Award, and the runner-up award for the Most Scenic Road went to Kolli Hills, Namakkal. In order to ensure the creation of a safe and secure tourism environment, a committee was formed by the State Government to draw up the ‘Revival Plan for Tourism Sector in Tamil Nadu after Lockdown of COVID-19’, constituting of officials of line departments and tourism stakeholders. “Special vaccination camps have been conducted district-wise for all tourism stakeholders. We are publicising Tamil Nadu as a high priority destination in terms of health and safety. Travellers are encouraged to take two doses of vaccines before planning a trip to the State. The Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation (TTDC) has been putting in its best efforts to ensure safe and splendid tourism experiences at its boathouses,” Mr. Chandra Mohan added. The department has identified niche tourism segments such as ecotourism, wellness, beach, wildlife, cultural, rural, adventure, pilgrimage and heritage tourism. In order to harness the tourism potential of the State, the department is developing a tourism strategy and master plan for 300 destinations, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/giving-a-boost/article37848375.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNERC issues notice to Tangedco on transformer cost||After complaint from a consumer organisation, Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has issued notice to Tangedco for not complying with the regulation that the utility should bear the cost of distribution transformers with associated equipment and not charge the consumers. In its complaint, Coimbatore Consumer Cause has stated that despite repeated orders of the Electricity Ombudsman and TNERC making it clear, Tangedco should not collect the charges from consumers, the utility continued to collect such charges. The complainant alleged that non-compliance from Tangedco had occurred in spite of the amendment made to the Distribution Code. In his complaint letter to Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission, K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary, Coimbatore Consumer Cause, had pointed out that field-level officials of Tangedco claimed that they had not received any communication from their higher officials not to collect the charges. Taking it up suo motu , the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission said the proceedings would be on December 7 and told the officials of Tangedco and the complainant to appear through video conferencing either in person or through representative or through their counsel. In case of failure to appear on the said day, the party so absent would be set ex-parte and appropriate orders would be passed based on available material, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnerc-issues-notice-to-tangedco-after-complaint/article37848426.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to rebuild 1,010 roads damaged in rain||The Greater Chennai Corporation will re-lay 1,010 roads that were damaged in the recent rain. According to a press release, the Corporation has compiled a list of 81 damaged bus route roads, 622 interior bitumen roads and 307 interior concrete roads after the rains. Teynampet zone reported damages to 22 bus route roads and Adyar 21 bus route roads. Two pavements in Teynampet zone were damaged. In Tondiarpet zone, 108 interior roads and 65 cement concrete roads were damaged during the rains. There were reports of more interior roads being damaged in Manali, Ambattur, Anna Nagar, Valasaravakkam and Perungudi. Work on identifying damaged roads will continue. Residents have been requested to share details of damaged roads with Corporation officials. Chidambaram, a resident of Anna Nagar Padi Kuppam Road, said the road had not been relaid after it was dug up. “The road is unsafe for pedestrians. We want a footpath,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-to-rebuild-1010-roads-damaged-in-rain/article37848385.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Buddhi Clinic holds webinar on seizures and autism||Buddhi Clinic hosted a webinar on “Seizures & Autism” on Saturday. Among the issues discussed were epilepsy, characterised by repeated seizures and considered the most common serious neurological disorder, as well as Autism Spectrum Disorder, a condition that affects language, communication, socialisation and emotional expression in children as young as two years. In a large proportion of children, the two conditions overlap. Doctors from various places interacted with Buddhi Clinic founder and neuropsychiatrist, Ennapadam S. Krishnamoorthy. They highlighted the role of brain in these disorders, the role of genetics and neurobiology and recent advances in diagnosis and treatment. On the occasion, Buddhi Clinic launched several initiatives such as Buddhi Online, its proposed app featuring do-it-yourself therapy programme supported by specialists through video calls. It has signed a five-year agreement with Natural Minds, a healthcare technology company, to facilitate this. Other programmes launched include the “Buddhi Seva” and a new membership programme for the benefit of patients with long-standing complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buddhi-clinic-holds-webinar-on-seizures-and-autism/article37848422.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Act against Tangedco for violating norm’||A consumer activist has written to the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC), seeking action against Tangedco for non-compliance with the regulation that the utility should bear the cost of installing distribution transformers, with associated equipment, and not charge consumers. In his letter, K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary, Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said TNERC could not remain a mere spectator in the issue, despite all the facts being brought to its knowledge. “TNERC is soft towards Tangedco, and is unwilling to take any effective and strong action under sections 142 and 146 of the Electricity Act, which deal with the levying of penalty for non-compliance with regulations, despite pleas to initiate suo motu action,” he said. According to him, despite the regulation and orders from TNERC and the Electricity Ombudsman, Tangedco continued to collect the charges. Field-level officials said they had not received any communication from their higher officials not to collect the charges, Mr. Kathirmathiyon said. On September 24, the Electricity Ombudsman, in a case filed by real estate developers, had ruled that as per the regulation, charges for installation work, including drawing a portion of any HT line on the consumer’s premises, alone should be collected from the consumer. Collection of the cost of distribution transformers, with associated equipment/accessories such as AB switch, HG Fuse, DT structure/pole, by Tangedco, went against the regulations and directions, he ruled, and instructed Tangedco to refund the excess charges collected in all similar cases and file a compliance report in 60 days. Mr. Kathirmathiyon said a compliance report had not been filed. Sources said real estate developers were planning to seek action under Section 142 of the Electricity Act for non-compliance with Ombudsman’s order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/act-against-tangedco-for-violating-norm/article37848831.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panneerselvam, Palaniswami file nominations for party posts||Former Chief Ministers O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday filed nomination papers for the posts of coordinator and co-coordinator, respectively — the positions being held by them in the AIADMK. The papers will be taken up for scrutiny on Sunday, according to C. Ponnaiyan, an election official appointed for the organisational polls. He refused to divulge details regarding the number of nomination papers received and the names of applicants other than Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami. Assault of applicant In light of another incident of an applicant being assaulted at the party office, Mr. Ponnaiyan and his colleague, Pollachi V. Jayaraman, were asked by journalists whether any complaint had been received over the poll process. They replied in the negative. In the meantime, D. Jayakumar, organisation secretary, submitted a petition to Chennai Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal, seeking police protection for the AIADMK headquarters. He said those who were not even primary members of the party or who had been expelled from the party and who were members of other parties were seeking to create trouble at the party office, under the guise of submitting nomination papers. Mr. Jayakumar added that his colleague, Adhi Rajaram, had given a complaint in this regard. During the day, the party office witnessed tense moments for a while, after Mr. Jayakumar was said to have confronted his colleague and former Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju for his reported observations. Mr. Raju denied having made any observations. Later, Mr. Jayakumar was pacified by other members of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panneerselvam-palaniswami-file-nominations-for-party-posts/article37848398.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Build underground storage structures, harness floodwater’||Underground storage structures should be considered to harness floodwater and for better management of water resources in the city. This was one of the suggestions made during a recent meeting organised by the State Planning Commission. Members of Exnora International submitted a memorandum to the State Planning Commission seeking to create infrastructure of underground storage points and to form a separate agency to implement rainwater harvesting in public spaces and monitor its impact. Besides desilting and rejuvenating waterbodies and reservoirs that cater to the city, more check dams must be constructed across the Palar to tap resources for Chennai. There must be better coordination among the local bodies, the Revenue Department and the police to protect the waterbodies. Waterbodies must be mapped using GPS technology and responsibility for the rise of new encroachments on waterbodies must be fixed on officials concerned. Amendments must be made to the Tamil Nadu Tank Protection and Eviction of Encroachment Act 2007 and a legal committee must be formed to prevent encroachments. Exnora International president K.S.S. Senthur Pari, V. Subramani of Waterbody Exnora and V. Ramarao, senator, Exnora International, participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/underground-structures-should-be-built-to-harness-floodwater-exnora/article37848409.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Win people’s support to achieve party’s goal, says Ramadoss||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Saturday wrote to the party’s newly appointed district secretaries, urging them to win the people’s support and ensure that the party achieves its goal of coming to power. The post of the State deputy secretary has been done away with and district secretaries have been empowered to act independently, with additional responsibility. Mr. Ramadoss told the district secretaries to visit villages in the Assembly constituencies allocated to them and interact with office -bearers and the people. They have been asked to take steps to strengthen the party. He said the role of union secretaries was important to achieve the goal. “The best performing union secretaries will retain their posts. To elect new union secretaries, the headquarters will send a team to each revenue district. The team will consult district secretaries and leaders and select the new union secretaries,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/win-peoples-support-to-achieve-partys-goal-says-ramadoss/article37848418.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Forum urges government to appeal against HC order on TCs||The State Platform for Common School System (SPCSS) has urged the School Education Department to appeal against a recent order by the Madras High Court, directing the department to mention status of fee payment in the transfer certificates issued by matriculation schools. In a memorandum sent to the Principal Secretary of the SE department, the SPCSS said that inclusion of such information will lead to children facing stigmatisation. The order was issued based on two writ petitions filed by two associations of private schools, demanding safeguards to recover the fees. While reiterating that the schools cannot refuse to issue transfer certificates, the court directed the department to make necessary changes in the Educational Management Information System (EMIS) to include an extra detail mentioning whether the fee has been paid and if not mention the pending amount. This detail was already part of the form of transfer certificate mentioned in the Code of Regulations for Matriculation Schools, the court said. The forum said that entering the arrears of school fees in the transfer certificate can be the “crudest” punishment for the child, and the child may have to carry the stigma and humiliation throughout their lives. It said the inability to pay fees should not be construed as a deliberate attempt by the parents to not pay, said P.B. Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary, SPCSS. Every parent intended to pay the fees and the failure was only due to their loss of income or other financial troubles, he added. Most families struggled economically during the pandemic. Although schools did not incur the same expenditure due to absence of physical classes, many schools did not reduce their fees, he said. The memorandum pointed out that while the court had considered the possibility of dispute between the school administration and the parents on the amount mentioned as arrears, it unfortunately did not take notice of the impact on the child’s life on mentioning fee arrears on the transfer certificate. While acknowledging the provision to mention such information, available on the Code of Regulations for Matriculation Schools, the SPCSS said the code was formulated several years ago and needed changes in accordance with the situation prevalent now. It argued that the nomenclature of “matriculation schools” itself has lost relevance with the introduction of Tamil Nadu Uniform System of School Education (TNUSSE) Act. Importantly, the SPCSS highlighted the order was issued without making the parents and students as party to the case as they were the key stakeholders who have to bear the impact of the order.  Entering the arrears of school fees in the transfer certificate can be the crudest punishment for the child, and the child may have to carry the stigma and humiliation throughout their lives State Platform for Common School System||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forum-urges-government-to-appeal-against-hc-order-on-tcs/article37848428.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu sees marginal rise in cases as 731 people test positive||Tamil Nadu saw a marginal increase in fresh COVID-19 infections, with 731 people testing positive on Saturday. Chennai and Coimbatore continued to record a rise in daily cases, as 136 and 130 people tested positive respectively. The State had reported 711 cases on Friday. Though the daily cases saw a small rise in Chennai — from 128 the previous day — the city recorded no death due to COVID-19. There were 57 cases in Erode, while Chengalpattu and Tiruppur recorded 54 and 50 cases respectively. Forty-five people tested positive in Namakkal and 39 in Salem. Two districts — Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi — did not report any fresh case. Twenty districts logged fewer than 10 cases each. Of these, five districts — Ariyalur, Mayiladuthurai, Theni, Tirupattur and Tirunelveli — recorded a single case each. Among those who tested positive in the State was one returnee from the U.K., three from West Bengal and one from Bihar. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 27,29,792. The number of deaths due to the infection dropped to six. With 753 more people discharged, the active caseload reached 8,070. A total of 1,06,505 samples were tested, and this took the total figure to 5,46,81,905. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said three districts — Vellore, Tiruvallur and Chennai — had shown an increase in weekly cases this past week. In a letter to Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the three districts had registered an increase in weekly fresh cases in the past week. However, Mr. Radhakrishnan said this was a regular weekly communication from the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-sees-marginal-rise-in-covid-cases-as-731-people-test-positive/article37848390.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Margazhi Matram’ arts festival begins||The second edition of Marghazhi Matram (“Marghazhi with a change”) is under way in the city. The five-day hybrid event featuring artistes, who are persons with disabilities, will be streamed live for three days on the YouTube channel of SciArtsRUs from Sunday. The event is being organised to promote inclusive events in performing arts by Ranjini Kaushik of Los Angeles, founder of SciArtsRUs, which has started an initiative “Artabilities 4 All” for artistes with disabilities from throughout the world. The physical event was held on Friday and Saturday at the Dakshinamurthi Auditorium, Mylapore. Ranjini Kaushik, founder of SciArtsRUs said: “We want to spread the message of inclusivity in visual and performing arts globally and during Marghazhi there is hardly any programme that is curated for inclusive events.” This year’s global event, “Wings Unlimited” will feature almost 70 artistes with over 40 artistes from India in Marghazhi Matram. Upcoming stars It would feature rising stars and differently-abled artists from other areas in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka such as visually challenged singers from Srirangam, Madurai and six Bharatanatyam dancers from Bengaluru, said a press release here. At the inaugural event, veteran artistes and mentors in Indian Carnatic classical music and dance were honoured for mentoring artistes with disabilities free of cost through their mentor-me programme. For more information about the festival please visit,https://www.facebook.com /SciArtsRUs/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/margazhi-matram-arts-festival-begins/article37848379.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal discharged after recovery from COVID-19||Makkal Needhi Maiam president and actor Kamal Haasan was on Saturday discharged from a hospital after recovering from COVID-19. In a statement, Mr. Haasan said he had returned to his routine work. On November 22, Mr. Haasan had said that he had tested positive, and was admitted to the Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre. He thanked the hospital staff for taking good care of him. He also expressed gratitude towards Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and other leaders, actor Rajinikanth and other members of the film fraternity for wishing him a speedy recovery. He also thanked the people of Tamil Nadu, his fans and his party cadre who prayed for his recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-discharged-after-recovery-from-covid-19/article37848392.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Leaders condole the death of Rosaiah||Governor R.N. Ravi, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and other leaders on Saturday condoled the death of former Governor of Tamil Nadu K. Rosaiah. Mr. Ravi expressed shock and grief over Rosaiah’s demise, and said he was known for his administrative acumen. Mr. Stalin tweeted, “I offer my deepest condolences to his [Rosaiah’s] family and friends in this hour of grief.” AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami said Rosaiah held former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa in high esteem. V.K. Sasikala, former interim general secretary of the AIADMK, recalled that Rosaiah had supported all the measures of Jayalalithaa. T.T.V. Dhinakaran, general secretary of the AMMK, said Rosaiah was known for his track record in public life. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri, PMK founder S. Ramadoss and Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan also condoled Rosaiah’s death. Mr. Ramadoss said Rosaiah was an able administrator. DMDK founder Vijayakant said when he was the Leader of the Opposition, he had got an opportunity to interact with Rosaiah. MMK president M.H. Jawahirullah said Rosaiah respected the sentiments of the State’s farmers. Union Minister of State L. Murugan also extended his condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-and-cm-condole-death-of-rosaiah/article37848393.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Veteran Marxist, Tamil writer dies at 93||Se. Ganesalingan, a veteran Marxist and Sri Lankan Tamil writer-author, died in the early hours of Saturday at his daughter’s residence in Chennai. He was 93. He is survived by his son and two daughters. His son, G. Kumaran, and daughter Maanvili Chithamparanathan are into publishing. Born on March 9, 1928, in Urumpirai of Jaffna district in the Northern Province of Sri Lanka, Ganesalingan, after a modest academic career, joined the government service. Between 1950 and 1981, he served in Trincomalee and Colombo and retired from the Treasury. He developed an interest in writing in his student days. His first story got published in 1950, and eight years later, a collection of his short stories was launched with a foreword by M. Varadarajan, known as ‘Mu Va’ and widely regarded as an authority in Tamil studies. Ganesalingan’s first novel, Neenda Payanam (Long Journey) was out in 1965 and its theme was caste oppression. It fetched him an award from the Sri Lanka Sahitya Mandalaya. He went on to write 71 novels, seven collections of short stories, 22 collections of essays and eight books on children’s literature, apart from a work of translation. Influenced by the writings of Antonio Gramsci, Louis Althusser and Theodor Adorno, Ganesalingan was also drawn by Mahatma Gandhi. However, his writings were known for his lucid articulation of Marxian philosophy. They depicted the impact of Marxian arguments on many facets of life. They also brought out contradictions in the capitalist order. In his pieces of non-fiction, he covered a wide canvas, including events involving Kachatheevu, Vietnam and Chile. Ten of his novels, written between 1987 and 1999, dealt with the Tamil ethnic question. The writer also did a comparative study of the Thirukkural, with Arthasastra , Machiavelli’s The Prince and the Bhagavad Gita . He ran a journal, Kumaran , during 1971-83, which became noted for its articulation of the Leftist-Marxian philosophy. Pointing out that several of Ganesalingan’s novels, written in the 1960s, marked important milestones in the history of progressive literary writing, M.A. Nuhman, Kandy-based Tamil writer and academician, said: “Though a section of critics says that his writings are propagandist, I will say that politics cannot be divorced from literature.” During the 1983 anti-Tamil pogrom in Sri Lanka, Ganesalingan and his family were given shelter by a Sinhalese family. “He had friends across sections of society,” observed N. Ram, a long-time friend of the writer and director of THG Publishing Private Limited. Describing him as a simple, humble and rational person, Mr. Ram said he followed literature, politics and culture. Known for his fondness for the flavour of Sri Lankan Tamil writing, he loved Tamil without being a chauvinist, Mr. Ram said, adding that for about 30 years, Ganesalingan made Chennai his home. Talking about the work culture of Ganesalingan, who was provided space at the office of Frontline , a fortnightly being published by THGPPL, R. Vijaya Sankar, Editor of Frontline , said till about a few years ago, he regularly came to the office at about 8 a.m. and remained there till about 3 p.m. He would not only provide clarity, but also lend new dimensions to a variety of subjects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ganesalingan-veteran-marxist-tamil-writer-dies-at-93/article37848395.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Sad over attacks on applicants’||Former interim general secretary of the AIADMK V.K. Sasikala on Saturday night expressed sadness over two persons being prevented from obtaining nomination papers for the posts of coordinator and co-coordinator of the AIADMK. In a statement, she said: “Hereafter, people like me will not remain mute spectators. I regard every assault on workers as an attack on the entire party, and me personally. Only a leader will be able to realise the sense of pain.” She called upon members of the party to remain united.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sad-over-attacks-on-applicants/article37848407.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS asks Stalin to take steps against Omicron||All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Saturday urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to take a host of preventive steps in the light of reports of a few cases of Omicron variant of the COVID-19 virus, having been detected in the country. In a statement, he said there should be no let up with regard to adherence to norms on maintaining personal distancing, monitoring the movement of foreign travellers coming to Tamil Nadu by air and ships, and tightening of vigil on the inter-State borders. Meanwhile, T.T.V. Dhinakaran, general secretary of the AMMK called on V.K. Sasikala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-asks-stalin-to-take-steps-to-prevent-spread-of-omicron/article37848427.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold, foreign currency seized at airport||The Customs officials seized gold dust, electronic goods and foreign currency from four passengers at Chennai airport on Saturday. According to a press release, two passengers from Dubai were intercepted based on specific tip-off. Gold dust On checking their baggage, 24 glass jars containing gold dust, concealed as “sambrani granules”, and electronic goods were seized. While the value of gold dust was estimated at Rs. 26 lakh, the seized electronic goods were said to be worth Rs. 18 lakh. In another case, two men bound for Dubai, were intercepted by the airport intelligence officers and 220 notes of 500 Saudi Riyal were found hidden. The foreign currency was worth Rs. 21.34 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-dust-foreign-currency-seized-at-chennai-airport/article37848416.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||25-year-old man arrested for sexual harassment||A 25-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for sexually harassing a woman. The accused, N. Sathishkumar, was produced before a judicial magistrate and sent to prison. Police said Sathishkumar made lewd comments at the woman, a resident of the same locality. The 32-year-old complainant demanded an apology from the youth for his remarks. Gets abusive The accused allegedly abused her and dis-robed himself. Based on her complaint, the Kannagi Nagar police arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-year-old-man-arrested-for-sexual-harassment/article37848387.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tailor found dead in lake||The Pattabhiram police are searching for the killers of a tailor, who was found dead near the Thandurai lake on Friday night. Velu, a resident of Durgaiamman Koil Street, went missing on Thursday and his family lodged a complaint. He had a tailoring shop in the area. His body was found floating in the Thandurai Lake and the locals alerted the police. The police sent the body to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital for postmortem. A special team has been formed to nab the killers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tailor-found-dead/article37848388.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Dharmapuri not a weak area for DMK’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday said the DMK could no longer complain that its organisation was weak in Dharmapuri district, as former AIADMK Minister P. Palaniappan had joined the party. Addressing a meeting organised at the Anna Arivalayam to invite the supporters of Mr. Palaniappan to his party, Mr. Stalin said the DMK always wanted to induct him into the party and had even sent feelers. “He could not join us because of the circumstances then. Now he has accepted my request. He has not come alone, but has brought with him his loyalists,” Mr. Stalin said. He said while Ministers in the AIADMK Government always provoked the DMK in the Assembly and forced a walkout, a few Ministers such as Mr. Palaniappan always highlighted the government’s achievements and people’s issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dharmapuri-not-a-weak-area-for-dmk/article37848399.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘South India always a forerunner in healthcare’||South India, especially Tamil Nadu, has always been a forerunner in healthcare, particularly in ophthalmology, Siva V. Meyyanathan, Minister for Environment and Pollution Control, Youth Welfare and Sports Development, said. Inaugurating the two-day annual conference of the Indian Intraocular Implant and Refractive Society (IIRSI) on Saturday, he urged the ophthalmologists to treat the poor and the marginalised in society. ‘Latest technology’ Amar Agarwal, secretary general of IIRSI, said about 55% of the 1.2 crore to 1.8 crore persons who were blind had cataract. This number has increased because of COVID-19. People are scared to go to hospitals. This has led to maturity of cataract, Dr. Agarwal said. “Through this conference, we want to show the latest technology to treat cataract,” he said. Vinod Arora, president of IIRSI, said the society was started in 1982 as a platform for interaction among ophthalmologists on the advancements in the field. The Minister presented awards to national and international ophthalmologists. The conference included lectures, sessions for young ophthalmologists, hands-on wet lab courses, ophthalmic premier league competition, IIRSI film festival award show and photography competition. Namrata Sharma, honorary general secretary of All India Ophthalmological Society; and Himashu Mehta, past president and Mohan Rajan, its treasurer of IIRSI, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-urges-ophthalmologists-to-treat-the-poor-and-marginalised/article37848430.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPFO grievance redress meet on December 10||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), Regional Office, Chennai North, is planning to conduct the “PF Near You” or “Nidhi Aapke Nikat” programme on the premises of the Regional Office, North, on December 10, a press release said. The session is held for the speedy redrass of grievances. Subscribers, pensioners and employers who have their provident fund accounts at the Regional Office, Chennai North, can get their grievances redressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/epfo-grievance-redress-meet-on-december-10/article37848414.ece
05 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bank unions protest privatisation||United Forum of Bank Unions, Tamil Nadu held a protest near Valluvar Kottam against privatisation of banks and the proposed Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021. C H Venkatachalam, general secretary, All India Bank Employees’ Association, led the protest. According to a release on Friday, Mr. Venkatachalam met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and submitted a memorandum seeking his support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-unions-protest-privatisation/article37848380.ece
05 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Ambedkar’s memorial day on Dec. 6||The Chennai Port Trust is observing the memorial day of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar on Monday, December 6, a press release said. The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and heads of departments of the Chennai Port Trust and other officials will pay floral tribute to the portrait of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar at Anchor Gate Building, Rajaji Salai, Chennai - 1 at 10 a.m. on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambedkars-memorial-day-on-dec-6/article37848431.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Rain lashes city, inundates low-lying areas||The rain that lashed Coimbatore city for two hours on Saturday brought low-lying areas under sheets of water. Fire and Rescue Services Department personnel rescued at least 12 persons from vehicles that got trapped in underpasses in the city. The underpass of the Avinashi Road flyover was filled with rainwater almost close to the level of the railway line. Fire brigades rescued two men from a car that got stuck in the inundated underpass. An official from the Fire and Rescue Services said the car could not be taken out on Saturday due to the water level. A private bus got stuck in the underpass at Lanka Corner junction from which fire brigades rescued a child, a woman and six men. A car and a scooter got trapped in the underpass near Sivananda Colony. A man who was inside the car and the two-wheeler rider were rescued by a team from Coimbatore north fire station. District Collector G.S. Sameeran visited inundated areas of the city including Lanka Corner in the evening. He directed officials to clear waterlogging. District Fire Officer P. Annadurai appealed to the public to avoid waterlogged underpasses during heavy rain. He said that all fire stations in the district were ready to act quickly during rain-related emergencies. Many roads in the city including Avinashi Road flyover, State Bank Road, Town Hall Road, Oppanakara Street, 100 Feet Road, Cross Cut Road, Coimbatore north flyover, parts of Tiruchi Road and Mettupalayam Road witnessed heavy traffic snarl from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. An official from the Disaster Management Authority said that no rain-related incident was reported from other parts of the district on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-lashes-city-inundates-low-lying-areas/article37848453.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Efforts afoot to provide free houses for Kadar tribals in ATR||The Revenue Department and the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department are making efforts to provide free housing for Kadar tribe families that were given patta for homesteads in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in November. A senior official from the Revenue Department told The Hindu the free housing would be offered through a scheme of the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department. There is no problem in building concrete houses inside the tiger reserve under the scheme as the families own patta given by the State government, said the official. The families had been living in dwellings made of bamboo, palm leaves or tarpaulin. A total of 21 Kadar tribe families, who earlier lived in traditional settlement at Kallarkudi inside the ATR, were given pattas for homestead at a place called Theppakulamedu on November 7. Each family was given 1.5 cent. On Friday, the Forest Department removed dwellings erected by some of the tribal families, citing that they were erected outside the land allotted by the government. The tribal families, however, accused the Forest Department of doing injustice to them. Based on the direction from District Collector G.S. Sameeran, a land survey was done at Theppakulamedu on Saturday and the 21 families were shown the land allotted for them. The tribal families reiterated their demand for the allocation of land equal to what they had at Kallarkudi, their traditional settlement that was hit by a landslide in August 2019. The Forest Department informed the families that they can only allot land inside the tiger reserve strictly based on the patta given by the government. A Forest Department official said the families have been allotted land for agriculture around 1.5 km from Theppakulamedu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-afoot-to-provide-free-houses-for-kadar-tribals-in-atr/article37848450.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||FPOs seek marketing support||Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) in Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode districts has stressed the need for marketing support from the State government at a meeting held here on Saturday. Representatives of more than 30 FPOs in the three districts took part in the meeting chaired by Directorate of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business S. Natarajan. As many as 16 FPOs also displayed their products at the Collectorate here. The organisation representatives said they need stalls at government buildings at nil or low rates to sell their products. Several buildings in the core areas of cities are vacant, they pointed out. Similarly, each FPO should be given at least one vehicle for mobile sale of vegetables, fruits and perishable commodities. Further, a portal should be developed through which all the FPOs can sell their produce. Coimbatore district, which has 21 FPOs, has seven primary processing centres for vegetables, fruits, and perishable products. Each FPO or at least a few in each district should be supported to get machinery and they can share the equipment among the groups, they said. The government appoints business counsellors for two years now for each FPO. It should appoint the counsellors for five years so that the FPOs have mentoring support till they have established their business, they said. An official of the Directorate here said the common demands of FPOs given from different parts of the State will be presented to the government. The government is taking several measures to triple the income of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fpos-seek-marketing-support/article37848459.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman attacks former partner with acid, attempts to end life||A 27-year-old woman from Kancheepuram district attempted to end her life after throwing acid on the face of a 30-year-old man from Kerala, her former live-in partner, on the premises of an apartment here on Friday. According to the police, P. Jayanthi, a native of Thiruvalluvar Street at Meenambakkam in Kancheepuram, attacked R. Rakesh of Kodipuram in Thiruvananthapuram district in Kerala with acid and a knife, allegedly after the man told her that he was married. The police said that Jayanthi and Rakesh worked together at a spa in Dubai and they were allegedly in a live-in relationship. The woman, who has a child, had separated from her husband. The man returned to Kerala in July this year to attend his sister’s marriage and the woman returned to Chennai. Rakesh got married three months ago, which he did not inform Jayanthi. To inform her about the marriage, Rakesh sent WhatsApp messages to Jayanthi and asked her to come to a service apartment at Peelamedu here on Friday, the police said. Rakesh and Jayanthi met at the apartment at 11 a.m. The woman, according to the police, demanded Rakesh to marry her. An argument broke out between the two when he told her about his marriage. The woman took out a bottle of acid from her bag and threw it on his face, apart from assaulting him with a knife. She attempted to end her life after the assault, said the police. While the apartment’s watchman rushed the woman to a private hospital, Rakesh was admitted to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. As per the complaint lodged by Jayanthi, Rakesh had received Rs. 18 lakh from her. She also alleged that Rakesh deleted important messages from her mobile phone before the assault took place. The Peelamedu police booked Jayanthi for offences under Sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 326 A (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by use of acid, etc.) of the IPC. Rakesh was booked under Sections 417 (punishment for cheating) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the IPC. Police Inspector M. Amutha said the man and the woman were out of danger. “We are investigating the allegations of the man and the woman,” she said.  (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling 'Sneha' 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-attacks-former-partner-with-acid-attempts-to-end-life/article37848447.ece
05 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions demand reopening of NTC mills||Trade unions of workers employed with National Textile Corporation (NTC) mills across the country have formed a “Save NTC” movement and plan to meet the Prime Minister and Textile Minister this month to demand reopening of the NTC mills. Protest planned C. Padmanabhan, coordinator of the “Save NTC”, said if their demands were not met, the union members would stage a protest in Delhi. Demands The unions have demanded reopening of all the NTC mills in the country as production has stopped at the units in March last year when a lockdown was declared to control the spread of COVID-19. The workers should get full wages for the lockdown period, provide Rs. 2,000 crore (which is outstanding for NTC from different departments) for reopening and operation of the mills and should not lease out the mills to private players for conversion work. AITUC leader M. Arumugam said the union leaders from different parts of the country would go to Delhi on December 6 and meet the MPs of all the States that have NTC units. They would also try to meet the Prime Minister and the Union Textile Minister and submit their demands. No progress “We met the Textiles Secretary earlier and he said the issue will be resolved in three months. But there is no progress and the mills remain shut. The 23 NTC mills employ almost 20,000 permanent workers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-unions-demand-reopening-of-ntc-mills/article37848439.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||GoFloaters wins innovation challenge||GoFloaters, an online platform for booking work and meeting spaces, has won the Open Innovation Challenge held recently by the Tamil Nadu Start-up and Innovation Mission (TANSIM) of the State government for its proposal regarding COVID-19 vaccine distribution in Coimbatore. Vaccine portal A press release said that GoFloaters proposed to develop a multi-channel vaccine portal to improve the pace of vaccine distribution through technology for the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation, similar to the portal developed by the firm for the Greater Chennai Corporation. Rural Industries Minister T. M. Anbarasan presented the certificate for the ‘Best Innovation Award’ and cash prize of Rs. 2 lakh to the Founder and CEO of GoFloaters Shyam Sundar Nagarajan recently in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gofloaters-wins-innovation-challenge/article37848443.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Brick kiln owners told to follow HC directions||In the wake of several incidents of bricks being transported from brick kilns that were closed down in Thadagam Valley following a Madras High Court direction, the Revenue Department on Saturday convened a meeting in which brick makers were told to comply with the court’s directions. G. Ravichandran, Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO), Coimbatore north, instructed brick kiln owners not to remove any material, including manufactured bricks or machinery from brick kilns, in violation of the court’s directions. The meeting saw the participation of brick kiln owners, Assistant Director of Geology and Mining, Coimbatore north Tahsildar, Deputy Superintendent of Police of Periyanaickenpalayam sub-division, Inspector of Thudiyalur police station, Sub-Inspector of Thadagam police station, Block Development Officer of Periyanaickenpalayam block and Revenue Inspector of Thudiyalur. Closure proceedings According to the Revenue Department, Coimbatore District Collector had ordered the closure of all brick kilns in Thadagam valley following a direction from the High Court on March 19 this year. As per the closure proceedings issued by the Collector, no material from the closed brick kilns can be removed. However, the Department received several complaints that some brick kiln owners were transporting bricks and other materials including machinery from their units during night. The police registered cases against a few persons who were caught while transporting bricks. Mr. Ravichandran said the brick kiln owners were advised to follow the court direction and not remove any property until the court gives a final order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brick-kiln-owners-told-to-follow-hc-directions/article37848448.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special drive to verify IGST refund||The Central GST Zone Tamil Nadu and Puducherry is organising a special fortnightly drive for liquidation of pending cases of verifications with respect to ‘risky exporters’ and their suppliers from December 6. This special drive will be conducted in Coimbatore Commissionerate, including all the divisional offices located at Coimbatore, Coonoor, Pollachi and Tiruppur. A press release from ARS Kumar, Principal Commissioner, Coimbatore CGST and Central Excise, said the Department has applied stringent risk parameters in respect of certain exporters categorised as ‘risky exporters’. Their IGST refunds are blocked and their export consignments are being subjected to 100% examination at various Customs formations. Hence, many trade bodies/ taxpayers have brought to the notice of the Chief Commissioner of CGST Tamilnadu & Puducherry, the difficulties being faced by the exporters in obtaining refunds in time. In a move to ensure that refunds are not delayed to genuine exporters because of the verification process, the Chief Commissioner of CGST Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, has directed the Commissionerates falling under CGST Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Zone to hold the special drive. All exporters and suppliers to exporters against whom verifications are pending should submit the required documents and get the verifications completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-drive-to-verify-igst-refund/article37848437.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||AgNext develops solution for turmeric testing||AgNext, an agri-tech startup that uses AI-based technologies for food quality assessment of various commodities, in collaboration with the Department of Agricultural Marketing of Telangana, Spices Board, and ITC, has deployed its AI-based curcumin testing solution ‘Qualix’ at the agri marketing centre at Nizamabad in Telangana. Taranjeet Singh Bhamra, founder and Chief Executive Officer of AgNext, said it deployed the solution in July 2021 as a pilot project. The farmers can save on time. This solution significantly reduces the time taken to calculate the percentage of curcumin present in turmeric to less than 60 seconds, as opposed to testing procedures that can take two to three days. The company has more orders in the pipeline for this solution. It can be deployed in other turmeric growing centres too. “We are funded company. We received $ 21 million and we will look at more funding. The current funding is for research and development and growth. We are expanding globally too,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agnext-develops-solution-for-turmeric-testing/article37848548.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industrialist detained at airport||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Saturday detained an industrialist who came to board a flight to Delhi after a powder-like material he carried showed the presence of an explosive during routine checking. The CISF handed over the person, a South Delhi native who runs an industry dealing with rare metals, to the Peelamedu police for further investigation. Sources with the CISF said that the material showed the presence of an explosive material similar to TNT (Trinitrotoluene), following which the passenger was not allowed to fly. Senior police officers questioned the person and subjected the suspected materials to certain tests. A source said that a spark test was done but the material did not catch fire. The industrialist told the police that he had sourced the material for his industry and took it to Kochi initially to check the presence of precious metals like gold. Testing He later brought it to Coimbatore and took it for testing in a facility at Thiyagi Kumaran Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrialist-detained-at-airport/article37848457.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for sexual assault||The All Women Police, Pollachi, arrested a 21-year-old man for alleged sexual assault on a 14-year-old girl. The police said that the man developed a relationship with the girl about a year ago when she was staying with her grandmother. He married the girl in November and sexually assaulted her thereafter, the police said. Judicial custody The accused was arrested on Friday under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act based on the complaint lodged by the girl’s grandmother. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-sexual-assault/article37848551.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||SHRC chief inspects Central Prison||Chairman of the Tamil Nadu State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) S. Baskaran inspected the Coimbatore Central Prison on Saturday. Sources at the prison said that the Chairman visited the prison as part of a routine inspection. A release issued by the Prison Superintendent M. Urmila said that Mr. Baskaran inspected the prison hospital, workshop, kitchen, VOC block, high security block and women's block and heard the grievances of the inmates. G. Shanmuga Sundaram, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Prisons (Coimbatore range), and Ms. Urmila were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shrc-chief-inspects-central-prison/article37848435.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Artificial limbs distributed||Fifty differently abled persons were given artificial limbs free of cost under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Friday. Hospital Dean A. Nirmala said the artificial limbs were provided at the Institute of Orthopaedics and Traumatology to mark the International Day of Persons with Disabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/artificial-limbs-distributed/article37848436.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Slight increase in COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore||A total of 130 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday, registering an increase from Friday’s 127 cases. The district had 121 cases on Thursday. The Health Department reported one new death in the district, which took the toll to 2,471. As many as 113 persons recovered on Saturday and the district had 1,284 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 50 new cases on Saturday. The district had 605 active cases and 49 persons recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slight-increase-in-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore/article37848451.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||The regional office of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation will conduct PF Near You and Pension Adalat on December 10 through webinar. According to a press release, the meeting will be held for subscribers and trade unions for an hour from 11 a.m., for employers from noon to 1 p.m. and for pensioners from 2.30 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. Those who want to take part should send the details before December 8 to pghs.rocbe@epfindia.gov.in, including the provident fund number, UAN, PPO number, name of the establishment, mobile number and email ID. The log in details for the webinar will be shared by email.   National Silk Expo India will be held at Suguna Kalyana Mandapam till December 6. A press release said jute silk, tussar silk, Kantha-worked saris, linen saris, and Uppada saris are some of the products exhibited. The exhibition is open every day from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.   Young Women’s Christian Association, Coimbatore, held its annual public meeting on November 27. A release said that four women were given ‘Achievers of the Year’ award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37848433.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Plans for Hotel Tamilnadu||The State government has several proposals to upgrade the services provided by Hotel Tamilnadu and to improve tourism sector in the State, according to an official here. Tourism Minister M. Mathiventhan visited the hotel here on Friday. There are plans to tie up the hotels with food delivery applications. There are several proposals to offer better service and improve the business at the hotels. These will be announced by the Chief Minister and then come into force, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plans-for-hotel-tamilnadu/article37848440.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore/Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for sexual assault||The Valparai police on Friday booked a 23-year-old man on charges of impregnating a 17-year-old girl after marrying her. The incident came to light when the girl went to the government hospital at Valparai for a medical check-up. The doctors who examined the girl found that she was pregnant and alerted the police. The Valparai police said that the assault took place in Salem district and the case was handed over to the Salem police for further investigation. Two killed in accident Two persons were killed in collision involving a truck and two motorcycles near Pongalur in Tiruppur district on Saturday. The police said that Rajamani (71) and Kanagaraj (48) were travelling in two separate two-wheelers towards Palladam when a speeding truck heading to Avinashipalayam lost control and entered the opposite lane of the road. The truck collided with the two-wheelers, killing the two persons on the spot. The Avinashipalayam police recovered the bodies and sent them to Government Hospital, Palladam, for autopsy. Truck driver Prakashkumar (26), who was transporting coconut husk, was booked for causing death by negligence and was secured in the afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-sexual-assault/article37848434.ece
05 December 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Revenue records issued to landowners||A total of 2,780 revenue records of land ownership were issued to landowners at a special camp held in 261 revenue villages in the district. The special camp was a result of the intervention of Collector S. Dhivyadarshini after petitions by farmers seeking expediting of applications for adangal for various purposes. Farmers at the grievances redress meeting last week called for a direction to the Village Administrative Officers in this regard. The delay in the issue of the land revenue records affected the farmers seeking subsidies under the various schemes. Following the demand, the Collector ordered a camp at the Village Administrative Officer’s office. Following this, the Collector declared the conduct of special camps in the VAO’s offices the first Monday of every month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-records-issued-to-landowners/article37848530.ece
05 December 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Transport Commissioner inspects accident-prone areas in Thoppur||Commissioner for Transport and Road Safety S. Natarajan visited Dharmapuri on Thursday and reviewed measures taken to prevent accidents in Thoppur. Accompanied by District Collector S. Divyadarshini, Superintendent of Police S.Kalaiselvan and other senior officials, Mr. Natarajan inspected the accident-prone areas in Thoppur. In a release, Mr.Natarajan said that he advised the officials to keep ready a crane of 40 tonne capacity at Thoppur to remove vehicles involved in accident immediately and to ensure free movement of traffic. He said that during the past 10 years, 950 accidents have taken place on Thoppur ghat road and 223 persons have died. Mr.Natarajan appreciated the measures taken by district administration to prevent accidents in the area. He advised officials to install solar lamps on State Highways at places without proper visibility. According to the officials, persons speeding on Thoppur Ghat road would be fined. In last five months, fines to the tune of Rs. 23.94 lakh was imposed on 4,472 motorists, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transport-commissioner-inspects-accident-prone-areas-in-thoppur/article37848538.ece
05 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Villagers seek high level bridge||Frequent flash floods at a forest stream located on the Tamil Nadu – Karnataka border leave the people of Kuttaiyur village in Bargur panchayat in Anthiyur Taluk stranded who wanted a high level bridge to be constructed so that the perennial problem is solved. The village has a population of 450 and is located 27 km away from Kadambur. The nearest habitation in Tamil Nadu side is Makkampalayam in Koothampalayam panchayat in Sathyamangalam taluk that is located five km away. People depend on the only pickup van from their village to reach Makkampalayam and board the TNSTC bus that is operated up to Kadambur. Since they have to spend Rs. 30 per person for a trip and only two bus services are available everyday to Kadambur, they cross the stream located 750 metre away from their village to reach Karnataka. They board a bus to reach Jallipalayam that is located five km from the border for purchasing essential commodities, fertilizers and to reach hospitals. Also, to reach Anthiyur Taluk Office that is located 83 km from their village, they cross the stream and board a bus and travel 29 km on roads in Karnataka and 54 km on roads in Tamil Nadu. During the rainy season in November and December every year, frequent flash floods occur in the stream leaving them stranded. “When the stream is at spate, they cannot go to shops or to hospitals”, said a teacher in the village that has a Government Tribal Residential School from Classes from I to VIII. The village has no mobile connectivity. Villagers wanted a high-level bridge to be constructed across the stream so that they can reach Jallipalayam for fulfilling their needs. “We depend entirely on Karnataka and the bridge would bring a new leash of life for all”, they added. They also wanted their village to be brought under Koothampalayam Panchayat so that basic amenities in their village could be improved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-seek-high-level-bridge/article37848535.ece
05 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Jaggery producers asked to install surveillance cameras||As a measure to check adulteration in jaggery products, Tamil Nadu Food Safety and Drug Administration Department has asked the jaggery production unit owners to install closed circuit television cameras (CCTVs) on their premises or face action. A release from the District Collector said adulterated jaggery was in bright yellow colour produced with super phosphate, sodium bicarbonate, calcium carbonate, sodium hydrosulphite, calcium carbonate, caustic soda and other chemicals. Also, maida, ration rice and refined sugar were used for adulteration in making jaggery (urundai vellam), sugarcane jaggery (nattu sakkarai), achu vellam and palm jaggery (karupatti). The release said consuming the adulterated products led to problems in the kidney and stomach. Many producers were involved in producing adulterated jaggery in the district and to curb the practice, surveillance cameras should be installed to cover all the operations from the arrival of raw materials to dispatch of the final product. If adulteration was found, action would be taken as per the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 and Food Safety and Standard Rules, 2011, the Collector said. Warning The Collector warned that action would be taken against the adulterers and asked people to lodge complaints related to adulteration through Whatsapp number 94440-42322. Also, they could contact the Food Safety Department at 0424-2223545, the release added. Officials said the colour of unadulterated jaggery was dark brown and of adulterated jaggery light brown, deep yellow and pale yellow. Consumers should be aware of it and purchase only light brown jaggery products, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jaggery-producers-asked-to-install-surveillance-cameras/article37848532.ece
05 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Students team bags third place at global event||A four-member students team from the Robotics and Automation Laboratory of Bannari Amman Institute of Technology in Sathyamangalam have won third prize in the MathWorks Minidrone Competition (EMEA 2021), held globally. Competitors Team comprising R. Abishek, M. Karthik Balaji, V.S. Kabilan and K. Susinderan competed against eight global competitors, including participants from reputed institutions such as the University of Oxford, United Kingdom, Sungkyunkwan University in South Korea, Universita Politecnica Delle Marche in Italy, Imperial College London, United Kingdom, Delhi Technological University, India and Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, India. Navigation algorithm The students designed navigation algorithm using MATLAB - Simulink to fly a mini drone in real-time. The designed controller has been implemented in a mini drone to follow on the desired track. The competition was launched on March 22, 2021 and round one and round two was conducted and winners were announced recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-team-bags-third-place-at-global-event/article37848526.ece
05 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Portal launched||Carmel Matriculation Higher Secondary School at Kollampalayam to mark ruby jubilee celebrations (40 years) launched Carmel Alumni Association’s interactive portal recenlty. Mar Paul Alappatt, Bishop of Ramanathapuram, inaugurating the celebrations recalled the school’s 40 years of exemplary contribution to the world in the field of education that groomed the generations. Prize winners of various competitions were honoured and Sublime, a cultural talent show of Carmel, was staged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/portal-launched/article37848527.ece
05 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Man held for impregnating minor girl||Erode A 38-year-old man was arrested on charges of sexually assaulting and impregnating a 17-year-old girl on Saturday. The police said the accused, along with three other teachers, were running a tutorial centre where the girl was studying from 2019. On Thursday, the girl complained of giddiness and her mother took her to a primary health centre where a doctor diagnosed that she was pregnant. The girl told her mother that the teacher had sexually assaulted her. Based on a complaint, the All Women Police Station in Anthiyur registered a case. He was produced before a court and lodged in prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-impregnating-minor-girl/article37848536.ece
05 December 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring stepped up on inter-State border||Following the reporting of the first two cases of Omicron variant in Karnataka, the Krishnagiri district administration has stepped up monitoring on the inter-State border at Zuzvadi in Hosur. A team has been deployed to inspect the vaccination status of people crossing into the State from across the border. A medical camp has also been set up on the border to encourage those unvaccinated entering the State to take the vaccination if they choose to. “Nobody can be compelled to take the vaccine or denied entry. However, e-registration has destination information. The destination authorities will be informed if any person shows symptoms and is also unvaccinated,” Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy told The Hindu . The move comes four days after the Collector invoked the Tamil Nadu Public Act, 1939 to bar entry to the unvaccinated to 18 types of public places and private places in the district. The administration is aiming to push up vaccination with over 4 lakh people remaining totally unvaccinated. As of this week, 10.86 lakh of the district’s eligible population has been vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-stepped-up-on-inter-state-border/article37848531.ece
05 December 2021||Hyderabad,TAMIL NADU||Former Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Rosaiah passes away||Former Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Konijeti Rosaiah passed away in Hyderabad on Saturday morning ending an era of politics that was viewed as a democratically competitive profession than personal enmity. He was 88 and leaves behind his wife, two sons, a daughter and thousands of well-wishers. He breathed his last on the way to a private hospital when his family members rushed him noticing the dropping pulse rate. A statement from the Star Hospitals said that he was brought to the hospital in an unresponsive state and he passed away at 8.20 a.m. His last rites will be performed on Sunday at his farmhouse in Medchal on the outskirts of Hyderabad with State honours and the Telangana government has declared a three-day mourning from December 4 to 6. His mortal remains will be kept at Congress headquarters Gandhi Bhavan from 10.30 a.m. to 12 noon for the party workers to pay their last respects. One of the most senior Congress leaders in the country, he had served in the Cabinets of several Chief Ministers including Marri Chenna Reddy, K. Vijaya Bhaskar Reddy and Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. After the sudden death of Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy in 2009 in a helicopter crash, Rosaiah, the then Finance Minister, was elevated as the Chief Minister. He later served as the Governor of Tamil Nadu for a full term. A well-respected politician, he was admired for his witty responses in the Assembly both as a Minister and an Opposition leader while he endeared himself to politicians of all hues with his simplicity. Born in Guntur district on July 4, 1933, he started his political career as a member of the Legislative Council in 1968. He was later elected as MLA from Chirala constituency. He was the longest serving Finance Minister presenting the budget 15 times, including a record 7 consecutive times. He was also elected to Parliament once. Hailing from Vemuru village near Tenali, Rosaiah worked his way through the Congress party from Youth Congress ranks. He served as Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president twice. After completing his term as Governor of Tamil Nadu he stayed away from active politics and was residing in Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-andhra-pradesh-chief-minister-rosaiah-passes-away/article37848263.ece
05 December 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Cybercrime offender detained under Goondas Act||A cybercrime offender belonging to Selvapuram Nagar in Udumalpet has been arrested under the Goondas Act. According to sources, M. Prasad, 27, who was arrested by Karur cybercrime police, in a case of extortion of money from a complainant by threatening him to denigrate his and his family image by posting obscene pictures on the internet, had been extorting money from vulnerable persons who used to watch porn videos on websites. Based on a recommendation of P. Sundaravadivel, Superintendent of Police, Collector T. Prabhu Shankar ordered arrest of Prasad under the Goondas Act. The accused was among the very few persons who had been arrested under the Goondas Act for cybercrimes in the State. Mr. Sundaravadivel said the accused had collected huge money from various persons by using his Information Technology skills. Modus operandi The modus operandi was to establish contact with the persons, who watched porn videos on select websites, on their Facebook or other social media accounts. The accused would subsequently collect the details of the family members of his contacts. After dragging them into his network, the accused would collect money from them by threatening to post pictures of them and the women members of the family on the internet. Several victims Several vulnerable persons had yielded pressure to him so as to save their reputation in society. Mr. Sundaravadivel said that people should be wary of cybercrime offenders. The people should not give room for such extortionists, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cybercrime-offender-detained-under-goondas-act/article37848503.ece
05 December 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Police reach out to school students; sensitise them to POCSO Act||Police here have reached out to school students to create an awareness of sexual harassment, POCSO Act and responsibilies of the school under the Act. A four-day awareness campaign started on Thursday with teams of police personnel covering 51 schools under guidance of the Chief Educational Officer, Karur. The initiative is being carried out on the instruction of the Superintendent of Police P. Sundaravadivel. Police personnel attached to the Crimes and Women and Children unit, Cyber Crime and to Karur Town and Karur Rural sub divisions in the district are involved in the campaigns, according to a police press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-students-to-be-sensitised-to-pocso-act/article37848479.ece
05 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks report on maintenance of Koodal Azhagar Perumal Temple tank||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has sought a status report from the Madurai district administration and the authorities of the Koodal Azhagar Perumal Temple on the maintenance of the temple tank in Madurai. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan had sought the report in January 2022. The High Court in 2011 initiated a suo motu proceedings based on media reports that pointed out the need to maintain the tank. To prevent all kinds of pollution of the tank and ensure its proper maintenance, the court directed the authorities to take immediate steps to construct adequate public toilets and garbage dumps. The High Court Bench had also directed the authorities to maintain separate rainwater and sewage water pipelines in the area surrounding the Koodal Azhagar Perumal temple to avoid pollution and ensure safe and hygienic health conditions to the visitors. The court directed the Department of Archaeology to notify the tank as a protected area under the Tamil Nadu Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1966. The court directed the authorities to remove the encroachments on all the sides of the tank. During the course of the hearing, the authorities told the court that the tank was being restored. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court adjourned the hearing till January 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-report-on-maintenance-of-koodal-azhagar-perumal-temple-tank/article37848492.ece
05 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses V.V. Titanium Pigments’ plea||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed a petition filed by V. V. Titanium Pigments that sought to quash the First Information Report (FIR) registered by the Thoothukudi police for illegal transportation of minerals from a godown that was sealed by the government. The FIR was registered by SIPCOT police, Thoothukudi district, on August 20 for the offences under various Sections of Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act based on information provided by a Village Administrative Officer in Thoothukudi. It is said that a portion of the stockpile of Ilmenite mineral kept in a sealed godown belonging to V.V. Minerals were illegally transported to V.V. Titanium Pigments. Three lorries, gunny bags and 39 tonnes of mineral sand were seized by the authorities Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that the information lodged by the Village Administrative Officer contained an allegation that there was theft of beach mineral from a sealed godown. Theft is a cognisable offence. Therefore, the police had no option but to register the FIR. The accused have not produced any public document of sterling and unimpeachable quality. That apart the investigation is at a very early stage, the court said and dismissed the petition. The court also slammed an intervenor M.S. Raja for taking an inconsistent stand before the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-firms-plea/article37848493.ece
05 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Special buses from Madurai to Pampa||The State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) has commenced the operation of special buses from Madurai to Pampa for Ayyappa devotees during the Sabarimala Mandala puja and Makarajyothi season. The ticket is priced at Rs. 510. The SETC special buses would operate till January 16, 2022. The bus will depart from Madurai at 8 p.m. and reach Pampa by 6 a.m. Similarly the bus from Pampa will depart at 8 p.m. and reach Madurai by 6 a.m. Throughout Tamil Nadu, 64 bus services are being operated to Pampa from different cities. Tickets can be booked online or bought through the ticket counters at the MGR Bus Stand in Mattuthavani here. For online booking, people can visit:www.tnstc.in,www.busindia.com,www.makemytrip.com,www.goibibo.com,www.paytm.com,www.redbus.comor the TNSTC official application. The devotees can also contact: Assistant Manager (Operations) of Madurai Bus Stand A. Sivaram at 9445017791. Mr. Sivaram said that they were receiving a good number of online bookings and also people were approaching the ticket counters. He said that COVID-19 protocol was being followed strictly. It was mandatory to wear face masks. Sanitisers would be made available in the bus, he said. Depending upon the demand, arrangements would be made to operate additional buses, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-buses-for-pilgrims/article37848500.ece
05 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Volunteers can help preserve heritage sites’||Preserving the heritage sites in ancient city like Madurai by volunteers was welcome and the State government would extend all its support for such forums, said Commercial Taxes and Registration Minister P. Moorthy here on Saturday. Inaugurating the Friends of Heritage Sites (FoHS - Pandyas) in Madurai, he said that from time immemorial, Tamil Nadu had been synonymous with rich traditions and cultures. Madurai has more importance in this connection, as it had contributed to Tamil language from the Sangam age. The Keeladi excavations were a classic example to showcase the timeline of the people, who had descended in this part of the region. The need of the hour, the Minister said, was not only to preserve the heritage sites in and around ancient cities in Tamil Nadu, but also take them forward to the next generation. In her address, FoHS (Central) president Sharmila Devadoss said that the FoHS would be the right platform to engage the academia, explorers, archaeologists and the general public. Echoing similar views, Arun Amarnath, vice-president of FoHS (Central), said that educational institutions should organise field trips for children studying in classes 8, 9 and 11th standards and teach them about the history through videos from Charter convenor of FoHS (Pandyas) Arun Vijaay Malli said that they would conduct field trips at regular intervals. A day-long seminar on ‘Aiyanar tradition in Tamizhagam’ was conducted at the Triveni School, Ponnagaram, with the theme ‘Folk deities and Tamil cultural traditions’, traditions and communities among others. V. Selvakumar of Tamil University, Thanjavur, and others spoke. Ramaa Srikrishna proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fohs-pandyas-to-work-on-preservation-of-heritage-sites/article37848509.ece
05 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Law Day celebrations at High Court||Digitisation is a process that is inevitable today and technology is something one has to cope with, said Supreme Court Judge Justice V. Ramasubramanian at the Law Day celebrations held at the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Saturday. Justice Ramasubramanian recollected the various steps undertaken towards the daunting task of digitising the court documents and said that it was also an important task. “Now, we have come to the level of virtual courts,” the Judge said. Supreme Court Judge Justice M.M. Sundresh said that judicial infrastructure would accelerate the access to justice. Adequate infrastructure was lacking due to lack of funds and hopefully this would be addressed. Technology is something we need to embrace for the smooth functioning of the system, he said. Acting Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari said that almost one crore pages had been digitised at the Madras High Court and the target was to achieve 24 crore pages in the next three years. The digitisation process would also take place at the subordinate courts and 50 crore pages were the target. There was a need to strengthen the infrastructure at the subordinate courts, the Judge said. The judges inaugurated the Digitisation Centre at the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court and the Transit Quarters for the officers and the staff of the High Court Bench. The Administrative Judge of the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana welcomed the gathering and Justice S. Vaidyanathan proposed a vote of thanks. The Judges participated in a felicitation programme organised by the Bar Associations of the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court. High Court Judges, advocates, Registrars and court staff attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/digitisation-of-court-documents-inevitable-supreme-court-judge/article37848714.ece
05 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Mullaiperiyar dam stood at 141.90 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 3,584 cusecs and a discharge of 1,867 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 70.11 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 3,777 cusecs and a discharge of 3,745 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 11,083 mcft. Rainfall recorded in various places in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday was in (mm): Madurai 12.4, Vaigai dam 8, Gudalur 5.2, Shanmuganadhi dam 4.3, Veerapandi 2.2, Periyar 1.2 and Uthamapalayam 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37848518.ece
05 December 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||SSI caught red-handed while receiving bribe||Officials from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption caught a Special Sub-Inspector red-handed while taking a bribe of Rs. 10,000 from a person here. Kidnapping case According to official sources, Shanmugham, an SSI with Velagoundampatti police station, allegedly demanded Rs. 10,000 from Selvakumar in Manathi here to remove his name from the charge-sheet in a kidnapping case registered last year. Selvakumar alerted the DVAC officials. On Saturday, Selvakumar paid Rs. 10,000 to Shanmugham and the DVAC sleuths caught the SSI red-handed. Vigilance officials are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ssi-caught-red-handed-while-taking-bribe/article37848546.ece
05 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tamilisai calls for time-bound projects to boost tourism||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Saturday advised the government to initiate time-bound programmes to promote tourism in the Union Territory. “The Union Territory has more potential to improve the tourism sector. Just planning of projects alone is not needed. The key to success is time-bound implementation of projects,” Ms. Soundararajan said while inaugurating a stakeholders meet, organised by the Tourism Department. Ms. Soundararajan said, while she agreed with the views of others on having more projects that would attract more tourists, the government should try constructing a statue of poet Bharathi on the lines of one constructed for India’s first Home Minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in Gujarat. “When the Statue of Unity for Patel was constructed by the Gujarat Government, there were several criticisms but now it has emerged as a major tourism attraction in that State. The government should construct a giant statue for Bharathi in Pondy,” she said. The Lieutenant Governor also suggested setting up of a terracotta park and film city in the Union Territory. Centre’s offer The Union Government has evinced interest in investing around Rs. 2,000 crore in tourism sector in the Union Territory, said Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan. “Recently, the Centre has written to the Union Territory government, expressing interest in investing Rs. 2,000 crore, if we are ready to provide 400 acres of land, the Minister who also holds the tourism portfolio said. For making Puducherry as a week-long destination from its present status of a weekend destination, the government has been working on several plans, including a Special Tourist Zone at Manapet. The government has at its disposal 100 acres of land at Manapet, he added. The government was in the process of framing a water sports and beach shack policy for the Union Territory. Water sports and beach shacks have tremendous potential, he said. ‘Private sector is vital’ Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, in his address, said the role of private sector was vital to the growth of tourism sector in the Union Territory. There is also tremendous growth for spiritual tourism, he said, adding there was also a need to attract more foreign tourists. Currently the annual foreign tourist arrival stood at around one to two lakh, he added. Secretary, Tourism, Vikranth Raja said the Centre had agreed to sanction Rs. 1.78 crore on the request of Tourism Minister to establish a museum at Arikamedu. Director of Tourism Department P. Priytarshny said the aim of the meeting was to get the views of stakeholders before framing policies to attract more tourists, and provide the sector an industry status.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamilisai-calls-for-time-bound-projects-to-boost-tourism/article37848802.ece
05 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Opposition leader flays Cabinet nod for power privatisation||Opposition leader R. Siva has flayed the Puducherry cabinet nod to Centre’s move to privatise the Electricity Department. In a statement, he said following the cabinet nod, the Union Ministry of Power had issued a circular inviting employees for a meeting on December 9 and 10. As per the content of the circular, the meeting was to explain to the workers the benefits of privatising the department, he said. The department over the years had built up assets worth crores using tax payers money. The privatisation would naturally transfer these assets into the hands of a company. The Centre should first consult the public before transferring the assets, he demanded. ‘Hike in tariff’ He said the privatisation would also impact the public as the Union Territory administration would have no control over tariff hike. The company would increase the tariff without any consultation, he said, urging the territorial administration to immediately step in to stop the privatisation move.  The department over the years had built up assets worth crores using tax payers’ money. The privatisation would transfer these assets into the hands of a company. The Centre should first consult the public before transferring R. Siva Opposition leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opposition-leader-flays-cabinet-nod-for-power-privatisation/article37848804.ece
05 December 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Removal of trees to be seen in wider environmental context||The removal of trees needs to be seen in the wider environmental context of Auroville and the region, sources in Auroville said. While the issue at hand is that trees have been planted on land earmarked for the Crown including the Crown Right of Way (RoW), a break-up of data shows that the total Crown RoW area is only 0.36% of the total master plan land area with a Crown RoW width of 16.7 m, they said. The Crown is defined in the Auroville Master Plan as a key special use zone, “which traverses all the four zones in a concentric fashion with a width of 75 m, consisting of a circular road with buildings facing it. This Crown area will provide most of the service facilities required to support the activities in the four zones mentioned above”. Under the proposed implementation of the master plan, the land area of the main RoWs (Crown, 12 radials, International Zone loop road, outer ring, one link road) accounts for 1.64% of the total master plan land area, and the land area of the Crown RoW barely 0.36% of the total master plan area (RoW width of 16.7 m assumed), sources said. With the total number of trees to be cut estimated at around 500, this intervention needs to be put in the context of the total number of trees planted elsewhere in Auroville, the CO2 sequestration impact that needs to be compensated for (or has already been compensated for) and other parameters, according to sources at Auroville Foundation.Moreover, it was clear from the beginning that trees that were planted on land not earmarked for forestry would have to be cut when township development in a particular area commences, sources said. “If this principle is now being put into question, the idea of building a township will have to be given up in its entirety since there are trees everywhere in Auroville. There is a green belt and there are green corridors inside the city. Green work must take place on the designated space and not on land earmarked for roads, infrastructure or other urban development. At present, about 3,500 people are staying on 3,200 acres of land owned by Auroville Foundation. This can hardly be called “sustainable”, one source said. The sources also contended that the alternative routing being suggested could cause, in the long term, a significant negative environmental impact in addition to being an unacceptable deviation from the Master Plan (2025-26), of French architect Roger Anger, whose idea for a galaxy-shaped layout was endorsed by Sri Aurobindo’s collaborator, The Mother (Mirra Alfassa), who founded Auroville in 1968.  If this principle is being put into question, the idea of building a township will have to be given up... since there are trees everywhere in Auroville||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/removal-of-trees-to-be-seen-in-wider-environmental-context/article37848402.ece
05 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Allow booster dose to help fight Omicron, Narayanasamy tells PM||Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to introduce booster dose against COVID-19 to protect the aged from the Omicron variant of the virus. In a letter to the Prime Minister on Friday, the Mr. Narayanasamy said the Omicron variant, which was initially detected in South Africa, has now been found in 18 countries, including India. Scientists with the World Health Organisation (WHO) have made it clear that even people who have received both the doses of the vaccine could get reinfected because of the new variant. The scientists have warned that elderly people are more vulnerable to the virus, he said in the letter. “The first and second wave of COVID-19 created havoc in the country. We lost our brothers and sisters. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary for Government of India to take immediate steps to protect aged people and senior citizens. “Booster dose is the only solution for containing the Omicron virus,” he said in the letter. Countries like United States, England, France, Saudi Arabia and UAE have started administering booster dose to their people who have already taken both the jabs, he said. “Therefore, I request you to announce booster dose to the people of our country, who have already got two doses of the vaccine, so that people could be saved from the effect of the virus,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-booster-dose-to-help-fight-omicron-narayanasamy-tells-pm/article37848513.ece
05 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 28 new COVID-19 infections||The Union Territory on Saturday recorded one COVID-19 death and 28 new cases. A 79-year-old woman with co-morbidities succumbed to the virus at the Indira Gandhi Cooperative Hospital at Thalassery near Mahe. With the latest fatality, the toll due to COVID-19 has reached 1875. Data released by the Health Department revealed that of the total new cases registered, 15 are from Puducherry region, seven from Karaikal and the remaining six from Mahe. The new cases were detected from testing 2,514 persons in the Union Territory. Currently, there are 294 active cases, including 236 under home quarantine. So far, 1,290,56 persons got infected with the virus, data revealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-28-new-covid-19-infections/article37848495.ece
05 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Special ward set up at Salem GH to treat Omicron cases||The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital has set up a special ward with 30 beds to treat patients who contract the Omicron variant of COVID-19. The GMKMCH is a tertiary care centre for treating COVID-19 cases in Salem and it also caters to patients from Namakkal, Erode, Kallakuruchi, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts. The Hospital has over 600 beds for COVID-19 patients and also maintains the 1,000-bed COVID-19 treatment centre set up on the Steel Plant premises. Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy said all beds in the special ward are provided with sufficient medical oxygen supply points and there are sufficient number of ventilators with the Hospital which could be utilised for treatment at the ward. Dr. Valli said swab samples that were suspected to be of Omicron variant would be sent to the State Laboratory for further tests and analysis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-ward-set-up-at-salem-gh-to-treat-omicron-cases/article37848540.ece
05 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Transformer, electric poles damaged in rain||A transformer and three electric poles were uprooted due to continuous rain during the early hours of Saturday near Kalarampatti here. Measures are on to restore power in the area. Salem received heavy showers on Saturday in which a 200 kV transformer and three electric poles installed at Bharathiar Nagar in Kollapatarai near Kalarampatti were uprooted. Officials said the transformer was placed along a canal here and in the heavy flow of water due to rain, the supporting poles of the transformer fell off. Three electric poles were also damaged and power supply to over 100 houses in the area got affected. K. Shanmugham, Superintending Engineer of Salem Power Distribution Circle, said repair works were on and power had been temporarily restored to the area by drawing power from a 500kV transformer nearby. Residents here said they complained with Tangedco officials about the poor condition of the transformer a couple of months ago, but no action was taken to repair it. They said due to lack of proper drains, rainwater mixed with sewage ran through roads here. An average rainfall of 19.39 mm was recorded in Salem on Saturday. According to officials, Edappadi received the highest rainfall of 95 mm. Mettur received 69 mm, Sankari 58.2 mm, Salem 44.7 mm, Kadayampatti 11 mm, Omalur 10 mm and Yercaud 3 mm.  Our Erode Staff Reporter adds  Rain on Saturday morning caused inconvenience to school and college students, office goers and workers in the district. Rain started at 6.30 a.m. and continued till 10 a.m. after which the sky was cloudy. Since leave was not declared for educational institutions, students waiting for buses faced hardship. In the absence of shelters, workers and office goers faced difficulty at bus stops, both in rural and urban areas. A house was damaged completely due to rain at Soolai. However, none injured in the incident. At 7 a.m. on Saturday, rainfall recorded at Talavadi was 18 mm, Sathyamangalam 10 mm and Ammapettai 9.6 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transformer-electric-poles-damaged-in-rain/article37848545.ece
05 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Tamil Nadu should do away with hiring sanitary workers on contract’||M. Venkantesan, Chairman of National Commission for Safai Karamcharis said that Tamil Nadu must do away with hiring sanitary workers on contract. On Saturday, Mr. Venkatesan conducted a review meeting with District Collector S. Karmegham, Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj, District Revenue Officer Alwyn Sanuja and other senior officials. He visited the Salem Railway Division office and interacted with the sanitary workers. A.Gautam Srinivas, Divisional Railway Manager, and other senior officials were present. Mr. Venkatesan told presspersons contract staff complained that their salaries and other benefits like PF and ESI were not paid on time. He had advised the Collector to clear pending dues within a week. He also said he asked the Collector to form a committee to check complaints of contract workers such as non-payment of PF dues and not providing weekly offs and take action on contractors. Mr. Venkatesan said Tamil Nadu must set up a similar commission at State level and also form a Finance and Development Corporation for the welfare of children of sanitary workers. They had submitted a memorandum with the Governor and requested an appointment with the Chief Minister in this regard. He urged the Tamil Nadu government to appoint a retired judge to study issues faced by the contract sanitary workers. He added that he was sure that the judge would recommend abolishing appointment on contract basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-should-do-away-with-hiring-sanitary-workers-on-contract/article37848547.ece
05 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Construction workers stage protest||Construction workers staged a protest condemning the Centre for passing the labour codes. They demanded the Union government to repeal the labour codes. Members of the Salem District Construction Workers’ Association said the labour codes were against the interests of labourers in the country. The members demanded the Centre to allot sufficient funds to State Welfare Boards to increase pension to Rs. 3,000. They demanded the State government to conduct welfare board meetings once in two months and district monitoring committee meetings every month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-workers-stage-protest/article37848537.ece
05 December 2021||SALEM/Erode,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Mettur dam increased||The discharge from Mettur dam was increased on Saturday. According to officials from Public Works Department, at 8 a.m., water level at the dam was 120ft and the dam had a storage of 93,470 tmcft. The dam received an inflow of 13,500 cusecs and 13,000 cusecs was released into Cauvery river and 500 cusecs through East-West canal. The inflow of the dam increased around noon. The dam received an inflow of 15,400 cusecs and 15,000 cusecs was released into Cauvery river and 400 cusecs through East-West canal. Bhavanisagar dam Water level at Bhavanisagar dam in Erode district continues to be maintained at 104.50 feet against the full reservoir level of 105 feet on Saturday. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the reservoir was 4,484 cusecs while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs into the River Bhavani and 2,000 cusecs into the Lower Bhavani Project canal. The storage was 32.37 tmcft against the total capacity of 32.80 tmcft. Public Works Department officials said since rainfall in the catchment areas had reduced, the inflow dropped from over 7,000 cusecs on Friday to less than 5,000 cusecs on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-from-mettur-dam-increased/article37848542.ece
05 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Mahotsavam’ concludes||The Gangavatarana Mahotsavam at Sri Sridhara Ayyaval Mutt, Thiruvisalur, near Kumbakonam concluded on Saturday with the followers of Sri Sridhara Venkatesha Ayyaval having a bath in`holy water’ in the Mutt. Hundreds of devotees visited the Mutt on the last day of the 10-day annual festival, Karthigai Amavasai (New Moon Day in the Tamil month of Karthigai ), and drenched themselves with water drawn from the well. It is believed that Gangai (the holy river Ganga) flowed onto the streets of this village from the well after Ayyaval rendered the Gangaashtakam on Karthigai Amavasai , pleading with Gangai to help him perform a prayachittam as directed by his followers. Taking a dip in the well water on Karthigai Amavasai was considered sacred by followers of Sri Sridhara Ayyaval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mahotsavam-concludes/article37848482.ece
05 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Weekend cleanliness campaign launched||Thanjavur Corporation on Saturday launched its weekend cleanliness campaign to create awareness of environmental protection and keep the town litter-free. Launching the campaign at Kuzhanthaiammal Nagar, Corporation Commissioner Saravanakumar said the campaign on every Saturday would be carried out with the support of resident welfare associations. Non-governmental organisations such as Clean Thanjavur Movement (CTM) would also be roped in to carry out the exercise. Programmes to create awareness of the advantages of segregation of waste at source, prevention of littering of streets and rainwater stagnation in discarded utensils and other places would be organised during the campaign, apart from cleaning of streets and other carriageways by volunteers and sanitary workers. CTM president Radhika Michale, Federation of Resident Welfare Associations president, Thanjavur, Bhoovalingam, and others participated in the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weekend-cleanliness-campaign-launched/article37848502.ece
05 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Infant’s body found abandoned||An infant’s lifeless body was found in a restroom in Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on Saturday. Police sources said the sanitary staff discovered the body of a female child with uncut umbilical cord in the restroom near the Trauma Care Unit and alerted the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infants-body-found-abandoned/article37848501.ece
05 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Rain hampers restoration work||A delay in announcement on holiday for schools led to many children returning home drenched in the rain here on Saturday. Thoothukudi and its periphery are experiencing heavy to very heavy rains since November 25. Inundation continues Many low-lying areas have been inundated, much to the chagrin of the residents, though the civic authorities have been working round the clock to set things right. The visit of Chief Minister M. K. Stalin two days ago boosted the morale of the civic workforce as restoration works were being carried out on a war-footing. Seven giant- size motors have been brought from Coimbatore district to pump the stagnant water, sources said. “Work is going on in many areas. But the continuing rain had stalled the restoration works,” an engineer at Bryant Nagar said. Even as the town experienced showers since 6 a.m., the children were getting ready to go to their schools. Normally, the communication is out before 7.30 a.m. However, on Saturday, as there was no message, the parents sent in their wards to the schools. At around 8.30 a.m., the schools announced that the district administration had declared a holiday and directed the parents to take home their children. Irked by the sudden announcement, many parents rode on their two-wheelers to the schools and brought their children home. But they were all drenched in the rain. The School Education Department sources said that they had been awaiting for a direction from the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-hampers-restoration-work-in-thoothukudi/article37848517.ece
05 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||VOC Port’s gesture||VOC Port chairman T. K. Ramachandran handed over a cheque for Rs. 18 lakh to Collector K. Senthil Raj here on Saturday. According to a press release, the port, as a part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities, gave the money for procuring pumps to remove water from low-lying areas in and around Thoothukudi. The Collector said that they had chalked out an elaborate plan to prevent hardships during flood. This November rains were above average in these parts. Many low-lying areas were inundated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voc-port-donates-rs-18-lakh/article37848499.ece
05 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||On-arrival RT-PCR test to continue at Tiruchi airport||The district administration has made it clear that on-arrival RT-PCR test is compulsory for foreign travellers from high-risk countries to come out of the Tiruchi international airport in the wake of reservations expressed passengers over being “forced” to stay put at the airport until the declaration of the test results. The inbound passengers from overseas countries were allowed, until recently, to land at the airport if they had certificate of RTPCR results testing negative for COVID-19. After the spread of Omicron variant was reported, the authorities have issued guidelines making it necessary for inbound passengers from high risk countries, including Singapore, to take the RTPCR test at Tiruchi airport itself. They are allowed to leave the airport once the results show negative status. If the results turn out to be positive, health officials admit the infected air passengers to K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital in the city. The swab of the patients will subsequently be sent to a laboratory in Chennai for ruling out the presence of Omicron variant. According to a rough estimate, about 500 passengers arrive at the airport from Singapore daily. Since Singapore is among the high-risk countries, all passengers from there are subjected to RTPCR test. They will have to bear the expenses of the test. While it costs Rs. 600 for an RTPCR test, they are required to pay Rs. 3,000 for a rapid RTPCR test. The requirement has triggered a strong reaction from the passengers who say they have been forced to wait inside the airport for about seven hours to know the results. Besides being costly, the exercise disrupts their programme after landing at the airport. There have been instances of irked passengers arguing with officials at the airport. However, the Tiruchi district administration has made it clear that there is no question on withdrawing the on-arrival RTPCR test. Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu that health officials had been asked to follow the standard safety and precautionary guidelines issued by the government on screening inbound passengers. They had to undergo RTPCR test. Steps had been taken to declare the results of the test as early as possible. Three private laboratories had set up counters at the airport to collect swab samples from the passengers. They could choose rapid RTPCR test for knowing the results in about an hour. “Tiruchi has a good connectivity from the Middle East and Southeast Asian countries. We subject passengers from high-risk countries for Omicron. It is to effectively check the spread of the new variant. We hope each and every passenger understands the importance of the exercise,” he said Passengers from non-risk countries had been subjected for the on-arrival test on a random basis. Only 2% of the passengers were required to undergo the test, Mr. Sivarasu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-arrival-rt-pcr-test-to-continue-at-tiruchi-airport/article37848484.ece
05 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Handbook sensitises patients to legal rights||A medical graduate-cum-public rights activist in the city has brought out a handbook to raise awareness of patients’ rights, in the hope that people and healthcare providers can resolve issues amicably. Mohamed Khader Meeran, 27, who completed his MBBS degree from Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Sevagram, in Maharashtra in 2020, and is a NEET aspirant for postgraduate studies, was inspired to write ‘Patients’ rights in India’ to specify the legal means of redress available in the wake of rising number of complaints related to hospitals and treatment options, especially during the pandemic. He has been in the news for his advocacy work, notably for filing a public interest litigation (PIL) in Madras High Court, to launch online right to information (RTI) filing facility in Tamil Nadu State’s government departments in 2017. “Last year, there was a lot of misinformation being circulated about COVID-19. Patients’ health status details, which were meant to be confidential, were leaked through social media. Many hospitals were overcharging. Initially I was getting calls from within Tamil Nadu [for help], but as I had studied in Maharashtra, and was part of many student unions, we began coordinating with doctors there, to arrange for beds. This is when we felt that a handbook would be useful to tell patients about their rights,” Dr. Meeran told The Hindu . Issues covered Among the issues covered in the book are right to information; safe and quality treatment; seeking a second medical opinion, and so on. Initially published last year in Tamil, the English version of ‘Patients’ Rights ...’, which was launched in October this year, is more detailed, with sections on government-sponsored health insurance schemes and contact details for grievance resolution. “There are both legal and ethical angles when a patient comes for treatment. Since ethics is a vast field, I have narrowed it down to specific issues, such as cost of definitive treatment for ailments according to the patient’s paying capacity. We are focusing on how financial compensation can be accessed by patients,” said Dr. Meeran. Case studies and legal rulings on medical issues help readers to understand how these rights work in the real world. A chapter on alternative medicine calls for greater understanding between practitioners of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy (AYUSH) and modern medicine. “There are evidence-based treatments for some ailments in both systems, but alternative therapists should understand their limits, and advise their patients to seek assistance from modern medicine when necessary,” said Dr. Meeran. When the patients know their rights, hospitals and medical authorities will be more receptive to their demands, he feels. “Patients’ rights are not taught in medical schools, because of which violence against healthcare professionals is rampant in India. This book could help reduce such instances,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/handbook-sensitises-patients-to-legal-rights/article37848498.ece
05 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||International meet focuses on control of cancer cases||The Association of Radio Operators for India (AROI) - Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry Chapter, initiated its 36th annual conference here on Saturday with a focus on scaling up of screening and creating awareness to control cancer cases. Every year, 13 lakh new cancer patients are identified in the country, K.S. Kirushna Kumar, Secretary, said addressing the inaugural session of the conference organised on the theme 'Recent Advances in Radiation Oncology’ by Harshamitra Super Speciality Cancer Centre and Research Institute. Particle beam therapy, molecular oncology, Magnetic Resonance Imaging Guided Linear Accelerator and other developments in technology were discussed at the conference. Collector S. Sivarasu inaugurated the conference that had the participation of 350 delegates, some of whom took part through video-conferencing. Speaking to the media earlier, P. Sasipriya Govindaraj, Organising Secretary, said the discussions would centre around recent equipment and development in the field of radiation oncology. “Earlier, when a patient underwent radiation therapy, the cells surrounding the cancerous ones too would be affected. Now, with the latest technologies, we can modify it to a great extent and ensure the patient's well-being.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/international-meet-focuses-on-control-of-cancer-cases/article37848504.ece
05 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||72 new cases, one death in central region||The central region reported 72 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, registeriong a slight increase compared to the previous days. One patient belonging to Thanjavur died of the viral infection. Tiruchi district reported a slight increase with 25 patients testing positive for the viral infection. The remaining eight districts continued to report 15 or fewer cases. In Karur, 15 cases were reported and in Thanjavur it was 13. In the other six districts, less than 10 patients tested positive. Eight patients reported positive in Tiruvarur and five in Nagapattinam. Pudukottai and Perambalur districts reported three each, while Mayiladuthurai and Ariyalur districts reported one case each||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/72-new-cases-one-death-in-central-region/article37848486.ece
05 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled youth gets best employee award from CM||A Tiruchi youth suffering from Down’s Syndrome has been recognised as the ‘Best employee with intellectual disability’ for 2021 by the State Government. Twenty-five-year-old Joel Shibu Varkey, a diploma holder from Bharathidasan University’s Centre for Differently Abled Persons, who works as an assistant coordinator at The Dolphin Special School and also runs an optical shop in Tiruchi, was honoured with a medal and citation by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at a special ceremony to mark International Day of Persons with Disabilities in Chennai on Friday. Mr. Joel was supported well by his parents and teachers all along. “Joel’s achievement is a proud moment for all of us, and he is thrilled that Chief Minster Mr. Stalin himself did the honours,” said his father Shibu Varkey, an eye surgeon in the city. “It was a milestone for Joel because he was in the group of people who were being celebrated for their accomplishments.” Dr. Varkey also hoped that the award would spur a change in attitude towards persons with disability. “Social exposure is as important for children with special needs, as for any other child. But unfortunately many parents and caregivers tend to hide the fact that their wards may require professional intervention,” he said. “Mainstream educational institutions should also include special needs children, and train their staff to take care of them. This will help to create more equal representation for all children,” he contended. ‘Need for therapy’  Economic preparedness was also an important aspect of taking care of special needs children. “Children with disabilities require many kinds of therapies on a daily basis, and all of it costs money. Parents and educators need to come together and create a forum for advocacy and raising funds,” said Dr. Varkey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-tiruchi-youth-gets-best-employee-award-from-cm/article37848506.ece
05 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||School compound wall collapses in Valliyoor||Heavy rain, which lasted for about 90 minutes since noon on Saturday, led to the collapse of a wall of a government school in Valliyoor in Tirunelveli district. , Many residential areas such as Pandithar Street were under knee-deep water. Many low-lying areas were inundated and Fire and Rescue Service personnel moved stranded people to safety through boats. The Kottiyadi village was submerged in water and the residents were unable to reach the relief centres. The bus stand, a bridge close to the railway station and the panchayat office, were also filled with rainwater. Radhapuram Tahsildar Jesuraj said that they had deployed personnel to rescue aged people who were caught inside their dwellings. The people were told to move out from their houses to relief centres. The nonchalant attitude of the residents had complicated the issue, an official from the disaster management team said. The panchayat office staff were unable to come out of the office as the premises was inundated. There was rampant encroachment of buildings into water bodies, activists said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-compound-wall-collapses/article37848510.ece
05 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Three killed as car hits motorcycle||Three people, including two medical college students, were killed after a car hit a two-wheeler on the four-lane highway at Reddiyarpatti near here on Saturday. Police said that three girl students were riding a motorcycle on the highway in the morning. The tyre of the car, which was coming in the opposite direction from Suchindram, burst at Reddiyarpatti-Sivanthipatti junction. The car jumped the median, hit the motorcycle head on and overturned. The three girls were on their way to a shrine and were caught unawares. They were thrown off the motorcycle in the impact of the collission. Divya Gayathri, 22, and Freida Angeline Rani, 22, died on the spot, while Divya Bala, 22, is said to have suffered multiple injuries. She was rushed to Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital. Of the three occupants of the car, Shanmugasundaram, 41, died on the spot and Santhoshkumar, 45, and Perumal, 40, were rushed to a hospital. The three students were studying in Tirunelveli Government Medical College. Divya Gayathri is from Avudayanoor near Pavoorchathiram, Freida is from Madurai, and Divya Bala is from Kadayanallur. Santhoshkumar, who was behind the wheel, was driving to Ramanathapuram to bring a doctor to Nagercoil. Shanmugasundaram of Kottar was a flower merchant and Perumal hailed from Perur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-as-car-hits-motorcycle/article37848491.ece
05 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||TVL_water level||The water level in Papanasam dam was 137.15 feet (max level 143 ft) with an inflow of 1574.33 cusecs and a discharge of 2951.41 cusecs. The water level in Manimuthar dam was 115.50 ft (118 ft) with an inflow of 697 cusecs and nil discharge. The rainfall (in mm) during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Saturday are as follows: Papanasam: 2, Servalaru: 4, Manimuthar: 14.8, Kudumudiyar: 5 and Cheranmahadevi recorded 1.6 mm rainfall, PWD officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tvlwater-level/article37848833.ece
05 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Isolation ward to treat Omicron cases set up at Tiruppur GH||An isolation ward with 24 beds has been set up at the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruppur to treat persons who contract the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Hospital Dean R. Murugesan said the ward has facilities such as ventilators and oxygen support. “The hospital has 78 beds for COVID-19 cases, out of which we have allotted 24 beds for the isolation ward as per the directions of the State government,” he said. As on Saturday, only 21 patients are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the hospital and no patient has been admitted to the Omicron isolation ward, Dr. Murugesan said. The hospital has two liquid oxygen tanks with total capacity of 9.5 kL to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply for the patients, he added. Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar said the Health Department has ramped up COVID-19 testing in the district as around 5,500 swab samples were being lifted every day. Monitoring of adherence to the standard operating procedures and vaccination drive have been intensified, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isolation-ward-to-treat-omicron-cases-set-up-at-tiruppur-gh/article37848442.ece
05 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur Corporation records over 80% first dose vaccine coverage||Over 80% of the eligible residents of Tiruppur Corporation have been administered with at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine and 40% have been vaccinated with both the doses, officials said on Saturday. The Corporation conducted its 13th mega vaccination drive in all the 60 wards on Saturday. Out of the four zones, Zone-I saw the maximum first dose coverage of 85% coverage, followed by Zone-IV with 83%. Zones II and III had 81% coverage of the first vaccine dose each, according to the Corporation officials. Of the total 12,31,941 people in the Corporation limits, 8,67,420 were aged over 18 years and were being covered through the COVID-19 vaccination drive. On Saturday, 138 vaccination camps were held in all the four zones and 576 Health Department personnel were involved in the drive. Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati inspected the vaccination drive on Saturday, officials said. In Tiruppur district, the 13th mega vaccination drive was conducted at 645 centres, comprising 604 stationary and 41 mobile centres. Around 2,580 Health Department personnel and volunteers were roped in for the drive, which was conducted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday. The Health Department administered 80,321 vaccine doses across Tiruppur district on Saturday. Coimbatore A total of 97,257 persons were vaccinated at the 13th mega vaccination camp held in Coimbatore district on Saturday. While 15,216 persons received their first dose, 82,041 persons took their second dose. Of the total doses administered in the drive, 86,056 were Covishield and 11,201 were Covaxin, according to the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-corporation-records-over-80-first-dose-vaccine-coverage/article37848445.ece
05 December 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Parks, pools and dams to remain closed||With the rising number of COVID-19 cases, parks, swimming pools and dams in Tiruvannamalai and Kattam Poondi will remain closed till December 19, Collector B. Murugesh said on Saturday. Restaurants, bakeries and tea shops can function from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., with dine-in permitted till 8 p.m and takeout till 10 p.m. But only 50% occupancy will be allowed in restaurants and tea shops. Owners and staff of these outlets should have taken the second dose of vaccination. Roadside eateries, hawkers and petty traders can operate from 6a.m.to8 p.m. Fines will be imposed on those for not wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parks-dams-to-remain-closed/article37848496.ece
05 December 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||GH nurse feted for timely action||A nurse of government headquarters hospital at Mannaragudi whose timely act saved the life of a youth was feted by Tiruvarur District Police on Saturday. The nurse, Vanaja of Katturthottam, while proceeding to her native village from Madukkur on Friday with her family, aborted her journey to rescue an injured young man, who lay unconscious by the roadside near Lakanampet after a fall purportedly after hitting cattle, and immediately arranged for his treatment at the government hospital. She administered first aid to the motorcyclist and revived his heartbeat, while her family members dialled the 108 ambulance service. The injured man was identified as Vasanth, 21, of Karuvakuruchi near Mannargudi. On learning about the timely intervention of Ms. Vanaja in saving the life of an accident victim, Superintendent of Police, Tiruvarur district, C. Vijayakumar praised the nurse for her action and presented a certificate of appreciation on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gh-nurse-feted-for-timely-action/article37848481.ece
05 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Film City’ proposal in the Nilgiris draws flak from conservationists||The plan mooted by the Nilgiris MP A. Raja to construct a ‘Film City’ in the district have been criticised by conservationists and citizens’ groups, who fear additional pressures from major infrastructure projects will put a huge strain on the district’s fragile and threatened ecology. Mr. Raja has stated that “Udhagamandalam is an ideal place for developing a film city where many films can be shot indoors and outdoors. A vast tract of land is available and the State government would be helpful in identifying the land,” he said in the Lok Sabha recently. The MP also said that the district was popular for outdoor film shooting and named some famous movies that were shot in different locations across the district. However, a local conservationist, who requested anonymity, wondered where the large tract of land mentioned by the MP was available. “Concretisation is a huge problem in the district and most of the government lands which have not been built up are under the protection of the Forest Department,” he said. N. Mohanraj, another conservationist, said that the Nilgiris was already over burdened with infrastructure projects. At present, film shooting is allowed in certain areas in the district and permits are issued for shooting in certain locations by the Forest Department. “The present system works well, but they could designate some non-crucial areas such as the Pine Forest in Udhagamandalam for film shooting and ease the process by which permits are issued,” said one activist to The Hindu. Shobana Chandrashekar, a member of the “Make Ooty Beautiful” (MOB) Project, who has been pushing for the protection of the Nilgiris through sustainable tourism and development, said the district had enough of a tourist footfall to ensure livelihoods for people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/film-city-proposal-in-the-nilgiris-draws-flak-from-conservationists/article37848456.ece
05 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Omicron threat: isolation ward kept ready at Vellore GH||With the threat of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 looming large, the district administration has kept ready an isolation ward with 50 oxygen-supported beds and four ICU beds with a team of medical staff in the Vellore Medical College Hospital (VMCH) on Saturday. After inspecting the COVID-19 screening facilities and vaccination centres in various parts of Vellore, Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian said a screening and vaccination centre had been created at key railway stations, including Katpadi and Gudiyatham, as these are important entry points on the Bengaluru route. Besides screening commuters arriving at railway stations, especially in Katpadi, for suspected symptoms of the viral infection, vaccination with Covaxin and Covishield is also being done after checking the passengers’ vaccination status. “The new isolation ward for Omicron-infected persons will be manned by a team of medical staff who will perform their duties only in that ward. We are keeping a close watch on the situation,” Mr. Pandian, told The Hindu . The Collector said that the ‘COVID War Room’ is active in monitoring patients getting admitted to hospitals and was following-up on them even after their discharge from the hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/omicron-threat-isolation-ward-kept-ready-at-vellore-gh/article37848797.ece
05 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Over 200 Narikuravas in Eri Pudur take the jab||More than 200 Narikuravas from the Eri Pudur hamlet, within the limits of the Vellore City Corporation, were vaccinated on Saturday after Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian interacted with them and convinced them to take the jab. Around 20 hamlets in Vellore district are dotted with Narikuravas, with an average of 60 families living in each. Most of these hamlets, including Kavikari, Sekkadu, Sakaramill and Kannamangalam, are located away from the central parts of the town. Health officials said many tribals were influenced by a lot of myths and misinformation on vaccines. This resulted in severe vaccine hesitancy among them. “Continuous vaccination awareness programmes are being conducted among such marginalised communities as they travel long distances for their livelihood every day,” said Mr. Kumaravel Pandian. Meanwhile, the district administrations in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur vaccinated nearly 1.5 lakh persons in 3,029 camps as part of the 13th Mega Vaccination Camp, which was held on Saturday. Tiruvannamalai set up 1,075 camps, highest among the four districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-200-narikuravas-in-eri-pudur-take-the-jab/article37848512.ece
05 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Water samples test negative for cholera||Water samples taken near Anaicut taluk in Vellore came back negative for cholera. An outbreak was suspected after two persons died of vomiting and diarrhoea a few days ago. They were identified as S. Appaswamy, 61, and K. Lalith, 4. Officials said the samples were taken from households in the Allivaram hamlet along the Jawadhu Hills. Immediately after the deaths, District Collector, P. Kumaravel Pandian, inspected the affected village with a team of medical staff from the Government Medical College Hospital. “Six others, who were admitted for vomiting and diarrhoea, including two persons in a private hospital, are out of danger. The situation is now under control,” K. Banumathi, Deputy Director of Health Services, Vellore, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-samples-test-negative-for-cholera/article37848798.ece
05 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore sees 14 new cases of COVID-19||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore reached 50,244 with 14 new cases being reported on December 4. While a total 48,947 have been discharged, the active cases stood at 156. The death toll is 1,141. In Ranipet, four cases were reported, and the total stood at 43,579.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-sees-14-new-cases-of-covid-19/article37848799.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tourism on the mend||For those who had been stuck inside their homes, working on their laptops, tablets and even mobile phones, the lockdown relaxations announced by the government, which allowed them to resume life as they knew it before the pandemic, was a welcome change. Denied the opportunity to go on holiday for over one-and-a-half years, they have started visiting hotels and resorts in droves, so much so, that finding accommodation on the weekends has now become impossible, and room rates, which had dropped drastically in the interim period, have gone back to pre-pandemic levels. However, safety and comfort also come at a price. Post pandemic, hotels have had to spend more on hygiene to ensure the safety of guests and staff. In fact, even for hotels that were following reasonable hygiene standards, the expenses have gone up by 15% while those that already maintained high standards have had to shell out 5% to 8% extra. For others, this figure could be as high as 20% of their budget, said an industry expert, who wished to remain anonymous. “After we reopened and the number of guests and events started increasing, we kept adding things almost daily. Extra masks for guests and staff, more pens at the reception, sanitisers and dispensers in more locations. We are spending more to ensure hygiene. Since staff cannot wear the same clothes outside, we have spent on additional washing machines and dryers. Earlier, only kitchen staff used to wear gloves but now everyone in banquets are required to wear a pair,” another industry source said. Hotel chains, including Novotel, ITC, Taj, Hyatt and GRT, have ensured that their safety protocols are certified. “The well-being of guests, associates and partners has always been of paramount importance at ITC Hotels and more so in these testing times. All our hotels follow stringent health, hygiene and security measures certified at the Platinum Level under DNV’s ‘My Care’ Infection Risk Management Programme. This enhancement of our ecosystem is a big boost to the confidence of our guests, who feel completely reassured in our environment,” said Zubin Songadwala, area manager-south, ITC Hotels, and general manager, ITC Grand Chola. The pandemic has also managed to rationalise staff strength in hotels. According to Jegan S. Damodaraswamy, executive director, Sree Annapoorna, the biggest challenge across the industry is shortage of manpower. This is due to several factors. Many who left the job do not want to return. There is fear of further waves, and people prefer to stay in their home towns and do jobs that pay less, than returning to work elsewhere, he said. On the other hand, with jobs in other countries offering better salaries, many have found employment in places like Dubai, Malaysia and Qatar, where international events are just around the corner. A few others have settled into their current lifestyle and pace of work. Padmaja Divakaran, who used to work as a chef in a hotel, left her job and started her own venture called Insalata. “Although I do miss the hectic schedule sometimes, I’d never be able to go back to the hours I worked while at the hotel. I now work out of the comfort of my home and choose what to pack and send to a small dedicated group of friends who like good food. This allows me to relax when I feel like it and also keep in touch with my job. It gives me enough time with family and friends,” she said. A driving factor Along with guests who are going on staycations — meaning they work from hotel rooms — weddings have also been fuelling business at resorts. Shabin Sarvotham, general manager at Temple Bay Resorts, Mamallapuram, said the leisure segment was doing well. “People, who are fed up with staying at home and cooking and cleaning, want to stay out. A lot of weddings are happening as well. The ‘Great Indian Weddings’ are back. Though they are themselves restricting the number of guests attending the event, they want to make the events memorable occasions,” he said. Kirti Fomra, who along with partner Vinay Bantia of Rayale Fiesta, has been busy this season creating stories for fairy-tale-like weddings with designers and her staff, said families were spending anywhere from Rs. 30 lakh to even Rs. 20 crore on weddings. “And this expense includes catering, stay, décor, logistics and entertainment. Since we are still in the middle of the pandemic, we are ensuring that everyone in our teams is fully vaccinated. There is a team just to ensure that COVID-19 protocols are followed,” she said. ECR, especially Mamallapuram, is doing well when it comes to weddings since it has a lot to offer to wedding parties and planners, she added. Another lifeline In smaller places like the Wild Rock Country House, nestled in the forested interiors of Athoor village in Dindigul district in the Western Ghats, businesses that would have otherwise gone to big city hotels ensured that the place kept itself open these past months. Baby showers, naming ceremonies, first birthdays, milestone anniversaries came their way. Last month, Srinidhi S., 16, and her cousins drove down for a Halloween party, which turned out to be their best outing in two years. The 23-room resort owner, K. Mohamed Saleem, played along. “With travel on pause, the path to recovery is long and requires more adaptability and creativity,” he said. Till the rain intervened last week, the winding traffic from Perumalmalai to Kodaikanal was enough of an indication that people were waiting to get away for a good break. According to S. Dheenadayalu, the occupancy at his Thapovan resort in Vazhaigiri en route to the hill station, has seen a substantial jump since August. “The direct bookings are increasing due to increase in domestic travel,” he said and added, “Travellers are returning to buy experiences.” His ‘Active@60’ short stay packages are running houseful. Children of non-resident Indians (NRIs), who have not been able to visit their retired parents and have been home alone over the last two years, are making the bookings. It includes pick-up and drop from home in Madurai or the airport, railway/bus station, three days at the property with farm visits, mind-gyming and meals. Revised strategies After a protracted struggle, the smaller resorts are perhaps kick-starting the tourism economy. Many places in south Tamil Nadu have revised and restarted their commercial strategy with exclusive packages, including writers’ retreat or detox, yoga for health, fun in water and sunrise/sunset watching, in the new year. “It’s back to focussing on the basics. Every traveller is seeking more cleanliness and hygiene. Something that was once implied is now being celebrated. Advertising safety protocols helps ease the fear of infection, and is the foundation for people to enjoy the place,” said R. Sunethra of Tranquil Nest in Thandikudi. But properties dependent on inbound tourists are continuing to have difficulties as they are hit by cancellations of flights and bookings. It is not viable for them keep a few rooms open with skeleton staff and scaled-back services for occasional guests. “There is more loss of revenue and reputation. It is better to save than make money now,” said an unhappy property owner in Kumbakonam. Business-class struggles Business-class hotels in cities, however, are yet to see much action. Given its strength as an industrial region, Coimbatore and nearby districts, such as Tiruppur and Erode, get a large number of business visitors. The meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions (MICE) segment is yet to revive fully. But there are people visiting Coimbatore from other cities, and the average occupancy at hotels ranges between 60% and 75%. However, it depends on the hotel and the facilities offered, said the general manager of another five-star hotel. The revival is not as high as pre-COVID-19 levels but certainly better than expected, sources said. People still expect pandemic rates of Rs. 2,500 and Rs. 3,000 per day per room, which is very low. “But we are yielding to that too since otherwise, our rooms will remain unoccupied,” said a hotelier in Chennai, where many hotels were full last week due to the unprecedented rains. Some of the larger hotels have planned to have special dinners and events for Christmas and New Year’s Eve. In case of restaurants, the recovery after the second wave has been faster than the first wave, said sources in the industry. If the trend continues, restaurants could see pre-COVID-19 levels of business next month. However, a lot of smaller restaurants have seen change in management or have just shut down. This is due to lack of funds or loss of manpower. The Omicron scare However, with a few cases of Omicron being reported in the country, people are already on tenterhooks. “A wedding party that had planned to hold the event early next year is having second thoughts after the news came in. They are afraid since they have senior citizens in the family, and they will have to travel from various parts of the country to attend the wedding. We are waiting and watching the situation, and if there is any announcement from the government about a safety protocol, we will implement it immediately. But we hope it doesn’t develop into anything alarming and is handle at the earliest,” a worried hotelier in the city said.  (With inputs from M. Soundariya Preetha in Coimbatore and Soma Basu in Madurai)   A lot of weddings are happening as well. The ‘Great Indian Weddings’ are back. Though they are themselves restricting the number of guests attending the event, they want to make the events memorable occasions Shabin Sarvotham General manager, Temple Bay Resorts, Mamallapuram   It’s back to focussing on the basics. Every traveller is seeking more cleanliness and hygiene. Something that was once implied is now being celebrated. Advertising safety protocols helps ease the fear of infection, and is the foundation for people to enjoy the place R. Sunethra Tranquil Nest, Thandikudi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourism-on-the-mend/article37848378.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Finance Minister calls for the overhaul of TNPSC examinations||He said the TNPSC had to conduct 70 to 80 types of examinations, and the process was creating a bottleneck. Amendments planned “Do we need so many tests? Is there a need for checking specialisation in TNPSC again and again? Forward projection planning is necessary to foresee the vacancies. We are discussing the issue and there will be more amendments,” Mr. Thiaga Rajan said. He said the urgency was explained by the statistics that there were only nine lakh employees in service, even though the sanctioned strength was between 14 lakh and 15 lakh. “There are a lot of vacancies. But the entire TNPSC ecosystem can recruit a maximum of 10,000 persons in best of times. Today’s backlog is around 30,000 and it will take another two or three years for the TNPSC to recruit them. That is why we have relaxed the age limit of employees for two years,” he explained.  Even though Mr. Thiaga Rajan said human resource was more important to a government, he admitted that there was not adequate fund to fill all the vacancies. Asked whether standardisation would solve the problem since each department’s requirement was different, Mr. Thiaga Rajan said he had not taken any decision. “It is for the Chief Minister to decide. I do not want to go too far ahead of myself,” he added. “But I will make some points. There are engineering graduates and diploma holders in government departments. There is no standardised qualification in treasury and audit departments. It is not as if we are already picking up only specialists. There is an image. But the truth is far from the reality. What you scored 30 years ago alone is not enough. Training can equip a candidate with required qualification. Marks scored in the TNPSC examination alone could not be considered as merit,” the Minister explained. When told that a section of English medium students were planning to approach the court against making Tamil compulsory for TNPSC examinations, Mr. Thiaga Rajan said it was an individual’s right to do so. ‘Sensitive topic’ “But we do not expect a candidate to possess knowledge of a Ph.D scholar in Tamil language. A candidate should have the knowledge of 10th standard Tamil with 40 per cent marks in the examination. It is a sensitive topic and we are not doing it for sloganeering,” he said.. Mr. Thiaga Rajan said the calendar for TNPSC examination would be released soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/finance-minister-calls-for-the-overhaul-of-tnpsc-examinations/article37848423.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Time to transplant||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/time-to-transplant/article37848521.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 57 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district reported 57 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total cases to 1,06,549. While 62 persons were discharged, 770 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 699. In Salem, 39 fresh cases were reported on Saturday. According to health officials, 28 cases were indigenous. In Namakkal district, 45 indigenous cases were reported. As per the bulletin, one death each was reported in Salem and Namakkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-57-new-covid-19-cases/article37848533.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||After the skies opened||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-the-skies-opened/article37848836.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||05-12-2021-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA AAA / BHARAT KALACHAR / TOM MEDIAAS - MARGAZHI NATYA MAHOTSAV 2021 TODAY AT SRI YGP AUDITORIUM, NO.17, THIRUMALAI ROAD, T. NAGAR, CHENNAI - 600 017. 5.30 PM (ALL ARE WELCOME) ANVITHA RENGARAJAN Guru: DR. ARCHANA NARAYANA MURTHY, 7.15 PM (TICKETED) "ARUMUGANUM ARUNAGIRIYUM" Students of H.N. NANDHINI SURESH, Artistic Director : SAI NRITHYALAYA, RESERVATION AT HALL Supported by : SRIRAM CAPITAL Ltd, INDUSIND BANK, L&T, PTA PSBB School K.K.Nagar. ENTRY ONLY THIRUMALAI RD. PH: 28343045 / 9941907993 (ALL Govt. S.O.P's will be followed). ABBAS/TVK Celebrate Our Superstar's B'day with a grand musical evening "NAMMA SUPERSTAR RAJINI HITS " by SPB. CHARAN performing the evergreen Rajini-SPB combo in Murali's Mouna Ragam orchestra on Sunday, 12th December, 6.15 pm @ Rajah Annamalai Mandram A/c. Tkts @ bookmyshow.com. 97106 33633/ 98841 52200. ABBAS CULTURAL/BHARAT KALACHAR Bharathanatyam by Padmasree SHOBANA & Ensemble on Saturday, 18th Dec, 6.30pm @ YGP Auditorium, PSBB School, T.Nagar. Tkts @ bookmyshow.com. 9710 633633. Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, East Mada Street, Mylapore Chennai-600 004 Bhavan's Cultural Festival 2021, Live Programme: Upto 15.12.2021 in association with South Zone Cultural Centre (Ministry of Culture, Government of India ) at Bhavan's Main Auditorium, East Mada Street, Mylapore Chennai -600 004. Today 5th Dec: 10.00 am: Thiruvarur Dr. Bakthavatsalam & Troupe (Laya Madhuraa), Sri Chozhavaram Venkatesan (Nadhaswaram), Sri R.Thiagarajan (Flute), Dr.Badri Narayanan (Violin), Sri B.S.Purushottham (Kanjira), Sri Trichy Krishnaswamy (Ghatam), Sri A.Rohith (Konakkol), Sri Sreenivas (Pad), 4.30 pm: Sri Sriram Parasuram (Hindustani/Carnatic), Sri Pakkala Ramdas (Violin), Sri R.Shankaranarayanan (Mridangam), Sri Kartik Bhat (Tabla), Sri Sree Krishna (Harmonium) and 6.30 pm: Smt.Vishaka Hari (Harikatha), Sri B. Ananthakrishnan (Violin), Sri S.J.Arjun Ganesh (Mridangam). Tomorrow 6th Dec: 5.00 pm: Sri Suryaprakash (Vocal) and 6.30 pm: Smt.Mahathi (Vocal).Programme supported by : Apollo Pharmacies Ltd., Ramco Cements Ltd., Ramco Industries, Rajalakshmi Institutions, MGM Healthcare, Kauvery Hospitals, GRT Jewellers, Co-Optex, Nalli Silks, Aban Scientific, Larsen & Toubro, State Bank of India, AVA Cholayil, Dhanvantari Nano Aushadi, Sabari Foundations and Construction, Suryaans Paper, Star Health and Allied Insurance, SMK Fomra Institute of Technology, Indian Oil Corporation, NAC Jewellers, Sri Krishna Sweets. Watch Live (Courtesy - Bhavan's Kolkata Kendra).www.bhavanschennai.org.Covid-19 S.O.P to be followed. All are Welcome. Please watch highlights of Bhavan's Cultural Festival inauguration on Podhigai Channel today at 1.30 pm. Kedaram (Regd) 9884066767 6th isaivizha, Ragasudha Hall, Mylapore. 4pm: Abilash Giriprasad Vocal, Rahul Violin, Gururaghavendra Mridangam, Sai Subramaniam Morsing. 5.30 pm: Award Function Presided over by Padmasree Dr Nalli Kuppuswamy Chettiar. Padmabhushan. T.H.Vinayakram - Ghatam Nadamani- Chief Guest. Guest of Honour: Sri G.Srinivasa Raghavan M.D MyTvs. Special guest Sri. R.Sundar- Secretary Hamsadwani conferring the titles on Sri. A.K.C Natarajan Kedaram Nada Murthy, Sri Bharatsundar Kedaram Gana Murthy, Sri Alathur Rajaganesh Kedaram Laya Murthy. 6.30 PM: Bharatsundar – Vocal, Vittal Rangan – Violin, N.C.Bharadwaj –Mridangam, S. Krishna – Ghatam, Alathur Rajaganesh- Kanjira. All are welcome. Sponsors: Nalli Chinnaswamy Chetty; Ministry of Culture, MyTVS & Rajalakshmi Institutions. Live @ YouTube Parivadini Kedaram. Narada Gana Sabha Trust Ph: 24993201 Today - Main Hall - 6.00 pm - Natyarangam - Thematic Dance presentation - Bharathi - "Pancha Bhutham" Introduction by Isaikkavi Ramanan. Dancers - Bhagyalakshmi Sivaramakrishnan, Christopher Gurusamy, Mahati Kannan, Sruthe Raammohan. Guru Saroja Vaidyanathan, New Delhi. Endowment programme. All are welcome PUSHPAANJALI CULTURAL TRUST Today 4pm at R K Swamy Auditorium (Sir Sivaswamy Kalalaya), Mylapore. Bharathanatyam by Kum.Maduvanthi (Dis of Smt. Lakshmi Priya) 5.30pm Bharathanatyam by Smt.Poornima Srinivas, (Dis of Sri.Charles, Bangalore) 7pm Bharathanatyam by Sri.Sundar Murugan & Kum.Karunya Murugan (Dis of Dr.Padma) Rasika Ranjani Sabha (Regd.) Mylapore, Ch - 4 December - 2021 "Music in Perpetuity" Today at 10.00 am "MAHA VAIDYANATHA SIVAN" (Lec Dem) by Dr. Rajshri Ramakrishna Ph. No: 86103 57987. Entry as per Govt. Covid SOP Guidelines. Our programs can be watched on https://www.rrsabha.org at later dates. Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha (Regd) Vani Mahal. Ph 28152166 Today 10.00 am Lecture Demonstration on Arulmigu Arunachaleshwarar Temple, Thiruvannamalai by Smt. Chitra Madhavan vocal support Vidhushi Ms.Archana & Ms.Aarathi ALL ARE WELCOME. @ 6.30 pm UAA presents Vani Kala Sudhakara Sri. Y. Gee. Mahendra in CHARUKESI -New Play at Vani Mahal Ticketed Program (Free for Members). Entry as per Govt. SOP Guidelines MISCELLANEOUS Sri Vidyatheertha Foundation (Regd) Ph: 97899 99160 Concluding day of 104th Jayanthi Satsangh of Jagadguru Sri Abhinava Vidyatheertha Mahaswamigal today 4 pm at Sri Sringeri Jagadguru Pravachana Mandiram, R.A.Puram. Bhajans by Sri K. Sattanatha Bhagavathar and Party. Smt Uma Ramanathan will deliver the Jayanthi Address. Swami Vidyashankara Saraswathy will deliver a discourse on 'The Essence of Upanishads'. All are welcome||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/05-12-2021-city-cinema/article37848415.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore - Engagements||Coimbatore Nagarathar Youth Association: Monthly abishekam Vizha, Patteeswarar Temple, Perur, 10 a.m.   KG Hospital: Inauguration of ‘Post Graduate Degree Programme in Emergency Medicine’, Minister V. Senthil Balaji to participate, 9.30 a.m.  Swarga Foundation, Rotary E-Club of Metrodynamix and District Administration: Diversity Ride, Collector’s Camp Office, Race Course, 8 a.m.  Tamil Nadu Progressive Writers and Artists Association: Literary Meet, Thomas Club, 10.30 a.m.  KPR College of Arts Science and Research: Arokiya Santhai, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article37848446.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem||Knowledge Institute of Technology: Workshop on Bicycle Design Competition, 9.30 a.m.    Vivekanandha College of Technology for Women: Graduation Day, 10 a.m.    Nandha Educational Institutions, The Chennai Silks and Tamil Nadu Differently Abled Persons Livelihood Welfare Federation: World Differently Abled Day, Road safety and COVID-19 awareness rally, V. Sasimohan, Superintendent of Police, flags off, V. Shanmugan, chairman, Sri Nandha Educational Trust, presides, Janani Mandapam, 10.15 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem/article37848541.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SMS alerts for traffic offenders||If all goes as planned, motorists caught violating road rules will receive SMS alerts on their mobile phones. In an effort to improve the process of issuing traffic violation notices and increase efficiency in fine collection, the Bengaluru Traffic Police on Saturday launched the SMS service on a trial basis where notices will be issued digitally along with online payment options. The pilot project has already started and the service will be implemented across the board based on its success, said traffic police officials. Traffic personnel on duty are often armed with handheld devices that can capture violations such as motorists breaking signals, speeding, etc. The information of the motorist is then manually keyed into the device which generates a notice along with the proof of violation. The printed notices would then be mailed to the offender’s address under Section 133 of the Indian Motor Vehicle Act through the Postal Department. “The process is not only tedious but also expensive,” said B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic). On an average, the department generates 20,000 contactless notices per day. The cost per notice, including that of the paper, printing, and postal charge, is Rs. 4.5. Under the SMS system, the cost will be 20 paise per notice. No time wastage Another huge advantage of the SMS system is that it will be delivered to the right person. Often, vehicle owners shift houses without updating their address, but people rarely give up or change their mobile phone number. “Time is wasted trying to physically deliver the notice to their residences. In order to overcome all these hassles, the cost effective and quick SMS service has been launched,” Mr. Gowda added. He believes that this system will see a reduction in motorists violating road rules and increase awareness. Real-time basis Submitting a mobile phone number is mandatory at the time of registration of the vehicle. The Transport Department will share vehicle details and registered mobile numbers of the offenders with the traffic police on a real-time basis. “With this facility, the traffic police can SMS notifications to the registered mobile number within seconds of the violation being recorded,” he added. This service will also help owners know if their vehicle is being misused as the alert will come to them and not the driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sms-alerts-for-traffic-offenders/article37848339.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools expect to see dip in attendance from tomorrow||With the State government issuing directions that only students whose parents have received two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine will be allowed entry into schools, managements of many institutions are expecting physical attendance to dip from Monday. Most schools, private and government, have asked parents to furnish their vaccination certificates on Monday itself. Parents and teachers have expressed concern over how the new rules will affect the learning outcome of students if they are unable to attend physical classes for an extended period. While some private schools have asked students whose parents are not fully vaccinated to attend online classes, others are in a fix as they do not have adequate teachers to conduct both offline and online classes. No online sessions Government school teachers that The Hindu spoke to said students were likely to miss classes as they would be unable to conduct online sessions. However, many said that attendance would be affected only for a few days and that all the parents could get their second shot in a week or so. H.K. Manjunath, president of the Karnataka State High School Assistant Masters’ Association, said, “Parents of many students in government schools were not vaccinated. We had been asked to collect the data, which was then submitted to the closest primary health centre. Health authorities are now persuading such parents to get jabbed.” Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president of the Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Karnataka, is expecting only a marginal dip in attendance next week. “As soon as the circular was issued, our school management members got in touch with parents who were not fully vaccinated. These parents have assured us that they will get their second jab next week,” he said. ‘Conduct camps’ D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said many students were likely to miss out on classes as their parents have not been vaccinated. “Even before offline classes started, we issued an advisory to parents asking them to get vaccinated as a precautionary measure. While a majority of parents have taken the first shot, many are yet to take the second one,” he said. He suggested that the State Government conduct vaccination camps in schools so that more parents could be covered. Basavaraj Gurikar, president of the All India Teacher Federation, said the State Government had taken the right decision but acknowledged that the rules would affect students in rural and tribal areas more than their peers in cities and smaller towns. “The Government must establish special camps and ensure that these students who need education the most are not left out,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-expect-to-see-dip-in-attendance-from-tomorrow/article37848362.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City boy bags U.N. award||Akarsh Shroff, 21, of Bengaluru and a student of BITS Pilani was conferred the United Nations V-award for his commitment to the welfare of orphans and underserved children. V-Awards is an initiative by the U.N. Volunteers India which aims to celebrate 10 extraordinary young people under the age of 30 who work to change the lives of communities around them through their acts of volunteerism. YuvaSpark, Bengaluru-based NGO co-founded by Akarsh, has impacted more than 82,000 people across eight districts in three States of India through its education and COVID-19 relief programmes. The award was conferred to Akarsh in an online ceremony presided over by the Minister of State for the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports, Secretary (Youth Affairs) and Joint Secretary (Youth Affairs) among others, on Friday, said a press release. Akarsh has also bagged awards such as ‘Forbes India Teenpreneur’, ‘Ashoka Young Changemaker’, ‘Diana Awardee’, and BITS Alumni Association’s Social Leadership Award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-boy-bags-un-award/article37848343.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PM visit postponed, but Nagarbhavi gets 1.8-km freshly tarred road||While Bengaluru’s citizens are braving potholes and tolerating bad roads, a 1.8-km stretch of road in Nagarbhavi is well tarred with not a crater in sight. The reason for the diligence paid to this particular stretch? Prime Minister Narendra Modi was scheduled to attend an event at Bengaluru Ambedkar School of Economics (BASE) on December 6, which has now been postponed. However, just a few metres from this smooth stretch at Nagarbhavi Circle, roads are filled with potholes with sewage overflowing from a manhole. Residents are disappointed that the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) decided to repair the stretch only after a VVIP visit was scheduled. Srihari S., who lives in the area, said that it is a reflection of the civic body’s apathy. “We have been approaching our elected representatives to fix many roads in Nagarbhavi. But the BBMP pays a deaf ear to us and chooses to repair roads where VVIPs are visiting,” he said. BBMP responds When contacted, BBMP officials said it was mere “coincidence” that the road was ready in time for the PM’s visit. “We have repaired the roads connecting to Bangalore University's Jnanabharati campus where BASE is located. The work order for this project was issued three months ago,” said a senior official. Sources said that around Rs. 1.5 crore had been spent on repairing the roads in the area. N.R Bhanumurthy, Vice-Chancellor of BASE, said the event was postponed following directions from the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pm-visit-postponed-but-nagarbhavi-gets-18-km-freshly-tarred-road/article37848350.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC declines to interfere with mandatory vaccination policy||The High Court of Karnataka on Saturday declined to interfere with the Government’s policy of making vaccination mandatory for all teachers, lecturers, college students, and staff of educational institutions for entering the campus. The court pointed out that it cannot put a large community of students at risk by interfering with the Government’s decision of making vaccine compulsory to attend educational institutions. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadumpassed the order while rejecting a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by four medical practitioners, including Srinivasa B. Kakkillaya, and a medical student. “We are of the considered view that no students, teachers, and other staff who have not been vaccinated cannot be permitted to attend the schools/colleges,” the Bench observed while declining to interfere with the State Government’s July 16, 2021 notification of making at least one dose of vaccine mandatory for teaching and non-teaching staff of the educational institutions and students above 18 years. The petitioners had contended that the State Government’s July 2021 decision was contrary to the Union Government’s vaccine policy, which makes vaccination voluntary. It has also been contended in the petition that no coercive mandates could be issued by the State Government. Meanwhile, the High Court disposed of around 17 PIL petitions, filed since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020, while giving liberty to the petitioners to file fresh petitions, if needed, as the number of COVID-19 cases has come down substantially in the State. Excess amounts On a PIL petition related to charging of excess amounts by private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients, the Government said it had so far resolved over 200 complaints and private hospitals had refunded around Rs. 70 lakh to patients. It was also pointed out to the court that Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust had withheld payment of Rs. 10.22 crore from amongst claims made by private hospitals seeking reimbursement for treating government-referred COVID-19 patients. The Bench adjourned further hearing on this petition till January last week while directing the Government to submit a report on the action taken against hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-declines-to-interfere-with-mandatory-vaccination-policy/article37848357.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State opposes declaring Western Ghats as ‘eco-sensitive zone’||Declaring Western Ghats as ecologically sensitive zone will adversely affect the livelihood of the people in the region and people living in the region are opposed to implementation of the Kasturirangan report, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai conveyed to the Centre on Saturday. At a virtual meeting on implementation of the Kasturirangan Report on Western Ghats, chaired by Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Labour Bhupender Yadav, Mr. Bommai presented the State’s stand. He drew the attention of the participants to the State Cabinet deciding to oppose the report. The decision had been taken after exhaustive discussions with people of the Western Ghat region and officials, he said. “Our Government has taken extreme care to protect the biodiversity of Western Ghats. People of the region have adopted agricultural and horticultural activities in a eco-friendly manner. Priority has been accorded for environment protection under the Forest Protection Act. In this background, bringing one more law that would affect the livelihood of the local people is not appropriate,” Mr. Bommai said. The Kasturirangan report has been prepared based on the satellite images, but the ground reality is different, Mr. Bommai contended. The Union Minister assured the State that officers from the Union Environment and Forests Department would visit the State before taking any decision, said a release from the Chief Minister’s Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-opposes-declaring-western-ghats-as-eco-sensitive-zone/article37848356.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mount Carmel student tests positive for COVID-19||A pre-university student in a Bengaluru college has reportedly tested positive for COVID-19. The girl, a second year science stream student at Mount Carmel PU College, learned about the infection on November 25. A copy of the letter sent to the college by the girl’s father informing them that his daughter had contracted COVID-19 is with The Hindu . However, when contacted, senior civic officials said they were not aware of this case; and would now look into it. Her classmates are worried given that she had reportedly attended practical examinations on November 23. Despite repeated attempts, teachers refused to comment on this. The college management, too, was unavailable for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mount-carmel-student-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article37848353.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Committee set up for drug procurement||The State Government has set up a six-member committee, headed by the State Health Director, to monitor procurement of drugs, lab equipment, reagents, and other chemicals apart from testing kits for government hospitals in the State. According to an order issued here on Saturday, heads of the State-run facilities have been asked to indent their requirement of drugs and other medical paraphernalia based on their requirement. “The committee should ensure there is no duplication in purchases. Moreover, the committee should also monitor the use of procured drugs and other medical requirements within the expiry period,” the order stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/committee-set-up-for-drug-procurement/article37848360.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Foreign national held for selling drugs||The Siddapura police on Friday arrested a 35-year-old foreign national for allegedly peddling drugs. Acting on a tip-off, the police nabbed him while he was selling MDMA and heroin on Water Tank Road. The recovered 14.5 gram of heroin and 11.4 gram of MDMA from the arrested suspect, Antoine N’Dri, who reportedly hails from West Africa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/foreign-national-held-for-selling-drugs/article37848337.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Intermittent power supply||There will be intermittent power supply from December 6 to 13 in view of works at Jayadeva sub-station. The areas to be affected are: Gurappanapalya, Bannerghatta Road, BTM 1st Stage, Madivala, Maruthinagar, Bismillah Nagar, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/intermittent-power-supply/article37848336.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Canara Bank offer for home loan customers||Canara Bank has launched a limited period offer whereby customers can avail home loan at the interest rate starting from 6.65% per annum. In a release, the bank said that this offer is applicable to all customers irrespective of the loan amount. Along with the attractive rate of interest and quick and hassle-free sanction, the bank has waived processing and documentation charges. The bank is providing a facility wherein the request for home loan can be made online by scanning the QR code and instant approval can be obtained. ‘Scan and apply’, ‘get instant approval’ is available for car loan, education loan, gold loan, and personal loan also, the release added. This offer is available till December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/canara-bank-offer-for-home-loan-customers/article37848341.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||AAP launches signature campaign||The Aam Aadmi Party, on Saturday, took out a procession through Gandhinagar, Malleswaram, Rajajinagar, and Chickpet to Armugam Circle to launch a 10-day signature campaign against pothole-ridden roads. Alleging widespread corruption in road construction work, AAP State convener Prithvi Reddy said: “The city’s roads are still full of potholes even after spending more than Rs. 20,000 crores from State coffers. Due to this, innocent people are losing their life and limbs. These potholes are also responsible for traffic jams. We are now going from door to door to create awareness on the massive scam.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aap-launches-signature-campaign/article37848348.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 397 new cases, four deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 397 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,97,643. Bengaluru Urban reported 207 cases and one death. With four deaths, the toll rose to 38,224. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 277 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 29,52,378. The State now has 7,012 active patients. While the positivity rate touched 0.35%, Case Fatality Rate touched 1%. As many as 1,12,937 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 95,695 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,37,16,702.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-397-new-cases-four-deaths/article37848347.ece
05 December 2021||Benglauru,KARNATAKA||Man claims son tortured by police, probe ordered||Just days after three police personnel from Varthur station were suspended for allegedly detaining and beating a 21-year-old youth whose arm had to be amputated, another citizen claimed that his son was tortured by the Byatarayanapura police while he was in their custody. The victim, a 22-year-old youth, was hospitalised on Friday. Deputy Commissioner of Police Sanjeev Patil said an inquiry by a senior officer of the rank of ACP has been ordered. Thousif Pasha, a daily wager and resident of Old Guddadahalli, was detained by a sub-inspector and his team over a street fight. His father, Basha, alleged that Pasha was illegally detained and assaulted by the police.  However, a senior police officer from Byatarayanapura police station denied the allegations. He claimed that Pasha and his friends were fighting in the middle of the road. “The police dispersed them. Pasha was injured during the fight, but later alleged that he was tortured in custody. He was not taken into custody. The allegations are baseless,” said the police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-claims-son-tortured-by-police-probe-ordered/article37848351.ece
05 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Rains cause huge damage in Arsikere, Channarayapatna||Heavy rains that lashed parts of Arsikere and Channarayapatna taluks on Friday, left many tanks overflowing and roads damaged. Vast tracts of agricultural land were inundated. A part of the road that connects Channarayapatna and Tiptur caved in near Kembal in Channarayapatna taluk as tank water overflowed. The area adjacent to Gandasi tank in Arsikere taluk developed cracks, leaving the residents nearby worried. Vast agriculture fields around the tanks were flooded, causing loss to the farmers. For the last one week, several parts of the two taluks had been receiving rains. On Friday alone 105 mm of rainfall was recorded at Gandasi Hobli. Land adjacent to Gandasi tank, which is full after many years, developed cracks. "We have taken measures to avoid movement of heavy vehicles on the road close to the tank”, said Santosh Kumar, tahsildar of Arsikere. Arsikere MLA K.M.Shivalinge Gowda visited the spot and assured local people of repair work. Traffic stopped Channarayapatna Tahsildar J.B. Maruthi said that the movement of vehicles on Channarayapatna-Tiptur road via Kembal had been stopped. “A portion of a road caved in cutting the surface 10ft. wide. The PWD engineers visited the spot. Vehicles have been stopped on the road”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rains-cause-huge-damage-in-arsikere-channarayapatna/article37848743.ece
05 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dharwad Bench of HC upholds disqualification of ZP members||The Dharwad Bench of the High Court of Karnataka has upheld the decision of the Election Commission of India to disqualify the zilla panchayat members of Dharwad for defying the party whip. The case pertains to the disqualification of members of the BJP, Manjavva Harijan, Ratna Patil, Jyoti Bentur and Annappa Harijan, who had defied the party whip and voted against their own party member and president of the Dharwad Zilla Panchayat, Chaitra Shirur. Subsequently, president of the BJP Dharwad Rural District Unit Iranna Jadi and Ms. Shirur had appealed to the ECI, seeking disqualification of the said members and barring them from contesting the next election. The ECI on June 10, 2020, issued the disqualification order. The respondents had challenged the disqualification through a writ petition in the High Court. But the ECI’s decision was upheld by a single-judge Bench of the High Court. The disqualified members had appealed against the order. Hearing the matter, the Divisional Bench, headed by Justice Sunildutt Yadav and S. Rachayya, upheld the order of the single-judge Bench. Counsels Arun Joshi, Sajan Poovayya and Avinash Angadi had argued on behalf of Ms. Shirur and Iranna Jadi.  ECI on June 10, 2020, issued the disqualification order. The respondents had challenged the disqualification through a writ petition in the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-bench-of-hc-upholds-disqualification-of-zp-members/article37848563.ece
05 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Permanent solution sought for waterlogging in RUBs||General Manager of South Western Railway (SWR) Sanjeev Kishore has directed Railway officials to come up with permanent solutions for the waterlogging problems in railway underbridges (RUBs) and execute the same in a time-bound manner. He was chairing a review meeting on the planning and the progress of construction of RUBs and road overbridges (ROBs) at the SWR head office in Huballi on Friday in which the divisional railway managers of Hubballi, Mysuru, and Bengaluru and the chief engineers of construction organisation took part via video conference. Mr. Sanjeev Kishore also reviewed the the planning of ROBs, RUBs in lieu of level crossing gates in the zone. He directed the engineers to plan practical, economical, and permanent solution for resolving the issues related to water logging in RUBs and complete the works in a time-bound manner. Referring to the issue concerning land acquisition pertaining to RUBs and ROBs, he asked the officials to coordinate with State Government agencies on the issue to get the work done at the earliest. Mr. Kishore referred to the Railway Board’s policy on progressively eliminating level crossing gates to improve safety by constructing ROBs and RUBs and asked the officials to chalk out requisite plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/permanent-solution-sought-for-waterlogging-in-rubs/article37848560.ece
05 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Record growth||South Western Railway has recorded parcel revenue of Rs. 10.42 crore during November, 2021 against Rs. 6.63 crore during the last year, registering a record growth of 51.76%. According to a press release issued by South Western Railway, the cumulative parcel revenue of the zone is Rs. 79.68 crore against Rs. 31.97 crore, which is 149.26% higher than the revenue earned in the same period last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/record-growth/article37848561.ece
05 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Pension adalat||Regional PF Commissioner Mihir Kumar has said in a release that online pension adalat will be held on December 9 from 3.30 p.m. to 5 p.m. The pensioners may attend the adalat through video link made available on the status of EPFO WhatsApp No -8762525754. Pensioners may also submit their grievance through email (ro.hubti@epfindia.eov.in), duty mentioning “PENSION ADAALAT” as the subject for prompt Redressal of their grievances, the release said    Dr. K.S. Sharma Institute of Naturopathy and Yogic Sciences, Gokul Road, Hubballi, has organized a free health camp in Naturopathy’ on Sunday from 11.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. There will be special lectures on the significance of Naturopathy, followed by individual consultation. Those interested are requested to either register their names on 9886328136/9880888426 or walk in on that day directly for consultation, a release said.    Shoonya Farm Retreat will organise ‘Soul of the Earth’, a musical evening by Vasu Dixit and Tritha Sinha, in Belgundi village on Sunday at 6 p.m. A performance by folk dancers will follow. The organisers have said that 10% of sales will go to SEED foundation. Details can be had from http://www.shoonya retreat.com/.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pension-adalat/article37848559.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,KARNATAKA||Rs. 1100 cr. sanctioned for Warangal hospital||Another step has been taken towards construction of a super-speciality hospital in Warangal. The State government has accorded administrative sanction for an amount of Rs. 1,100 crore towards construction of the health facility. A Government Order was issued to this effect on Saturday. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had laid the foundation stone for the hospital in June this year. The upcoming facility is part of Warangal Health City which will come up on 215.35 acres. The 2,000-bed hospital would have 24 floors and come up on an area of 15 acres. Of the 2,000 beds, around 1,200 will be allotted for speciality services such as orthopaedics, dermatology, ENT and general surgery. The remaining 800 beds will be for super speciality departments such as oncology, neurology, neurosurgery, paediatric surgery, gastroenterology, cardiology, cardiothoracic, nephrology and urology. Facilities would be provided to take up kidney and liver transplantations. Besides, treatment for cancer including chemotherapy and radiation are also planned. Sources said Health Minister T. Harish Rao has directed officials to expedite the process of floating tenders for the construction, and to efficiently use the land in Health City.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-1100-cr-sanctioned-for-warangal-hospital/article37848567.ece
05 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||State Government to host global investors’ meet in Bengaluru||As part of the State Government’s initiatives to attract investments from across the world, a three-day Global Investors’ Meet (GIM) would be held at Bengaluru in November 2022 Addressing a media conference in Kalaburagi on Saturday, Minister for Large & Medium Scale Industries Murugesh Nirani said that over 300 investors from across the globe were expected to participate in the GIM that is scheduled to begin on November 2. “The purpose of the GIM is to attract huge investments from global players and spread the industries across Karnataka. To encourage industrialisation in Kalaburagi, we have decided to acquire around 2,000 acres of land near Kalaburagi airport for development into an industrial hub by providing all infrastructure and amenities,” Mr. Nirani said. To a question, Mr. Nirani said that the government was making all preparations, including augmenting oxygen production, to face a possible third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in the wake of the spread the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus. When asked about whether he is in the race for the post of Chief Minister after the next Assembly elections in 2023, Mr. Nirani said that the BJP would participate in the next Assembly elections under the leadership of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. “I would repeat what our party’s national leaders have already said. The party will go to the next Assembly elections under the leadership of Mr. Bommai. Mr. Bommai and me are good friends. We have studied together. Just like his father S.R. Bommai, Mr. Basavaraj Bommai is a well-educated and experienced politician. Under his leadership, we will face the next elections... I have always been ready to accept whatever work the party assigns to me. If the party asks me to go for party organisation instead of contesting the 2023 elections, I will simply follow the instruction,” Mr. Nirani said. B.G. Patil, BJP candidate for Kalaburagi-Yadgir local bodies’ constituency of the Legislative Council, and BJP Rural district unit president Shivaraj Patil Raddewadagi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-government-to-host-global-investors-meet-in-bengaluru/article37848555.ece
05 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kharge seeks withdrawal of RS members’ suspension||Terming the suspension of 12 Opposition members from Rajya Sabha “without following due Constitutional procedures “as an autocratic measure, Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge demanded the withdrawal of suspension and to continue the session. “Suspension of 12 Opposition members from Rajya Sabha is a clear violation of Constitutional provisions. The procedure set for such an action is not followed. Once the adjourned session is resumed, the suspension automatically ceases to exist and the suspended members are allowed to participate in the session. Suspending the members till the completion of the entire Winter Session is an autocratic measure. India is a democratic country and every member of the House has the right to protest against injustice,” Mr. Kharge said during his brief interaction with the presspersons in Kalaburagi on Saturday. Briefing the Constitutional procedure for such a hard measure, Mr. Kharge said that the Rajya Sabha chairman should take into account all the aspects including the reasons of protest by the members in the House and explain them to the House before suspending the members. “Such a procedure is not followed in the case at hand. The adjourned session is resumed, but the suspension continues. The suspension should immediately be withdrawn and the members in question should be allowed to participate in the Session as there are many vital issues that are to be discussed in the House. I will, as the Leader of Opposition in the Upper House, try to ensure that all the Opposition members help the House to conduct discussion peacefully,” Mr. Kharge said. In response to the Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal, who asked the suspended members to apologise if the latter wanted to attend the House proceedings, Mr. Kharge said that the question of apology would not arise as the very disciplinary action itself was Constitutionally wrong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kharge-seeks-withdrawal-of-rs-members-suspension/article37848558.ece
05 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Demonstration staged||As part of a nationwide protest against attacks on minorities, the Kalaburagi district unit of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a demonstration here recently. The activists raised slogans against the right-wing forces for unleashing attacks on Muslims and Christians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demonstration-staged/article37848562.ece
05 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Our strengths have become our weakness too: Rajendra||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Saturday said despite the district being gifted with natural resources and infrastructure, only about half of the potential is harnessed because of multiple bottlenecks. “Our strengths are our weaknesses too,” he told members of the Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) at an interaction here. The district has adequate road, rail, air, and sea connectivity. However, there has been slackness in the industrial growth that did not grow beyond a certain point, he regretted. While the administration was keen on resolving bottlenecks affecting development in the district, its main focus had been on COVID-19 management. Stating that he was not for placing more restrictions, Dr. Rajendra noted the district’s growth also depended on activities emerging from Kasaragod and Kannur districts in Kerala. A majority of people from neighbouring districts visited Mangaluru for healthcare facilities which, besides encouraging hospitals, also contributed to the growth of other commercial activities. Placing more restrictions on inter-State movement would only affect the growth of Dakshina Kannada, he felt. Dr. Rajendra said the district administration was working towards resolving connectivity issues that hamper the region’s overall growth. Attempts were being made to get court stays vacated on land acquisition for widening NH 169, Mangaluru-Karkala, while the four-lane work of NH 75 between B.C. Road and Addahole was expected to get completed in a couple of years. Completion of highway projects would naturally boost port-based economic activities. To address traffic issues within the city, intelligent transport system would be introduced under Smart City Phase 2 with required infrastructure being created in Phase 1. The administration was also working to provide a proper underground drainage system in the city so as not to let sewage into canals and rivers. On tourism development, Dr. Rajendra said instead of curbing visitors’ entry onto beaches beyond 7 p.m., the administration wants to provide adequate lighting in those areas. It also encourages residents of the area to offer homestays so that tourists could spend time outside the city. KCCI president Shashidhar Pai Maroor, Vice President M. Ganesh Kamath and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/our-strengths-have-become-our-weakness-too-rajendra/article37848729.ece
05 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Autorickshaw driver arrested on the charge of molesting minor girl||The city police on Saturday arrested a 32-year-old autorickshaw driver on the charge of molesting a minor girl. A native of Shivamogga, the accused was presently staying in Mangaluru. The accused had allegedly been molesting the girl when she was in Classes III and IV while dropping her to the school. He was following the girl in the bus while she was going to school since about a week and attempted to molest her, said Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar. Meanwhile, the Urwa police on Saturday arrested four persons, said to be members of the Alake gang, on the charges of assault and causing serious injury to one Shravan in the wee hours of November 28. The police gave the names of the accused as Navaneeth [Ashoknagar], Hemanth, [Hoigebail], and Deekshith [Boloor], all residents in Mangaluru who allegedly assaulted the victim, and Sandesh, who allegedly helped the main accused to flee. The police have also recovered three weapons, one two-wheeler, and one autorickshaw from the accused. The accused allegedly attempted to assault one Ankith, brother of Kaushik and Aashik, alleged members of Boloor gang, who were in jail on charges of murdering Indrajith last year. However, Ankith could escape the assault, while Shravan, who tried to prevent the assault, sustained severe injuries on his neck. There has been a long rivalry between the Alake and the Boloor gangs over Pili Vesha and other issues, the police said. Mr. Kumar issued a stern warning to anti-social elements saying police would act tough against people disturbing the peace in the city.  A native of Shivamogga, the accused was presently staying in Mangaluru. The police said that he would follow the girl when she went to school for about a week now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/autorickshaw-driver-arrested-on-the-charge-of-molesting-minor-girl/article37848725.ece
05 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||CAMPCO to procure coconuts from farmers on pilot basis||Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative (CAMPCO) Ltd. will procure coconut from farmers on a pilot basis in the coming days, according to president A. Kishore Kumar Kodgi. Speaking at the 47th annual general body meeting of the cooperative here on Saturday, he said that initially coconuts will be purchased from farmers in Puttur and Sullia taluks. If the procurement becomes a success later it will be extended to other places. The cooperative has plans to market the copra on its own brand, he said, adding that in addition to arecanut, CAMPCO has been purchasing rubber and pepper from farmers. Mr. Kodgi said that the cooperative has also plans to extend a Rs. 5 lakh health insurance cover to its farmer members. CAMPCO will open more arecanut procurement centres in North Karnataka and Bayaluseeme areas. Their processing will also be done at identified locations in those regions. Arrangements have been made to transport arecanut (purchased by farmers) on trains to Gujarat instead of trucks. It will save money in transportation cost. The president said that strict vigil on the border areas in the country and low imports due to COVID-19 factors have helped in pushing the prices of arecanut up and maintaining stability in the market. He said that the cooperative will encourage farmers to sell dry cocoa beans to get better price. The cocoa cultivation will be promoted in Bayaluseeme areas too. The cooperative will replace the old machinery at its chocolate factory in Puttur in phases at an estimated cost of Rs. 166 crore. The board has approved this proposal, he said. The president said that amid COVID-19 the cooperative earned a Rs. 100.2 crore profit during 2020-21. The turn over stood at Rs. 2,134.15 croes. It has decided to provide 15 % dividend to its farmer members. CAMPCO has decided to provide its farmer members an incentive of Rs. 1 per kg of arecanut when sold to the cooperative and and an incentive of Rs. 1.5 per a kg of wet cocoa beans and Rs. 4 per kg of dry cocoa beans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/campco-to-procure-coconuts-from-farmers-on-pilot-basis/article37848723.ece
05 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested from airport for possessing firearms||The Bajpe police have arrested a resident of Udupi district, on the charge of possessing firearms and lethal weapons, from the parking area of Mangaluru International Airport (MIA). Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters here on Saturday that two Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel got suspicious over a parked car in the parking lot on November 30. Upon examination, they found country-made two single barrel rifles. Driver Rony D’Souza, a resident of Havanje in Udupi district, did not provide a proper answer and the personnel brought the matter to the notice of higher officers. Upon further probe, a few more suspicious objects, including about 100g of silver colour powder that looked like explosive material, soft drink bottles containing explosive-like material, two small boxes containing fire crackers, two knives and coconut husk, were found. CISF officer D.S. Meena lodged a complaint with jurisdictional Bajpe police and handed over the accused and the seized material to them. The police have registered cases under the Arms Act against the accused. He was remanded in judicial custody by the jurisdictional magistrate. Arrested The Kavoor police arrested three persons on the charge of cattle theft that was reported on Friday early morning from Bangrakuloor. The police gave the names of the accused as Mohammed Saleem, 32, Mohammed Tanzil, 25, and Mohammed Iqbal, 23, all residents of Ullal. The complainant told the police that he had left three of his cows for grazing at the Gold Finch Ground. At around 4.30 a.m. on Friday, the accused allegedly stole the cows, brandishing sharp weapons at the complainant, and took them away in a multi-utility vehicle, the complainant said. Besides Kavoor police, personnel from Moodbidri and Bajpe police stations had joined the probe to trace the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-from-airport-for-possessing-firearms/article37848718.ece
05 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Works executed for city’s future needs||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Saturday said the Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. works are being taken up keeping in mind the city’s needs for the next three-four decades. Referring to the jinxed circular one-way from Clock-Tower to Clock-Tower, Dr. Rajendra said the administration wanted to provide space for cultural activities along the Maidan Road and also ease traffic congestion in the central business district. Interacting with members of the Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry here, the DC however did not mention about the traffic situation in the CBD once his office gets shifted to Padil and the service bus stand to Pumpwell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/works-executed-for-citys-future-needs/article37848731.ece
05 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Nitte engineering college to offer BSc (Honors)||Nitte Mahalinga Adyanthaya Memorial Institute of Technology, Nitte, Udupi district, will offer a four-year BSc (Honors) programme with Physics, Mathematics, and Chemistry subjects from 2021-22. Admission will be through KEA and the fee fixed by VTU is Rs. 60,000 per annum. Unfilled seats after the KEA allotment will be reverted to the management. The programme is offered in accordance with the National Education Policy where students opt for a specialisation (major) in Physics/ Chemistry/Mathematics after three semesters. Students will also study skill based and industry oriented topics from engineering science besides subjects in Electronics and Computer Science like AI, IoT, Robotics, Machine Learning, Cyber Security and Data Science. The third and fourth year deals with research projects and internships, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nitte-engineering-college-to-offer-bsc-honors/article37848719.ece
05 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Renew licences by Dec. 15’||The Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has asked all traders in the city to renew their licences or apply for new ones before December 15, 2021. Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar said in a release that the licences can be procured, renewed, and cancelled/dissolved using the MCC trade licence mobile application or through http://mcctradelicense.com:4400/Web. For more information one can contact 6364016555. The Commissioner said that it has been brought to the attention of the MCC that certain businesses have been continuing despite the expiry of their licences, including new businesses that are operating without appropriate authorisation.T  “This press release will be held as the final notice, failure to comply will lead to cancellation/dissolution of the trade licenses of such businesses without prior notice,” the Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/renew-licences-by-dec-15/article37848724.ece
05 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sullia facing three burning issues||Sullia Chamber of Commerce president Sudhakar Pai on Saturday urged Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra to resolve three burning issues haunting Sullia — power, water and solid waste disposal. Speaking at Dr. Rajendra’s interaction with KCCI members here, Mr. Pai said people had been demanding enhanced power supply, from 33 kV to 110 kV since 15 years, but in vain. Enhanced power supply would have boosted industrial growth in the region, he said. Despite Payaswini river flowing next to the town, the quality of drinking water supplied has been pathetic, he said. Also, solid waste management system was not proper in the town, he said. Poll code Dr. Rajendra said he could not divulge the plan of action at present as poll code of conduct was in vogue. He has convened a meeting of all stakeholders in December last week at Sullia and would attempt to resolve the issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sullia-facing-three-burning-issues/article37848730.ece
05 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||K.S. Hegde Hospital at Deralakatte has installed an oxygen generator unit for medical use. The 500-litre per minute capacity unit has been set up with PSA technology which is complainant to international standards. The unit has cost about Rs. 75 lakh, a release from the hospital said, adding that the unit will help in treating more number of critically ill patients, including those down with COVID-19.    Power supply to Bunder, Azezuddin Road, J.M. Road, and KCCI area will be stopped on December 6 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. It is for maintenance works.    There will be no power supply to some areas in Udupi on December 7 from 9.30 a.m. to 3 p.m. The areas are Malpe, Ambalpady, Kinnimulky, Ajjarakadu, Bannanje, Kodavur, Aadi Udupi, Kalmadi, Perampalli, Doddanagudde, Kalyanapura, Tenka Nidiyur, Subrahmanya Nagara and Garadi Majalu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37848721.ece
05 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Omicron threat: DC calls for strict enforcement of rules||In the wake of the State government issuing new guidelines amidst the Omicron threat, Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham on Saturday held a meeting with senior officials on the measures to be taken for strict compliance with the new guidelines. Officials from key departments, including Superintendent of Police R. Chetan, and District Health Officer K.S. Prasad besides representatives from various associations and trade bodies attended the meeting. The government has categorically stated that only those who are fully vaccinated will be allowed to enter malls, theatres and other places as a precautionary measure. Restrictions have been imposed on gatherings, limiting the participants to 500. Parents of children below 18 years of age have to be fully vaccinated with two doses of vaccines against COVID-19 if their children have to attend physical classes in schools and colleges. The meeting discussed the guidelines and the officials were told to ensure they are complied with at their levels, with the officials from the Department of Public Instruction and Pre-University Education asked to initiate the process of collecting details on the vaccination status of parents in writing. The DHO was told to step up vaccination of those who skipped their second dose despite completing the 84-day gap. Door-to-door vaccination should be done on priority for expanding the coverage amidst the threat of the new strain of virus. The associations and trade bodies were told to take the help of police if they faced any hurdles in enforcing the guidelines, especially when implementing the rule of permitting entry only to fully vaccinated persons to malls and theatres. Some private schools in the city have issued circulars, asking the parents to get two doses of vaccine if they want their children to attend the physical classes. They have said that children of unvaccinated or partially vaccinated parents will not be allowed to attend physical classes as a safety precaution acting on the government’s diktat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/omicron-threat-dc-calls-for-strict-enforcement-of-rules/article37848744.ece
05 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) leaders train guns on GTD during Council poll campaign||JD(S) leaders including former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy trained their guns on estranged partyman and Chamundeshwari Assembly MLA G.T. Deve Gowda at an election campaign meeting in Mysuru on Saturday. Mr Gowda, who continues to remain a JD(S) MLA, has maintained a distance from the party leadership for more than two years now, but is cosying up to former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and announced his plans to join the Congress before the next Assembly elections. Referring to claims that Mr. Gowda had warned party workers from Chamundeshwari against attending the JD(S) meeting in Mysuru on Saturday as part of the campaign to seek votes for C.N. Manje Gowda, the party candidate in the ensuing elections to the Legislative Council, Mr Kumaraswamy said workers cannot be cowed down by such threats. They have already proved that they cannot be browbeaten. He said the JD(S) workers of Chamundeshwari have stood by the party in the most testing times and people from all sections of the society have showered their blessings on him. While the party had suffered reverses in the recent by-elections to the Assembly, Mr. Kumaraswamy said he was hopeful that the people of Chamundeshwari will stand by the party and ensure the victory of Mr. Manje Gowda in the elections to the Legislative Council, which will be a prelude to the Assembly elections in 2023. Former Minister S.R. Mahesh, who also addressed the gathering, called upon the members of gram panchayats and other urban and rural local bodies to cast their first preferential vote in favour of Mr. Manje Gowda. He said that Mr. Manje Gowda, unlike the Congress and BJP candidates, was well-versed with the issues faced by elected representatives of the local bodies as he himself had served as one. JD(S) leader Mavinahalli Sidde Gowda alleged that Mr. G.T. Deve Gowda was warning gram panchayat members against attending the JD(S) meeting. He also claimed that Mr. Gowda had asked the gram panchayat members against casting their votes in favour of the JD(S) candidate. Seeking to remind Mr. Gowda about his rout in the elections when he joined the BJP, Mr. Sidde Gowda said Mr. Gowda was re-elected after he returned to the JD(S). He also sought to remind Mr Gowda that Mr. Kumaraswamy had campaigned for him in Chamundeshwari even though his health did not permit it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-leaders-train-guns-on-gtd-during-council-poll-campaign/article37848745.ece
05 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Elephant Kusha retraces its path to Nagarahole||Kusha, the elephant from Dubare camp released into the wild following intervention by animal rights activists, is back in Nagarahole. He was released at Moolehole in Bandipur Tiger Reserve, a distance of about 100 km from Dubare in the first week of June after being radio-collared to keep a track of his movement. “His movement was being monitored by the Wildlife Institute of India at Dehradun on a real-time basis and it has been confirmed that he is now in the Nagarahole National Park limits,” said Mahesh Kumar, Director, Nagarahole National Park. The wild elephant was first captured near Chettahalli in Madikeri Forest Division more than 5 years ago and put in a kraal in Dubare. The reason for the elephant’s capture was its frequent foray into human landscape escalating man-animal conflict in the region. The officials at Dubare said once tamed, Kusha remained obedient and adapted well with other elephants in the camp. But within an year or so Kusha declared his freedom by escaping from the camp. “No matter how hard the officials tried to track and re-capture Kusha, he gave them the slip and remained free for almost 2 years,” according to officials. But he was recaptured from the wild and brought back to Dubare and this was opposed by activists and Maneka Gandhi who called for the jumbo’s release on the grounds that it had not harmed anyone. The then Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali ordered Kusha’s freedom and the elephant was released from the camp to roam free in the wild. But after less than six months, the elephant is in Nagarahole very close to Dubare. “Now that he is in our jurisdiction, I will talk to the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) as to the next course of action even as his movement will continue to be monitored,” said Mr. Mahesh Kumar. But wildlife activists said Kusha hasn’t harmed anyone and hence there was no point in its recapture. Besides, it is not new for elephants to trace their way back in the jungles as they are migratory by nature. Many of the elephants that can be identified by the scar marks on their face or body tend to return to Kabini backwaters every summer after an year of wandering. In case of Kusha, its movement is being monitored and hence the interest, said the activists. “His return to Nagarahole forests is not an area of concern. But it becomes a tricky situation in case Kusha ventures to Chettihalli again from where he was first captured,” the activist added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kusha-retraces-its-path-to-nagarahole/article37848345.ece
05 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Bahurupi theatre festival postponed||Theatre repertoire Rangayana has said that Bahurupi-2021 theatre festival which was scheduled to be held from December 10 to 19 in the city has been postponed. This is due to the fresh curbs on public gathering due to the detection of a new variant of COVID-19 - Omicron - in the State. Soon after the detection of the new variant, the State Government announced a slew of measures as part of its strategy to fight the pandemic. One of it emphasises that all gatherings, meetings, conferences should strictly limit the number of participants to 500 people only and COVID-appropriate behaviour should be enforced during the event. Addanda C. Cariappa, Director, Rangayana, said that a festival like Bahurupi cannot be held under the current circumstances as it draws thousands of people. “There is a ceiling on how many people can be invited and the number of artists at the venue at any given time will exceed the ceiling and hence the theatre festival is being postponed’’, said Mr. Cariappa. The new dates will be announced only after the restrictions – which will be in place till January 15, 2022 – are eased. Bahurupi is Rangayana’s flagship programme and this year it was supposed to stage 33 plays including 21 in Kannada and the remaining in other languages. Apart from the slew of plays, seminars, workshops, folk dance and music, film festival etc were part of the festival. However, Mr. Cariappa said that Bahurupi will be held in the same format and feature the same plays when it is conducted after the restrictions are eased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bahurupi-festival-postponed/article37848340.ece
05 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Somashekar’s comments condemned||Taking exception to the personal allegations levelled by Minister S.T.Somashekar against candidates from rival political parties in the ensuing elections to the Legislative Council from local bodies’ constituencies, former Minister and BJP MLC A.H. Vishwanath has called upon his party colleague to withdraw his words. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Vishwanath said Mr. Somashekar should bear in mind that he is a member of the State Cabinet and added that allegations he had levelled against JD(S) candidate in Mysuru-Chamarajanagar constituency C.N. Manje Gowda and Congress candidate in Bengaluru Urban constituency Yusuf Shariff, also known as KGF Babu, did not behove a person occupying a ministerial berth in the State Government. He wondered how he could make such personal allegations without any basis and said the charges had hurt the candidates of the rival parties immensely. Mr. Vishwanath also expressed regret over the influence money was playing in the ensuing elections to the Legislative Council. He sought to remind the voters that most of them had been elected to the local bodies on their individual strength and did not owe their election to any political party. “You should not succumb to the temptations and freely exercise your franchise”, Mr. Vishwanath said while calling upon the leaders of all the three political parties to give a call against the use of money power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/somashekars-comments-condemned/article37848749.ece
05 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||VC’s appeal to students||University of Mysore Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar on Saturday called upon the graduates of speech and hearing courses to work towards erasing or minimising speech and hearing defects in children and adults. “Your knowledge is highly specialised and hence you have to be far more responsible and studious than the conventional graduates. So much patience and wisdom is expected from you,” he said, while addressing students at the graduation day of JSS Institute of Speech and Hearing here. “We have witnessed the miracle rendered by Panchakshari Gawai and Puttaraja Gawai, who started the gurukulu system of music learning in Gadag and produced hundreds of musicians. They (Gawais) never felt the absence of sight because they were blessed with the inner eye. We can find such achievers in every field. Scientists, artists, poets and so on. Acquiring the inner eye is important,” he told the students.  C.G. Betsurmath, Executive Secretary, JSS Mahavidyapeeta, presided over the function. University of Mysore Registrar Jnanaprakash and others were present at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vcs-appeal-to-students/article37848747.ece
05 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Row over statue leads to tension in Mysuru||Tension prevailed in Paduvarahalli in Mysuru when a youth slit his throat as a mark of protest against the local authorities who prevented the installation of the statue of B.R. Ambedkar, late on Friday. The Mysuru City Corporation shifted the statue as no permission had been sought or issued for its installation and hence was in violation of the law. A section of the people of Paduvarahalli staged a flash protest at Mathrumandali Circle but the police had beefed up security and the situation though tense, was under control. Dalit organisations which joined the protest, raised slogans against the Government and flayed the MCC for its act. The youth – identified as Satish - was shifted to the hospital for treatment. Meanwhile, the Congress has threatened to launch an agitation in case the statue was not installed. KPCC spokesperson M. Lakshman, said it was a manifestation of the ‘anti-Dalit’ policies of the Government.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/row-over-statue-leads-to-tension-in-mysuru/article37848565.ece
05 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Screening of film on farmers’ stir today||‘Kisan Satyagraha’, a documentary on farmers’ agitation on the Delhi borders over the three farm laws that were recently scrapped by the Centre, will be screened in Mysuru on Sunday. The agitation had drawn international attention as the farmers, opposing the new laws, staged protests in support of their demands since last December. Film director Kesari Haravu-directed documentary is being screened for the first time since its production here at Kalpa Kshetra in Vijayanagar third stage. There will be an interaction with the director after the screening.  For more details, call 9845561946, 9590259095.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/screening-of-film-on-farmers-stir-today/article37848748.ece
05 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Sab ka saath, sab ka vikaas has turned into sab ka satyanash’||Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge has said that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has destroyed the country in various sectors. “Mr. Modi’s slogan sab ka saath, sab ka vikaas has turned into sab ka satyanash (destruction of all),” he said while campaigning in Yadgir for the Legislative Council elections. Mr. Kharge accused Mr. Modi of destroying India in all sectors and said that the Union Government failed to match people’s expectations. “Development works have taken a back seat. His promise to create 2 crore jobs every year remains unrealised. The prices of fuel have gone up. Common people are unable to meet their needs as the prices of essential commodities have gone up. Are these acche din ?” He said that despite strong opposition by the Congress, the Modi government introduced the new farm laws. When they suffered a setback in the recently concluded byelections and feared defeat in the coming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, and other States, the BJP repealed the farm laws without any discussion in Parliament. He criticised the Government for withdrawing many key projects sanctioned by the UPA Government and said that separate railway and textile parks, which were sanctioned for Kalaburagi, were withdrawn. “The Government has stopped releasing funds for the projects under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Act (MGNREGA). As a result, 21 States across India have no funds to take up work and lakhs of people lost jobs and daily earnings.” He specifically said that the Council elections are going to be held between a common man and a rich person. “B.G. Patil, a big businessman, won the last time and everybody knew how he won the election. But this time, voters should not entertain him and vote for the development-oriented Congress candidate Shivanand Patil. I suffered a little depression after losing the Lok Sabha election. But, voters, who were with me for five decades, did not defeat me. I will fight forever for you people. You have a right to take revenge against the BJP... teach them a lesson by defeating the BJP candidate in the council election,” he appealed. Mr. Shivanand Patil sought the blessings of voters promising to work like the son of common people and address the woeful conditions in rural areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sab-ka-saath-sab-ka-vikaas-has-turned-into-sab-ka-satyanash/article37848557.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Samples of three persons from high-risk countries negative: DC||All those who arrived from Kerala are under observation for a week. Such persons will be tested again after a week of their arrival. They should produce the negative certificate prior to the 72 hours of their travel, Mr. Rao said. The health officials are randomnly checking the swabs of high school and college students, teachers, traders, employees at malls, staff at hotels, bars and offices. Nodal officers have been appointed to 25 private hospitals to ensure availability of beds and oxygen at the time of admitting COVID-19 patients, the Deputy Commissioner added. The upper limit of persons who can participate in functions, marriages has been fixed at 500. The Deputy Commissioner appealed to the people to follow the COVID-19 guidelines, wear a mask, and avoid crowding. He asked people to get themselves vaccinated at the nearest health facility and to cooperate in preventing the spread of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/samples-of-three-persons-from-high-risk-countries-negative-dc/article37848727.ece
05 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Rejuvenation of Ramanchira begins||The rejuvenation of Ramanchira, a major water source at Vallikunnam in Alappuzha, has begun. The work was launched by M.S. Arunkumar, MLA, recently. The project is being implemented at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh sanctioned by the Irrigation Department. Officials said the waterbody was filled with aquatic weeds and sediments. “As part of the project, the depth of the waterbody will be increased by dredging. Construction of a leading channel to carry water from Ramanchira to Kannanchal puncha to irrigate paddy fields and laying of coir geotextiles are part of the project,” said an official. Potable water to the eastern parts of Vallikunnam is supplied from a borewell near Ramanchira.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rejuvenation-of-ramanchira-begins/article37848701.ece
05 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Three held, ganja seized||The police seized 5.2 kg of ganja from a car and arrested three persons at Ezhupunna in Alappuzha on Friday night. The arrested have been identified as Niyas, 29 of Willingdon Island, Ernakulam, Fazil, 32 of Palluruthy, Ernakulam and Vishnu Bhaskar, 23 of Kumbalam, Ernakulam. The police said the trio were arrested when Fazil and Vishnu were buying the contraband from Niyas. The accused were produced before a local court and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-ganja-seized/article37848702.ece
05 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Celebration of Vellappally’s feat begins today||The year-long celebrations to mark the 25th anniversary of Vellappally Natesan’s ascension to leadership roles in the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam and S.N. Trust will begin on Sunday. It will be inaugurated by Governor Arif Mohammed Khan at S.N. College auditorium, Cherthala, at 4 p.m. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will preside. On this occasion, various social welfare programmes of the SNDP Yogam and S.N. Trust will be launched. Union Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar will inaugurate the Civil Service Entrance Training Project of the SNDP Yogam. Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan will launch a housing project. As part of the silver jubilee celebrations, 100 homeless people from the community will be provided houses. Free higher education to students of poor economic background and distribution of financial assistance to patients are among the welfare activities planned. The SNDP Yogam will provide insurance cover to its branch secretaries. It will launch a skilled labour bank and start new generation courses in educational institutions under the organisation. Sree Narayana Dharma Sangham Trust president Swami Satchidananda, Union Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs and External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran, and BJP State president K. Surendran will attend. Mr. Natesan is the general secretary of the SNDP Yogam and secretary of S.N. Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/celebration-of-vellappallys-feat-begins-today/article37848696.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,KERALA||Christians oppose proposed anti-conversion Bill||Expressing opposition to the proposed anti-conversion Bill by the State Government, Archbishop of Bengaluru Peter Machado on Saturday said the move goes against the principles of the Indian Constitution and would become a tool for fringe groups to target and harass Christians in Karnataka. He said, “Even without the law, since January there have been 32 reported incidents of attacks on churches in Belagavi, Hubballi, Belur, and other areas. If without the legislation this can happen, just imagine what will happen after passing the legislation. The proposed move will have a far-reaching impact,” he said. Citing media reports, the Archbishop said that after BJP MLA Goolihatti Shekar made allegations of illegal conversion happening in Hosadurga taluk, officials carried out a survey and found no illegal conversions. In the wake of the findings, the Archbishop demanded the State Government change its mind and not introduce the Bill. The Archbishop was talking to the media on the sidelines of a peace assembly organised by the All-Karnataka United Christian Forum for Human Rights (AKUCFH) on St. Francis Xavier’s Cathedral premises in the city on Saturday to oppose the proposed Bill. He said there was a plan to organise a peace assembly involving thousands of people, which was scaled down owing to COVID-19 protocol. He said in Belagavi, where the winter session of State legislature would be held, community members would participate in a hunger strike. Congress MLC Ivan D’Souza alleged that the State Government was planning to introduce the Bill succumbing to pressure from fringe groups. A majority of the Hindus do not support the Bill, he claimed. In a memorandum submitted to the Government, the Archbishop said, “Today, there is enough documentation to show that persecution of Christians is taking place in every State and every Union Territory in India. The proposed law will only make the situation worse. The issue of forced conversion is a highly exaggerated subject. Many of our BJP leaders have studied in Christian schools and they have chosen Christian hospitals for medical treatment. None of them were forcefully converted.”  Even without the law, since January there have been 32 reported incidents of attacks on churches in Belagavi, Hubballi, Belur, and other areas... The proposed move will have a far-reaching impact. Peter Machado,Archbishop of Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/christians-oppose-proposed-anti-conversion-bill/article37848359.ece
05 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||No respite for residents near Mullaperiyar dam||Despite the State’s demand otherwise, Tamil Nadu continues to raise the spillway shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam at night to release water to the Periyar. Tamil Nadu opened nine shutters one by one on Friday night, releasing 7,200 cusecs to the Periyar, and closed all of them but one by Saturday morning. At 5 p.m. on Saturday, another shutter was opened, releasing 841.22 cusecs to the Periyar. There are chances of raising more shutters by night as the water level has reached the maximum level of 142 ft. For the past four days, Tamil Nadu has opened shutters at night. On Saturday, Tamil Nadu was drawing water from Mullaperiyar at 1,867 cusecs. A team led by Tamil Nadu Irrigation department Chief Engineer visited the Mullaperiyar dam to explore the possibility of drawing more water and inspected the tunnel gate, spillway shutters, and the mini-dam. Meanwhile, Dean Kuriakose, Congress MP, started a 24-hour fast at Cheruthoni on Saturday demanding a new dam at Mullaperiyar. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan inaugurated the fast. Felling trees Mr Satheesan said the State government failed in seriously taking up the matter with Tamil Nadu. The permission for felling trees near the mini-dam was for strengthening it and to raise the water level to 152 ft. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan who once demanded the decommissioning of the dam had changed his stance now. He should have strongly taken up the protest of the people over opening the dam shutters at night with his Tamil Nadu counterpart, he said. The water level in the Idukki dam was rising and reached 2,400.84 ft on Saturday. The water level is at the blue alert level. The orange alert level is 2,401 ft and the upper rule level 2,403 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-respite-for-residents-near-mullaperiyar-dam/article37848662.ece
05 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Govt.’s stand on Waqf postings malicious: MLA||Leaving appointments at the State Waqf Board to the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) is not fair, and the government’s stand on the issue is malicious, K.P.A. Majeed, MLA, has alleged. Opening a march organised by the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) to the collectorate, he said it was up to the believers to decide the affairs of the Waqf Board. If non-believers came to power on the board, there would be a situation where justice would not be delivered, he said. He pointed that the Nair Service Society and the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam had opposed the decision to leave appointments in the Devaswom Board to the PSC. Subsequently, the board handed over the task to a recruitment agency, he said. Mr. Majeed said an ordinance had to be debated several times before it could be introduced as a Bill in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govts-stand-on-waqf-postings-malicious-mla/article37848623.ece
05 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Online cab sector in the red||The ‘high’ commission that prominent online taxi aggregator firms continue to charge, despite the over Rs. 30 per litre escalation in the cost of fuel vis-à-vis pre-pandemic days, and commuters showing a marked preference for personal modes of transport, have resulted in the online-cab sector remaining in the red in prominent cities in Kerala. The stiff opposition to the levy of 26% commission on the fare was doing the rounds well before the pandemic wrecked havoc with the travel and transport sector. Offices closed That the once-booming sector is struggling to stay afloat in the State is evident in that prominent aggregator platforms have wound up their Kochi regional offices. This has resulted in a platform entrusting a sole staffer with the task of coordinating with drivers and resolving customer grievances for the entire State, while yet another does the same from its Bengaluru regional office. Uncertain service Inadequate availability of online cabs, the resultant huge waiting period, and the uncertainty about whether drivers will operate or cancel booked trips, found resonance, as writer N.S. Madhavan tweeted on Monday night that a prominent cab aggregator platform ought to declare that it was officially dead in the State. Seemingly taken by surprise, the aggregator sought details of what triggered his complaint. Numerous people, including cab drivers, have of late been sharing their grouse at aggregator platforms not revising their fare structure, despite the steep hike in fuel prices and “going back” on a host of assurances that had been announced when they forayed into Kerala. Sources in an aggregator platform spoke of how it expected the Kochi market to bounce back soon, after the sector took a beating following the pandemic. “Moreover, managing from outside Kerala will have little impact on the State’s ground-level operations,” they said. “We are seeing strong recovery across the country, from riders looking for convenient, affordable and safe mobility options. The four-wheeler business is seeing encouraging week-on-week growth, as offices, schools, and holiday spots reopen, leading to increased demand for affordable rides. We expect to see these robust trends continue over the coming weeks, and into the holiday season,” said a spokesperson of Uber. Sources in the sector justified the 26% cut from the regular fare as inclusive of 5% GST. Drivers in other States too are of late cancelling trips, especially if they are to traffic-snarl-prone areas, they said. Probing alternatives “The common grouse over the ‘high’ quantum of commission has resulted in vast many drivers flocking to alternative online platforms where there is little or no commission,” said Shajo Jose, secretary of Online Cab Drivers’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-cab-sector-in-the-red/article37848792.ece
05 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Route permits, schedules of pvt. buses to be digitised by Dec.10||The Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) and the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) have joined hands to digitise route permits and time schedules of all private buses, in order to streamline their operation, improve reliability and to rein in reckless driving. Under this initiative, bus operators have been directed to submit their permits and time schedule for being digitised, before December 10. The C-DAC had earlier entered all relevant data regarding buses which were issued permits by the Ernakulam RTO Office. Bus operators have been directed to verify data pertaining to them, before the time schedule is approved. Only such digitised permits and time schedules that bear the government seal will have legal validity from January 1, said P.M. Shabeer, Ernakulam RTO. Speaking about the ramifications of the digitising process, KMTA managing director Shanavas S. said it would help passengers have a precise idea about the location of buses in different routes. “It will help save time and plan trips better, while also helping enforcement personnel keep tab of violations like reckless driving and trip cancellations during off-peak hours. It will also end overlapping of services in different routes, a reason cited for reckless driving.” Aimed at tracking buses, an initiative to install GPS in them is already under way, with over 200 of the 600 city buses in Kochi having them. Route rationalisation Official sources said a study commissioned by the KMTA to rationalise bus routes in the Greater Kochi area is already under way, as part of Mobilise Your City programme. In this, an online survey was done, while a team of 40 people will collect data from bus passengers to assess demand on different routes. Most bus operators have welcomed the digitising initiative, as a step that will help usher in reliable bus services, at a time when public transport systems are feeling the heat of people shifting to personalised modes of commute. Calling for strong action against buses which violated permit timings and skipped trips, T.N. Pratapan, a senior citizen who commutes almost daily by buses, hoped that the digitising process would help enforcement personnel usher in accountability in the sector. “Time-punching cabins in different parts of the city are now nothing more than scarecrows. There is no certainty of trips now, with the result that even people from financially-backward sections are forced to buy two-wheelers, despite skyrocketing price of fuels,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/route-permits-schedules-of-pvt-buses-to-be-digitised-by-dec10/article37848651.ece
05 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Excise kick-starts special drive ahead of festive season||The Excise Department has opened round-the-clock control room to check alcohol- and drug-related issues in view of the forthcoming Christmas and New Year celebrations. A special drive, which started on Saturday, will last till January 3. A squad led by an Inspector at the district level and squads led by Circle Inspectors at taluk levels will operate closely in association with the control room. The drive will be held in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol. The public can alert the control room about sale and distribution of drugs and spurious liquor and drinking in public spaces. Joint drives Besides, coordinated drives will be held in association with Forest, Revenue, Police, Drugs and Food Safety departments. Special teams have been deployed for night patrol and vehicle checking. Two striking force units have also been deployed to act swiftly on complaints received from the public. Drones will be pressed into service for conducting checks in forest regions and areas notorious for bootlegging. Shadow Excise and Excise Intelligence are already on the ground for surveillance of drug and alcohol mafias. Besides, Excise officials have been deployed in plainclothes across the district. All establishments with licence for serving liquor and handling narcotic drugs will be frequently inspected, and their operations will be under close monitoring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-kick-starts-special-drive-ahead-of-festive-season/article37848643.ece
05 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Local bodies yet to gear up for possible Omicron spread||Local bodies in Ernakulam are yet to have a plan of action to tackle the situation emerging out of a possible detection of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. With the initial role being confined to the Health department, civic bodies are awaiting directions from the Department of Local Self Governments on the way forward. Senior department officials said they had not received any specific communication on the plan of action for addressing the scenario. However, ward-level and rapid response teams can be regrouped to carry out the plan at the ground level. Ward-level samitis had turned inactive in local bodies, where the number of active COVID-19 cases had gone down considerably, they said. Surveillance is mainly focused on the Cochin International Airport as part of screening those coming to the district from ‘at-risk’ countries. The District Medical Office said a mechanism was in place to ensure that those arriving from abroad and high-risk nations strictly followed the new quarantine regulations. Those coming from high-risk nations have to undergo seven-day quarantine, followed by a seven-day self-observation, while those from other nations have to be on 14-day self-observation. The Health Department has said that travellers can go into self-quarantine at their homes without coming into contact with other family members. Arrangements have been made for RT-PCR tests after the seventh day of quarantine at the nearby primary health centre or taluk hospital free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-yet-to-gear-up-for-possible-omicron-spread/article37848645.ece
05 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A unique short film fest to mark Soil Day||Kottuvally grama panchayat and Krishi Bhavan are jointly organising a short film festival to mark World Soil Day on December 5. A total of 20 short films, each lasting three minutes, were produced and submitted mostly by schoolchildren, said sources in the Department of Agriculture. The themes include protection of soil, environmental pollution, waste disposal, and ways to prevent soil erosion, including planting of trees and organic cultivation. “Soil is Life” (Mannanu Jeevan) by Wilfred Jaim, a Standard 10 student of Koonammavu HSS, is one of the noted films. It emphasises the centrality of the quality of soil to sustain agriculture and society as a whole. The films depict the ways in which soil is used to support human life. Most films were shot on mobile phones and were screened on Saturday at the Kattikkulam Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Cultural Centre at Kottuvallly. Interestingly, visitors are given an opportunity to select the best film. Role of youngsters The festival aims to drive home the point that initiatives by youngsters can help in renewing nature and caring for it in a better way, the organisers said on Saturday. World Soil Day observance on December 5 focuses on the importance of healthy soil and advocating sustainable management of soil resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-unique-short-film-fest-to-mark-soil-day/article37848639.ece
05 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Judiciary capable of changing country’s direction: K. Chandru||Even though the judiciary cannot change the structure of the country, it can change its direction and redeem certain ills, K. Chandru, former judge of the Madras High Court, said here on Saturday. The inspiration for actor Suriya’s character in the recent critically-acclaimed Jai Bhim , Mr. Chandru pointed out that the country could be served through any service. “As a lawyer fighting for human rights and against police atrocities and later as a judge, I was able to serve the nation [in all these roles],” he said at the Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer remembrance meet organised by Justice Krishna Iyer Movement here. Recalling his association with Justice Krishna Iyer, Mr. Chandru said the legal luminary had taught several valuable lessons to judges like him. “His guiding principles helped us in giving directions in areas like prison reforms, pre-trial custody, and atrocities by the State and the police,” he said. “Justice Krishna Iyer proved that a writ of habeas corpus can be used to redeem the grievance of any person under duress. Habeas Corpus is a larger platform under which Article 21 can be redeemed, and State atrocities or repression can be placed in front of a judge,” he said.  Jai Bhim is based on true incidents from a case in Vriddhachalam, which was handled by Mr. Chandru in 1993 when he was practising as a lawyer. Terming the impact of Jai Bhim a magic, Mr. Chandru said the entire State machinery had been pressed into service to study the plight of tribal people across Tamil Nadu after the movie was released. “If one film can change the planning process of a State, I think many such magics could be done in this country,” he said. Former judges K. Narayana Kurup, J.B. Koshy, P.S. Gopinathan, and P.K. Shamsuddin spoke. M.P. Joseph, former District Collector of Ernakulam, recalled the contributions of the late K.R. Vishwambharan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/judiciary-capable-of-changing-countrys-direction-k-chandru/article37848653.ece
05 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||K-Rail says SilverLine will get patronage, critics differ||Even as those opposed to the Thiruvananthapuram-Kasaragod SilverLine semi-high-speed rail project term the travel demand that has been forecast in the project’s detailed project report (DPR) exaggerated, Kerala Rail Development Corporation (K-Rail) officials cite worsening road congestion to justify the need for a sustainable mass rapid transport system. Traffic decongestion As per the DPR, the daily patronage is estimated to be 79,934 trips in 2025-26. It could be 54,000 in the worst scenario, 1,14,000 trips in the optimistic scenario, including trips from airports, feeder services, and transit-oriented developments on either side of the 540-km alignment of the Rs. 63,941-crore project, says V. Ajithkumar, Managing Director of K-Rail. “Increasing traffic hold-ups on urban roads and mounting queues at toll plazas on highways are proof that conventional trains and buses have failed to live up to commuter expectations. A lakh cars Considering the present trend, SilverLine can take away at least a lakh cars from highways in the State. ‘‘It will also be cost-effective, since the estimated fare of Rs. 2.50 per km (in 2025) will only go up marginally, in keeping with the variation in Wholesale Price Index (WPI). This will be apart from the reduction in pollution, congestion, and accidents on roads,” Mr. Ajithkumar says. But critics vouch that SilverLine will not get the patronage it is hoping to garner. ‘Online services’ “Fewer people from Kasaragod, the Malabar region, and other districts are travelling to places such as Thiruvananthapuram to visit government offices, the Regional Cancer Centre and other prominent hospitals, since government services are increasingly becoming online and most districts have well-equipped hospitals. Even inaugurations have turned online,” says S. Rajeevan, general convener of the K-Rail Virudha Janakeeya Samiti, a non-governmental organisation spearheading the campaign against SilverLine. The estimated cost of Rs. 63,941 crore, which could further go up, and the displacement of 20,000 families do not justify the expense and its fallout on environment. The speed of existing trains can be doubled if the signal system, steep curves, and problematic gradients on the present rail network are modified, for approximately Rs. 20,000 crore, Mr. Rajeevan says. Projected patronage A senior office-bearer of the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad says on condition of anonymity that the projected patronage of 79,934 trips per day looked inflated. The K-Rail authorities must provide the required data to support the figure, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/k-rail-says-silverline-will-get-patronage-critics-differ/article37848664.ece
05 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||PFI demands action against RSS||The Popular Front of India (PFI) has accused the police and the Home Department of remaining mute spectators in the face of rabble-rousing by RSS and BJP leaders and their alleged open calls for instigating riots. Addressing the media here on Saturday, PFI office-bearers urged the Home Department to wake up from inertia, as peace and tranquillity in the State was being threatened. PFI State president C.P. Muhammed, State secretary C.A. Rauf, and Ernakulam district president V.K. Salim were present. They alleged that a march organised by the RSS in remembrance of the slain K.T. Jayakrishnan was rife with slogans brimming with communal hatred and hostility. Though it was against the CPI(M), it effectively was reduced to an open call for riots targeting the Muslim community, thus exposing the real designs of the RSS and the BJP. Mr. Muhammed pointed out how BJP State secretary K. Surendran had endorsed slogans calling for the demolition of mosques, which, he said, amounted to openly promoting communal elements. He added that Mr. Surendran’s allegation that there were 22 safe havens of the PFI in the State, and that they were not even accessible to the police was baseless. “While there is not a single place belonging to Muslims that is out of bounds of the police or any other agency, the number of places where the RSS is denied entry in the State is on the rise, as people have realised their extremist nature. The provocative and communal overtures by the RSS were an attempt to grab power overcoming that non-acceptance by the public,” Mr. Muhammed said. PFI office-bearers said that the organisation was in favour of COVID-19 vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pfi-demands-action-against-rss/article37848654.ece
05 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Singer Thoppil Anto passes away in Kochi||Thoppil Anto, whose live singing electrified numerous stages, died at Edapally here on Saturday due to age-related ailments. He was 81 years. Anto, who loved the evergreen numbers of Mohammed Rafi, took to music at a very young age and became a sought-after singer in ganamelas (live music shows). He sang alongside musicians such as C.O. Anto and Maradu Joseph. His first opportunity to sing for a play came when the then Union Minister A.C. George recommended him to sing for Visha Vriksham , the much-criticised play written by playwright C.J. Thomas for the liberation struggle against the first Communist government in Kerala. While he remained a singer for theatre and of light music, Anto made a foray into playback singing, lending his voice for songs in films such as Sneham Oru Pravaham and Veenapoovu and under the baton of eminent composers such as M.K. Arjunan and Devarajan. He last sang for Honey Bee 2 (2017) for which music was composed by Deepak Dev.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/singer-thoppil-anto-passes-away-in-kochi/article37848630.ece
05 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No delay in suspending bar licence, says Excise||The Excise department has shot down allegations of delay in suspending the bar licence of the Fort Kochi-based hotel No 18 where the victims of the Chakkaraparambu accident had attended a late-night party on October 31, just hours before speeding their way to death. The department had served the hotel a notice on October 23, more than a week before the said party, for serving liquor beyond the permissible time of 9 p.m. However, the bar licence was suspended only on November 2, a day after the fatal accident. The department claimed that there was no delay, and that only normal time was taken for the completion of formalities. The Excise Circle Inspector concerned had to submit a report to the Deputy Excise Commissioner who in turn had to forward it to the Excise Commissioner, as the latter alone is authorised to suspend the licence. The order suspending the licence came from the Excise Commissionerate in the evening of November 1, which, incidentally, was a dry day. It was served by the Excise Circle Inspector concerned the very next day, sources said. A case was also registered against the hotel manager and the licensee. It was followed by a second case against the licensee after the Circle Inspector conducted an inspection of the bar on Friday and found that liquor was billed at 9.12 p.m. as against the closing time of 9 p.m. Though the offence is a compoundable one and the licence is revoked within a week or two usually, the department has chosen not to do so in the case of hotel No 18 considering the prevailing circumstances. Excise officials reasoned that the inspection was delayed by more than a month so as not to malign any potential forensic evidence or fingerprints in view of the ongoing police investigation into the party and the accident thereafter. A senior Excise official said the department hardly had any role as of now though the city police had registered eight cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act against Syju Thankachan, an accused remanded in judicial custody in connection with the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-delay-in-suspending-bar-licence-say-excise-officials/article37848642.ece
05 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Hackathon gets under way||A 120-hour-long hackathon in future technologies got under way at Toc-H Engineering College here on Saturday. The event, organised as part of the Kerala Startup Mission’s Innovators Premier League, was inaugurated by Arun Alex, coordinator of the industry attachment cell of Kerala Technological University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hackathon-gets-under-way/article37848644.ece
05 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Probe ordered into complaint of police brutality||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has ordered an inquiry into a complaint by V.A. Sajeesh Kumar of Kannangatt at Palluruthy, a fish vendor, who alleged that a group of police officers had physically assaulted him. The alleged incident followed the filing of a complaint by a person at Palluruthy over a missing fish vending table on November 26. Sajeesh said he had been admitted to a hospital at Karuvelipady, and that he was at present at his home near Palluruthy. He had alleged that the District Police Chief (Kochi City) had not considered his complaint against the officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-ordered-into-complaint-of-police-brutality/article37848640.ece
05 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Major theft at Kalady||A theft of around 20 sovereigns of gold ornaments and Rs. 40,000 was reported from a household at Malayattoor-Neeleshawaram within the Kalady police station limits in the early hours of Saturday. The valuables were stolen by breaking in through the back door. The theft is believed to have taken place between 2 a.m. and 4 p.m. It came to light after the family noticed the almirah in a room lying open. A man was reportedly spotted in the neighbourhood around 1 a.m. Perumbavoor Assistant Superintendent of Police Anuj Palival visited the house. Forensic and fingerprint experts collected evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/major-theft-at-kalady/article37848646.ece
05 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held on theft charge||The Angamaly police arrested two persons on the charge of creating a ruckus and stealing Rs. 45,000 from a meat shop at Thuravur. The arrested are Vishnu aka Pullani Vishnu, 30, of Pullani and Ajay, 24, of Thuravur. The incident took place on November 20. The accused also reportedly caused damage to the tune of around Rs. 35,000 to the shop. They had been in hiding since then. The two were nabbed from a lodge at Kizhakkambalam by a team constituted by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. Vishnu is an accused in 11 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-on-theft-charge/article37848647.ece
05 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two arrested with drugs||The Ernakulam Rural District Anti-Narcotic Special Action Force and the Aluva police arrested two persons with 38 packets of morphine. The arrested are Majnur Mulla, 26, and Litten Sheikh of Murshidabad in West Bengal. A tip-off received by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik led to the arrest. They frequented their native place to source the contraband, which they allegedly sold in small lots among migrant workers. A team led by Aluva Inspector Saiju K. Paul, Sub Inspectors R. Vinod and K.P. Johny, Assistant Sub Inspector P.A. Iqbal, and civil police officers Mahin Shah, Abubacker, and Ameer made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-with-drugs/article37848648.ece
05 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Better pilgrim amenities at railway station||Steps will be taken to improve amenities at the Ernakulam Junction railway station for Sabarimala pilgrims, chairman of Railway Passenger Amenities Committee P.K. Krishnadas said following a visit to the station on Saturday. He said NGOs should be roped in to help provide space for pilgrims to take rest at the station. The Railways have readied e-toilets, considering the arrival of pilgrims from other States. He ordered the installation of more such toilets, if needed, and the setting up of an enquiry counter to pass on information in various languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/better-pilgrim-amenities-at-railway-station/article37848649.ece
05 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy’s skills on show at Op demo||Military precision, skills, and armed operations were on show at the Navy’s Operations Demonstration (Op Demo), which was organised by the Southern Naval Command (SNC) as part of Navy Week - 2021 celebrations on the backwaters off Rajendra Maidan and Marine Drive on Saturday evening. The event offered an insight into operations at sea. Governor Arif Mohammad Khan was the chief guest. Vice Admiral M.A. Hampiholi, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command, hosted the event. The 90-minute demonstration got under way with MARCOS (Marine Commandos) carrying out simulated combat beach reconnaissance and assault, using inflatable watercraft. They showcased operations launched from air and water such as SAR (search and rescue) and slithering ops, simulation of VBSS (visit, board, search, and seizure) and helobatics by advanced light helicopter (ALH) and Chetak helicopters. The commandos also undertook demolition of an offshore enemy installation. Fixed wing aircraft Dornier, anti-submarine warfare helicopter Sea King 42 B, indigenously manufactured surveillance and search and rescue helicopter ALH, and the old warhorse, Chetak helicopters, participated in a single-line formation flypast. Subsequently, seven ships of the Command undertook various demonstrations, which included simulated firing of guns and helicopter-landing demos on the deck of a ship. The participating ships included guided missile destroyer INS Kochi, sail training ship INS Tarangini, training ships INS Shardul and INS Sujata, survey ship INS Sarvekshak, and fast-attack crafts INS Kabra and INS Kalpeni. Specially trained sniffer dogs of the Navy’s explosive ordnance disposal team demonstrated their special capability of detecting an explosive device and disposing it of safely. Continuity drill A continuity drill performed by a 30-men contingent from INS Dronachraya showcased precise discipline and skills in weapon handling. The display concluded with a Beating Retreat by the Naval Band and the ceremonial Sunset ceremony with the rendition of ‘Abide With Me’ tune. Earlier in the day, Vice Admiral Hampiholi laid a wreath at the Naval War Memorial at the Naval Base.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-showcases-skills-at-op-demo/article37848637.ece
05 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Cashew sector hopeful of good times||With a visible increase in sales and global consumption patterns, the cashew sector may be finally looking towards brighter prospects. According to industry stakeholders, there has been a spike in demand which is likely to go up considering its newly-found status in the post-pandemic diet. A rise in awareness about healthy, nutritious food options has provided a much-needed boost to the industry and the trend is expected to continue. According to the International Nut and Dried Fruit Council, despite the COVID-19 related disruptions, global demand remained solid in 2020-21 “with most tree nut exports showing increments compared to the prior season and even hitting record international shipments”. Production too up The council also forecasts an increase, though marginal, in cashew production after the northern hemisphere harvest. “That means there will be a stable supply of cashew and the consumption too is going well. The global demand never dipped though production was hit during the lockdown. In the post-pandemic world more people are switching to healthier food options like cashew,” says Prathap Nair of VLC Cashews, who is also the council’s representative in India. Domestic market During the first wave of COVID-19 there was an alarming fall in demand due to the cancellation of public events, celebrations, and weddings. “But now the domestic market has rebounded and during the pandemic the health benefits of cashew were widely discussed. Now the nut consumption in India in general is getting back to pre-pandemic level. Both domestic and global demand are good now,” adds Mr. Nair. Meanwhile, many small and medium processing units in the State are still struggling to survive. High production cost compared to other States and shortage of raw material had forced many units to down shutters. “Our export volume has come down drastically over five years due to multiple issues. Other than the competition from Vietnam, many nut producing African countries have now started processing,” says S. Jayamohan, former chairman of Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC). Dwindling numbers He adds that increasing domestic raw nut production is also very important to revive the industry. “There used to be 2.5 lakh cashew labourers. Now the figure has gone below 70,000.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cashew-sector-hopeful-of-good-times/article37848711.ece
05 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||KMML aid for welfare activities||Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd (KMML) finance head Anil Kumar on Friday handed over Rs. 18.75 lakh to District Collector Afsana Parveen for welfare activities in the mining sector. Every year KMML pays royalties to the District Mineral Fund and the National Mineral Exploration Fund. In 2021-22 so far, Rs. 56 lakh has been paid as royalty. The figure was Rs. 62 lakh in 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmml-aid-for-welfare-activities/article37848703.ece
05 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited||SRC Community College under the State Resource Centre has invited applications for certificate and diploma courses. The deadline for submitting applications is December 15. Anyone over the age of 18 can apply. Details are on www.srcccin/ www.src.kerala.gov.in. Contact Director, State Resource Centre, Vikas Bhavan PO, Thiruvananthapuram-695033 or call 04712325101, 2326101, 8281114464.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited/article37848704.ece
05 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Ambedkar memorial meeting tomorrow||The Kerala Dalit Federation (KDF) and Gandhibhavan, Pathanapuram, will jointly organise a memorial meeting on December 6 to mark B.R. Ambedkar’s 65th death anniversary. Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal will inaugurate the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ambedkar-memorial-meeting-tomorrow/article37848705.ece
05 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kerala Rubber Ltd. to be operational in May||Kerala Rubber Limited (KRL), an initiative of the State government under public-private partnership (PPP), will start its operations in May next year. The decision was taken at a review meeting chaired by Industries Minister P. Rajeeve in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday. The KRL was formed following the acquisition of Hindustan Newsprints Limited (HNL) in Velloor. The company, which aims to manufacture rubber-based value-added products and to provide technical support to the rubber industry, will operate on the lines of Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL). 145 acres for KRL Out of the 700 acres of land on the HNL campus in Vellore, which was taken over by Kinfra,145 acres will soon be handed over to the KRL. According to a press release issued by the office of the Industries Minister, a detailed project report (DPR) of the new company will be prepared within two months. The company has been set up with the government holding 26% shares. Objectives As per plans, the company intends to process natural rubber and latex in the new company and produce value-added products. The government expects a big leap in latex processing at the KRL by 2030 and to make the State a latex hub. The government also expects an investment worth Rs. 1,000 crore in the new company.  The company aims to manufacture rubber-based value-added products||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-rubber-ltd-to-be-operational-in-may/article37848694.ece
05 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Online lecture by Chomsky||Thinker and academician Noam Chomsky will deliver a talk on ‘Reflections on Language and Thought’ as part of the 34th CA Sheppard Memorial Lecture, organised by St. Berchmans College, Changanassery. The event will be held online at 8.30 p.m. on Monday. For registration, contact 9497669286, 9447806302 or mail to thomaspathil@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-lecture-by-chomsky/article37848700.ece
05 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Death of ducks triggers scare||An unusual rise in the death of ducks in Vechoor and Kallara grama panchayats in Kottayam has triggered panic among Kuttanadan duck farmers in the region. While the Animal Husbandry department has recorded the death of more than 2,000 ducks, farmers say 8,000 ducks died during the past few days with symptoms of avian influenza. Lab examinations are yet to confirm the presence of any virus. District chief veterinary officer Shaji Panikkasseril has asked the farmers to exercise caution and disinfect the paths and resting places of ducks. The farmers have been asked to report any unusual deaths of ducks or noticing symptoms similar to avian influenza. Samples have been collected from the dead birds and sent to the Avian Disease Diagnostics Lab (ADDL) in Thiruvalla. Samples would also be sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, by Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-of-ducks-triggers-scare/article37848666.ece
05 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||No efficient system yet to track vehicles in hit-and-run cases||Despite a specific directive from the Kerala State Human Rights Commission, the Police and the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) are yet to look into the possibilities of devising an efficient system that can effectively track vehicles and drivers involved in hit-and-run cases. With many road surveillance cameras out of order, the claim by the police and the MVD that offenders can be tracked using CCTV visuals is proving to be false. The tendency of many drivers to escape from the spot after causing accidents is still rampant. Local drivers involved in such cases flee through unmonitored local roads and cover up their vehicles to evade legal action. “The surveillance cameras can at least give us digital evidence. The court or the police will not trust our claims if we fail to submit supporting evidence. Those injured in accidents or have escaped unhurt may not be able to remember the vehicle number or other details to support the probe,” says a lawyer from the city who has dealt with several accident cases. In many cases, the formalities end with a general diary (GD) entry at the police station for claiming insurance benefits, without proceeding to the next stage to register a First Information Report (FIR), he adds. Besides injuries, the damage caused to vehicles in hit-and-run cases is also overlooked in many cases in the name of insurance benefits. The police and MVD officials have been accused of trying to end the probe with a GD entry without attempting to track the vehicle that caused the accident. The difficulty in gathering digital evidence is also a matter of concern for affected persons. Road Accident Action Forum (RAAF) functionaries say it is high time that the police and the MVD appointed a professional agency that can scientifically handle the road surveillance camera network across the State. According to them, many surveillance cameras are now just scarecrows without periodic maintenance or replacement. Govt. intervention “There should be some intervention on the part of the government to restructure the existing organisation of the Kerala Road Safety Authority to think of the real concerns of accident victims,” says RAAF president K.M. Abdu. No hit-and-run cases are likely to be tracked instantly without a professional monitoring system maintained and controlled by experts, he adds. High-end cameras in city Dismissing the allegations, officials attached to the City police claim that Kozhikode was the first city in Kerala to have high-end Automatic Number Plate Recognition cameras for tracking suspicious vehicles. A dedicated control room is also functional in the city, which can constantly track camera feeds and support speedy enforcement action within city limits, they add. However, complete coverage will be possible only with the expansion of the network to all locations with the support of local police stations, they say. Though efforts are on, it needs heavy investment and maintenance support, they add. MVD officials say they are planning to step up monitoring in the sector using AI-based cameras. The Kerala State Electronics Development Corporation has been entrusted with the work to be completed in 45 locations in the first phase, they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-efficient-system-yet-to-track-vehicles-in-hit-and-run-cases/article37848628.ece
05 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||2-day theatre festival concludes||“A. Shanthakumar was a creative, intellectual and poetic dramatist for whom writing was a passion more than direction,” said writer and activist Civic Chandran on Saturday. Delivering the A. Shanthakumar commemoration lecture in Kozhikode, he said the works of the late dramatist were poetic to the core. At the fag end of his career, Shanthakumar had become a “cult figure” with an image beyond criticism, he said. The commemoration programme was organised as part of the two-day short play festival ‘Shanthanormma’ organised by Theatre Culture, a collective of theatre groups in the district. Four plays were staged on Friday, the first day of the festival. The plays Ee Manohara Theerathu by Nadakathara, Kathi by Creative Group, Kothi by Actors Group Exploration and Award by Edakkad Theatre Collective were staged on Saturday. Mr. Chandran said he was disappointed by the plays staged on Friday. “When we come back on stage after two years of inactivity, the trying times we underwent should have some influence on the plays. Ironically, none of the plays staged here had even a shadow of COVID in them,” he said. Festival chairman Baiju Merikunnu presided over the event. The theatre festival was a big draw, with the Town Hall filled beyond capacity on Friday and Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-day-theatre-festival-concludes/article37848624.ece
05 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Seetharaman commemoration on Dec. 9||The All Kerala River Protection Committee will organise a commemoration programme to honour the memory of its former president S. Seetharaman in Ernakulam on December 9. Committee general secretary T.V. Rajan told reporters here on Saturday that former High Court judge B. Kemal Pasha would be the chief guest at the programme to be held at Chavara Cultural Centre, Ernakulam, at 10 a.m. Environmentalist M.K. Prasad will deliver the Dr. S. Seetharaman commemoration lecture. Western Ghats protection activist and Peaceful Society founder Kumar Kalanand Mani will deliver the keynote address, while Telangana Water Resources Development Corporation chairman V. Prakash Rao will be the guest of honour. Mr. Rajan said journalist S. Shyamkumar of Mathrubhumi News had been selected for the first media award instituted in memory of Seetharaman. The award, carrying Rs. 10,000 in cash and a citation, will be present at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seetharaman-commemoration-on-dec-9/article37848625.ece
05 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Entries invited for poetry contest||Entries are invited for the Mampazham poetry awards in memory of Vailoppilly Sreedhara Menon. The poems can be a maximum of 28 lines. There are no restrictions on the theme or age of participants. Entries can be sent to Sadbhavana Books, V.P.B. Complex, Ram Mohan Road, Kozhikode - 4 by December 15 or mailed tosadbhavanabooks@ gmail.com. One can also WhatsApp entries to 94959-15063 or 93491-02020. The best poem will win a cash prize of Rs. 10,001, while the second and third will have cash prizes of Rs. 7,001 and Rs. 5,001. The prizes will be distributed on December 22, the 36th death anniversary of Vailoppilly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poetry-contest/article37848626.ece
05 December 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||No differences over campaign in mosques: Samastha||The Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama has brushed aside the news reports about differences within the State’s top Sunni organisation over its decision against using mosques for an anti-government campaign on the issue of Waqf Board appointments. A joint statement by Samastha president Syed Mohammed Jifri Muthukoya Thangal, general secretary K. Alikutty Musliar, and Samastha Kerala Islam Matha Vidyabhyasa Board general secretary M.T. Abdulla Musliar said on Saturday that there were no differences within the organisation in its stand on the government leaving Waqf Board appointments to the Public Service Commission. Describing the reports that appeared in the media baseless, the leaders said the Samastha had dropped the plan to use Friday gatherings in mosques for a campaign against the appointments, as it did not want a political divide in mahals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-differences-over-campaign-in-mosques-samastha/article37848667.ece
05 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||SYS to hold ‘historical dialogue’ today||The cultural directorate of the Sunni Yuvajana Sangham (SYS) will conduct a ‘historical dialogue’ at Hotel Emerald, Mannarkkad, on Sunday afternoon as part of observing the centenary of the 1921 Malabar Rebellion. The SYS is conducting a Statewide campaign on reviving the true memories of the freedom struggle with the objective of correcting those who negate history in the name of communal intolerance. Samastha Mushavara member K.P. Mohammed Musliar Kombam will inaugurate the historical dialogue. Writers P. Surendran and K.P.S. Payyanadam and historian Husain Randathani will speak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sys-to-hold-historical-dialogue-today/article37848827.ece
05 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Konni forests to get a plan to fight disasters||Caught in a relentless grind of disasters over the years, the upstream riparian area of the Achencoil river that extends across the woodlands of Konni and Achencoil will soon get a plan for disaster response and capacity building. As the region came under devastating floods and landslips in the just-concluded monsoon, the Forest department has now embarked on a plan to scientifically manage the Achencoil river basin. The plan, slated to be implemented from January, is being prepared and executed along with the School of Environmental Sciences under Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam. Extensive survey soon Researchers from the varsity have already carried out a preliminary survey of the affected locations and the watershed areas. They will return for an extensive survey of the region later this month. A mapping of the forest resources too will be done as part of the study. According to K.N. Shyam Mohanlal, Divisional Forest Officer, Konni, the project is being implemented primarily in view of the recurring floods in the Achencoil river , caused by landslips in the upstream area. Much damage, including loss of wildlife, forest cover as well as its resources, was reported during the intense, unseasonal showers in October and November. “At least two dead elephants were found adrift in the floodwaters this time. The forest appears unable to provide that moderating service of controlling water flow as the riparian vegetation of Achencoil is fast disappearing due to the instability of its banks,” the DFO said. The communities that live inside the forest or on its fringes have been badly affected by these recurring calamities, which prompted the authorities to implement the plan through community participation. Predicting rise in level “This plan will help us predict the rise in in water level in the event of a landslide on the upstream and prepare accordingly,” he added. Of the total river basin area of 1,340 sq km, the plan will cover about 50 waterbodies that extends across 654 sq km between Konni and the Western Ghats. Among the tributaries, the Kallar watershed area, located at a height of 1,923 metres from the sea level, feeds the Achencoil with the highest amount of water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/konni-forests-to-get-a-plan-to-fight-disasters/article37848699.ece
05 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Political rivalry also led to murder: police||The police have now included political rivalry as one of the reasons for the murder of Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] local leader P.B. Sandeep Kumar after maintaining that the killing was an act of personal vendetta by the key accused. A remand report submitted before the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court in Thiruvalla on Friday said Jishnu Raghu, key accused, was an active member of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha and three among the remaining four accused, including Nandu and his brother Abhijith, were associated with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). As per the report, the key accused had nursed personal as well as political grudge against the deceased. It further stated that the accused had unleashed a violent attack on Sandeep Kumar with an intention to kill him. The accused were remanded in judicial custody for 14 days and shifted to a COVID-19 care centre in Alappuzha. Though the police had caught all persons accused in the crime within hours, they came under severe criticism for ruling out the angle of political killing during the preliminary investigation stage itself. Besides the local CPI(M) leadership, party State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan took strong exception to this stance adopted by the police. Sandeep Kumar, secretary of the Peringara local committee of the CPI(M), was hacked and stabbed to death by the five-member gang on Thursday night. The accused have been booked under eight charges, including murder, unlawful assembly and criminal intimidation, among others. Meanwhile, the police will soon file an application to get custody of the accused for interrogation.  As per the remand report, the key accused had nursed personal as well as political grudge against the deceased||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/political-rivalry-also-led-to-murder-police/article37848665.ece
05 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||72 temporary Plus One batches for Malabar||As many as 72 temporary Plus One batches have been sanctioned in 21 taluks in the Malabar region, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. The new batches comprise one Science batch, 10 Commerce, and 61 Humanities batches. Theses were allowed on the basis of options marked in applications by students, the Minister said at a press meet here on Saturday morning. Applications will be invited afresh for these batches. Even students who had received admission could apply. Guest lecturers will be appointed for these batches. In Kasaragod, batches will be allowed in Manjeswararam; in Kannur at Thalassery and Kannur; in Kozhikode at Koyilandy, Vadakara, Thamarassery, and Kozhikode; and in Malappuram at Tirur, Ponnani, Kondotty, Nilambur, Perinthalmanna, and Tirurangandi. In Palakkad district, Alathur, Palakkad, Pattambi, Mannarkad, and Ottappalam will get new batches. Two batches are for Thrissur– at Thalappilly and Kunnamkulam, and one at Vythiri in Wayanad.  Science batch The lone science batch has been allowed in Pattambi taluk. Kasaragod gets one batch, Kannur seven batches, Kozhikode 18, Malappuram 26, Palakkad 13, Thrissur 4, and Wayanad 3. Of the 72 batches, 60 are new, while 12 batches will be sanctioned through rearrangement from other districts. Of the 12 batches being rearranged as they do not have enough students, 11 are Humanities batches and one Science.  Applications will be invited afresh for the new batches and even students who had received admission can apply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/72-temporary-plus-one-batches-for-malabar/article37848670.ece
05 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Novelist Venu V. Desam gets Sergey Esenin Award||The Sergey Esenin Award, instituted by the Russian House here and the Moscow State Esenin Museum, was presented to novelist, poet, and translator Venu V. Desam on Friday. The award was presented as part of the 12th annual Russian Language and Literature Festival hosted by the Russian House. Consul General of the Russian Federation in south India Oleg N. Avdeev inaugurated the ceremony. In his speech, Mr. Avdeev said Sergey Alexandrovich Esenin was a true national poet. “Esenin loved Russia. He wrote about the innocence of village life. His poems also reflected the pride he had for his country. He penned poems for the common people in Russia. With his love for the rural space, Esenin did not accept his counterparts’ industrial poems. I do not doubt that the literary festival will go a long way in promoting people-to-people ties between Russia and India.” University of Kerala Vice Chancellor V.P. Mahadevan Pillai, who delivered the keynote address, said the university had taken the initiative to establish cooperation with leading Russian universities. He expressed hope that this would promote Russian language and literature among the young generation. Former Secretary to the State government and writer K.V. Mohankumar spoke about Sergey Esenin. Mr. Avdeev presented the Esenin Award to Mr. Venu V. Desam. Mr. Desam was selected for the award for his contribution to popularising Russian literature in India through translations. He has translated major novels and short stories of Mikhail Dostoevsky, and also translated Leo Tolstoy and Anton Chekhov. Mr. Desam delivered the acceptance speech. Oksana Alekseeva, co-writer of the script of the docufiction Room-8 Esenin’s Key was felicitated. The film was screened ahead of the meeting. Honorary Consul of the Russian Federation and Director of the Russian House Ratheesh C. Nair presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/honour-for-novelist/article37848658.ece
05 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tele-veterinary service soon in all districts, says Minister||Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development Minister J. Chinchurani has said tele-veterinary service will soon be launched in all districts in the State. Mobile veterinary units will also come up in each block. As part of establishing mobile veterinary services across the State, 29 ambulances will be rolled out within two months, she said on Saturday. Elaborating on the upcoming projects envisaged in the animal husbandry sector while inaugurating new cattle sheds at the District Livestock Farm in Kudappanakunnu on Saturday, Ms. Chinchurani also said a State-level call centre that would enable farmers to seek assistance on a round-the-clock basis would also be introduced. The Minister said efforts were being made to widen the scope of treatment at the District Livestock Farm so as to accommodate all types of birds and animals. She added the unused land of the farm premises would be put to good use in this regard. Only 11.53 acres of the 18.75 acres of land that came under the possession of the department were being used to grow fodder grass. Similar vacant land will be identified through survey across the State, she added. The new sheds that can accommodate 24 cows and 50 goats have been built at the farm in Kudappanakunnu at a cost of Rs. 65 lakh. V.K. Prasanth, MLA, presided over the function.  State-level call centre that will enable farmers to seek assistance round the clock will be introduced. J. Chinchurani Animal Husbandry Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tele-veterinary-service-soon-in-all-districts/article37848635.ece
05 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Floating solar panels to be deployed in 10 reservoirs||Grid-connected floating solar panel units will be deployed in 10 reservoirs as part of a larger programme aimed at tapping the renewable energy potential of the State. The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has invited requests for qualification (RFQ) from solar power developers for installing floating solar panels in eight reservoirs managed by it and two under the Kerala Water Authority (KWA). 25-year period The initiative is to be implemented on a design, build, own and operate model with a period of 25 years. The eight reservoirs under the hydroelectric projects of the KSEB selected for the floating solar programme are Ponmudi, Kallarkutty, Sengulam, Kallar, Kundala, Mattuupetty, Anayirankal and Banasurasagar. The Aruvikkara and Peppara reservoirs in Thiruvananthapuram district are the two reservoirs under the Kerala Water Authority. From this project, the KSEB is eyeing a minimum of 100 MW, R. Suku, Director (Renewable Energy and Energy Savings), KSEB, says. The power utility has unveiled its first reservoir-based floating solar facility in the Banasurasagar reservoir in Wayanad in 2017. Being a State that produces just 30% of its daily power requirement, Kerala is eyeing solar power in a big way for augmenting its domestic generation. Given the State’s geographical peculiarities, scarcity of land is a hindrance in establishing large solar farms. On the other hand, the presence of a large number of waterbodies and reservoirs opens up possibilities for floating solar plants or ‘floatovoltaics’, according to the KSEB. According to the utility, its hydel reservoirs are spread over thousands of hectares. The surfaces of these waterbodies can be partially used to commercially tap solar photovoltaic power, the KSEB notes. “After a preliminary assessment of the technical and environmental feasibility, a detailed bathymetric survey has to be done to map the underwater topography such as depth of bed from the surface and presence of stumps of submerged trees that is usual in dams,” the KSEB notes in a November 20 order giving the go-ahead for the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/floating-solar-panels-to-be-deployed-in-10-reservoirs/article37848674.ece
05 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State may launch e-commerce platform||In a bid to help traditional industries scale up businesses by tapping new market avenues, the Industries Department has set its sights on creating a common e-commerce platform. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has been leading efforts to explore the possibilities of marketing a diverse range of ethnic products under a Kerala brand. He convened a second round of meeting of officials and experts as part of the endeavour here on Saturday. Objective In a Facebook post, the Minister said the government aimed for nothing less than establishing a professional system that could match up to the customer-oriented business model of corporate giants. He saw immense potential in building a global clientele for handloom, Khadi, coir, reed and other products through the proposed platform. It will involve provision for procurement, delivery and logistics support. Digital University Kerala will spearhead the efforts to launch the platform, he added. Official sources pointed out that various aspects including product positioning, cataloguing, digital marketing, adopting a central or decentralised store models, logistics partnership and payment gateway models will be factored in while evolving the system. Common platform While agencies like Hantex had their own portals for online sale, it remained to be decided if such ventures need to come under a common platform. The department also hoped to glean from the experience of other States that have embarked on similar ventures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-platform-to-market-ethnic-goods/article37848707.ece
05 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Byelections: ‘Dry day’ in four wards||‘Dry day’ will come into force in four local body wards in the district where bypolls are scheduled on December 7. The prohibition on liquor sales and distribution will be in force for 48 hours before the close of polls at 6 p.m. on December 7, and also on December 8, the vote counting day, according to the order issued by District Collector Navjot Khosa. Bypolls are scheduled in Vettucaud in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, Pothencode in Pothencode block panchayat, Edakkode in Chirayinkeezhu block panchayat and Ponnamchundu in Vithura grama panchayat. December 7 will be a regional holiday for educational institutions, government, quasi government and public sector institutions in these wards. Institutions where the polling stations are accommodated will have holidays on December 6 and 7. December 8, counting day, will be holiday for institutions where the counting centres have been set up. The polling will be held from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. on December 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/byelections-dry-day-in-four-wards/article37848822.ece
05 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Woman held for murder of son||The Vizhinjam police on Saturday cracked a murder case that was passed off as a suicide a year ago. The police arrested Nadira, 43, of Kalluvettankuzhy in Vizinjam, for the alleged murder of 20-year-old Siddique in September 2020. The youth’s death was initially claimed to be a suicide by the accused and her daughter. According to the police, the accused had attempted to conduct the final rites in haste soon after the death. However, on being alerted, the police intervened to shift the body to the Government Medical College Hospital under the pretext of conducting a COVID-19 test. During the post-mortem examination, the forensic surgeons raised the possibility of the deceased having been strangulated to death. The findings were kept a closely guarded secret. In the meantime, the Vizhinjam police made enquiries on the deceased and his family. Siddique, who was known to have been addicted to narcotic substances, used to frequently torture both his mother and sister. The police said Nadira confessed to have murdered her son when he attempted to assault his sister on the fateful day. In the absence of other witnesses in the case, the police are focused on gathering scientific and medical evidence to strengthen the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-held-for-murder-of-son/article37848825.ece
05 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police drop proceedings against accused woman||The Kerala Police have dropped the criminal proceedings against the 45-year- old woman who had been accused of sexually abusing her minor son in Kadakkavoor. The move came in the wake of the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Court here absolving her of the charges on Friday. Thiruvananthapuram Additional District and Sessions Judge (POCSO) Rajaneesh K.V. issued the order on the basis of a report filed by the investigation team. The prosecution was led by Special Public Prosecutor, POCSO, Ajith Prasad J.K. The woman had been arrested by the Kadakkavoor police in December 2020 following a complaint by her former husband that she had molested her 13-year old son for three years. She later spent 27 days in judicial custody before she was granted bail by the Kerala High Court. The case was later handed over to a special investigation team led by Superintendent of Police Divya V. Gopinath which found no evidence that could strengthen the allegations that had been levelled against her in the first information report (FIR), sources said. Besides, a medical examination that was conducted by a medical board recorded no findings that corroborated the allegation of sexual abuse. No evidence sufficient for a charge-sheet could be gathered by the police.  Medical examination did not corroborate the allegation of sexual abuse||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-drop-proceedings-against-accused-woman/article37848708.ece
05 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||8 documents as ID proof for byelection||Voters can produce any of the eight documents to establish their identity to cast their vote in the December 7 bypoll in 32 local body wards, the State Election Commission has said. The following documents can be used; Electors Photo Identity Cards (EPIC) issued by the Election Commission of India, passport, driving licence, PAN card, Aadhaar card, passbooks with photographs issued by nationalised banks within six months of the election, photo-affixed SSLC book, and identity card issued by the State Election Commission. Polling will open at 7 a.m. on December 7 and close at 6 p.m. The bypolls will be held strictly in line with the COVID-19 protocol. Voters are expected to follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour such as the use of masks and sanitiser and maintaining physical distance. The polled votes will be counted on December 8. Results will be uploaded on lsgelection.kerala.gov.in and the Trend portal of the commission. The 32 wards going to the booths include the Corporation wards of Vettucaud in Thiruvananthapuram and Gandhi Nagar in Kochi; and the district panchayat wards of Aroor in Alappuzha, Sreekrishnapuram in Palakkad, and Nanmanda in Kozhikode. Ozhinjavalappu in Kanhangad municipality, Chalampadam in Irinjalakuda municipality and Edapallychira in Piravom municipality and several grama panchayat wards across the State also will see polling on December 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/8-documents-as-id-proof-for-bypoll/article37848709.ece
05 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. staff should serve common man: CM||Lashing out at the indifferent bureaucratic attitude that often sends the common man running from pillar to post, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has told government employees to accord top priority to serving public interest. Inaugurating the 53rd State conference of the Kerala Municipal and Corporation Staff Union (KMCSU) here on Saturday, the Chief Minister flagged red-tapism and graft as factors that continued to dog municipal service in the State. “The public are often pushed to dire straits by public servants who fail to realise the importance of timely service delivery. Unhealthy tendencies by a section of government employees continue to pave way for rampant complaints. Those approaching public offices sought to exercise their rights and not seek the benevolence of government officials,” Mr. Vijayan said. Issuing a word of caution for employees who indulge in illegal activities, he added the government would not spare any worker found guilty for corruption. While the State has reined in such activities to a large extent, he urged public servants to join hands to eradicate the menace. Mr. Vijayan was also critical of practices that posed hardships for entrepreneurs while seeking the permission of local bodies in establishing businesses. Emphasising on the State’s goal to generate five non-agriculture jobs for every 1,000 people in local bodies, he lamented the callous disregard meted out to potential job-providers. While the government remained committed in its resolve to encourage entrepreneurs, government officers must never treat them as enemies of the State, he pointed out. Local Self-Government and Excise Minister M.V. Govindan delivered the keynote address on the occasion. Thiruvananthapuram Mayor Arya Rajendran, KMCSU president N.S. Shine were among those who spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-lashes-out-at-red-tapism-graft-in-municipal-service/article37848659.ece
05 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||EICL directed to resume operations at Veli unit||Labour Minister V. Sivankutty, on Saturday directed the English Indian Clays Ltd (EICL) to reopen its Veli unit which has remained shut since August last year. At a meeting attended by the EICL management, trade unions and government officials including the District Collector, the Minister directed the company management to convene a meeting of the board of directors at the earliest and launch measures to resume operations at Veli. Further, Mr. Sivankutty directed the company to issue lay-off compensation to the employees and also implement the long-term agreement dealing with salary dues, a statement issued by the Minister’s office said in a pressnote. The Minister warned the EICL management of legal action if they adopted an unsympathetic attitude to the reasonable demands made by the employees. Citing mounting losses and shortage of raw material, the EICL management had suspended operations at its Veli and Thonnakkal units on August 10, 2020, a decision that affected the livelihood of 1,500 families. At the time, the management had referred to it as a temporary measure. Operations at the Thonnackal unit were later resumed. Mr. Sivankutty has also directed Labour officials to examine the complaints raised by the trade union representatives and initiate suitable action.  Citing mounting losses and shortage of raw material, EICL had suspended operations at its Veli and Thonnakkal units||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eicl-directed-to-resume-operations-at-veli-unit/article37848826.ece
05 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Only 7.6% of cases in treatment centres||Kerala reported 4,557 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 58,817 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden now stands at 51,61,471 cases. The official cumulative case fatality stands at 41,439 as on Saturday, with the State adding 315 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths. These include 52 deaths that occurred in the past few days and 263 deaths that have now been accepted as COVID deaths. The number of deaths added to the official COVID fatality list after the death reconciliation exercise is 11,885. The State’s active case pool dipped to 43,771 patients on Saturday. A total of 5,108 persons were reported to have recovered. According to the Health department, only 7.6% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals like COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres. Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 814, followed by Ernakulam 606, Kozhikode 566, Thrissur 489, Kollam 350, Kottayam 347, Kannur 276, Malappuram 233, Pathanamthitta 211, Alappuzha 160, Palakkad 151, Wayanad 135, Idukki 139, and Kasaragod 80 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/only-76-of-cases-in-treatment-centres/article37848669.ece
05 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Suneethi portal for SJD’s schemes||The Social Justice Department (SJD) has launched a portal, Suneethi, to render the services provided by it to beneficiaries without delay. The public can get to know details of individual beneficiary schemes and submit applications online through the portal. The portal has been designed by the Centre for Development of Imaging Technology. To log in, visit suneethi.sjd.kerala.gov.in Another project launched by the department is Shreshtham, aimed at uplift of differently abled persons who excel in arts and sports. Under this, financial aid will be provided to the differently abled to receive training from recognised institutions in the State or country||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suneethi-portal-for-sjds-schemes/article37848672.ece
05 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM seeks NITI Aayog help for key projects||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday solicited the support of the NITI Aayog in taking forward key projects in Kerala. Chairing a meeting here to discuss the challenges faced by the State in various sectors, he sought the support of the NITI Aayog in setting up an All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Kerala. He called for the support of the think tank in the State’s efforts to establish centres of excellence in higher education, start cargo flights from the Kannur airport, launch expatriate schemes, and kick-start projects for railway network development. Mr. Vijayan said NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul had lauded the State for its social security initiatives. ‘Support farmers’ NITI Aayog members urged the State to promote value addition of crops and seafood processing. They also stressed the need to promote coconut cultivation in eight districts and support farmers in spices production. They extended support to transform Kerala into a knowledge society. Dr. Paul called for steps to control the incidence of non communicable and lifestyle diseases in the State. Vice chairman, Planning Board V.K. Ramachandran, Chief Secretary V.P. Joy, senior adviser, NITI Aayog Neelam Patel and officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-seeks-niti-aayog-help-for-key-projects/article37848675.ece
05 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM to open IDSFFK on Dec. 9||The 13th International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala (IDSFFK) will be held here from December 9 to 14. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the festival at 6 p.m. that day. Minister for Culture Saji Cherian will preside. The short film fete, organised by the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy, will be held at AriesPlex SL Cinemas’s Audi 1, 4, 5, and 6 screens. Films will be exhibited in categories such as long documentary, short documentary, short fiction, non-competition Malayalam section, international fiction, international non-fiction, animation, and music video. The fiction and non-fiction categories will have a national-level competition, while the campus segment will have a State-level contest. As many as 220 films have been included in the festival. The delegate fee for the public is Rs. 400, while it is Rs. 200 for students. Registration can also be done offline at the delegate cell functioning at AriesPlex SL Cinemas, Kerala State Chalachithra Academy secretary Ajoy Chandran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-to-open-idsffk-on-dec-9/article37848641.ece
05 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) district conferences from Dec. 10||CPI(M) district conferences will kick off on December 10 and will be completed in January ahead of the party State conference in Ernakulam from March 1 to 4, CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-district-conferences-from-dec-10/article37848823.ece
05 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||814 new COVID cases in capital||The district recorded 814 COVID-19 cases and 928 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 7,090 on Saturday. A test positivity rate of 10.2% was recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/814-new-covid-cases-in-capital/article37848824.ece
05 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Special schools reopen on Wednesday||Special schools for the differently abled will reopen on Wednesday while following the same guidelines applicable to other schools, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty said on Saturday. Differently abled students in general schools too could attend physical classes. Students should reach school in uniforms from December 13. A decision on student travel concession would be taken after more talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-schools-reopen-on-wednesday/article37848671.ece
05 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Union Minister to attend awards fete||Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting L. Murugan will be the chief guest at the She Short Film Festival awards ceremony to be held here on Sunday. The festival is based on the theme of women's safety. Actors Tovino Thomas and Keerthy Suresh will be the guests of honour at the event to be held at Udaya Palace Convention Centre, Kowdiar, at 5.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/union-minister-to-attend-awards-fete/article37848790.ece
05 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Woman gets life term for killing husband||A woman has been sentenced to life imprisonment for murdering her husband. Thrissur District Principal Sessions Judge P.J. Vincent sentenced Ramani, 58, wife of Parameshwaran of Pazhukkara, Mala, to life imprisonment. He also imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 on her. Murder motive Ramani bludgeoned Parameswaran, 61, to death with an iron rod on June 27, 2019 on the suspicion that he was going to sell their house and property. Parameswaran was sleeping while Ramani attacked him. Parameswaran, who sustained critical injuries, died in hospital the next day. According to the prosecution, Parameswaran had taken the title deed of their property for the purpose of taking bail for their son in a case. But Ramani thought he was going to sell the property. There were 34 witnesses in the case. Ramani’s daughter Priya and granddaughter Lakshmi Priya gave statements that they saw Ramani attacking Parameswaran with an iron rod. Mala Circle Inspector Sajin Sasi submitted the chargesheet in the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-gets-life-term-for-killing-husband/article37848787.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Santa beckons||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/santa-beckons/article37848789.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cattle market revs up again||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cattle-market-revs-up-again/article37848657.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Despite many odds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/despite-many-odds/article37848677.ece
05 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Municipal Commissioner appeals to public to not let their guard down||In view of the Omicron variant of coronavirus getting detected in Bengaluru, Anantapur Municipal Corporation has taken up a massive awareness to highlight the need for wearing of masks and following COVID-appropriate behaviour. Municipal Commissioner P.V.V.S Murthy, at a press conference here on Saturday, asked the citizens to stop gathering in large numbers without wearing masks and also avoid crowded places as far as possible in view of detection of two cases of Omicron variant in the neighbouring city from where many people keep coming on a daily basis. As part of improving access to testing and vaccination, all ward secretariats and urban health centres would conduct tests/collect swabs and also administer the COVID-19 vaccine, he pointed out. Fines to be imposed The Commissioner, while appealing for the utmost caution in public places, said that from Sunday Rs. 100 penalty would be levied on those not wearing masks properly in public places for the first time. From the second time, not just a warning but also a fine of Rs. 1,000 would be levied on the norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/municipal-commissioner-appeals-to-public-to-not-let-their-guard-down/article37848762.ece
05 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘A.P. unwilling to share info on public accounts’||Andhra Pradesh Public Accounts Committee Chairman Payyavula Keshav has taken objection to the State government not coming forward to provide information on public accounts even as the Union Government has made everything transparent. Speaking at the centenary celebrations of the Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee in New Delhi on Saturday, Mr. Keshav said, at a time when all the State governments were moving towards creating a website and posting information in it, the Andhra Pradesh government was keeping it a secret. “The Public Accounts Committee plays a major role in curbing misuse of public money, and for the smooth functioning of the PAC, a comprehensive coordinated policy needs to be designed in the State,” Mr. Keshav said. A definitive time limit should be enforced for providing information by all the government departments to the PAC, and the PAC must function beyond party affiliations, he opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-unwilling-to-share-info-on-public-accounts/article37848763.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||In Karnataka, 3 cases will make a cluster||Briefing mediapersons about the steps taken by the Karnataka Government for containment of Omicron variant of the coronavirus in the State, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said with two confirmed cases, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has been told to declare a cluster when there are three cases of infections in an apartment complex or an area at the same time. Earlier, the criterion was 10 infections. Noting two types of clusters – educational institutions and housing complexes in Bengaluru – the Chief Minister has directed the civic agency and the Health and Family Welfare Department to be on high alert to contain the spread of the disease in the city. Karnataka Government has told all apartment owners’ associations to allow only people who have taken both doses of the COVID-19 vaccine entry into their premises. Mr. Bommai said he had directed the Health and Family Welfare Department to obtain a comprehensive report on treatment protocols for Omicron. “Only a preliminary report has been received. I have instructed the department to get a comprehensive report on providing treatment for the new variant of the virus,” he said. Testing has been made mandatory for health workers, persons aged above 65 years and people with co-morbidities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-karnataka-3-cases-will-make-a-cluster/article37848260.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Martial arts training for girls in Karnataka||The Karnataka Government has introduced a martial arts training programme for girls studying in 300 residential high schools and pre-university colleges to provide self-defence skills. The schools and the PU colleges run by the Social Welfare and Backward Classes Departments began imparting the training for girls studying from Class VIII to XII. Women black belt instructors take classes of 50 minutes each for two days in a week. Ten residential institutions have been identified in each district in the first phase. Instructors take classes in karate, judo and taekwondo for 100 girls students each in two batches, an official told The Hindu . Training has started in Morarji Desai, Kittur Rani Chennmma, Ekalavya, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar and Indira Gandhi Residential Schools overseen by the Karnataka Residential Educational Institutions Society (KREIS) headed by Minister Social Welfare and Backward Classes Kota Srinivas Poojari. Each instructor is paid Rs. 500 per class and a travelling allowance of Rs. 100 and one instructor has been hired in each school. The programme involves Rs. 3.28 crore expenditure per annum and Rs. 1,09,600 per year would be released to selected residential institutions from the central office of the KREIS. “The girls will not only be trained in self-defence techniques but will also be physically fit and healthy,” said the official. The athletic abilities developed in martial arts would carry over into other sports as well, the official said. Mr. Poojari held several rounds of meetings in preparation for the programme, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/martial-arts-training-for-girls-in-karnataka/article37848275.ece
05 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||No need to panic, says Omicron-affected doctor||While guidelines on whether all Omicron cases need hospitalisation are yet to be framed, the 46-year-old government doctor infected with this variant in Bengaluru said it is not a ‘deadly’ variant as it is made out to be and patients can be managed in home isolation, if symptoms are not severe. “Out of my personal experience and the mild symptoms that I have had, I can say that Omicron-infected cases too can be managed in home isolation under medical supervision,” the doctor told The Hindu on Saturday. The recovering doctor, who is double-vaccinated, said that he has not experienced anything life-threatening so far even after 13-days since the onset of COVID-19 symptoms. “I am absolutely fine now. There is no need for people to panic over this new variant as there are no complications that were seen in those infected with the Delta variant. What is important is that people should not let their guard down, and they should get tested if they have symptoms,” he said.  The doctor, who along with his ophthalmologist wife and two daughters, has been admitted at the dedicated Omicron isolation ward in the State-run Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, said he had only mild fever, body ache and chills. “I did not have any respiratory symptoms or loss of taste and smell. Soon after my reports returned positive, I isolated myself,” he said. For three days, the doctor took paracetamol, multivitamins and antibiotics, since symptoms were manageable. “My oxygen saturation did not drop, pulse rate was normal and fever was subsiding. But on the morning of November 25, I experienced two episodes of postural hypotension (a form of low blood pressure that happens when you stand up from sitting or lying down) and giddiness. There was a slight dip in oxygen saturation too. That is why I got admitted to a private hospital and was there till November 29,” the doctor said. At the hospital, he underwent a high resolution chest scan, which showed very minimal changes in the lungs. “This is common in a COVID-19 patient with 3-4 days of infection. I was given a dose of anti-SARS-CoV-2 monoclonal antibodies on November 25 and the next day I felt absolutely fine. I do not know if this treatment helped me or my recovery was in the normal course,” he said. Cardiology conference The anaesthetist, along with two other colleagues from the same hospital where he is working, had attended a cardiology conference on November 20. “All international speakers attended online. I do not think I could have got infected there because I developed a fever within 24 hours. The incubation period cannot be so short,” he said. His wife, who is under treatment at the same hospital, said she has a sore throat, severe myalgia and muscle pain apart from chills. She has been put on intravenous fluids since Friday and is recovering. The children, who tested negative on a repeat test, are attending online classes from the hospital now.  I am absolutely fine now. There is no need for people to panic over this new variant as there are no complications that were seen in those infected with the Delta variant. What is important is that people should not let their guard down, and they should get tested if they have symptoms. The doctor infected with the Omicron variant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-need-to-panic-says-omicron-affected-doctor/article37848261.ece
05 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blight-hit tomato fields bring low yields, prices hit the roof||After a week’s lull, the retail price of tomato in Chittoor district crossed the Rs. 100-a-kg mark at the vegetable markets on Saturday, though it is the second quality stock affected with the winter blight. The price of the first variety, meant for export to Chennai and Hyderabad, is hovering around Rs. 150 a kg. The situation is unlikely to bring respite to consumers in the coming weeks as the price may escalate further. Horticulture scientists inspecting the blight-hit tomato plantations during the last one month in Madanapalle, Punganur and Palamaner areas have observed that though the crop is generally prone to seasonal blights in winter months from November to February, the magnitude is unprecedented this year, covering vast stretches of fields not only in Madanapalle revenue division, considered the largest tomato-growing belt in Asia, but also the neighboring areas in Karnataka. The scale of blight prevalence could be guaged by the plummeting arrivals at Madanapalle market yard. On Saturday, it was just 102 tonnes, eight to ten times lesser than the regular arrivals. Deputy Director (Horticulture) B. Srinivasulu told The Hindu that the regular process of transplanting of seedlings was completely stopped from November 6 onwards following heavy rains and inundation of fields. “The blight spread to a record extent in the tomato belt this year compared to previous years. The impact is very rapid and complete, affecting the plant tissues,” he said. The official said that due to downpour and waterlogging in the fields, the farmers were forced to stay away from spraying fungicides to control the blight. “The month-long inclement weather added to the intensified damage due to the blight,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. Srikanth Reddy, Manager of a Chennai-based Agri-Tech company, Way Cool Foods & Products, said the November rains had unleashed enormous losses to farmers in Madanapalle, Chintamani, and Kolar belts. “Close to 5,000 farmers bore the brunt of the November rain,” he said. Scattered plantations Meanwhile, a team of horticulture scientists observed that raising of scattered tomato plantations, instead of high-density fields, alone could reward the farmers with prospects of controllable blight conditions and high yields. “Despite our repeated appeals for raising scattered plantations, nobody heeded our advice,” deplored a senior horticulture department official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blight-hit-tomato-fields-bring-low-yields-prices-hit-the-roof/article37848768.ece
05 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rosaiah’s demise huge loss to Cong.: Chinta||Former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Chinta Mohan on Saturday said that the demise of former Tamil Nadu Governor and former Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh Konijeti Rosaiah was a huge loss to the Congress party. Speaking to the media at Tirupati, Mr. Chinta Mohan said that the veteran leader was known for his dignified voice in the assembly, with a rare achievement of working as the Revenue Minister in the cabinets of all the Chief Ministers of Congress governments from 1970s till the first decade of the new millennium, besides working as the Chief Minister himself. Senior TDP leader and former Minister Galla Aruna Kumari recalled Rosaiah’s association with her father late Paturi Rajagopal Naidu. She said that she was fortunate to have worked as a Minister alongside Rosaiah and cherish his affection for her. Rosaiah’s unblemished political career would continue to inspire many generations, she said. ‘Exemplary stint as APCC president’ Rosaiah’s stint as the Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee(APCC) president (1994-1996) remained exemplary and won accolades from all sections. Expressing sadness over Rosaiah’s death, former Union Minister Panabaka Lakshmi said the country and the Telugu States have lost a great personality, humanitarian and intellectual. An efficient Finance Minister, he had presented Andhra Pradesh State budget for as many as 15 times, recalled APCC vice-president Sripathi Prakasam, while offering his condolences to the bereaved family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rosaiahs-demise-huge-loss-to-cong-chinta/article37848766.ece
05 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD urged to look into issues of workers||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president Sake Sailajanath on Saturday urged the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) management to look into the issues faced by the FMS, outsourcing, and contract workers in the organisation and provide them with the time-scale benefit. Mr. Sailajanath visited the camp of the protesting workers to extend solidarity with them in front of the TTD administration building at Tirupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-urged-to-look-into-issues-of-workers/article37848764.ece
05 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TANA in the forefront in guiding students in U.S.’||Telugu Association of North America (TANA) president Lavu Anjaneya Chowdary on Saturday said that the reputed overseas forum was in the forefront to guide the students of the two Telugu States in pursuing their academic career in the USA. Interacting with the aspirants of overseas education and their parents at the SV University Senate Hall in Tirupati, Mr. Chowdary said that the TANA was active not only in the U.S., but also in 40 more countries, and the two Telugu States of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. He said that during the COVID pandemic, the services of the TANA were acclaimed all over the world. “During the last four decades, TANA has been continuously catering to the urgent medical and surgical emergencies for the needy worldwide,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tana-in-the-forefront-in-guiding-students-in-us/article37848765.ece
05 December 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Home Guards Durbar’ held||Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma organised ‘Home Guards Durbar’ at the District Police Headquarters on Saturday. He interacted with the home guards and enquired about the problems. Mr. Sharma said that 792 home guards were working in Narsapuram, Jangareddygudem, Eluru, Polavaram and Kovvur divisions in West Godavari district. Home guards are advised to maintain good health and fitness. They should practice yoga and do meditation to relieve from mental stress,” Mr. Sharma said. When the home guards urged to provide health cards and insurance facility, the SP responded positively. Additional SP (Administration) A.V. Subba Raju, Home Guards RI M. Raja and other officers participated. Earlier, the SP inspected Eluru Two Town and enquired with the staff about the law and order situation, investigation of pending cases, vigil on rowdy and history sheeters and other criminals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/home-guards-durbar-held/article37848302.ece
05 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s a natural disaster and not a man-made one: Anil Kumar||Minister for Water Resources P. Anil Kumar on Saturday slammed TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu for “politicising floods,” and said that “it was a flash flood, a natural disaster and not a man-made disaster.” Addressing the media, Mr. Anil Kumar also condemned the remarks of Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on the recent floods in the State. Likening the floods to the Uttarakhand glacier incident in which 150 people had died, Mr. Anil Kumar said no one had accused the Centre then. “The TDP agents who joined the BJP are trying to mislead the Union Minister,” Mr. Anil Kumar said. He said that the Annamayya project had received flash floods beyond the capacity of the project gates. Even if the fifth gate of the project was opened, the outflow capacity of the gate would be 40,000 cusecs, he said. Mr. Anil Kumar said the previous government had ignored the proposal of constructing a new spillway of the project and failed to repair the damaged gate when there were no water reserves in it. The government had continuously monitored the flood situation and had taken all possible measures to reduce the impact of floods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-a-natural-disaster-and-not-a-man-made-one-anil-kumar/article37848778.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rosaiah proved his mettle on the day YSR’s chopper went missing||In the over six decades of chequered political innings, veteran Congress leader and former Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh K. Rosaiah faced his ultimate nerve-wracking challenge the day the helicopter carrying the then Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy went missing less than an hour after taking off from Begumpet airport on September 2, 2009. Tension was palpable at the Secretariat as officials and others were desperately making efforts to know the whereabouts of the Chief Minister’s helicopter. Officials and Congress leaders, who rushed to the C Block of Secretariat hours after learning about the missing chopper recalled how Mr. Rosaiah, the then Finance Minister, took charge of the situation when everyone was clueless about the well-being of Dr. Rajasekhara Reddy. A top official told The Hindu that after Dr. Reddy’s Bell 430 helicopter failed to land in Chittoor district on that fateful day, a senior staff of Chief Minister’s Office began to call all ministers and senior officials. “Mr. Rosaiah was the first one to arrive at the C Block chambers of CM Rajasekhara Reddy. Immediately, he went into a huddle with the available officials in the meeting hall of the then Chief Secretary K. Ramakanth Reddy in the same block,” the officer recalled. Flanked by the Chief Secretary, Additional DG Intelligence K. Aravind Rao, CIB and Greyhounds chiefs, Mr. Rosaiah reviewed the situation and asked officials to draw a plan to search for YSR’s chopper. “All through the meeting he was saying YSR will return safely. Even if he is lost in the forest, he will come out unscathed,” is what Mr. Rosaiah reportedly told the officials and his ministerial colleagues even as he requested everyone to pray for charismatic leader’s safe return. Despite his advanced aged, Mr. Rosaiah did not heed to the advice of the officials and ministers to take some rest. He stayed put at C Block monitoring all the calls and coordinating with the officials, ministers and speaking to the Congress leadership in Delhi and apprising them of the situation. Another police officer, who was closely involved that day in the reviews maintained that Rosaiah and others at one stage expressed fears that something must have gone wrong. They went to the extent of speculating that if YSR’s helicopter had landed in some forest area particularly Nalamalla forests in Kurnool/Prakasam districts, he would daringly come out without harm. “One angle that was discussed that day was whether YSR has been kidnapped by naxals, if his chopper had made emergency landing in the forest area. Dozens of Greyhounds personnel and others were despatched by evening to Nalamalla forest suspecting that he must have been stuck in the dense forest,” the police officer wishing anonymity said. Ultimately on the evening of September 2, 2009, Mr. Rosaiah came before the media to announce that the helicopter carrying YSR was missing and made an open appeal to people to search for their beloved leader. The next day after the wreckage of the Bell 430 helicopter was found near Pavuralagutta in Kurnool district, Mr. Rosaiah was sworn as the caretaker Chief Minister.  Rosaiah, the then Finance Minister, took charge of the situation when everyone was clueless about YSR’s well-being||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/proved-grit-when-ysr-went-missing/article37848608.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||IAMC to be inaugurated on December 18||International Arbitration and Media Centre (IAMC), a brainchild of Supreme Court Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and being set up by a trust in Hyderabad, will be inaugurated on December 18. Announcing this at a curtain-raising conclave on the Centre, the apex court CJ said the Centre would operate from two floors of a multi-storied building in financial district of Gachchibowli here. Eventually, it would be shifted into an own building of the trust for which land was allotted in Puppalaguda, nearly 12 km from Gachchibowli. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who was special guest at the conclave and expressed gratitude to the CJ on behalf of Telangana people for choosing Hyderabad to set up the Centre, announced that a land parcel was allotted for the construction of building for the Centre. He assured that all other necessary help would be extended to the Trust in smooth operation of the Centre from Hyderabad. Arbitration and mediation were the preferred dispute resolution mechanisms these days all over the world due to various factors. International arbitration centres of the world were located in commercial city hubs like there at London, Paris, Singapore, New York and Stockholm. Despite availability of such centres in the country, litigants from the country were choosing international centres to resolve their disputes incurring huge expenditure, the CJ said. The establishment of International Arbitration and Media Centre in Hyderabad would change that trend, he hoped. The Centre would have the best infrastructure and world acclaimed international arbitrators would be its panellists. By adopting best practices in the world of arbitration of commercial disputes, the Centre would become an institution on a par with that of London and Singapore, the Chief Justice said. The CJ said that initially he thought of starting a personal arbitration centre but after interacting with some of his colleagues the concept grew into a bigger canvass. Thus the IAMC idea evolved and the swift and positive response from Telangana CM turned it into a reality even quicker, the Chief Justice said. The present alternative dispute resolution systems stemmed from methods of settlement of disputes by village elders practised in olden days, KCR said. Ease of doing business and enforcing contracts were crucial for financial progress. Unfortunately, the country was lagging behind in enforcement of contracts. Hyderabad emerged a global city in recent past and naturally the best option for location of IAMC. Due to a variety of structural reasons including inadequate number of courts and judges, litigation was getting prolonged. The proposed IAMC would of great help in resolving commercial disputes in this backdrop, he said. SC judges L. Nageswara Rao, Hima Kohli, R. Subhash Reddy and P.S. Narasimha, Telangana HC CJ Satish Chandra Sharma, AP HC Prashant Kumar Mishra, former judges of the SC R.V. Raveendran, judges of AP and Telangana High Courts, Telangana Ministers K.T. Rama Rao, Indrakaran Reddy and Mahmood Ali were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iamc-to-be-inaugurated-on-december-18/article37848310.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing time for Rosaiah during Statehood agitation||The 15 months that K. Rosaiah served as Chief Minister was perhaps the most turbulent phase of the separate Telangana agitation that culminated in formation of the State. The fast paced developments that ignited the agitation during this period commenced with the Supreme Court verdict on October 9, 2009, hardly a month after Rosaiah took over as the CM, declaring Hyderabad as a free zone under Presidential Order where people from coastal districts can also seek employment. The non-gazetted employees’ unions protested the judgment as they wanted Hyderabad to be part of zone six that was in Telangana. A series of meetings of employees took place after the protests, one of which was also attended by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who spearheaded the agitation that later took an enormous form. Mr. Rao then announced his decision to go on a fast unto death on November 21 after meeting President Pratibha Patil and explaining to her consequences of the stir. As scheduled, he left here for Karimnagar on November 28 to commence the fast at Siddipet the next day but was arrested at Alaganur on the way and shifted to a jail in Khammam. His arrest drove a youth, Srikanth Chary, to commit suicide by burning himself on the same day at L.B. Nagar and he succumbed four days later. By then, the protests had intensified all over Telangana and Mr. Rao, who was in district headquarters hospital at Khammam since he had already begun the fast, was shifted to NIMS in Hyderabad for security reasons. Mr. Rosaish announced in the Assembly on December 5 that he would convene an all-party meeting to take their views. The meeting took place on December 7 when it was unanimously agreed that a resolution be moved seeking separate Telangana in the House. This was followed by protests and violence at Osmania University and a ‘Chalo Assembly’ call given by students’ unions for December 9. As KCR’s condition at NIMS deteriorated, the Centre summoned Mr. Rosaiah to New Delhi for consultations. Even as he boarded the flight to return home after meeting Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram announced at midnight that the Centre would initiate the process to create Telangana. The announcement had a severe backlash in coastal districts and Rayalaseema and MPs and MLAs of all parties started submitting their resignations from December 11. The Centre took a U-turn, which was articulated by Mr. Chidambaram’s another announcement on December 23 that the government would take the next step towards giving birth to Telangana only after holding wide ranging consultations with all parties and groups. A resistance in Telangana arose with a bandh call given by Mr. Rao on December 24 followed by the birth of Telangana Joint Action Committee (TJAC). The Centre convened an all-party meeting in New Delhi where representatives of each party were asked to submit their views in writing. The Centre then constituted the Justice Sri Krishna Committee on February 4, 2010, which gave its report on December 31 that year around the time Mr. Rosaiah stepped down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/testing-time-for-rosaiah-during-statehood-protests/article37848611.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||He was walking encyclopedia on finances||Evocative yet mesmerising, eloquent yet provocative, funny yet stirring, and towering yet trusted – all these human qualities and emotions were packed into one politician that Andhra Pradesh Assembly witnessed for more than four decades, and so did scores of politicians from different eras and ideologically-opposite views. Witty retorts The Opposition hated to be targeted in the Assembly due to his witty retorts but loved him for his endearing simplicity, respected him for his vast knowledge on finances and his elephant memory of legislative rules and procedures. That is how the two Telugu States will remember Konijeti Rosaiah for a long time to come. Trust was his forte and no wonder most Chief Ministers entrusted him with important portfolios like Finance and Home. He was always the first one the Treasury benches used to look for assistance in the Assembly when the Opposition was on fire. He would douse them with statistics and political punches loaded with wit and sarcasm, and pushed them on the back foot. Considered a walking encyclopedia on State finances, he was always the first choice as the Finance Minister for most Congress CMs. The opportunity to present 15 budgets and seven budgets consecutively doesn’t come without a firm grip on money matters and leaders’ trust. Worth emulating TPCC president Revanth Reddy said that he commanded respect from the Treasury benches as well as the Opposition for his vast knowledge and he was worth emulating by those taking baby steps in politics. “I have personally benefited with his deep understanding of issues,” he said in his tribute. Senior leaders attribute his powerful debates in the Legislative Council in the 80s pushing the ruling Telugu Desam Party (TDP) into a corner, ultimately forcing the then Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao to abolish the Legislative Council itself to escape his onslaught. Clad in spotless khadi dhoti and shirt, he resembled a true Gandhian, and followed the same principles throughout his political career. IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao recalled that even at the peak of Telangana agitation, he always assured them that Parliament’s decision on separate State would be respected by him as a true believer of democratic principles.  Trust was his forte and no wonder most Chief Ministers entrusted him with important portfolios like Finance and Home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-walking-encyclopedia-on-state-finances/article37848614.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily caseload breaches 200-mark||Gradual short spikes in COVID-19 cases have been observed in Telangana over the past five days and it was no different on Saturday when the daily caseload breached the 200-mark after a gap of several weeks. The State reported 213 new infections, up by 15 cases from Friday. The daily tally started to surge from November 29. The new cases on Saturday included 72 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 21 from Rangareddy, 20 from Sangareddy, 13 from Karimnagar and 10 from Warangal. No infections were detected in five districts, according to the bulletin issued by the government. The State’s case tally now stands at 6,76,787, of which 3,779 were active cases. The death toll is at 3,998. Genome results Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao on Saturday said that genome sequencing results of the 13 air passengers, who arrived in Hyderabad and tested positive for COVID-19, are yet to be received. On the day, around 70 people from ‘at-risk’ countries landed in the city. All of them have tested negative in RT-PCR tests. Air passengers who test negative have to be under home quarantine for a period of 14 days. Altogether, 979 people have come from at-risk countries over the past few days. Of them, 13 tested positive for COVID. Their samples were sent for genome sequencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daily-caseload-breaches-200-mark/article37848309.ece
05 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Standoff over Mass takes a new turn||The standoff between Syro-Malabar Church head Cardinal George Alencherry and a section of laity and priests on a unified Mass system has taken a confrontational turn, with the Syrian Catholic Liturgical Forum alleging that the Cardinal is defying Pope Francis. A statement issued by forum leaders here on Saturday said it would be against their conscience to mention the name of the Cardinal during the Mass. A prayer for the Pope and the respective heads of dioceses is a common feature of the Mass in the Catholic Church. The statement said there was a strong protest against the unified Mass system, which was to come into effect on November 28, from Ernakulam-Angamaly, Irinjalakuda, Thamarassery and Palakkad dioceses. In view of the differences, local bishops have the authority to exempt their respective dioceses from the purview of the synodal decision for a common pattern for the Mass. In keeping with the provisions of Canon 1538, the archdiocese was exempted from implementing the new Mass system. No information However, the liturgical council said the Cardinal had claimed that he had no information on the exemption being granted to the archdiocese on the unified Mass system, which constituted defying the Pope. Cardinal Leonardo Sandri, head of the Congregation for the Oriental Churches, had given the sanction, and as soon as the circular on following the status quo on total congregation facing Mass was issued, the Cardinal denied all knowledge of such a circular, said liturgical council secretary Rajan Punnakkal. The unified system of Mass involves the celebrant facing the congregation during the first half of the Mass and then turning away from the congregation during the consecration and rest of the Mass. However, priests and laity in dioceses like Ernakulam-Angamaly, Irinjalakuda, Thrissur, and Thamarassery are learnt to have demanded continuing with the present system of the celebrant facing the congregation throughout the Mass, though only the first two dioceses have been given the dispensation by the bishops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/standoff-over-mass-takes-a-new-turn/article37848276.ece
05 December 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ministers inaugurate police gymnasium||Here is some good news for the policemen and their families. The Krishna district police has opened a studio gymnasium for the police personnel in the town. Information and Public Relations Minister Perni Venkataramaiah and Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao, along with Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal, inaugurated the studio gym at District Police Headquarters. Mr. Kaushal said the gymnasium was the first of its kind for police personnel in the State. The gym was established with all facilities to maintain fitness, he said. The Ministers asked the police officers and staff to exercise in the gym and maintain good health. “The gym will help police to relieve from stress, stay away from diseases and maintain fitness,” the Civil Supplies Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ministers-inaugurate-police-gymnasium/article37848300.ece
05 December 2021||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Researchers document 43,118 butterflies||A team of researchers from Mangalore University, in collaboration with other two institutes, has identified and documented 43,118 butterflies (individuals) belonging to 175 species in Dakshina Kannada. Of them, 22 species are habitat-specific. The butterflies were identified at eight heterogeneous landscapes ranging from coastal sand dunes to agricultural fields to botanical gardens to semi-evergreen forests on the foothills of the Western Ghats. The team comprised M.S. Mustak, Associate Professor, Department of Applied Zoology, Mangalore University, and Deepak Naik, a Ph.D. student at Mangalore University. The study, over two years, was done in collaboration with Shyam Prasad Rao, a researcher at Yenepoya Deemed to be University, Mangaluru, and Krishnamegh Kunte, a researcher from the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru. “Using indicator value analysis, 22 habitat-specific and several shared indicator species were identified. The study also documented larval host plants, and over 283 habitat-specific host-butterfly species pair interactions,” Mr. Mustak told The Hindu . Their research paper, a study on the abundance and habitat preference of butterflies of the Western Ghats, has now been accepted for publication by the international Journal of Insect Conservation , a publication devoted to the conservation of insects and related invertebrates. ‘Easily conserved’ The researchers said that butterfly communities indicate the type and state of a habitat, and can easily be conserved by the restoration of habitats with diverse host plants. They have great public appeal, are easy to work with, and are indicators of a healthy ecosystem, they said. Mr. Mustak said, “People usually cherish abundant and widely distributed butterflies, but fail to appreciate less common or habitat-specific species. Our study gives quantitative data on the butterflies of the Western Ghats, which is essential for public awareness and outreach.” The team conducted a systematic transect survey for two years to get baseline data on the abundance patterns and habitat preferences of butterflies of the Western Ghats. The study gives an important dataset for future assessment, monitoring and conservation of butterflies of the Western Ghats. The study showed interesting patterns. Some of the most abundant species are Common Crow ( Euploea Core ), Common Emigrant ( Catopsilia Pomona ), Common Four Ring ( Ypthima Huebneri ), Tawny Coster ( Acraea Terpsicore ), Lesser Grass Blue ( Zizina Otis ), Rustic ( Cupha Erymanthis ), and Chocolate Pansy ( Junonia Iphita ). Some species, though very abundant, are restricted to specific habitats. For example, Tawny Coster ( Acraea Terpsicore ) is common in coastal regions, Common Bush Hopper ( Ampittia Dioscorides ) in found in agricultural habitats, and Malabar Tree Nymph (Idea Malabarica) in semi-evergreen forests. Some species, such as Common Mormon (Papilio Polytes) and Common Leopard (Phalanta Phalantha), though rare, are found everywhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/researchers-document-43118-butterflies/article37848266.ece
05 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension as police ‘rough up’ bouncer guarding farmers||Tension prevailed for some time when the Gudur police, after a wordy duel, allegedly roughed up a bouncer engaged by Amaravati farmers to keep at bay troublemakers during the court to temple long march to Tirupati, which resumed from the non-descript Sydapuram village in SPSR Nellore district on Saturday. A group of 157 farmers from the capital region, half of them women, led by Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti convener A.Siva Reddy, staged a noisy protest demanding suspension of the Gudur Circle Inspector, who allegedly behaved rudely with a private security guard. The farmers have engaged 40 private security guards to ward off any possible violent attacks by miscreants en route and ensure smooth flow of vehicluar traffic in coordination with the police personnel providing security. Amaravati Parirakshna Samiti leader P.Sudhakar alleged that the State government was trying to put hurdles to their “Nyayasthanam to Devastham Mahapadayatra” as support from local people swelled every day. ‘Prasadam distribution stopped’ He referred to the police allegedly preventing local people from mingling with them and stopping distribution of “prasadams” offered to the rath of Lord Venkateswara Swamy, which was in the forefront. “We will continue our long march come what may overcoming all hurdles,” said Mr. Sudhakar, as the Mahapadayatra meandered through the narrow roads riddled with potholes up to Rajuvari Kandrika covering a distance of 10 km. The farmers have so far logged 375 km in the 34 days of their march.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tension-as-police-rough-up-bouncer-guarding-farmers/article37848770.ece
05 December 2021||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister announces special intervention plan for Attappady||Minister for Health Veena George has announced a special intervention plan for Attappady. After a visit to Attappady on Saturday, Ms. George said the long-term health of the Attappady tribal community would be ensured through a special intervention plan. Attention would be paid to women, children and adolescents. She said a special collective named Pentrika Koota would be made by involving Anganwadi workers and helpers, Asha workers, and educated women. As many as 175 Anganwadis of Attappady would be part of this collective. Ms. George said the collective would be a defining initiative in responsible social intervention. “Using the tribal language, we are planning to create a strong awareness among them,” she said. The Minister pointed out that out of the 426 pregnant women in Attappady, 218 were tribespeople. Several of them were in the high-risk category. Many of them were suffering from blood pressure, anaemia, weight loss and sickle cell anaemia. “Personal care and attention will be ensured for the high risk group. Fresh high risk groups will be identified through reviews after three months,” she said. Ms. George visited the government hospitals at Agali and Kottathara. She also visited several tribal hamlets and reviewed the field work being done in the health sector. She also interacted with senior citizens among the tribespeople, including Pattiyamma from the Bodi Chala hamlet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-announces-special-intervention-plan-for-attappady/article37848268.ece
05 December 2021||SRIKAKULAM / VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Intermediate student killed as tree falls on her||An Intermediate student, G. Indu (16), died on the spot when a coconut tree fell on her under the impact of strong gales triggered by Cyclone Jawad, at her house at Gopinathapuram of Vajrapukotturu mandal in Srikakulam district on Saturday. While her father Chandrayya works abroad, her mother Jyothi is a home-maker. Following the incident, the district administration issued an advisory to the people to remain indoors for the next two days as rains and strong gales would continue despite the cyclone weakening into a deep depression. Rainfall Under the influence of the cyclone, Srikakulam district received 1.069 mm rainfall since Friday morning. Kaviti mandal received the highest rainfall of 57.4 mm. The rainfall in other areas was as follows: Santabommali (52.8 mm); Sompeta (50.2 mm); Jalumuru (44.6 mm); and Veeraghattam (9.8 mm). Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas, Minister for Animal Husbandry S. Appala Raju, and Collector Shrieksh B. Lathkar visited various vulnerable places in Tekkali and Srikakulam divisions. “We will continue to monitor the cyclone and the flood situation for the next three days. As gales and rains continue, people have to be cautious till the cyclone warning is withdrawn,” the Collector said. Meanwhile, the situation was almost normal in Vizianagaram district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/intermediate-student-killed-as-tree-falls-on-her/article37848779.ece
05 December 2021||Staff Reporter Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Several trains from Vizag cancelled||As many as 23 trains, originating or passing through Visakhapatnam junction, have been cancelled in view of Cyclone Jawad on Sunday. Four trains are cancelled on December 6, two trains on Dec. 7, two on Dec. 8 and one train has been cancelled on Dec. 9, according to a statement issued by Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/several-trains-from-vizag-cancelled/article37848850.ece
05 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Actor flip-flops on road comment at Kerala Government function||Actor Jayasurya appeared to have flip-flopped on his arguably sarcastic comment that Cherrapunji in Meghalaya would have no road to speak off if rain impeded maintenance. His perceived ‘caustic’ remark at a State government function hosted by Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas seemed to give short shrift to the administration’s recurrent claim that incessant showers had impeded the timely maintenance of roads in Kerala. Faux pas The ‘faux pas’ appeared particularly piercing because Mr. Jayasurya had attended the function as Mr. Riyas’s guest. The actor seemed to compare the condition of roads in perennially rain-soaked Cherrapunji with that in seasonally monsoon ravaged Kerala. The Minister had hosted the actor for breakfast before launching a high-profile Public Works Department (PWD) scheme to usher in transparency and accountability into road maintenance. It entailed displaying the telephone numbers of the government engineer and contractor responsible for the upkeep of individual road sections to make them accountable publicly. Of late, the government had faced strident public criticism for the poor condition of arterial roads. The public outrage at torn up and potholed thoroughfares left unattended for months at a stretch had dominated news coverage for weeks. The administration had reportedly hoped to pull off a public relations coup by announcing the scheme in the presence of Mr. Jayasurya, whose campaign for safe roads had garnered popularity over the years in some measure. Nevertheless, the government’s purported ‘propaganda pitch’ to salvage the PWD’s ‘tattered’ image appeared to backfire. Mr. Jayasurya said citizens who struggled and paid vehicle tax wanted proper roads and not the excuse that rain hobbled maintenance. “Who would answer for the deaths on ill-maintained roads?” he asked. Mr. Riyas and Communist Party of India (Marxist) legislator V.K. Prasanth were on the dais. The ‘whiplash’ statement sparked off television news scrolls that seemed to target Mr. Riyas. Soon, Mr. Jayasurya surfaced on social media praising the Minister. The actor claimed Mr. Riyas had his ear to the ground and listened to commoners. Permission Mr. Jayasurya said he had sought the Minister’s permission during breakfast to speak his mind at the public function, indicating that the controversial comment was not an off-the-cuff remark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actor-flip-flops-on-road-comment-at-kerala-government-function/article37848273.ece
05 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,707 school staff in Kerala unvaccinated||As many as 1,707 teaching and non-teaching staff in government and aided schools in the State are yet to take COVID-19 vaccination, said Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty here on Saturday. The Minister, who divulged the numbers at a press meet here on Saturday, said of the 1,707 staff members, 1,495 were teachers and 212 non-teachers. In the lower primary, upper primary and high school section, 1,066 teachers and 189 non-teaching staff were yet to get vaccinated. In the higher secondary section, 200 teachers and 23 non-teaching staff and in the vocational higher secondary section, 229 teachers remained to be vaccinated. All non-teaching staff in the vocational section had taken their vaccinations. The highest number of teachers in the primary and high school sections who were yet to be vaccinated was in Malappuram district - 201. Of them, 184 were teachers and 17 non-teaching staff. Kozhikode was next with 151 unvaccinated school staff. Safety of students Reiterating the government’s commitment to safety of students, the Minister said unvaccinated teaching and non-teaching staff should take RT-PCR tests every week and produce the results in schools. Those who have health problems such as illness or allergy should produce medical certificates from authorised State or Union government institutions in the schools concerned. If neither option was acceptable, they could take leave without pay. The Minister clarified that though the government had a list of unvaccinated teachers, their names and details were not being published as the government did not want to shame them. The split-up of teachers not taking the vaccination for health and other reasons was also available, but was not being divulged as the government was keen on addressing the problem. Any further action would be taken on the basis of the response to the government order in this regard. A decision on allowing unvaccinated teachers to take online classes would be taken after examining the matter. Data sought Data on unvaccinated staff had been sought from unaided schools, and were expected to be available within a week. There had been a significant change in the number of unvaccinated teachers since it became news in the past few days and the social pressure on them, Mr. Sivankutty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1707-school-staff-in-kerala-unvaccinated/article37848271.ece
05 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Experts from Kerala to inspect ghat roads||After IIT professionals from Delhi and Chennai, it is now the turn of the experts from Amrita Viswa Vidyapeetam, Kollam(Kerala), to inspect Tirumala ghat roads that were damaged in the recent rains. Speaking to mediapersons on Saturday, TTD Executive officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy said the experts, who are working on a project under the World Centre of Excellence on landslide risk reduction, have been invited to inspect precarious locations on the ghat roads and submit their opinion. The team will employ drones to acquire familiarity of the nature of the rocky formations, and thereafter suggest measures to be taken to reduce risk of landslides. The Vidyapeetam has also promised to provide an early-warning-system technology to check recurrence of such incidents in future. The TTD, on its part, will also explore the feasibility of averting such incidents by enhancing greenery, soil binding and carrying out civil works by using geo-technologies. Training for engineers Underlining the need for imparting training to engineers, Mr. Jawahar Reddy said the management was considering sending them to Himalayas, Western ghats, Kerala and other high altitude places so that they can gain exposure and the technical know-how required in the prevention of landslips. Mr. Jawahar Reddy said that the ghat road leading to the hill temple that has been badly damaged in the recent rain will be opened to the public only after the completion of restoration works. Until then, vehicles will be permitted to take the link road, he said. He added that the Papavinasanam and Akasa Ganga routes will also be opened for the public shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/experts-from-kerala-to-inspect-damaged-ghat-roads-at-tirumala/article37848773.ece
05 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lakshmi Kasula Haram taken to Tiruchanur||The Lakshmi Kasula Haram was on Saturday carried to the temple of goddess Padmavati in Tiruchanur where the Karthika Brahmotsavams are currently under way. Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy carried the jewel in a grand procession around the mada streets of Tirumala Lord Venkateswara temple before handing it over to Tirupati JEO Veerabrahmam in Tiruchanur. The golden ‘haram’ or jewel would be adorned to Goddess Padmavati during Gaja Vahanam in the evening. The ‘haram’, usually adorned to Lord Venkateswara, is brought out of the Tirumala temple on two different occasions i.e., on the day of Garuda Seva at Tirumala and on the fifth day of Tiruchanur Brahmotsavams. Ex-legislator donates Rs. 1 crore to TTD Former legislator N. Suryanarayana Reddy of Bellary on Saturday donated Rs. 1 crore to TTD’s SV Anna Prasadam Trust. The demand draft for the amount was handed over to TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lakshmi-kasula-haram-taken-to-tiruchanur/article37848270.ece
05 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP condemns govt.’s ‘stubborn’ pursuit of decentralisation policy||The BJP State Executive Committee meeting held here on Saturday passed a political resolution condemning the State government’s “stubborn pursuit” of its concept of decentralisation and “failure” in mitigating the impact of floods, religious conversions, attacks on Hindu temples, “negligent attitude” to Telugu language, vote-bank politics and imposing a huge burden on electricity consumers in the form increased tariffs, among other issues. The party passed another resolution with nine demands aimed at improving the State’s overall financial position, which had been dismal since bifurcation allegedly due to the policies of successive governments. The demands were to release a White Paper on the finances; devolve the 15th Finance Commission funds due to the Gram Panchayats without diverting them; deposit all revenues in the Consolidated Fund; release the Pay Revision Commission report to employees, teachers and workers; withdraw the decision to impose property tax on the basis of capital value; and create infrastructure on a large scale. The meeting was attended by Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, MPs T.G. Venkatesh, Y.S. Chowdary, C.M. Ramesh and G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, BJP national general secretary Daggubati Purandeswari, national secretary Y. Satya Kumar, State president Somu Veerraju, general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy and others. Addressing the media after the deliberations, Mr. Venkatesh said the State government was on the verge of bankruptcy, and instead of taking corrective measures, it was borrowing large sums with scant regard to the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRMB) Act. He pointed out that the State’s financial position was so precarious that the per capita debt that was Rs. 20,000 at the time of bifurcation, ballooned to Rs. 1.20 lakh after the YSRC took the reins of power from the TDP. Mr. Chowdary said the State was in a financial emergency due to the government’s profligacy, and that people who voted for the YSRC were repenting for their mistake. He dismissed as mere speculation the talk that there was a tacit understanding between the BJP and the YSRCP. Foundation for the Kadapa steel plant had been laid two years ago, but the construction did not begin yet, said Mr. Ramesh, who also observed there was a breakdown of law and order in the State, and that the cultivation and smuggling of cannabis was rampant. Mr. Narasimha Rao alleged that the State government borrowed Rs. 2.50 lakh crore in the last two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-condemns-govts-stubborn-pursuit-of-decentralisation-policy/article37848306.ece
05 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three more succumb to COVID-19 in State||The State reported three more deaths due to COVID-19 and 186 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The cumulative tally and toll reached 20,73,576 and 14,448 respectively, while the number of recoveries also increased to 20,56,979 with 191 recoveries in the past day. The recovery rate remains at 99.20%. Active cases The total number of active cases remain at 2,149. The active cases tally remain around 2,100 during the past 12 days. The test positivity rate of the 32,036 samples tested in the past day was 0.58% and that of the 3.053 crore samples tested was 6.79%. Guntur, Krishna and Visakhapatnam reported one death each in the past day. East Godavari reported 32 infections in the past day. It was followed by Krishna (28), West Godavari (26), Chittoor (21), Visakhapatnam (20), Anantapur (11), Guntur (11), Nellore (9), Prakasam (9), Srikakulam (9), Kadapa (4), Kurnool (4) and Vizianagaram (2). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,94,761), Chittoor (2,48,122), West Godavari (1,79,704), Guntur (1,78,928), Visakhapatnam (1,58,492), Anantapur (1,58,074), Nellore (1,46,898), Prakasam (1,38,725), Kurnool (1,24,202), Srikakulam (1,23,464), Krishna (1,20,359), Kadapa (1,15,886) and Vizianagaram (83,066).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-state/article37848304.ece
05 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, CM mourn Rosaiah||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, and a host of leaders from various political parties mourned the demise of former Chief Minister of unified Andhra Pradesh and senior Congress leader K. Rosaiah on Saturday. Mr. Harichandan conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members. “I pray for peace to the soul of the departed leader,” the Governor said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the Telugu States lost a great leader, who had served the people as a Chief Minister, Finance Minister, and Minister in his long political career. Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya said he was saddened by the news of Rosaiah’s demise. “The country lost a good leader. As Governor, Chief Minister and Minister, Rosaiah extended good service to the people,” he said, and expressed his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. Special Correspondent in Anantapur writes: former APCC president N. Raghuveera Reddy, in his condolences, said Rosaiah had created a special place for himself in the united Andhra Pradesh, and none could fill the void created by his death. Rosaiah, with his long political experience, had added value to the discussions in the State Assembly and Council, he said. “I had the fortune of working with Rosaiah as an MLA, Cabinet colleague, and Agriculture Minister in his Cabinet,” Mr. Raghuveera Reddy said. ‘Disciplined leader’ Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy described Rosaiah as the most disciplined leader he had come across in his political career. “As MPs, we had worked together in 1996. As APCC president, Rosaiah had steered the party efficiently. I had learnt many political lessons from him as DCC president,” Mr. Venkatarami Reddy added. Tadipatri Municipal Chairman J.C. Prabhakar Reddy and former Anantapur MP J.C. Diwakar Reddy expressed their deep sorrow over the demise of Rosaiah. “There used to be a Tsunami in the Assembly whenever he was present. Rosaiah had the guts to talk against his own people if he found them wrong. I personally lost a very good friend,” said Mr. Diwakar Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-cm-mourn-rosaiah/article37848782.ece
05 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Decisions on three capitals thoughtless’||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan has termed the Andhra Pradesh government’s decision to have three capitals under the guise of decentralisation and the passing of a Bill to revoke the Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts a ‘Tughlaq sign of governance’. “None other than Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation for the capital (in Amaravati). Voting the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) to power is not to be construed as giving it a mandate to change the capital,” he asserted, while accusing both the TDP and YSRCP governments of indulging in large-scale corruption. Addressing the BJP State executive committee meeting here on Saturday, Mr. Muraleedharan said the construction of the capital was stopped midway and the government had suddenly come up with the idea of ‘three capitals’ with little thought to its consequences. He said the TDP government had claimed credit for Central government schemes and the present dispensation was doing the same, and that corruption was rampant like never before in the implementation of liquor and sand policies and in land allotments. A special invitee to the BJP State core committee, Mr. Muraleedharan said that in Parliament, opposition parties created a ruckus in their bid to derail the Central government’s development agenda. By getting the Bill to repeal the three farm laws passed on the first day of Parliament session, Mr. Modi kept his word in deference to the wishes of farmers, Mr. Muraleedharan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decisions-on-three-capitals-thoughtless/article37848258.ece
05 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Shekhawat’s comments exposed govt.’s failure to mitigate floods’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday said Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat’s comments in Parliament on the recent floods in Andhra Pradesh exposed the State government’s negligence. “The Annamayya project in Kadapa district will be taken as a case study on lack of dam safety,” Mr. Naidu said while addressing the media at the party headquarters. “The Union Minister has gone to the extent of suggesting an enactment to fix responsibility on persons for failure of dams and projects,” Mr. Naidu said. ‘Pay ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore’ Blaming the government for the death of 62 people and property loss of approximately Rs. 6,000 crore caused by the floods that wrought havoc in the Rayalaseema region, Mr. Naidu demanded that the government pay an ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore each to the next of kin of the deceased. Judicial probe sought Mr. Naidu demanded that the government order a judicial probe to fix accountability for the breaches to dams and the death of 62 persons in the floods. He alleged that one of the five gates of the Annamayya project could not be lifted because of lack of maintenance. The remaining four gates too could not be lifted high enough to discharge the flood waters, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shekhawats-comments-exposed-govts-failure-to-mitigate-floods/article37848776.ece
05 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bankers protest against privatisation||The members and representatives of the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella organisation of various bank employees associations, staged protests against the privatisation of public sector banks in the country. A large number of bank employees staged protests and raised slogans against the Union government at Dharna Chowk in the city on Saturday. Political parties also extended their support to the bankers. YSCRP MLA Malladi Vishnu, TDP’s Vijayawada East MLA G. Rammohan Rao, AITUC state general secretary Obulesh, CPI state secretary K. Rama Krishna and others visited the protest camp and supported the bankers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bankers-protest-against-privatisation/article37848842.ece
05 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||NEP has holistic approach, says AICTE Chairman||All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) Chairman Anil D. Sahasrabudhe has said the New Education Policy (NEP) has a holistic approach which includes multidisciplinary education projects. Promotion of arts Speaking after inaugurating the two-day international conclave on ‘Arma Nirbhar Bharat – Role of New Education Policy’, jointly organised by Velagapudi Ramakrishna Siddhartha Engineering College (VRSEC) and Nagarjuna Educational Society here on Saturday, Prof. Sahasrabudhe said that NEP included entrepreneurship, idea labs, promotion of arts and culture and hackathons. “With the NEP, India will become self-reliant in manufacturing state-of-the-art products and reduce imports, leading to Atma Nirbhar Bharat,” the AICTE Chairman said, and asked the managements to encourage students in launching more startup companies. Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education Chairman Prof. K. Hemachandra Reddy, Siddhartha Academy of General and Technical Education president N. Venkateswarlu, vice-president M. Rajayya and secretary P. Lakshmana Rao and others spoke. VRSEC principal A.V. Ratna Prasad, D. Ramesh Kumar of Nagarjuna Educational Society and others participated. Academicians from IIITs, NITs and IITs delivered lectures on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nep-has-holistic-approach-aicte-chairman/article37848301.ece
05 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||768 people get loan under housing scheme||Home loans were sanctioned to 768 beneficiaries of the APTIDCO housing scheme in the mega loan mela organised by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation in collaboration with the Bank of Baroda here on Saturday. Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh, who visited the loan mela programme, handed over loan sanction documents to 17 beneficiaries. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Venkatesh said the government had provided land for free to several beneficiaries under the housing for all scheme and 5,400 beneficiaries who sought bigger plots were given an option to raise a loan. ‘Rs. 26.10 crore disbursed’ To facilitate the same, the loan mela was conducted and Rs. 26.10 crore through 14 branches of Bank of Baroda was disbursed through a single window, he said. Some beneficiaries were given loans through Union Bank in the past and soon similar loan mela would be conducted by Canara Bank, he said Bank of Baroda DGM Rajasekhar said 384 beneficiaries were given a loan of Rs. 3.15 lakh each and 384 beneficiaries were given a loan of Rs. 3.65 lakh each in a single day. He said VMC staff along with 14 branch managers, 32 resources persons and other officials worked together to disburse the loans on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/768-people-get-loan-under-housing-scheme/article37848840.ece
05 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jawad weakens, isolated heavy rain likely in north coastal A.P.||Cyclone Jawad weakened into a ‘deep depression’ and lay centered over west central Bay of Bengal, about 180 km east-southeast of Visakhapatnam, 260 km south of Gopalpur (Odisha), 330 km south-southwest of Puri and 420 km south-southwest of Paradip (Odisha), according to a bulletin issued by the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC) here on Saturday night. It is likely to move north-northeastwards and weaken further into a depression by Sunday morning. It is likely to reach Puri by Sunday afternoon and subsequently continue to move north-northeastwards along Odisha coast towards West Bengal and weaken into a well-marked low pressure area during the subsequent 24 hours. Under its influence heavy to very heavy rain is likely at one or two places in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts on Sunday. Moderate rain or thundershowers are likely at a few places over north coastal A.P. and at one or two places over south coastal A.P. during the same time. Squally winds are likely along and off the A.P. and Yanam coast on Sunday and Monday. The condition of sea would be rough to very rough over and along the A.P. and Yanam coasts on December 4 and 5. The CWC has advised fishermen not to venture into the sea along and off north A.P. coast on the two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jawad-weakens-isolated-heavy-rain-likely-in-north-coastal-ap/article37848849.ece
05 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cyclone Jawad: officials told not to let their guard down||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Lakshmisha instructed the civic staff to remain alert till Sunday evening in view the severe rainfall warning under the influence of cyclone Jawad. He warned of strict action, if any employee abstained from duty. He inspected several low-lying areas and flood-prone areas at Kottapalem and Bhagat Singh Nagar in Ward 89. He was accompanied by Corporator D. Venkata Rameshwara Rao. Mr. Lakshmisha issued directions to all the Zonal Commissioners to check whether all the staff had been on duty. He said that Ward Secretariats should be alert and receive complaints from the people and promptly inform it to the authorities concerned. He also directed them to inform people about the toll-free numbers of GVMC. YSRCP City ward in-charge D. Kiran informed the Commissioner about the illegal encroachments from Meghadri Gedda to Bhagat Singh Colony. Chief Medical Officer KSLG Sastri and others were present. Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy inspected a relief centre at K Nagarapalem in Bheemili mandal. He visited the colonies and spoke to the fishermen. He suggested them to shift to the relief centre, in case of any problem. Meanwhile Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) official R. Gopala Krishna appealed to the tribal people to be cautious and not attempt to cross streams and geddas as water was overflowing at high speed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jawad-officials-told-not-to-let-their-guard-down-till-sunday/article37848784.ece
05 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special postal cover on Ghantasala released||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that the name of legendary Telugu playback singer Ghantasala will remain etched in the hearts of the Telugu people forever. The birth centenary celebrations of Ghantasala Venkateswara Rao were organised, on behalf of the State government, at the VMRDA Children’s Arena here on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said that Ghantasala’s rendition of the Bhagavad Gita would cast a spell on listeners and he continued to inspire budding talents. Ghantasala had gone through several trials and tribulations in his life before establishing himself as a playback singer. He had participated in the Quit India Movement. The Minister released a special cover brought out by the postal department to mark the centenary celebrations. He also released two books authored by Ghantasala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-postal-cover-on-ghantasala-released/article37848844.ece
05 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many turn up for free artificial limb camp braving inclement weather||Lokesh, a Class VI student from Kakinada, was sitting near the entrance of the Rajasthan Sanskritic Mandal Bhawan near Zilla Parishad along with his sister, on Saturday morning. A closer look revealed that the boy’s right arm was amputated from elbow. He came to the city along with his parents, despite the inclement weather caused by Cyclone Jawad, to participate in the ‘free artificial limbs and calipers screening camp’, organised jointly by the Marwari Sammelan and the Visakhapatnam and Rajasthani Sanskritic Mandal (RSM) at the RSM Bhawan.  Registration extended “Though total registrations for the screening camp in the city were 295, only 76 turned up in view of the cyclonic weather and cancellation of trains. We have decided to extend the provisional booking for screening of more patients from Dec. 5 to Jan 25, 2022. Patients can call Bijendra Kumar Gupta, programme co-chairman, on his mobile no. 94401 47461 for registration,” he says. The screening for these applicants would be done a couple of days before the actual artificial limb camp to be organised during March 2022, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-turn-up-for-free-artificial-limb-camp-braving-inclement-weather/article37848845.ece
05 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||124 bag gold, silver medals in IndiaSkills contest||A total of 124 participants, representing five States, emerged winners of IndiaSkills 2021 Regional Competition-South, which concluded at the Andhra University Convention Centre on Beach Road here on Saturday. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao presented the awards to the winners at the closing ceremony. Addressing the gathering, the Minister opined that in the present day competitive world apart from education, students need to hone their skills in their respective areas to achieve success. Over 400 participants, aged between 19 and 24, showcased their skills in 51 trades like brick laying, automobile body repair, welding, beauty therapy,and web technologies. The winners of the four Regional Competitions (East, West, North and South) will take part in the nationals in January and those who win gold and silver medals in each skill will represent India at the WorldSkills Competition in Shangai, China in October 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/124-bag-gold-silver-medals-in-indiaskills-contest/article37848848.ece
05 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special Officer issues rain alert for next two days||District Special Officer J. Syamala Rao said that though the threat of Cyclone Jawad was over, there was a possibility of heavy rain in the coming two days and people need to be alert. He said that 25 areas which could be affected due to the cyclone, low-lying areas and all the coastal mandals had been put on alert. The mandal officers and staff had been continuously and closely monitoring the situation.Mr. Syamala Rao said that 89 rehabilitation centres were opened in the district, and food and drinking water and other basic things were being provided. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had been closely monitoring the situaiton||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-officer-issues-rain-alert-for-next-two-days/article37848852.ece
05 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ENC chief hosts ‘high tea’||Vice Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command (ENC), hosted a high tea, which was attended by senior officials from the civil administration, veterans and naval personnel at the naval institute Tarang on Saturday. A telefilm showcasing various facets of the Indian Navy was shown to the guests. The nation celebrates December 4 as Navy Day in commemoration of Operation Trident, when the ships of the Indian Navy delivered lethal and powerful missiles on the Karachi harbour, paving the way for India’s victory in the 1971 Indo-Pak war and in memory of those who made the supreme sacrifice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enc-chief-hosts-high-tea/article37848809.ece
05 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Good response to organic mela on second day||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao has said the State Government is committed to the welfare of farmers and will provide necessary assistance to them, especially to those dependant on organic farming. He was speaking on the second day of the Visakha Organic Mela 2021 at AS Raja Grounds, MVP Colony here on Saturday. He along with VMRDA Chairperson A. Vijaya Nirmala visited the stalls and checked the products on display. There was a good response to the event and the organisers heaved a sigh of relief as there was no cyclone impact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/good-response-to-organic-mela-on-second-day/article37848846.ece
05 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth rescued from drowning||Community guards rescued a 26-year-old man from drowning at the R.K. Beach here on Saturday. Mohammed Abdul Nayeem who went to the beach was allegedly pulled in by the strong current. Two community guards, B. Bhoolaka and V. Gurunadh, who spotted him, jumped into the water and rescued him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-rescued-from-drowning/article37848851.ece
05 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Varsities should focus on enhancing skills of students’||Centurion University Chancellor Debi Prasanna Pattanayak on Saturday said that the universities should focus on enhancing skills of the students, instead of confining themselves to conventional studies and presenting degrees. Speaking at the first convocation of the university, the Chancellor urged the faculty members to give top priority to research on latest developments in their respective subjects and encourage students to come up with fresh and innovative ideas. Visakhapatnam Steel Plant Chairman and Managing Director Atul Bhat, chief guest of the function, said that the nation’s progress would be possible only when students would able to understand new technology. He urged students to have short-term and long-term goals to succeed in their respective fields. University Vice-Chancellor G.S.N. Raju and vice president D.N.Rao talked about the latest courses. Later, the guests presented gold medals to four meritorious students and degrees to 203 students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/varsities-should-focus-on-enhancing-skills-of-students/article37848772.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former CM Rosaiah dead||During the end of his long and illustrious political career, he was rewarded for his unflinching loyalty to the Gandhi family and was elevared as Governor of Tamil Nadu, and since then had refrained from taking part in active politics. His lively debates in the Assembly punctuated with wit and satire often marked his steely resolve to defend the ruling government. Born in Vemuru village in Tenali division in the year 1933, Rosaiah had humble beginnings but rose in the ranks of Congress. He became an MLC in the year 1968 and continued to be nominated for three successive terms. Mr. Rosaiah became a Minister in the Cabinet of Marri Chenna Reddy holding the portfolios of Roads, Buildings and Transport, and served in the cabinets of all Chief Ministers. In 2004, he won from the Chirala Assembly segment and became Minister for Finance in the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s Cabinet. It was during his tenure as Finance Minister that Mr. Rosaiah led from the front in the Assembly, often tearing into the Opposition and defending the government. After the sudden death of YS Rajasekhara Reddy in 2009, Mr. Rosaiah, the then Finance Minister, was elevated as Chief Minister. He served as Chief Minister for close to 10 months before making way to N. Kiran Kumar Reddy. In August 2011, Mr. Rosaiah was elevated as Governor of Tamil Nadu marking the end of active politics. Chief Ministers of Telugu Speaking States, Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and K. Chandrasekhara Rao, expressed their condolences and said that the death of Mr. Rosaiah was a huge loss to the two Telugu speaking States. The Government of Andhra Pradesh had declared three days of mourning beginning from Friday. Telugu Desam Party president Nara Chandrababu Naidu expressed their condolences to the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-cm-rosaiah-dead/article37848780.ece
05 December 2021||Adilabad,TELANGANA||Adilabad farmers allege ‘exploitation’||With Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) leaving the market operations to private ginning mills, in Adilabad the latter formed into a ring and cornered farmers to sell their harvest at less price when compared to open markets elsewhere in the State and bordering districts in Maharashtra. While prevailing market price per quintal is anywhere between Rs. 8,100 to Rs. 8,500 in districts including Nizamabad, Medak, Kamareddy, Mahabubnagar, Nagarkurnool, the ginning mills in Adilabad town purchased the cotton lint at Rs. 7,960 per quintal on Saturday. The same mills purchased the cotton for Rs. 8,130 on Friday and suddenly dropped Rs. 170 per quintal. Caught in this fork, the farmers lamented that every year situation repeats like this and urged the government to get involved to do justice to their produce and further put an end to atrocities by the private ginners in the town. Following a sudden dip in the price, a large number of farmers staged a protest and rasta roko for nearly seven hours at Kisan Chowk. “We are being exploited by the ginning mill owners in the town. Businessmen from one particular community formed a syndicate and suddenly dropped the price,” lamented Suresh, a farmer from Jainad mandal. Further, they said that after finalising the deal at the market yard and unloading the cotton at the mills, the ginners are ‘cheating’ the farmers by giving less amount citing various reasons, including high moisture content. “If the moisture content is high, they should not purchase the cotton from the yard. But cleverly after unloading the cotton, they are dropping the price, which is clearly an exploitation and district administration must take immediate and stringent action against them,” said Vinod, a tenant farmer. They also demanded an Income Tax probe on the ginners. The cotton farmers said they could not take their produce to other markets as fuel prices had gone up and they had to bear additional costs, making it unremunerative..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/adilabad-farmers-allege-exploitation/article37848818.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dreadful sense of déjà vu for frontline health staff||Amid growing concerns over the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus, vigil has been stepped up in the State, transporting the Health department staff back to the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. They are back on the task of keeping track of people arriving here from at-risk countries, collecting their addresses and phone numbers. The staff have to enquire about the health status of incoming air passengers and conduct tests on those under home quarantine. A similar procedure was followed during the first wave as part of surveillance and such measures have been reactivated following detection of Omicron variant, said to be more contagious, in a few countries. Besides the vigil, COVID vaccination is among the top priorities of the Health department. Arrival protocol Currently, all passengers arriving in the city from other countries have to undergo RT-PCR tests. They cannot leave the airport premises until they receive the results. If a flier tests positive, he/she will be directly sent in an ambulance to the State-run Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS), Gachibowli, for isolation. If case of a negative result, they have to quarantine at home. Health staff have to conduct another round of tests on passengers in home quarantine on the eighth day since arrival. If they test negative again, they have to quarantine for another seven days. “Our health staff have the addresses and phone numbers of the suspected patients and will stay in touch with them. Samples for tests will be collected from their home on the eighth day,” said an official of the Health department. This is being done for early detection and isolation of the patients with coronavirus. Samples will be collected from COVID-positive persons to further probe if they have Omicron variant. So far, 13 samples of those tested positive at the city airport have been sent for genome sequencing to check for Omicron variant. The Health department officials and staff have also been tasked with keeping track of admissions in government as well as private hospitals to observe if it has anything to do with COVID infection. Consumption of oxygen is another parameter to gauge a spike in coronavirus cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dreadful-sense-of-dj-vu-for-frontline-health-staff/article37848584.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Condolences pour in for Rosaiah||Leaders from across the political spectrum expressed condolences at the death of former Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh K. Rosaiah, who passed away here on Saturday morning. Association with Congress All India Congress Committee (AICC) president Sonia Gandhi and former president Rahul Gandhi spoke to the departed Congress leader’s son over the phone and expressed their deep condolences. Mr. Gandhi also spoke to former Rajya Sabha member K.V.P. Ramachandra Rao over the phone and recollected Rosaiah’s association with the Congress. Mr. Rao gave details of Rosaiah’s death to Mr. Gandhi. Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya, former Governor of united AP E.S.L. Narasimhan, former Governor of Maharashtra Ch. Vidyasagar Rao, and Speaker of Telangana Legislative Assembly Pocharam Srinivas Reddy extended their heartfelt sympathies to the bereaved family. Former TPCC president and MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy conveyed his condolences to Rosaiah’s family and recollected his association with him. Former Minister and a colleague of Rosaiah in the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy Cabinet K. Jana Reddy expressed shock over Rosaiah’s death and recollected his political acumen in resolving public issues by taking all along in the government. Congress Legislature Party leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka termed Rosaiah’s death as a great loss to the party and recollected his association as a Chief Whip with Rosaiah. Former MPs of Congress Ponnam Prabhakar, Madhu Yaskhi Goud and Mallu Ravi, former Minister Md. Ali Shabbir, and TPCC working president Mahesh Kumar Goud also expressed their condolences. Funeral today On his return from New Delhi, TPCC president Revanth Reddy went to Rosaiah’s residence to pay his obeisance and stated that a delegation of AICC would participate in the funeral on Sunday after keeping the mortal remains at Gandhi Bhavan for a few hours for allowing party ranks and general public to pay their respects. TRS leaders and Ministers K.T. Rama Rao, Harish Rao, S. Niranjan Reddy, A. Indrakaran Reddy, E. Dayakar Rao, G. Jagadish Reddy, K. Eshwar and others also paid their final tribute. ‘No enemies in politics’ Mr. Rama Rao said that Rosaiah had no enemies in politics and recollected that he told a TRS delegation that called on him after December 9, 2009, he would respect the decision taken by the Centre on announcement on statehood to Telangana. Vice Chairman of Telangana State Planning Board B. Vinod Kumar, MLC K. Kavitha, MLC and former Legislative Council Chairman G. Sukender Reddy offered their condolences to Rosaiah’s family. Mr. Vinod Kumar said it was Rosaiah’s presentation of actual situation in Telangana region that had led to the announcement of statehood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/condolences-pour-in-for-rosaiah/article37848605.ece
05 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rising COVID cases among school students keep parents on the edge||Fear, misgiving, resignation and bravado is the wide arc of moods among parents and students with scores of children testing positive for the SARS-CoV2 virus over the past one week in Telangana. On November 28, students at a BC Welfare School in Muthangi tested positive for the virus. On December 2, another batch of students of a BC Welfare School in Indresham, about 25 km from Muthangi, were found positive. “My daughter had online classes for the past few weeks, but in a parent-teacher meeting recently, the school insisted that exams will be held offline. Now we are not sure whether we should take the risk and let her write the exam,” said the parent of a student who goes to a well known public school in the city. “Due to the Omicron news, parents have stopped sending children to school. It is back to online classes,” said another parent of a class VIII student in Jubilee Hills area. While private schools are still experimenting with online and offline modes, government schools and budget schools are back to classroom teaching. “All the students are back in school. There is no dip in attendance over the last few days. We are asking students to wear masks all the time,” said Anjaneshwar Rao, headmaster of a government primary school in the city. The school is housed in a multi-storey building and day scholars from Class I to X study in shifts, exiting and entering from a single entrance. At a press briefing, when reporters asked Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao why clusters were being detected in government schools and not in corporate schools, he had explained that “it is only because residential schools have closed settings where children stay under one roof”. Fake news In the midst of fears over a possible third wave of COVID-19 pandemic, fake news has again gained traction about functioning of colleges and schools. Education Minister P. Sabitha Indra Reddy was forced to issue a statement about normal functioning of schools with COVID protocol. “Don’t believe in propaganda on social media about school holidays,” she shared, tagging the Chief Minister and IT Minister. A day later, at an engineering university in the city, 25 students and five staffers tested positive, triggering a move towards online classes.  In a parent-teacher meeting recently, the school insisted that exams will be held offline. Now we are not sure whether we should take the risk. Parent of a public school student||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rising-covid-cases-among-school-students-keep-parents-on-the-edge/article37848589.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dearth of skilled youth in India: Jayesh||“There is a huge problem of unemployment among youth in the country and at the same time, there is severe shortage of skilled youth,” said principal secretary of Industries & Commerce and IT Jayesh Ranjan. Delivering the 10th NJ Yasaswy memorial lecture on ‘Role of Higher Education Institutions in the modern context’ at ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education on Saturday, he said that universities should play the role of centres of excellence by unleashing the talent in youth and equipping them with the right skills and competencies. The event was presided over by chancellor of IFHE and former RBI Governor Dr. C. Rangarajan. He recalled the contributions of Yasaswy in higher education sector and the pan-India impact he made. He highlighted three components that are essential for any higher educational institution — content, pedagogy and assessment system. He spoke about the critical role of faculty in delivering content in a stimulating manner to students. Vice chancellor of ICFAI university Dr. J. Mahender Reddy spoke about the contribution of the late Yasaswy in promoting higher education in India. Chairperson of ICFAI Society Sobha Rani Yasaswy was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dearth-of-skilled-youth-in-india-jayesh/article37848601.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Toli Masjid all set for conservation work||Conservation work will soon begin at the Toli Masjid, considered as one of the most beautiful mosques in Telangana. The department of Heritage, the custodian of the mosque, has earmarked Rs. 2 crore for its repairs. The move came after All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen MLA representing Karwan, Kausar Mohiuddin shared a letter on social media and also pointed out that he had written to the department informing them of the mosque’s poor condition. The place of worship has developed cracks and leakages were seen, he said. In a letter to Mr Mohiuddin, department of Heritage director K.S. Sreenivasa Raju stated that in accordance with a High Court order, the mosque is one of the 27 monuments where a redevelopment action plan will be implemented. However, there is no clarity on when funds would be released. “On receipt of funds, works will be commenced,” the letter, which Mr Mohiuddin shared, read. The mosque in Karwan, covered with stucco work, was built by Musa Khan, a mohalladar and general in the army of Abdullah Qutb Shah. The mosque, located on the west of a courtyard in the complex, was built around 1662 CE. The final resting place of Musa Khan is on the south-east side of this courtyard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/toli-masjid-all-set-for-conservation-work/article37848595.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RAT-tling reports of 2 students create a flutter in Medak school||Back-to-back coronavirus tests of two students of Jyothiba Phule Residential School at Haveli Ghanapur in Medak district have thrown up confusing results. District Medical and Health Officer B. Venkateswara Rao said the two students were taken to an urban primary health centre after they complained of fever. Following a test, they were found positive for COVID-19. Medical officials rushed to the school and conducted rapid antigen tests on as many as 261 students. Surprisingly, however, the two students tested negative this time round. Only a girl tested positive. RT-PCR tests today Officials said that they will conduct RT-PCR tests on Sunday for a more conclusive result. “RT-PCR tests will be done for all the students, including the three students, before we come to a conclusion,” said Dr. Venkateswara Rao.  This is the third incident of students testing positive in erstwhile Medak district with first two being reported at Muthangi and Indresham in Sangareddy district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rat-tling-reports-of-2-students-create-a-flutter-in-medak-school/article37848586.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police nab three in burglaries||Three persons were nabbed and gold ornaments weighing 404 grams, among other valuables, were recovered in the sensational apartment burglaries reported in September in Kazipet police limits, on Saturday. All the three accused Naru Pachavar, Bhuru Singaar and Udan Singh were traced to the remote habitations of Kukshi tehsil in Dhar district of Madhya Pradesh. On the intervening night of September 26 and 27, along with accused Sumar Singh, they broke into three locked flats in one of the two blocks of the apartment complex in Kazipet town. They made away with about 1800 grams of gold. The accused were traced in a nearly month-long operation in Warangal and in the hilly terrains of Dhar district, and the three persons were nabbed. Police Commissioner Tarun Joshi displaying the recovered gold ornaments said the gang sells the stolen gold to several jewellery businessmen in Alirajpur district in MP, for easy money. Five of them were also named accused in the case. Mr. Joshi said the accused committed offences in various places including Miyapur, Kukatpally, Nizamabad and Armoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-nab-three-in-burglaries/article37848815.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Data recovery, cloud data centre for Railways at Moula Ali soon||South Central Railway (SCR) is setting up an exclusive in-house Interim Data Recovery and Cloud Data Centre at Moula Ali to help the Indian Railways in business development and big data analysis. The main objective of the project, however, is to ensure uninterrupted working of the passenger reservation ticketing system undeterred by natural disaster, equipment failure etc., as the recovery process and cloud centre relies on storage, replication of data and computer processing. When the main servers go down, the centre helps to retrieve the data to facilitate smooth and uninterrupted working of passenger ticketing system until the server is fixed. The infrastructure being made available can help it become a centre of excellence for Indian Railways, and tie up with prestigious institutes, said SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya on Wednesday. Mr. Mallya had earlier inspected the Data Centre at Passenger Reservation Complex, Secunderabad, before checking the progress of the new site. At present, the data recovery centre at passenger reservation complex is providing back up for Unreserved Ticketing System, Passenger Reservation System and Electronic Procurement System applications across Indian Railways network. He was given a brief presentation on the upcoming project. In the present scenario of digitalisation, there is an urgent need for cloud storage and alternate data recovery centres, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/data-recovery-cloud-data-centre-for-railways-at-moula-ali-soon/article37848602.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2.65L acres to get water in Rabi in Nizamabad, Kamareddy||Nearly 2.65 lakh acres ayacut in Nizamabad and Kamareddy districts will get 23.83 tmc ft of water for irrigation of Rabi (Yasangi) crops. At State level, a decision has already been taken to give water for 35 lakh acres for Rabi crops under all major and medium irrigation projects. Of the 35 lakh acres proposed for irrigation during the second crop season, it has proposed to give water for irrigated-dry crops in 23 lakh acres and for wet crops such as paddy in the remaining 12 lakh acres. The decision for Nizamabad and Kamareddy districts was taken at an Irrigation Advisory Board meeting of the two districts held at Nizambad on Saturday. Minister for Roads and Buildings V. Prashanth Reddy, District Collectors C. Narayana Reddy and Jitesh V. Patil, respectively, several elected representatives and officials attended the meeting. As per the decisions taken at the meeting, 4.5 tmc ft water would be given for 43,242 acres under Sriramsagar project, 16.5 tmc ft for 1,98,280 acres under Nizamsagar project and another 2.83 tmc ft for 25,280 acres under Kaulasnala, Ramadugu and Pocharam projects. Water to the Nizamsagar ayacut would be given in six phases (wettings) from December 15 to April 13, 2022 in the on-and-off method with 10 days gap for every 15 days of water release. The ayacut of Sriramsagar would, however, be given water continuously from December 25 to May 18 next. Ayacut under Alisagar lift scheme would be given in six phases from December 28 to April 18, in seven phases under Argula Rajaram Gutpha lift scheme from December 28 to April 30, in nine phases under Pocharam project from January 1, 2022 to April 20, in seven phases under Kaulasnala projects from December 10 to April 6 and in seven phases under Ramadugu project from December 27 to April 28. Appeal to farmers The Minister appealed to farmers to choose crops keeping in mind the fact that there would be no procurement centres for Rabi paddy since the Centre had refused to the second season paddy. He suggested them to go for crops having market demand and have buy-back facility with millers or seed companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/265l-acres-to-get-water-in-nizamabad-kamareddy/article37848615.ece
05 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ushering in Xmas season with cake mixing ritual||The Regency College of Hotel Management organised a Christmas cake-mixing ceremony on its campus with guests from the industry guiding budding chefs. An array of fruits, nuts and spices went into a huge cauldron. Endless bottles of spirits and syrups like golden syrup, molasses, honey and vanilla essence were poured into the mix while a number of masked faces and gloved hands kneaded the concoction. This year, the college came up with the idea of having ‘social media and its role in the life of young students’ as the theme. The student chefs made 10-foot stands holding 15 different varieties of dry fruits and raisins decorated as logos of Facebook, Snapchat, LinkedIn, Twitter, Pinterest, WhatsApp, YouTube and Instagram, said principal Ramesh Kumar Reddy. The guests were Rakesh Nair, head of operations, Carnival Support Services (UK), Bigg Boss fame Ariyana and Shiva Jyoti, music director, Kabir Rafi, John Biswas, Ramesh Yadav, Divya Reddy and Priya, all chefs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ushering-in-xmas-season-with-cake-mixing-ritual/article37848588.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Oustees stall works||Even while the authorities are denying taking up any works related to lifting of three tmcft water from Kaleshwaram, oustees of Ghanapur in Toguta mandal held dharna for the past three days demanding complete payment before taking up works. On Saturday, the works were completely stalled. According to sources, the government acquired about 74.36 acres of land from villagers a few months ago for digging canal for lifting three tmcft water from Kaleshwaram. At the time of land acquisition officials promised to pay Rs. 13 lakh per acre. The oustees claimed that they were paid Rs. 8 lakh and works were taken up, with promise of payment of remaining amount in three months. As the amount was not paid and works are fast progressing, the oustees suspected foul play and stalled the works. Police rushed to the spot and interacted with agitating farmers. They called the officials and held discussions with them and convinced the farmers with a promise to clear the payments within one and a half months. “The contractor said payments will be cleared within six weeks and then only works will be taken up. The promise was made in the presence of police. Hence we have withdrew our agitation,” Swamy from the village told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oustees-stall-works/article37848618.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lok Adalat in all courts across State on Dec. 11||Telangana State Legal Services Authority (TSLSA), with directions from its national body, will hold Lok Adalat across all courts in the State on December 11. All civil cases and compoundable criminal cases, which are pre-litigation and pending litigation, will qualify for out-of-court resolution mechanism. The service is free of cost. If court fee for pending cases exists, it will be refunded in the event of settlement of the case through the Adalat, provided no appeal lies against the award passed. Member secretary of TSLSA M.V. Ramesh also informed that parties involved could participate in the Adalat in person or through virtual mode. The venue for physical sessions will be the Nyaya Seva Sadans at the respective courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lok-adalat-in-all-courts-across-state-on-dec-11/article37848812.ece
05 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Socialite owes less than Rs. 10 crore’||Contrary to the allegations that socialite Shilpa Chowdary duped several persons of hundreds of crores, Cyberabad police, who took her into custody for questioning, found that the former owes less than Rs. 10 crore to a handful of people. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior official that Ms. Chowdary collected money from people on the promise of high returns and used to give monthly interests. “She collected money from her kitty party friends for interest monthly rate of 5% and give it on a higher interest rate of anywhere between 7 and 9%. That 2 to 4% was her commission,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/socialite-owes-less-than-rs-10-crore/article37848598.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Golden jubilee fete of Wesley Boys on Dec. 7||The golden jubilee celebrations of Wesley Boys Junior College, Secunderabad, will be held on December 7 here. College principal N. Moses Paul said that Animal Husbandry Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav will be the chief guest on the occasion. Bishop-in-Medak, Church of South India, Rev. A.C. Solomon Raj will preside over the function to be attended by Commissioner of Intermediate Education Syed Omer Jaleel among others. In 1970, the then Andhra Pradesh government permitted the Multipurpose Higher Secondary School to be converted into a Junior College. Since its inception, dozens of students from the college have made it big. The alumni includes former DGP Basith Ali, Justice Amarnath Goud of the Tripura High Court, several businessmen and sportspersons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/golden-jubilee-fete-of-wesley-boys-on-dec-7/article37848585.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No mask, no entry in bus||Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has made it mandatory for passengers to wear masks to be able to travel by bus. This was communicated to depot managers across the State. Staff were directed to run buses following all precautions and create awareness among people. “Instructions were issued to this effect by TSRTC managing director V.C. Sajjanar. Platforms, sitting chairs, toilets and buses will be sanitised regularly,” said N. Sudarshan, regional manager of TSRTC- Sangareddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-mask-no-entry-in-buses/article37848593.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||75-lakh post card campaign||The Department of Posts has commenced a 75-lakh post card campaign encouraging school students to send a 50 paisa post card to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to commemorate 75 years of the country’s Independence under Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. Students from Class IV to XII from schools affiliated to CBSE and the State Boards can write on any of the two topics – ‘Unsung heroes of the freedom struggle’ and ‘My vision for India in 2047’. The campaign began on December 1 and the first phase process will be open till December 20. The Chief Post Master General, Telangana circle, elaborating the scheme stated that it will be jointly organised by the Department of School Education & Literacy. And the DoP made arrangements for supply of post cards to schools and their dispatch to Lok Kalyan Marg, New Delhi. Of all the posts from across the country, 75 best entries will be selected based on best idea and those students would be invited to Annual Principals’ Conference on Jan. 17 and for an interaction with Mr. Modi. Schools and State Boards will shortlist 10 best posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/75-lakh-post-card-campaign/article37848616.ece
05 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister pitches for EVs||Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar on Saturday said that Telangana will attract investments to the tune of $4 billion and generate employment for 1.2 lakh persons through electric vehicles (EVs) in shared mobility, charging infrastructure development and EVs and ESS manufacturing. Mr Kumar was speaking at a round table conference in Goa organised by the Ministry of Heavy Industries. The Transport Minister underscored the increase in electric vehicles V adoption in Hyderabad. Sharing data, he said that in 2016 there were only 25 EVs. Cut to 2021, there are over 10,000. Touching upon the EV policy in Telangana, Mr Kumar said that there is a 100% exemption on road tax and registration fee for the first 2 lakh EVs bought and registered in the State. This includes first 2 lakh electric two-wheelers, 20,000 autorickshaws, 10,000 light good vehicles, 5,000 electric cars, and 500 buses, the Minister said. The Transport Minister said that he proactively promotes the creation of electric vehicles charging infrastructure, and said that this will create a market for commercially viable electric vehicle charging business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/transport-minister-pitches-for-evs/article37848620.ece
05 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Teenager held for cultivating ganja||A teenager who was cultivating cannabis at his house at railway quarters, Lakdi-ka-pul, was arrested on Saturday. Police seized five cannabis plants from the accused, Mohd. Arif alias Tillu (19), a brass band player.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teenager-held-for-cultivating-ganja/article37848813.ece
05 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||2 ganja suppliers held||Mangalhat police caught two persons with 2.2 kg ganja. Shanker Singh (36) and Rahul Singh (28) were suppliers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-ganja-suppliers-held/article37848814.ece
05 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Focus on food at residential schools||The suspected food poisoning incident at the Telangana Social Welfare Residential School for girls in Choppadandi town on Friday has put the spotlight on the quality of eggs being supplied to the residential school by the agencies concerned. It may be mentioned that as many as 81 girl students of the residential school were taken ill after consuming the mid-day meal that was cooked at the school on Friday afternoon. All of them complained of abdominal pain and 30 of them were hospitalised. While 25 ailing children were discharged from the District Headquarters Hospital in Karimnagar late on Friday night, the remaining five children were sent to their homes after they recovered on Saturday morning, sources said. Following instructions from the higher authorities, the district health officials ensured prompt medical treatment to the ailing students and helped them recover fast, sources added. Some of the affected children complained that they developed stomach cramps soon after consuming the boiled eggs that were almost rotten during the midday meal session at the school. Eggs discarded Sources said that the school staff reportedly discarded around 400 eggs after finding them rotten a few days ago. Aggrieved parents of some of the students affected by suspected food poisoning wanted the authorities to ensure strict compliance with the stipulated quality standards by the suppliers of eggs and other food items to serve quality food to students of the residential school under the midday meal scheme at the residential school. The authorities initiated a detailed inquiry into the incident and sent the samples of food items served in midday meals to the lab to find out the exact cause.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-on-food-at-residential-schools/article37848619.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Skylab’ movie review: A charming tale of a peculiar village||If doom’s day is round the corner, would we still hold on to empty pride that we derive from our wealth, education, caste or societal status? Or will it make us band together with people and hope to make a fresh start once the worst is over? Debut director Vishvak Khanderao raises these questions through the Telugu film Skylab , which is fashioned like a period musical comedy-drama. The film is a fictional tale inspired by incidents surrounding the fear of NASA’s space station Skylab crashing in Karimnagar on July 11, 1979. The first few minutes establish why Bandalingampally is a village like none other, filled with peculiar people. Rather than taking the regular route of depicting an earthy, close-to-reality village setting, Vishvak and cinematographer Aditya Javvadi take the cinematic liberty of merging the earthiness with a carefully colour-coded canvas that bursts with bright hues, predominantly blues. Music composer Prashanth Vihari joins in to complete the other-worldly treatment with his rustic-meets-international score. Once you soak into the milieu, it becomes easier to enjoy the languidly paced comedy drama. The characters are diverse — Gowri (Nithya Menen) who cannot write to save her life but is determined to carve an identity for herself as a journalist than live in the shadow of her father’s name, the opportunistic Dr Anand (Satya Dev) who needs money to get his revoked licence back, and ‘subedar’ Ramarao (Rahul Ramakrishna) who loathes the debt he has to deal with but the empty pride of his family’s past comes in the way of him actually getting down to any work.  The film benefits from good performances all around. Skylab deserves a pat on its back for moving away from the oft-repeated mainstream narratives. The slow pace might require some patience; but ultimately, this tale of a sleepy village is charming and fun.  (For the longer version, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/skylab-movie-review-a-charming-tale-of-a-peculiar-village/article37848591.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Rosaiah no more||One of the most senior Congress leaders in the country, he had served in the Cabinets of several Chief Ministers including Marri Chenna Reddy, K. Vijaya Bhaskar Reddy and Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. After the sudden death of Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy in 2009 in a helicopter crash, Rosaiah, the then Finance Minister, was elevated as the Chief Minister. He later served as the Governor of Tamil Nadu for a full term. Born in Guntur district on July 4, 1933, he started his political career as a member of the Legislative Council in 1968. He was later elected as MLA from Chirala constituency. He was the longest serving Finance Minister. presenting the budget 15 times, including a record 7 consecutive times. He was also an MP. Hailing from Vemuru village near Tenali, Mr.Rosaiah worked his way through the Congress party from Youth Congress ranks. He served as Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president twice. After completing his term as Governor of Tamil Nadu he stayed away from active politics and was residing in Hyderabad. Telangana Chief Minister, K. Chandrashekhar Rao said the leader delivered to the best of his abilities in whatever role he was given while recalling his services to the combined State. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and AP Chief Minister, Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed grief over the demise and conveyed condolences to the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rosaiah-no-more/article37848603.ece
05 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Illegal sand mining on in Channi’s constituency, alleges AAP leader||Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha on Saturday alleged that illegal sand mining is being carried out in Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi’s constituency Chamkaur Sahib as he paid a surprise visit to a village there. Terming it an “expose”, Mr. Chadha also accused the Congress Government in the State of “patronising” the sand mafia. Mr. Chadha made the accusations after he visited Jindapur village in Chamkaur Sahib. “Illegal sand mining in Charanjit Singh Channi’s constituency has been exposed. It is the biggest expose which will shake Punjab politics,” Mr. Chadha told reporters at the site. “We are in Jindapur village, which is in the CM’s constituency Chamkaur Sahib. Illegal sand mining is going on here openly. Sand is being illegally ferried in trucks,” the AAP leader said. Mr. Chadha said when Mr. Channi became the CM, he had declared that those connected with the sand mafia should not try to approach him. “But here we can see this mafia is enjoying the patronage of the ruling outfit,” he alleged. He said as per their estimates, 800 to 1,000 trucks,filled with sand were being taken out. “Right under the CM’s nose and in his own constituency,” he alleged. ‘Hollow claims’ “Mr. Channi's hoardings can be seen that his Government has checked various mafia... his claims are hollow. Another claim that people were getting sand at Rs. 5 per cubic feet is also hollow,” Mr. Chadha claimed. He also alleged that a forest officer wrote to the local SHO and tehsildar about illegal mining. “He wrote the letter on November 22 and just a day later he was transferred.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/illegal-sand-mining-going-on-in-channis-constituency-aap/article37848690.ece
05 December 2021||Gwalior,||Gwalior civic body’s bid to keep city clean||Swinging into action after lagging behind in this year’s national cleanliness ranking, the Gwalior civic body has decided to adopt a novel way of playing ‘ Ramdhun’ (chanting Lord Ram’s name) in front of the houses of people if they are found throwing garbage in the open. This move of sending Bhajan singers to chant Ramdhun is aimed at making people ashamed of their act of throwing garbage on roads, and to encourage them in cooperating with the administration in keeping the city clean. But if people continue to flout the norms , then a fine will be imposed on such violators, a senior official said. “The sanitation employees are carrying out door-to-door collection of garbage. But several people are still throwing garbage outside their houses, on roads or in public places,” Gwalior Municipal Corporation Commissioner Kishore Kanyal said. He said such people will be requested and warned initially to dump their household garbage in the GMC-run vehicles. Mr. Kanyal said that during the past one week, the GMC has imposed a fine of Rs. 5 lakh on the shopkeepers and households for throwing the garbage on roads. The Corporation will run a campaign to ensure 100% door-to-door collection of garbage in the city with the help of people, he said. In the national cleanliness survey, Gwalior slipped to 15th position this year from 12th last year. Indore, the largest city of Madhya Pradesh, has secured top position in the country’s cleanliness survey for the fifth time in a row, while State capital Bhopal has secured seventh position this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gwalior-civic-bodys-novel-idea-to-keep-city-clean/article37848693.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||AAP launches ‘MCD Badlaav Campaign’ to defeat BJP||With an aim to remove the BJP from power in the municipal corporations, the AAP on Saturday launched the ‘MCD Badlaav Campaign’. Election to the three municipal corporations is to be held by April next year. Delhi AAP chief and Minister Gopal Rai said that under the campaign, the party will launch a door-to-door membership drive from Sunday and will cover each and every household in Delhi. The party’s target is to induct 50 lakh members in the next three months. “If we want Delhi to shine, and if we want it to be more beautiful and healthier, cleanliness is of utmost importance. Which is why we are launching this MCD Badlaav Campaign. As part of this campaign, we have to go to every street, lane, booth, ward, mandal and Assembly. We have to go to every corner in Delhi and let people know that just the way they chose Arvind Kejriwal to eradicate corruption from the Delhi Government, the time has now come for the municipal corporations,” Mr. Rai said, addressing workers at the party headquarters. Contrasting fate In the 2017 municipal corporation election, the AAP fared poorly and lost all three corporations to the BJP. This is despite winning 67 out of 70 seats in the 2015 Delhi Assembly election. Referring to this, Mr. Rai said, “The last time we contested the corporation elections, we were contesting for the very first time. We had no experience and we were only learning.” He said the Delhi Government can give free water, free electricity, or install CCTVs, but when people step out onto the streets, they see garbage strewn across the streets. Waste management of the city falls under the ambit of the civic bodies.  Movement, not party Senior AAP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that AAP is not a party, but it is a movement: a movement for education reform, for women’s rights and safety, for health reforms, to reduce inflation. “We have to work to realise our dream to change the country, and to achieve the goal of voting the BJP out of power in order to do that. We have to transform Delhi into a clean capital. Every AAP member must have the drive to make these dreams come true, to make Delhi shine, and for that, first throw the corrupt, havoc-wreaking BJP out of the corporation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-launches-mcd-badlaav-campaign-to-defeat-bjp/article37848474.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||DU admissions: panel for common entrance test||A nine-member panel constituted by Delhi University Vice-Chancellor Yogesh Singh has recommended that the varsity hold a common entrance test to ensure ‘substantial objectivity’ in the admission process, amid a controversy erupting over the high number of cent per cent scorers from the Kerala Board. Board-wise distribution The Committee formed under the chairmanship of Dean (Examinations) D.S. Rawat was supposed to examine the reasons for over and under admissions to undergraduate courses, study the board-wise distribution of admissions in all undergraduate courses, suggest alternative strategies for optimal admissions in undergraduate courses and examine OBC admissions with reference to the non-creamy layer status. The Committee analysed the data of admissions which are cut-off based and saw that it showed the highest intake of students from the CBSE Board, followed by the Kerala Board of Higher Secondary Education, Board of School Education, Haryana, ICSE and Board of Secondary Education Rajasthan. “The Committee is of the considered view that as long as undergraduate admissions in the university are cut-off based, there is no way that fluctuations, sometimes significant, can be avoided to maintain equity.” “... the Committee is of the considered view that admissions may be carried out through a Common Entrance Test (CET). The report said that it will provide an equitable opportunity to the applicants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-admissions-panel-for-common-entrance-test/article37848467.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||EDMC intensifies steps to curb pollution||East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) Commissioner Vikas Anand on Saturday said that the civic body was taking “intense measures” to curb pollution in areas under its jurisdiction with a total of 128 teams deployed to monitor the situation on a regular basis. Water sprinklers The civic body has deployed 40 water sprinklers, 10 mechanical road sweepers, 12 jetting machines and three anti-smog machines as a part of its anti-pollution measures, a senior EDMC official said. He said: “The 128 teams have been divided into two groups of 64. These teams monitor and help curb pollution-causing activities on a daily basis . Close to 700 km of roads under the EDMC’s jurisdiction are being covered by the machines. The teams keep a close watch on pollution-causing activities like burning of tyres and construction waste.” The senior civic body official said nearly Rs. 9 lakh has been issued in fines and close to Rs. 2.25 lakh has been collected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/edmc-intensifies-steps-to-curb-pollution/article37848465.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||Girl gets ‘SEX’ series vehicle number||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) has issued a notice to the Transport Department seeking a modification in the vehicle registration number allotted to a woman’s two-wheeler featuring the letters ‘SEX’ resulting in ‘severe harassment’ for her. The women’s panel also asked the department to mention in its reply the total number of vehicles that have been registered under the new series. According to a senior official from the department, the entire series was restricted after the issue came to light. “It’s very unfortunate that people can be so petty and abusive that the girl has to face so much harassment,” a statement quoted DCW chief Swati Maliwal as saying. An official explained that in Delhi, two-wheelers are allotted the letter ‘S’ and currently the two letters in circulation for the registration of two-wheelers happen to be ‘E’ and ‘X’ leading to the registration number of such vehicles consisting of a combination of the three letters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/girl-gets-sex-series-vehicle-number/article37848473.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||IGIA sets up 20 counters for international flyers||The Delhi airport authorities on Saturday said 20 dedicated counters have been set up for the passengers arriving from “at risk” countries and having pre-booked their mandatory COVID-19 test, after many flyers complained of chaos and crowding at the terminal following the implementation of new travel guidelines. According to the Union Health Ministry’s guidelines issued earlier this week, all passengers coming from “at-risk” countries have to compulsorily undergo test and 5% of passengers arriving from other countries would also have to take the test on a random basis. DIAL, in collaboration with the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, has allowed for online payment to pre-book the test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/igia-sets-up-20-counters-for-international-flyers/article37848470.ece
05 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police gears up to counter new variant||In the wake of new COVID-19 variant Omicron, Delhi Police has issued an order stating that its nine Health Monitoring Cells and COVID Care Centres be revived and personnel and their family members be fully vaccinated. In an order issued on December 1, Special Commissioner of Police (Welfare) Shalini Singh said that the staff who have not been vaccinated should be identified and be advised to get their jab and those who were given exemption should be spoken to and consult with doctors. The department has also called for reviving its COVID-19 Health Monitoring Cells headed by inspector-rank officials, and ensuring availability of oxygen cylinders and life saving medicines. Police officers have been directed to make COVID-19 helpline functional.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-police-gears-up-to-counter-new-variant/article37848472.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||Capital logs 51 fresh cases, zero deaths||The city reported fifty-one new COVID-19 cases, taking the total cases to 14,41,295. No new deaths were reported in 24 hours and the total number of deaths stood at 25,098, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Saturday. A total of 64,826 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.08%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-logs-51-fresh-cases-zero-deaths/article37848475.ece
05 December 2021||Panaji,||‘Something good is going to happen in Goa polls’||All divine forces are coming together and something good is going to happen this time, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday, in a cryptic remark months ahead of the Goa Assembly election. On CM’s name The Delhi Chief Minister said his party represents “honest politics” and that it would take a decision on announcing its chief ministerial face for Goa at an “appropriate time”. Mr. Kejriwal arrived in Goa on Saturday and met the party’s local leader Amit Palekar, who was on an indefinite fast against an under-construction bungalow being built in an “unauthorised” manner at an Old Goa heritage precinct. The fast ended on Friday after the State Government announced action against the controversial structure. ‘People’s victory’ “This is a victory of the people of Goa. This time, all the divine forces are coming together and something good is going to happen,” Mr. Kejriwal said while talking to reporters in the presence of Mr. Palekar at his residence in Merces village on the outskirts of Panaji. “AAP represents honest politics. It represents struggle of the people and raises issues of the public,” he said. Despite the doctors advising Mr. Palekar to stop his fast on the third day due to his deteriorating health condition, he continued with it for the sake of saving the heritage of the state. “Whoever says that Mr. Palekar was fasting to gain political mileage should also join in such long fasts which purify the soul,” Mr. Kejriwal said. When asked whether Mr. Palekar would be announced AAP’s chief ministerial face in Goa, Mr. Kejriwal said the decision would be taken at the right time. He dismissed the charge that Mr. Palekar undertook the fast to project himself as the party’s CM face. “No one fasts for five days to become a CM. We have seen how someone with Rs. 100 crore buys MLAs to become a CM,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/something-good-is-going-to-happen-in-goa-polls/article37848687.ece
05 December 2021||Seoni (M.P.),||49 children take ill after eating fruit||At least 49 children studying in a Government primary and middle school took ill after allegedly consuming a poisonous fruit in Madhya Pradesh’s Seoni district, an official said on Saturday. The children had eaten ‘ratanjot’ (alkanet) fruit from a tree near their school in Barghat area of the district on Friday, the official said. The students complained of vomitting, colic and uneasiness after returning home, and were admitted to a health facility in Barghat, duty officer Dr. Yogesh Agrawal told PTI. While 47 children have been discharged, two were referred to Seoni district hospital, he said. Similarly, 13 students of another Government primary school in Barhat had taken ill on Thursday after consuming ratanjot fruit. All of them were later discharged from hospital, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/49-children-take-ill-after-eating-fruit/article37848689.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Sculptors under the spotlight||The third edition of iSculpt for Delhi exhibition is showcasing works of 20 sculptors, transforming India International Centre’s gorgeous Gandhi King Plaza into a sculpture court. Curated by seasoned art critic Uma Nair, it seeks to provide sculptors their rightful place in the pantheon of Indian artists. “As an art critic who has been curating shows for 16 years, I have always found that when people put together shows they put up a lot of paintings but sculptures are often left out. Here, for the third year in succession, I am putting onto the stage a number of young and established sculptors,” says Ms. Nair. Ms. Nair says, this year, it has taken a whole new meaning owing to the pandemic because “we don’t know what these artists have gone through in the past one year, both in terms of their expression and experiences as well as earning a livelihood.” In an endeavour to explore sculptors’ relationship with the environment, a number of artists have created works that are born of an ecological echo. Neeraj Gupta’s ‘Heaven and Earth’ is a monumental elephant with pots, made of copper and bronze. The majestic sculpture exalts the beauty of the gentle giant and its place in the habitat. “It is an ode to the elephant that stands as an endangered species and is on its way to extinction. From poetry to the cinema, elephants have inspired all of us for centuries. They play an important role in maintaining biodiversity. The figure of the elephant evokes a host of memories and will create multiple emotions in the minds of the viewers,” explains Mr. Gupta, who specialises in public art. “Works of art in public places offer a peek into the human life in a particular city. They are the magnets that may hold a public space together and that is the reason why I always say that the works of art in public spaces should represent the relentless spiral of energies of the people living in the city,” he adds.   Folds in water   Ankon Mitra, who works with the technique of folds, has been studying and experimenting with the art form in nature. In ‘Fountain of Folds’, he brings out the folds in water. “Although, we do not associate folds with something that seems fluid and dynamic. However, when water freezes, like in snow or ice or when we see it in the clouds, we start discerning the patterns. So, I wanted to kind of imagine what the dynamism of water could look like in terms of folds,” explains Mr. Mitra. Mr. Mitra wants to break the false notion that sees the ancient art of Origami as a child’s craft when in actuality it’s capable of standing tall with any other cutting edge technique. National Award winner Keshari Nandan’s stoneware work is a reflection of the elements of nature. “The title of my work is ‘Human Being’. Technically, it is wood-fired stoneware, unglazed, heated at 1280 °C. The work is a symbolism of life and a reflection of the Pancha Bhoota, the five elements: earth, water, fire, air, and space that the human body, as well as the universe, is made up of, according to the Upanishads,” says Mr. Nandan. Another National Award winner Arun Pandit’s work, ‘Head’, reflects a new generation that is married to technology. Apart from the changing patterns of nature, the exhibition also looks at relationships between artworks and artists. Satish Gupta’s ‘The Conference of the Birds’ can best be described as an elegy to the 12th century Sufi poet Faridud-Din Attar’s eponymous poem. Mr. Gupta’s work has been created as a tree with two peacocks talking to each other.  Man and nature   Dhannanjay Singh’s ‘Man and the Tree’ reminds us of the equation between man and nature while underlining the importance of trees. Seema Kohli’s meditative work ‘Riding the waves of wind and water’ resonates with Atul Sinha’s rosewood masterpiece ‘Aradhak’. While Prof. Biman Bihari Das’ ‘Lord Buddha’ in bronze evokes deep spirituality and tranquility, Rita Datta’s ‘Madhav’ is veneration of Lord Krishna in bronze. “Prof. Das has been creating the statues of Lord Buddha for more than 50 years. I chose his Buddha and picked a face in stone called ‘Nymph’ by Parmod K. Mann for the exhibition without realising that Mann was Prof. Das’ student at the Delhi College of Arts many years ago. So we are looking at different compositions, separated by several years. We are also looking at a guru and a disciple,” says Ms. Nair, adding ‘Madhav’ and ‘Lord Buddha’ are placed opposite each other at the exhibition. “We are basically looking at different ways of reaching the same goal. Isn’t it.?”  (iSculpt can be viewed at the Indian International Centre   until December 18)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sculptors-under-the-spotlight/article37848469.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Valour, courage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/valour-courage/article37848741.ece
05 December 2021||Dantewada,||16 Maoists surrender in Chhattisgarh||At least 16 Maoists surrendered before the police in insurgency-hit Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh on Saturday, the police said. The cadres turned themselves in before the police officers in Dantewada under the police’s rehabilitation drive ‘Lon Varratu’, Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava said. Of the 16 surrendered rebels, Joga Kunjam (26) was allegedly involved in several incidents, including an attack on security personnel in the district, the officer said. The cadre will be rehabilitated as per the State Government’s policy, he added. As many as 475 Maoists, including 119 who carried rewards on their heads, have given up arms in the district under the ‘Lon Varratu’ (‘return to your home/village’ in Gondi dialect) campaign launched by the police in June last year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/16-maoists-surrender-in-chhattisgarh/article37848685.ece
05 December 2021||Shimla,||‘Himachal becomes first fully vaccinated State’||Himachal Pradesh has become the first State to fully vaccinate 100% of its adult population against COVID-19, an official spokesperson claimed here on Saturday. As many as 53,86,393 eligible adults have been administered the second dose, he said. A special function is being organised to honour COVID-19 workers at the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bilaspur on Sunday, he said. BJP national president J.P. Nadda and Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya will attend the functionhe said. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, Union Minister Anurag Thakur and the State Health Minister Rajiv Saizal will also participate in the function, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/himachal-becomes-first-fully-vaccinated-state/article37848688.ece
05 December 2021||COLOMBO/ABU DHABI,||Sri Lanka condemns lynching in Pak.||Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa on Saturday expressed “deep concern” and “shock” over a violent mob in Pakistan’s Punjab province lynching and burning the body of a Sri Lankan national over alleged blasphemy. Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan spoke to President Gotabaya, and the Rajapaksas have expressed confidence that Mr. Khan would bring perpetrators to justice. In a statement issued by his office, President Gotabaya, who is currently in Abu Dhabi attending the Indian Ocean Conference, said the “act of barbarism” is a great shock to Sri Lankans as well as to all those who value humanity. “As an ardent friend of Pakistan, Sri Lanka commends the actions taken by the Government of Pakistan led by Prime Minister Imran Khan to ensure justice, immediately after this brutal assassination. The Sri Lankan Government and the people of Sri Lanka look forward with great confidence on the future steps that will be taken by the Government of Pakistan in this regard,” it said. Further, President Rajapaksa said: “extremist activities of any nature create grave chaos in a society.” Sri Lankan Foreign Minister G.L. Peiris told The Hindu in Abu Dhabi, on the sidelines of the conference, that his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi called him, and promised to make available to Sri Lanka all the information from the probe. “Prime Minister Imran Khan also called the President, he offered his condolences, and assured us of a full inquiry at the earliest, he said. Asked if Colombo planned to send a team to conduct investigations, Minister Peiris said Sri Lanka would like to allow the investigations in Pakistan to proceed, and will await more information in the next two days. “They do expect to have more information in the next 48 hours about how such an incident could have occurred, and they have already taken about 120 people into custody,” he said. Sri Lanka and Pakistan have enjoyed strong and cordial diplomatic ties for decades. PM Khan visited Sri Lanka in February this year. Following the grisly attack, both Islamabad and Colombo appeared keen on avoiding a diplomatic flashpoint. While strongly condemning the attack, the Sri Lankan side repeatedly expressed confidence that justice would be served, and the Pakistani leadership reached out swiftly, assuring the same at the highest levels. In a tweet on Saturday, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa said: “Shocking to see the brutal and fatal attack on Priyantha Diyawadana by extremist mobs in #Pakistan. My heart goes out to his wife and family. #SriLanka and her people are confident that PM @ImranKhanPTI will keep to his commitment to bring all those involved to justice.” Mr. Diyawadana, 40, from Sri Lanka’s central Kandy district, was employed as the general manager of a garment factory in Sialkot district, about 120 km north of Lahore. PM Khan has termed Friday’s incident a “horrific vigilante attack” and said it was a “day of shame” for Pakistan. On Saturday, Sri Lanka’s Parliament condemned the incident, and urged Islamabad to ensure the safety of other Sri Lankan workers residing in Pakistan. The Muslim Civil Society Alliance in Sri Lanka, a group of civil society organisations and activists, condemned “the horrific killing”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-condemns-lynching-in-pak/article37848182.ece
05 December 2021||Washington,||Russia junks U.S. reports on possible Ukraine offensive||Russia has dismissed new U.S. media reports about a possible Russian attack on Ukraine, accusing Washington of trying to aggravate the situation while blaming Moscow, the Kommersant newspaper said on Saturday, citing the Foreign Ministry.  The Washington Post cited officials and an intelligence document on Saturday as saying U.S. intelligence thought Russia could be planning a multi-front offensive on Ukraine as early as next year involving up to 175,000 troops. “The (United) States is conducting a special operation to aggravate the situation around Ukraine while shifting the responsibility onto Russia,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova was quoted as saying by Kommersan t. ‘Don’t accept red lines’ “It is based on provocative actions near Russia’s borders accompanied by accusatory rhetoric,” she said. U.S. President Joe Biden said on Friday he is developing comprehensive initiatives to make it “very, very difficult” for Russian President Vladimir Putin to invade Ukraine and that he would not accept Moscow’s “red lines,” as fears mounted that the simmering conflict could erupt into war.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-junks-us-reports-on-possible-ukraine-offensive/article37848190.ece
05 December 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka’s Malaiyaha Tamils in dire straits: expert||Sri Lanka’s Malaiyaha Tamil workers, whose labour in tea plantations fetches precious foreign exchange to the country, are living in “inhumane and degrading” conditions, a UN expert has said. “Contemporary forms of slavery have an ethnic dimension. In particular, Malaiyaha Tamils —who were brought from India to work in the plantation sector 200 years ago — continue to face multiple forms of discrimination based on their origin,” said Tomoya Obokata, UN Special Rapporteur on contemporary forms of slavery, concluding his recent visit to the island nation. Neglected for long UN bodies have consistently highlighted human rights concerns during Sri Lanka’s civil war period and after, pertaining to the Tamils of the war-affected north and east, and more recently to Sri Lanka’s Muslim community over growing fears of persecution, but the plight of the Malaiyaha Tamil community, historically neglected and marginalised, has received relatively less international attention. Roughly 1.5 lakh people from the community, with a population over 10 lakh, are engaged in direct labour in the estates, and most of them are women. Their daily wage of LKR 1,000 (about Rs. 373) — won after sustained protests in recent years — is tied to an arduous target of 18-22 kg of plucked tea leaves every day, to be met rain or shine, while braving leeches and wasp attacks. A prominent item in Sri Lanka’s export basket — apart from garments, rubber, and spices — tea brings roughly $1.3 billion a year into the country. Pointing to the workers’ colonial-era line room accommodation, where up to 10 people live in a 10x12 space, poor sanitation, and the persisting denial of land rights to the community, Mr. Obokata said on Friday: “While I am aware that some alternative houses are built, for instance, in cooperation with the Indian government, I was appalled to see that the inhumane and degrading living conditions in the line houses persist to the present day.” India has committed to building 14,000 houses in Sri Lanka’s hill country, but the construction is progressing at a slow pace amid private plantation companies’ apparent reluctance to part with land. The visiting U.N. official flagged continuing discrimination of the community based on caste, especially in the Northern Province, where a sizeable hill country Tamil population lives, unable to acquire land. He drew attention to the exploitative working conditions in Sri Lanka’s garment industry, that employs several thousand women, often enduring unreasonable production targets, inhumane working conditions — some workers “even choose not to go to the bathroom in order to meet the targets”, and poor wages in relation in skyrocketing living costs in the country. Sri Lanka’s garment workers have protested repeatedly during the pandemic, against abrupt sacking of workers and demanding fair wages. Debt burden The UN expert also spoke of the impact of predatory microfinance debt on Sri Lanka’s rural women, including forcing children into labour to enable families to repay debt accumulated due to high interest rates — from 30 to even 200% in some cases. “Due to the high interest rates of the loans, many women fall into debt bondage. This has led to suicides of reportedly over 200 women in the past years,” he said. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, in his campaign ahead of the 2019 election, promised to “ensure relief of village women falling victim from unregulated microfinance schemes”. His manifesto has been since adopted as government policy framework. However, affected women are still seeking relief. “I am deeply concerned by the fact that the government has to date not taken any effective and timely action in regulating and monitoring these exploitative microfinance companies, with the result that they continue to operate unabatedly,” Mr. Obokata said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lankas-malaiyaha-tamils-in-dire-straits-expert/article37848195.ece
05 December 2021||Beijing,||Ahead of Biden summit, China’s communists bash U.S. democracy||China’s Communist Party took American democracy to task on Saturday, sharply criticising a global democracy summit being hosted by President Joe Biden next week and extolling the virtues of its governing system. Party officials questioned how a polarised country that botched its response to COVID-19 could lecture others, and said that efforts to force others to copy the Western democratic model are “doomed to fail.” The harsh rhetoric reflects a growing clash of values that has been thrust into the spotlight as China rises as a global power. The question is whether the U.S. and other leading democracies can peacefully co-exist with a powerful authoritarian state whose actions are at odds with the Western model that emerged victorious at the end of the Cold War. The pandemic exposed defects in the American system, said Tian Peiyan, the deputy director of the Communist Party’s Policy Research Office. He blamed the high COVID-19 death toll in the U.S. on political disputes and a divided government from the highest to the lowest levels. “Such democracy brings not happiness but disaster to voters,” he said. Neither China nor Russia are among about 110 nations that have been invited to Mr. Biden’s two-day virtual “Summit for Democracy,” which starts on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ahead-of-biden-summit-chinas-communists-bash-us-democracy/article37848185.ece
05 December 2021||Athens,||In democracy’s birthplace, Pope warns of threats||Pope Francis warned on Saturday that the “easy answers” of populism and authoritarianism are threatening democracy in Europe and called for fresh dedication to promoting the common good. Arriving in Greece, the birthplace of democracy, the Pope used a speech to Greek political and cultural leaders to warn Europe at large about the threats facing the continent. He said only robust multilateralism can address the pressing issues of the day. “Politics needs this, in order to put common needs ahead of private interests,” he said. “Yet we cannot avoid noting with concern how today, and not only in Europe, we are witnessing a retreat from democracy.” Later on Saturday, the Pontiff met with the leader of Greece’s Orthodox Church, Archbishop Ieronymos, and was briefly heckled as he arrived at the archbishop’s residence. “Pope, you are a heretic!” an elderly Orthodox priest shouted three times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-democracys-birthplace-pope-warns-of-threats/article37848187.ece
05 December 2021||Geneva,||No deaths yet as Omicron grips 38 countries: WHO||The Omicron variant has been detected in 38 countries but no deaths have yet been reported, the WHO said on Friday, as authorities worldwide rushed to stem the heavily mutated COVID-19 strain’s spread amid warnings that it could damage the global economic recovery. The U.S. and Australia became the latest countries to confirm locally transmitted cases of the variant. The WHO has warned it could take weeks to determine how infectious the variant is, whether it causes more severe illness and how effective treatments and vaccines are against it. “We’re going to get the answers that everybody out there needs,” WHO emergencies director Michael Ryan said. The WHO said on Friday it had still not seen any reports of deaths related to Omicron, but the new variant’s spread has led to warnings that it could cause more than half of Europe’s COVID-19 cases in the next few months. The new variant could also slow global economic recovery, just as the Delta strain did, International Monetary Fund chief Kristalina Georgieva said on Friday. “Even before the arrival of this new variant, we were concerned that the recovery, while it continues, is losing somewhat momentum,” she said. “A new variant that may spread very rapidly can dent confidence.” A preliminary study by researchers in South Africa, where the variant was first reported on November 24, suggests it is three times more likely to cause reinfections compared to the Delta or Beta strains. South African doctors said there had been a spike in children under five admitted to hospital since Omicron emerged, but stressed it was too early to know if young children were particularly susceptible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-deaths-yet-as-omicron-grips-38-countries-who/article37848191.ece
05 December 2021||Bamako,||At least 30 killed in Mali truck attack||Gunmen attacked a truck carrying civilians in central Mali, killing at least 31 people, a local official said on Saturday. The Mayor of Bandiagara, Housseini Saye, said the truck was carrying about 50 civilians when the identified gunmen attacked the vehicle on Friday. “The shooting caused the truck to catch fire, and 31 people died, most of them burned to death,” said the Mayor, who is also a member of Mali’s transitional Parliament. “There were several injured and two missing.” The attack has not been claimed, but it bears the mark of local armed groups linked to al-Qaida. The bloodshed could exacerbate tensions between communities in central Mali that already have led to extended violence in the region. Insecurity has worsened with attacks on civilians and UN peacekeepers in Mali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/at-least-30-killed-in-mali-truck-attack/article37848183.ece
05 December 2021||Washington,||U.S. maths prize for Nikhil Srivastava||Eminent Indian-American mathematician Nikhil Srivastava has been jointly selected for the inaugural $5,000 Ciprian Foias Prize awarded by the American Mathematical Society (AMS) for “highly original work” in Operator Theory. Along with Professor Srivastava, who teaches at the University of California, Berkeley, the two other awardees are Adam Marcus and Daniel Spielman. Mr. Marcus holds the Chair of Combinatorial Analysis at the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL) in Switzerland. Mr. Spielman is Sterling Professor of Computer Science at Yale University. Their work developed methods for understanding the characteristic polynomial of matrices, namely the iterative sparsification method (also in collaboration with Batson) and the method of interlacing polynomials, according to a media release. “Together, these ideas provided a powerful toolkit with many applications, notably in the trio’s breakthrough paper “Interlacing families II: mixed characteristic polynomials and the Kadison–Singer problem” (Annals of Mathematics, 2015), which solves the famous “paving problem’’ in operator theory, formulated by Richard Kadison and Isadore Singer in 1959,” AMS said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-maths-prize-for-nikhil-srivastava/article37848289.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Texas Instruments raising chip output to fill supply gap’||A surge in demand for semiconductors in areas such as automotive, computing and communications has resulted in an acute shortage of these products globally. Chipmaker Texas Instruments (TI) is working to address the supply gap globally as it ramps up production capabilities and strengthens distribution channels, according to Santosh Kumar, president & MD, TI India . Excerpts:  TI is said to be rapidly expanding production capabilities. Any plans for a wafer fab in India? Strengthening our production capabilities is part of our capacity planning for the future. We are continuing to expand production lines at a global level, and our recent acquisition of Lehi fab [in Utah, from Micron], is expected to boost our competitive advantage in manufacturing and technology. More from a strategic standpoint, the Lehi facility is focused on 65-nm (nanometer) and 45-nm production for our analog and embedded processing products. India is a critical R&D centre for TI, and we continue to increase our investments here in building products. We will leverage the strength of our talent here for local as well as global markets as we keep adding more product lines. How are you responding to the surging demand for semiconductors/chip shortages in the global market? The Lehi fab came to the TI stable as our fourth 300-mm wafer fab manufacturing unit. This investment is a great asset and will help us ramp up advanced semiconductor processor manufacturing. A few months ago, we also introduced new purchasing features on TI.com for our customers in India to facilitate a localised, faster, and convenient buying experience. These include payment options through online banking, credit cards, and a line of credit purchasing options in local currency to make it as easy as possible to get authentic TI products. The chip industry is fast consolidating; will you opt for a more aggressive and acquisitive posture? TI has been steadily growing every year, and we have been recording strong results with increasing market share. We remain focused on investing in our people, R&D, and manufacturing. We continue to strengthen our presence in industrial and automotive, driving innovation and building products that customers want. What is TI’s contribution towards making electronics more affordable through semiconductors? TI has market leadership in power electronics. We work on a complete set of products for electric and hybrid-electric automotive markets, including power electronics for motor drives, real-time control units, and various sensors. Market adoption of EVs in this decade has definitely pushed more technology innovations to be made available at the right price points. Along with a strong market presence in ADAS (advanced driver assistance systems), we have several plays in automotive markets where semiconductor content is continually rising. Rapid progress is also being made on medical signal chain, and we are delivering competitive products for markets such as CT, X-rays and ultrasound. Communication markets are accelerating with 5G+ technology and we contribute to signal chain and RF technologies.  What makes analog increasingly relevant today? Quite simply — all real-world signals are analog and these need to be processed. We need to condition and process these signal chains for humans or machines, and that means there will always be a need for analog signal processing. That said, TI also does a lot of work in the digital space and, for thousands of our products, we need analog, digital and software competencies.  We will leverage the strength of our India talent for local as well as global markets as we keep adding product lines||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/texas-instruments-raising-chip-output-to-fill-supply-gap/article37848312.ece
05 December 2021||New Delhi,||Unhealthy speculation taking place in cryptocurrencies: FM||Asserting that a lot of speculation was taking place in cryptocurrencies, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said such speculation was not “healthy at all.” Her comments come against the backdrop of the government preparing to come out with legislation to regulate cryptocurrencies. Speaking at the HT Leadership Summit, the Finance Minister said there was certainly ‘a well-consulted bill’ which was coming up in Parliament. “There is a lot of speculation... that’s not healthy at all,” she said in a reply to a question if she thought that a lot of unregulated speculation was taking place on the crypto front. The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021, has been included in the Lok Sabha Bulletin-Part II for introduction in the ongoing Winter Session. Earlier this week, while replying to questions in the Rajya Sabha, Ms. Sitharaman had said the new bill took into account the rapidly-changing dimensions in the virtual currency space, and incorporated features of the earlier bill. With regard to food inflation, she said there were supply constraints because of floods in some parts of the country leading to a rise in prices of perishables. She, however, expressed the hope that the prices of those commodities would cool by January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/unhealthy-speculation-taking-place-in-cryptocurrencies-fm/article37848314.ece
05 December 2021||Washington,||India should free up exchange rate moves: U.S.||India has been exemplary in publishing its foreign exchange market intervention, the U.S. Treasury Department said, adding that New Delhi should allow the exchange rate to move flexibly to reflect economic fundamentals. “The (Indian) authorities should allow the exchange rate to move flexibly to reflect economic fundamentals, limit foreign exchange intervention to circumstances of disorderly market conditions, and refrain from further significant reserve accumulation,” it said. “As the economic recovery progresses, the authorities should continue to pursue structural reforms that can help lift productivity and living standards, while supporting an inclusive and green recovery,” it said. In its semi-annual report to Congress, the Treasury reviewed and assessed the policies of its major trading partners, comprising more than 80% of its foreign trade in goods and services, during the four quarters through June 2021. According to the Treasury Department, India’s goods and services trade surplus with the U.S. was $40 billion over the four quarters through June 2021, a substantial increase from the relatively consistent level of about $30 billion from 2013 to 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-should-free-up-exchange-rate-moves-us/article37848325.ece
05 December 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Perfect-10’ by Ajaz on an imperfect day for New Zealand||India may have bundled New Zealand out for the lowest Test total ever and virtually sealed the game and the series with an imposing lead. Still, the second day’s play of the second Test will go down in the cricket annals for Ajaz Patel’s rarest of rare feats. The New Zealand left-arm spinner joined England’s Jim Laker and India’s Anil Kumble in the Perfect-10 Club to make the Wankhede Test his own. That Ajaz (10/119) achieved it in his hometown — he migrated to Auckland when he was eight — makes the accomplishment all the more special. Follow-on not enforced Despite Ajaz’s clean sweep, Mayank Agarwal’s 150 (311b, 17x4, 4x6) and Axar Patel’s fifty (52, 128b, 5x4, 1x6) ensured India crossed the 300-run mark before the bowlers bamboozled a hapless Kiwi line-up. Notwithstanding a hefty 263-run lead, India opted to bat again and ended the day at 69 for no loss, with Mayank and Cheteshwar Pujara Keeping Ajaz and Co. at bay. Ajaz, the crafty spinner, showed little signs of tiredness despite rolling his arm over for 29 overs on the opening day. In his first over of the day, he got rid of Wriddhiman Saha with an arm ball and straightened R. Ashwin up off the next ball to disturb the bails with a beauty. Once Axar saved the hat-trick, he and Mayank, who continued his vigil from the first day with little trouble, negotiated Tim Southee’s spell with the new ball. With Kyle Jamieson struggling to find any rhythm, Ajaz replaced him after a solitary over by the lanky pacer. Ajaz was rewarded for his guile as, a ball after Mayank notched up his 150 with a square cut, the opener misread the drift and turn to be caught behind off the backfoot. By then, with Ajaz having earned all the seven wickets, the anticipation of his Perfect-10 was building up. And the bowler persisted from the Tata End to finally get rid of Axar when the left-hander didn’t offer a shot off one that turned in sharply and New Zealand succeeded in its review. Ajaz’s next over turned out to a momentous one with Jayant Yadav holing out at long-off and last man Mohammed Siraj’s wild heave ending up in a skier to mid-on. Triple strike New Zealand batters couldn’t really build on the high of Ajaz’s feat. Siraj, with a spirited spell up front, broke the backbone of the Kiwi batting. The pacer struck thrice in his fiery spell, dismissing openers Will Young (caught by a lunging Kohli at second slip) and Tom Latham (caught at deep-square through a short-ball ploy) before bowling a peach that sneaked through Ross Taylor’s defence. A DRS review off Henry Nicholls denied Siraj of a hat-trick as the ball pitched slightly outside leg. At 17 for three, the stage was set for the spinners to take over and the trio didn’t disappoint. Ashwin yet again emerged as the leader of the pack with four scalps with New Zealand innings lasting only 128 minutes. Pujara opens With Shubman Gill tending to his elbow after getting hit at forward short-leg, Pujara opened the innings with Mayank. And the duo ensured India ended the day with a hefty 332-run advantage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/perfect-10-by-ajaz-on-an-imperfect-day-for-new-zealand/article37848175.ece
05 December 2021||BENGALURU,||Sowjanya to take on Pranjala||Sowjanya Bavisetti came from a set down to defeat Rutuja Bhosale 4-6, 6-4, 6-2 to enter the singles final of the $15,000 KSLTA ITF World Tour tennis tournament, at the KSLTA courts here on Saturday. In Sunday’s summit clash, the third seed will meet Y. Pranjala, who had to save a match-point in a tough 3-6, 6-3, 7-5 win over qualifier Shrivalli Rashmikaa. Sowjanya and Rutuja beat the Sai Samhitha-Soha Sadiq combine 7-5, 6-1 in the unfinished doubles semifinal and returned to defeat Vaidehi Chaudhari and Mihika Yadav 6-0, 6-3 to secure the title.  In the morning, Sowjanya played an erratic first set against Rutuja, with a solitary break in the seventh game enough to give the latter a 6-4 lead. The duo traded breaks early in the second set before Rutuja lost serve in the 10th game, which included a double fault on set point. The dodgy service would be Rutuja’s bane, as she lost serve three more times in the third to hand Sowjanya the victory. In the second semifinal, Pranjala and Shrivalli matched each other shot for shot as they split the opening two sets. In the third, Shrivalli squandered a 4-1 lead and saw a match-point on Pranjala’s serve at 4-5 erased by a fine drop shot winner. A despondent Shrivalli wilted in the final two games to hand Pranjala the set 7-5 and a place in the final.  The results: Singles (semifinals): Sowjanya Bavisetti bt Rutuja Bhosale 4-6, 6-4, 6-2; Y. Pranjala bt Shrivalli Rashmikaa 3-6, 6-3, 7-5.   Doubles (final): Sowjanya Bavisetti & Rutuja Bhosale bt Vaidehi Chaudhari & Mihika Yadav 6-0, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sowjanya-to-take-on-pranjala/article37848323.ece
05 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Manu on target in air pistol||Olympian Manu Bhaker asserted her class by winning the women’s air pistol gold in the 64th National shooting championship here on Saturday. After qualifying in the fifth place with 576, the 19-year-old Manu dominated the final, except when the eventual silver medallist Shri Nivetha briefly snatched the lead. Manu showed commendable composure as she handled the 24-shot final with equanimity despite eight 9s and a 7.9. Eventually, she beat Shri Nivetha by 1.7 point for the gold. Qualification topper Esha Singh (582) grappled with a string of 9s and 8s that pulled her to the bronze medal. However, Esha regrouped her shooting nicely to capture both the junior and youth gold medals. The competition could have been a lot more interesting but for Rhythm Sangwan, who sparkled with 582 in qualification, being disqualified owing to her pistol trigger failing the weight test.  The results:   10m air pistol: Women: 1. Manu Bhaker 241.6 (576); 2. Shri Nivetha 239.9 (581); 3. Esha Singh 215.4 (582).   Juniors: 1. Esha Singh 240.7 (582); 2. Devanshi Dhama 237.9 (576); 3. Tejaswani 218.0 (574).   Youth: 1. Esha 240.3 (582); 2. Tejaswani 237.9 (574); 3. Devanshi 218.1 (576) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manu-on-target-in-air-pistol/article37848753.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Winless Kerala Blasters face in-form Odisha||Kerala Blasters hasn’t won a game in its three attempts yet. Odisha FC has won both its games. Odisha has pumped in nine goals in two matches. Blasters managed three in three. So there is no prize for guessing which team is in better form as Blasters and Odisha face off at Bambolim on Sunday. The Blasters could indeed be desperate to register their first win of the ISL this season. They are, though, up against a side that blasted six goals in its last match. The 6-4 victory against East Bengal must no doubt have been a big morale-booster for the Odisha men. They had opened their campaign on a confident note too, beating Bengaluru FC 3-1. Two drawn games Their rival on Sunday, though, had lost 2-4 to ATK Mohun Bagan in its opening match and gone on to draw the following two games (0-0 with NorthEast United and 1-1 with Bengaluru FC). Blasters needs to come up with a much improved show – especially up front —against a team that seems determined to shrug off the horrors of the last season, in which it had finished at bottom. The Kochi side had ended up just a place above, but it has not quite been able to turn things round in the new season. Coach Ivan Vukomanovic feels his team should have won against NorthEast. “We had our moments against Bengaluru,” he said. “We were missing that last pass.” Odisha’s coach Kiko Ramirez expects a strong challenge from Blasters. “They have been working hard, though they haven’t been getting good results,” he said.  KBFC has lost to ATK MB and shared the points with NEUFC and BFC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/winless-kerala-blasters-face-in-form-odisha/article37848634.ece
05 December 2021||Bali,||Sindhu in final, Lakshya loses||Indian badminton ace P.V. Sindhu entered the summit clash of the BWF World Tour Finals with a hard-fought win over Akane Yamaguchi of Japan in the semifinals here on Saturday. World No. 7 Sindhu, the reigning World champion and two-time Olympic medallist, beat Yamaguchi 21-15, 15-21, 21-19. On Sunday, she will face Korea’s An Se-young, who beat Pornpawee Chochuwong of Thailand 25-23, 21-17 in the other semifinal. It will be Sindhu’s third appearance in the final of the season-ending tournament. She won the title in 2018 to become the only Indian to achieve the feat. Sindhu had come into the match with a 12-8 head-to-head record against the World No. 3 Japanese. Sindhu has been in fine form after the Tokyo Olympics having reached the French Open, Indonesia Masters and Indonesia Open semifinals. She was runner-up at the Swiss Open in March. World No. 6 An entered the tournament with back-to-back titles at the Indonesia Masters and Indonesia Open. She also beat Sindhu in the the Denmark Open quarterfinals in October. Axelsen-Vitidsarn final However, later in the day Lakshya Sen lost 13-21, 11-21 to reigning Olympic champion and World No. 1 Viktor Axelsen of Denmark in the men’s semifinals. Axelsen will face Kunlavut Vitidsarn of Thailand, who beat All England champion Lee Zii Jia 21-18, 21-18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-in-final-lakshya-loses/article37848164.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Carlsen’s tenacity pays off||Magnus Carlsen’s unmatched persistence came to the fore as he reinforced his reputation of being able to “squeeze water out of stone.” Displaying awe-inspiring tenacity, the champion nailed Ian Nepomniachtchi in the longest game in World chess championship, in Dubai in the early hours of Saturday. In an epic lasting 136 moves, spread over 7 hours and 45 minutes, Carlsen managed to break Nepo’s resistance and gained a 3.5-2.5 lead after six games. The number of moves played beat the previous record of 124 moves in the drawn fifth game between Anatoly Karpov and Viktor Korchnoi in their 1978 World title clash. Carlsen kept pressing for a possible win even when a draw appeared the most likely outcome. The champion said, “It shouldn’t be easy in a World Championship match and you have to try for every chance, no matter how small it is, and part of it was by design. At some point, I thought I should make the game as long as possible so that we would both be as tired as possible when the critical moment came, and that turned out to be a good strategy.” Nepo said, “Obviously, it wasn’t the most pleasant game. But anyway, life goes on. It’s not a big deal.” Viswanathan Anand observed in his commentary: “Nepo had an easy draw (around the 50th move) but he has made it difficult for himself. Now, I don’t see white (Carlsen) letting him get away.” After a gruelling Game 6, Carlsen and Nepo played out a rather quick 41-move draw in the seventh. The Norwegian leads 4-3 now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsens-tenacity-pays-off/article37848167.ece
05 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Knockouts promise strong challenges||One of the most striking features of the National senior women’s football championship has been the huge difference in quality between the teams in many of the matches. So you had games that produced 20 or 21 goals (all of them in one post). The trend could very well change from Sunday onwards, when the knock-out stage gets underway at three venues. Teams like Manipur, the reigning champion, Railways, the runner-up in the last edition, Tamil Nadu and Mizoram could indeed face some strong challenges. In the quarterfinals, Manipur faces Assam at Kuthuparamba, Railways takes on Goa at the Govt. Medical College Ground, Mizoram plays Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu meets Odisha, both at the Corporation Stadium. Among other things, it would be interesting to watch how some of the stars of the competition, like Tamil Nadu’s Sandhiya, who netted 12 goals in three matches, fare against better defences.  Quarterfinal line-up Manipur vs. Assam Railways vs. Goa Mizoram vs. Maharashtra Tamil Nadu vs. Odisha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/knockouts-promise-strong-challenges/article37848632.ece
05 December 2021||Hyderabad:,||It’s Fire Power vs. Botero in 2000 Guineas||Fire Power and Botero should fight out the finish of the Golconda 2000 Guineas (Gr. 2), the main attraction of Sunday’s (Dec. 5) races.  MICA EMPRESS PLATE (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only (Cat. II), 12.40 p.m.: 1. Ashwa Shirwal (2) Akshay Kumar 56, 2. Canterbury (9) Ashad Asbar 56, 3. London Bell (3) Kuldeep Singh 56, 4. Wind Sprite (5) Suraj Narredu 56, 5. Almas (4) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 6. Alpine Girl (10) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 7. Ballerina (6) Antony Raj 54.5, 8. Lady Di (7) S.J. Sunil 54.5, 9. Lights On (8) Nakhat Singh 54.5 and 10. Riffa (1) B.R. Kumar 54.5.  1. WIND SPRITE, 2. LIGHTS ON, 3. ASHWA SHIRWAL   REPUBLICAN PLATE (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III), 1.15: 1. Berkeley (10) N.B. Kuldeep 62, 2. N R I City (7) Akshay Kumar 61, 3. Sorry Darling (4) Suraj Narredu 61, 4. Team Player (6) Gaurav Singh 60, 5. Starwalker (9) Md. Ismail 59, 6. N R I Gift (2) Rafique Sk. 58.5, 7. Rhine (1) A.A. Vikrant 58.5, 8. Astronaut (8) Khurshad Alam 57.5, 9. Jo Malone (3) Aneel 55.5 and 10. Royal Avenger (5) Afroz Khan 50.  1. TEAM PLAYER, 2. N R I CITY, 3. SORRY DARLING   SOLITAIRE PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 1.50: 1. Bugsy (7) P.S. Chouhan 61.5, 2. Keystone (12) Akshay Kumar 60.5, 3. Able Love (5) Gaurav Singh 59, 4. Moonlight Ruby (9) A.A. Vikrant 59, 5. Lifetime (11) Khurshad Alam 57, 6. Pedro Planet (8) Kiran Naidu 56, 7. Siri (3) Rupal Singh 55.5, 8. Farrell (10) C.S. Jodha 55, 9. Horse O’ War (1) B.Nikhil 53, 10. Sheldon (4) Rafique Sk. 53, 11. Flamingo Fame (2) Santosh Raj 52 and 12. Starwalt (6) Surya Prakash 50.  1. KEYSTONE, 2. BUGSY, 3. FARRELL   ZURBARAN PLATE (Div. II) (1,100m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.25: 1. City Of Blossom (10) R. Ajinkya 60, 2. Gusty Note (1) Akshay Kumar 60, 3. Furious Fun (6) Santosh Raj 59, 4. Indian Glory (5) A.A. Vikrant 59, 5. Rising Queen (2) Abhay Singh 58, 6. Ambitious Star (9) Nakaht Singh 57, 7. Greek’s Ace (3) B. Nikhil 56, 8. Golden Forza (7) Kuldeep Singh 55.5, 9. Silk Route (8) Surya Prakash 55 and 10. Exponent (4) P. Gaddam 54.5.  1. GUSTY NOTE, 2. FURIOUS FUN, 3. RISING QUEEN   CRACK REGIMENT PLATE (1,600m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 3.00: 1. Kesariya Balam (6) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Cosmic Run (2) Kiran Naidu 58.5, 3. Lamha (3) Abhay Singh 58, 4. Maplewood (10) C.S. Jodha 57.5, 5. Mark My Day (5) R.S. Jodha 57.5, 6. DRD (9) Ajeeth Kumar 55.5, 7. November Rain (7) Mukesh Kumar 55.5, 8. Apollo (8) Gaurav Singh 55, 9. Icicle (1) Ashad Asbar 55 and 10. Rhythm Selection (4) Md. Ismail 52.  1. KESARIYA BALAM, 2. MAPLEWOOD, 3. NOVEMBER RAIN   AIR COMMAND CUP (1,200m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II), 3.35: 1. Premier Action (1) Kuldeep Singh 61, 2. Agni (7) A.A. Vikrant 55.5, 3. Headway (8) N.B. Kuldeep 54, 4. Lagos (5) Akshay Kumar 54, 5. Xfinity (3) P.S. Chouhan 53.5, 6. Staridar (4) B. Nikhil 52.5, 7. Her Legacy (10) P. Sai Kumar 52, 8. Incredulous (9) G. Naresh 51.5, 9. Long Range (2) Surya Prakash 51.5 and 10. Market King (6) C.S. Jodha 50.  1. XFINITY, 2. MARKET KING, 3. LAGOS   GOLCONDA 2000 GUINEAS (Gr. 2) (1,600m) (Terms), 3-y-o only, 4.10: 1. Akido (9) Nakhat Singh 57. 2. Ashwa Raudee (6) Mukesh Kumar 57, 3. Blue Origin (4) Akshay Kumar 57, 4. Botero (5) P.S. Chouhan 57, 5. Buckley (8) N.S. Parmar 57, 6. Count Of Savoy (2) A. Imran Khan 57, 7. Fire Power (1) Suraj Narredu 57, 8. Painted Apache (7) Ashad Asbar 57, 9. Southern Dynasty (—) and 10. Stockbridge (3) Antony Raj 57.  1. FIRE POWER, 2. BOTERO, 3. STOCKBRIDGE   ZURBARAN PLATE (Div. I) (1,100m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 4.45: 1. Stunning Force (5) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Sandown Park (2) Santosh Raj 58.5, 3. Appenzelle (3) A.A. Vikrant 57.5, 4. Angelita (4) Ajeeth Kumar 55.5, 5. Cabello (6) Kiran Naidu 55.5, 6. Narakamicie (9) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 7. Charmer (1) R.S. Jodha 53.5, 8. Alluri’s Pride (7) Aneel 53, 9. Blue Label (8) Nakhat Singh 52 and 10. Space Time (10) B.R. Kumar 51.5.  1. STUNNING FORCE, 2. ANGELITA, 3. CABELLO  Day’s best: KEYSTONE  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 3, 4 & 5. (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-fire-power-vs-botero-in-2000-guineas/article37848315.ece
05 December 2021||Nassau,||DeChambeau moves into sole lead||Bryson DeChambeau shot an eight-under 64 second round to take the sole lead in the Hero World Challenge at the Albany Golf Course here on Friday. DeChambeau carded six birdies on the back nine, to compensate for a double bogey on the 16th. The American is one shot ahead of Collin Morikawa, Tony Finau and Brooks Koepka. Top-ranking beckons Morikawa, who will become World No. 1 if he wins this title, shot a steady six-under 66 to stay in the hunt. The two-time Major winner is aware of the looming numero uno status, even if he would like to stay in the present. “I saw the scenarios (surrounding the World No. 1 status). And I’m going to keep saying it — I just have to focus on trying to win this week,” Morikawa said. Finau finished on a high, making a 15-foot putt on the tricky par-4 18th to collect a birdie. “I didn’t hit in the sandy areas too often. I was able to control the ball into the greens, and just put together a solid round of golf,” Finau said. Koepka, meanwhile, is happy to get back to form. The American’s last top-10 finish came in the British Open in July.  Rory McIlroy, who held the joint lead overnight alongside Daniel Berger and Abraham Ancer, shot a one-under 71 to slip to tied eighth.  The scores (top five): 133: Bryson DeChambeau (69, 64); 134: Collin Morikawa (68, 66), Tony Finau (68, 66), Brooks Koepka (68, 66); 135: Daniel Berger (66, 69).   (The writer is in Nassau at the invitation of Hero MotoCorp).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dechambeau-moves-into-sole-lead/article37848173.ece
05 December 2021||Chennai,||CCFC set to miss I-League this year||The All India Football Federation on Saturday announced that former I-League champion Chennai City FC will not be allowed to play in the upcoming season of the league for failing to comply with Club Licensing Regulations. The new season is set to start on Dec. 26 and CCFC’s place will be taken by Kenkre FC, which finished second in the Hero I-League Qualifiers held in Bengaluru earlier this year. Impact of COVID-19 However, CCFC owner Rohit Ramesh said that it had informed the federation that it was not in a position to play in the upcoming season anyway due to the impact of COVID-19 on club revenues and the recent rains in Chennai impacting its preparations as well. In a statement, the federation said, “The AIFF Club Licensing Committee has taken strong exception to Chennai City FC (the “Club”) for failing to comply with most of the mandatory AIFF Club Licensing Regulations for the forthcoming Hero I-League 2021-22 despite giving additional opportunity after assurances from the Club including a detailed conference call.” Explaining the reasons for not wanting to play this year, Rohit said, “Due to the pandemic, all the clubs have taken a big financial hit and we just managed to field a team last year. We were unable to even commence the club licensing process due to a delay in obtaining the affiliation letter from the Tamil Nadu Football Association which put us at a disadvantage. “While it is unfortunate that we can’t play this year, we are hopeful of making a strong comeback next year and continue to promote football in the State and the country,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ccfc-set-to-miss-i-league-this-year/article37848365.ece
05 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||India looks for revenge against France||India will have the double challenge of improving its game and avenging its defeat to France when it plays the third-place match at the men’s Junior hockey World Cup at the Kalinga Stadium here on Sunday. Even as Cyclone Jawad threatens to disrupt the final day, India would try to redeem some pride by claiming a bronze medal after its comprehensive defeat to a superior Germany in the semifinals on Friday. India chief coach Graham Reid had no hesitation in accepting the host’s shortcomings. “Germany showed what we need to be doing as far as defending is concerned. If you have to win at the world stage, the basics have to be flawless. We created opportunities but they were not quality ones,” said Reid. Six-time champion Germany, which had last won the title in Delhi in 2013, will take on Argentina in the final. The Latin American nation has won gold only once in 2005.  The results:   9th-10th places: South Africa bt Korea 4-0; 11 th-12th : Pakistan bt Poland 5-0; 13 th-14th : Canada bt Chile 2-1; 15 th-16th : USA 2 drew with Egypt 2 (shootout: USA bt Egypt 3-0) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-looks-for-revenge-against-france/article37848751.ece
05 December 2021||BENGALURU:,||Harmonia claims Classic Story Trophy||Mr. Rajan Aggarwal and Mr. Gautham Aggarwal’s Harmonia (J.H. Arul Up) won the Classic Story Trophy, the chief event of the races held here on (Dec. 4). Pradeep trains the winner.  1. SUTLEJ PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 00 to 25: SOUTHERN POWER (Nazerul) 1, Commandpost (Rajesh Kumar) 2, Eco Friendly P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Florencia P. Mani) 4. 2-1/2, 3-1/4 and Nk. 1m, 28.52s. Rs. 30 (w), 12, 12 and 27 (p). Shp: 34. Thp: 50. Fc: 78. Q: 28. Trinella: 371 and 277. Exacta: 1,782 and 560. Favourite: Commandpost. Owners: Mr. K. Raghavan Dr. Arun Raghavan & Mr. Dayanand Kachuwah. Trainer: Faraz Arshad.  2. SHARAVATI PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45, 5-y-o & over: TRENSETTER (Rayan Ahmed) 1, Legendary Princess (Ranjeet Singh) 2, Marco Polo (J.H. Arul) 3 and Star And Garter (Antony Raj) 4. 1-3/4, Snk and Shd. 1m, 39.90s. Rs. 458 (w), 62, 16 and 16 (p). Shp: 46. Thp: 52. Fc: 3,034, Q; Rs. 1,299. Trinella: 9,311 and 4,033. Exacta: 21,040 and 6,011. Favourite: Star And Garter. Owners: Mr. Pradeep Kumar R & Mr. M. Sridhar. Trainer: Faraz Arshad.  3. LINGANAMAKKI PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 20 to 45: MORGANITE (A. Imran Khan 1, Unique Style (S. Saqlian), Rule The Law (Kiran Rai) 3 and Quiet Style (Vivek) 4. Not run: Karanveer, The Inheritor and Secret Source. Nk, 10 and 4. 1m, 28.65s. Rs. 11, 10 and 19 (p). Shp: 29, Thp: 29, Q: 29. Fc: 37. Q: 34. Trinella: 98 and 44. Exacta: 270 and 141. Favourite: Morganite. Owners: Mr. K. Harsh Nayak, Mr. Fazal Ur Rahman, Mr. Sunil Damani & H.J Balram. Trainer: Azhar Ali.  4. R.W.I.T.C CUP (1,100m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): PROMISE KEPT (Darshan) 1, Millbrook (Anthony Raj) 2, Chiraag (P. Mani) 3 and Mallory (Vivek) 4. 1-1/2, 3-3/4 and 1. 1m, 8.68s. Rs. 18 (w), 12, 15 and 52 (p). Shp:44. Thp: 98. Fc: 92. Q: 45. Trinella: 1,332 and 510. Exacta: 3,333 and 1,319. Favourite: Promise Kept. Owners: Mr. Rajan Aggarwal and Gautham Aggarwal. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar.  5. CLASSIC STORY TROPHY (1,200m), rated 40 to 65: HARMONIA (J.H. Arul) 1, Alberetta (L.A. Rozario) 2, Perfect Rendition (Dhanu Singh) 3 and Schafenberg (Shreyas Singh) 4. 3/3, Shd and Lnk. 1m, 14.22s. Rs. 42 (w), 13, 20 and15 (p). Shp: 46. Thp: 46. Fc: 246. Q: 136. Trinella: 697 and 238. Exacta: 1,614 and 612. Favourite: Set To Win. Owners : Mr. Rajan Aggarwal & Gautham Aggarwal. Trainer: Pradeep.  6. LINGANAMAKKI PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 20 to 45: OBSIDIAN (Dhanu Singh) 1, De Villiers (N.S. Parmar) 2, Twinkle Feet (Arshad) 3 and Livisilla (Likith Appu) 4. Not run: Fictioneer. 6-1/4, 3/4 and 1/2. 1m, 25.53s. Rs. 33, (w), 12, 11 and 14 (p). Shp: 35. Thp: 29. Fc: 73. Q: 29. Trinella: 107 and 71. Exacta: 137 and 71. Favourite: De Villiers. Owner: Mr. Gautham Maini. Trainer: Prasana Kumar.  7. SUTLEJ PLATE (1,400m), rated 00 to25: EXTRAORDINARY (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Impeccable (Yash) 2, Raw Gold (Salman Khan) 3 and Corde Of Honour (Vishal Bunde) 4. Nk, 2 and Nose. 1m, 28.87s. Rs. 45, 26, 13 and 18 (p). Shp: 37. Thp: 51. Fc: 259. Q: 126. Trinella; 804 and 554. Exacta: 2,064 and 580. Favourite: Impeccable. Owner. Mr. C.V Prasad Rao. Trainer: Sharat Kumar. Jackpot: Rs. 1,615 (26 tkts.); Runner: 92 (195 tkts.); Treble: 2,928 (two tkts.); (ii): 658 (12 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harmonia-claims-classic-story-trophy/article37848320.ece
05 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Very illustrious group to be a part of: Ajaz||Moments after the end of the second day’s play, Mayank Agarwal walked up to Ajaz Patel and gave the Black Caps spinner a tight hug. It had been more than four hours since Ajaz etched his name into cricket history by achieving the feat of 10 wickets in an innings. But Ajaz was as calm as he has been over the last fortnight in India. Despite all the adulation that has come his way from across the globe since Rachin Ravindra caught the last-man Mohammed Siraj at 1.02 p.m., Ajaz was far from celebrating in an exuberant manner. “These things don’t sink in until later. It’s brilliant for me, my family and my wife. You spend a lot of time away from home as a cricketer and I am just grateful to god for this, this occasion. It’s very special for me,” Ajaz said during the post-match media interaction. One of the greatest days “Personally, it’s one of the greatest cricketing days of my life and it probably will always be.” Ajaz admitted that after finishing the opening day with four wickets, he had aimed to get his name on the honours board of the Wankhede Stadium, having spent the first eight years of his life in Mumbai before migrating to Auckland in 1996. Soon after he achieved the landmark, Anil Kumble welcomed him to the elite club with a congratulatory tweet and followed it up with a video message to the official broadcaster. Ajaz was thrilled with Kumble’s message. “I remember his ten-fer. I have seen highlights of that game plenty of times. Very illustrious group to be a part of. Great to see his message and his kind words. Humbled and fortunate to be in that company,” Ajaz said. Despite his calm demeanour, Ajaz admitted that as he got closer to the mark, he started getting nervous. “It was a nervous time. We backed Rachin to take it (the catch) but the ball wobbled and we were all nervous. I told Neil Wagner during drinks that I was more nervous now than I was all game,” he said. “We don’t have these moments as cricketers often. It was special that it came in Mumbai,” Ajaz said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/very-illustrious-group-to-be-a-part-of-ajaz/article37848162.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||South Africa Test series to begin on Dec. 26||India’s departure to South Africa has been deferred by a week and the curtailed tour, without T20Is, will begin with the Boxing Day Test. “India’s tour of South Africa will proceed with the revised dates and itinerary. The team will participate in a three-match Test series followed by three ODIs, starting Dec. 26,” BCCI said in a statement after its 90th AGM in Kolkata on Saturday. According to Cricket South Africa, “the four scheduled T20 matches will be rescheduled in the new year, as part of the joint MoU” with the revised itinerary to be announced “within 48 hours”.  The Hindu understands that the Indian team, after assembling in Mumbai, will leave for South Africa in a charter flight on Dec. 16. It is also understood that the AGM was briefed about the IPL governing council’s decision to form an internal five-member panel to decide on the fate of CVC Capital as the Ahmedabad franchise owners. Meanwhile, besides retaining the three-member IPL governing council (Brijesh Patel, Khairul Jamal Mujumdar as members’ representives and Pragyan Ojha as Indian Cricketers’ Association representative), the AGM extended the retirement age of domestic match officials and support staff to 65 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africa-test-series-to-begin-on-dec-26/article37848168.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Mumbai proves too good as BFC suffers second loss||Bengaluru FC crashed to its second defeat in three matches, losing 1-3 to Mumbai City FC at the Bambolim Stadium on Saturday. After an even first half ended with Sunil Chhetri missing a penalty with the score locked at 1-1, Des Buckingham side’s superior squad strength and overall quality proved the difference. Mumbai’s opener came in the ninth minute when Igor Angulo converted from the spot after centre-back Alan Costa handled the ball. Cleiton Silva equalised with a wonderful free-kick in the 20th minute before Chhetri’s uncharacteristic miss — his second of the season — became the turning point. Mourtada Fall and substitute Ygor Catatau scored in the second half to take Mumbai top of the table with nine points from four matches. Marco Pezzaiuoli’s side is languishing in seventh spot, with just four points from as many games. In the day’s first game, Khassa Camara’s wonder-strike in added time helped NorthEast United beat FC Goa 2-1 at the Fatorda Stadium. Rochharzela and Alexander Romario scored for NEUFC and Goa within the first 13 minutes.  The results: Bengaluru FC 1 (Silva 20) lost to Mumbai City FC 3 (Angulo 9, Fall 54, Catatau 85). NEUFC 2 (Rochharzela 10, Khassa Camara 90+4) bt FC Goa 1 (Alexander Romario 13).   Sunday’s match: Kerala Blasters FC vs Odisha FC, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/camara-slots-home-late-winner-for-neufc/article37848174.ece
05 December 2021||PUNE,||Double for Saito||It was a day to remember for third seed Sara Saito as the Japanese won both the girls’ singles and doubles titles in the Gadre Marine ITF grade-3 junior tennis tournament at the Deccan Gymkhana courts on Saturday. In the boys’ final, Tanapatt Nirundorn of Thailand overcame top seed Woobin Shin of Korea 4-6, 6-2, 6-3. India’s Muni Ananthmani and Rushil Khosla won the doubles title.  The results (finals):   Boys: Tanapatt Nirundorn (Tha) bt Woobin Shin (Kor) 4-6, 6-2, 6-3.   Doubles: Muni Ananthmani & Rushil Khosla bt Max Batyutenko & Artur Khairutdinov (Kaz) 4-6, 6-2, [10-6].   Girls: Sara Saito (Jpn) bt Vaishnavi Adkar 7-6(4), 6-0;   Doubles: Yu-Yun Li (Tpe) & Sara Saito (Jpn) bt Aruzhan Sagandikova (Kaz) & Honoka Umeda (Jpn) 6-4, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/double-for-sara-saito/article37848734.ece
05 December 2021||Coimbatore,||Arya shines bright on a wet day||Team Dark Don Racing’s Arya Singh pulled out his best when it mattered most to emerge a clear winner in the opening race for Formula LGB4 cars in Round 3 of the 24th JK Tyre FMSCI National racing championship at the Kari Motor Speedway circuit in Chettipalayam here on Saturday. It was quite sunny in the morning and the drivers and riders went through the practice and qualifying sessions without much ado. But when they were eager to go out there and scorch the track came the rain and stole the show. The organisers were determined to run the race and, after a good amount of hard work by the ground staff, it all began. The Formula LGB4 stars were the first to go out on the wet track. The first four laps of the 15-lapper event was run under the safety car and the yellow flags. It was a rolling start and pole sitter Arya made no mistake from lights to flag. Raghul Rangasamy (MSport) put up a brave fight to finish second ahead of Ashwin Datta (Dark Don).  The results (provisional):   LGB Formula 4: Race 1: Arya Singh (Dark Don Racing) 31:42.851; 2. Raghul Rangasamy (MSport) 31:43.995; 3. Ashwin Datta (Dark Don) 31:47.041 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arya-shines-bright-on-a-wet-day/article37848364.ece
05 December 2021||Vijayawada,||Convincing win for India-B||India-B defeated India-A by seven wickets in the BCCI Senior women’s cricket Challenger Trophy one-day cricket championship here on Saturday. Chasing 235, India-B was never in trouble with openers Palak Patel (79, 124b, 11x4) and Shubha Satish (42, 54b, 3x4, 1x6) adding 101 in 23.5 overs to set the tempo. In another match,India-D scored a 40-run win over India-C.  The scores: India-A 234 in 50 overs (Yastika Bhatia 81, Chandu V. Ram 3/30) lost to India-B 237/3 in 48.5 overs (Palak Patel 79, S. Shubha 42, Harleel B. Deol 62).   India-D 251/8 in 50 overs (S. Meghana 60, Pooja Vastrakar 54 n.o., Radha P. Yadav 3/47) bt India-C 211 in 49.2 overs (Shipra Giri 43, Kanika Ahuja 4/37).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/convincing-win-for-india-b/article37848316.ece
05 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Huge increase in prize-money of all Nationals||Come 2022 and the National chess championships, across the board, will see a massive hike of Rs. 76 lakh in prize-money. With MPL Sports signing a Rs. 1 crore deal with the All India Chess Federation for the title-sponsorship of all its Nationals, the players from the under-8 to the seniors stand to gain heavily. The National championships, both Open and for women, will see a prize-fund hike of Rs. 10 lakh each, while the National junior gets the second biggest raise of Rs. 7.50 lakh and the National sub-juniors Rs. 6.50 lakh. Kanpur will host the Rs. 30-lakh National championship while the Rs. 25-lakh National women championship will be held at Bheemavaram, from February 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/huge-increase-in-prize-money-of-all-nationals/article37848165.ece
05 December 2021||Kuala Lumpur,||Indian men win silver||Malaysia came up with a dominating performance to outwit India 2-1 in the men’s final of the Asian team squash championships here on Saturday. India had lost in the summit clash before in 1981 and 2012 also. It was a double for Malaysia, with its women’s team defeating Hong Kong 2-1 in the final. The last time Malaysian men’s and women’s teams won was in the 2008 championships in Kuwait.  The results (final):   Men: Malaysia bt India 2-1 (Ng Eain Yow bt Saurav Ghosal 12-10, 11-4, 11-8; Mohammad Syafiq Kamal lost to Mahesh Mangaonkar 9-11, 7-11, 8-11; Ivan Yuen bt Ramit Tandon 11-8, 8-11, 11-3, 11-1).   Women: Malaysia bt Hong Kong 2-1 (Rachel Arnold bt Liu Tsz-Ling 11-6, 8-11, 11-7, 11-2; Ainaa Amani lost to Tong Tsz Wing 8-11, 6-11, 11-6, 9-11; Aifa Azman bt Tsz Lok Ho 11-4, 11-3, 11-6) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-men-lose-in-final/article37848321.ece
05 December 2021||TIRUCHI:,||Jamal Mohamed College triumphs||Jamal Mohamed College defeated Bharathidasan University (main campus) 3-0 in the final to clinch the men’s title in the Bharathidasan University inter-collegiate table tennis tournament at JJ CAS in Pudukottai recently.  The results:   Final: Jamal Mohamed bt BDU (main campus) 3-0 (R. Akshay bt K.K. Arun 11-8, 11-3, 11-4; A. Vengadesh bt D. Abileshwar 11-2, 11-2, 11-3; S. Deepak bt R. Periasamy 11-2, 11-1, 11-1).   Third place: Nehru Memorial bt Srimad Andavan ASC 3-1 (P. Baskar lost to R. Prasad 3-11, 5-11, 11-8, 7-11; M. Jeeva bt S. Mohamed Aslam 11-7, 11-7, 11-5; V. Mathankumar bt S. Sathappan 11-5, 11-3, 11-8; Baskar bt Aslam 11-1, 11-7, 11-5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jamal-mohamed-college-triumphs/article37848794.ece
05 December 2021||MADRID,||Russia meets Croatia in final||Daniil Medvedev sealed Russia’s place in the Davis Cup final with a 6-4, 6-4 victory over Jan-Lennard Struff giving his team an unassailable 2-0 lead over Germany here on Saturday. He backed up Andrey Rublev’s win over Dominik Koepfer in the first rubber to set up Russia’s clash with Croatia.  The results (semifinals): Russia 2 Germany 0 [Andrey Rublev bt Dominik Koepfer 6-4, 6-0; Daniil Medvedev bt Jan-Lennard Struff 6-4, 6-4].   Croatia 2 Serbia 1 [Borna Gojo bt Dusan Lajovic 4-6, 6-3, 6-2; Marin Cilic lost to Novak Djokovic 6-4, 6-2; Mate Pavic & Nikola Mektic bt Djokovic & Filip Krajinovic 7-5, 6-1] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/russia-meets-croatia-in-final/article37848170.ece
05 December 2021||LONDON,||West Ham shocks Chelsea||A fluke goal by Arthur Masuaku in the 87th minute gave West Ham a 3-2 win over Chelsea on Saturday. Masuaku’s miscued cross somehow found its way past Edouard Mendy with three minutes left. Earlier, Chelsea had led twice through Thiago Silva’s header and a sublime goal from Mason Mount, but West Ham came back through a penalty from Manuel Lanzini and Jarrod Bowen’s low shot. AC Milan beat Salernitana 2-0 to take top spot in Serie A.  Select results: Premier League: West Ham 3 (Lanzini 40-pen, Bowen 56, Masuaku 87) bt Chelsea 2 (Silva 28, Mount 44); Wolves 0 lost to Liverpool 1 (Origi 90+4).   Serie A: AC Milan 2 (Kessie 5, Saelemaekers 18) bt Salernitana 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/west-ham-shocks-chelsea/article37848171.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 07:45 IST,||Sudoku — December 5, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-5-2021/article37848933.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A modern take||The year 2021 is ending on a good note for music composer-turned-actor GV Prakash. While Bachelor hit the screens on Friday, his Jail releases next week. For a musician who is an accidental actor — debuting in a film titled Darling in 2015 — Prakash has travelled quite a distance. He is more serious about the craft now, and is looking to learn. “After my debut film, I did a string of projects that focussed on comedy. Bala’s Naachiyar (2018)  broke that mould — in terms of body language, look and acting techniques. Sarvam Thala Mayam and Sivappu Manjal Pachai followed that, and I was lucky to get opportunities to work in good roles.”  Bachelor and Jail are worthy follow-ups to a string of serious subjects that he has been taking of late. “I think I’m getting better with every film, be it acting or music composition. That’s the aim with every project I take up.” With Bachelor , he is trying to provide a peek into a toxic relationship between a boy and a girl. The phrase ‘Lust has become more dominant than love’ shows up in the trailer of this film, directed by Sathish Selvakumar and produced by G Dillibabu. “This is not a jaali (happy) film. It is a serious subject and a study on a man-woman relationship and how it breaks down into a messy affair. It will be a modern take on toxic relationships,” says Prakash, whose co-star in the film is Divyabharathi. He plays a character called Darling in the film that also stars Munishkanth and Bhagavathi Perumal, and Prakash says that it was very different to who he is in real life. “I’m very thuru thuru (restless) by nature, but the character I play is very laidback and doesn’t bat an eyelid even if the world around him collapses. If you ask him a question, he takes around 30 seconds to answer. This presented a lot of opportunities as an actor; I learnt how to use my eyes, and how to make ‘stays’ while performing. Jail , on the other hand, has me as Karuna, who is a pickpocket and a cunning thief.” Looking back, Prakash considers Naachiyar his coming-of-age film and one of the biggest highlights in his career. “Till then, I did not believe I had it in me to physically change myself for a role. Director Bala, who I consider one of my gurus, believed that I could do it. Similarly, Baba Bhaskar (choreographer-director) made me dance when I thought I didn’t have it in me,” says Prakash, whose recent favourites include watching performances of Danish actor Mads Mikkelsen and checking out acting masterclasses from Natalie Portman. Though acting is on top of his mind now, music is not too far away either. GV Prakash’s recent outings as a composer includes biggies like Soorarai Potru and Thalaivi ; he has other exciting projects lined up. So, what’s his secret to cracking a hit tune? “The more simple a tune is, the further it will reach. This doesn’t mean usual; there is a thin line between usual and simple, and as composers, we need to reach that, and hope audiences like that.” Up next, he promises that he has a “stunning line-up of projects”. Apart from his two current releases, Prakash also has Selfie and Idimuzhakkam coming up. “To build this bank, I needed time to refine and evaluate myself, just like how I had to when I went through a low as a composer. After my debut musical outing Veyyil , I had a string of lows, before Aayirathil Oruvan picked things up. Subsequently, there was a lull before Aadukalam came along. It has been a graph, with ups and downs. But all that matters, at the end of the day, is your willingness to learn.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-modern-take/article37848678.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Skylab’: Director Vishvak Khanderao on how a fictional story emerged from incidents in Karimnagar in 1979||Vishvak Khandero, the debut writer-director of the Telugu film Skylab , grew up in Telangana’s Karimnagar. As a child, he would come across people named Skylab Reddy or Skylab Raju and his curiosity was piqued. He learnt from his elders of the looming fear of NASA’s space station Skylab crashing in the region in mid-July 1979. Decades later, he wrote a fictional comedy-drama set in Bandalingampally village, with the Skylab events as the backdrop. The film Skylab , which released in theatres on Saturday, is co-produced by Nithya Menen. The ensemble cast includes Satya Dev, Rahul Ramakrishna, Vishnu Oi, Tulasi and Subbaraya Sharma, and Nithya Menen. Vishvak, 30, completed writing Skylab in 2016 and collaborated with his peers from the LV Prasad Film & TV Academy, Chennai. “In film school, I used to write dramas and thrillers. For my first feature, I was looking for a personal story that will have a wide appeal. I remembered my elders talking about Skylab and began research.” Skylab is falling The space station, which was expected to crash in the ocean south of Cape Town, South Africa, changed course and its debris was strewn across western Australia in July 1979. However, in the weeks preceding the crash, residents of Karimnagar and Nizamabad lived in fear of the space station crashing in their vicinity. Some took refuge in homes of their kith and kin in other cities. A few sold their homes and land at throwaway prices and left the region. According to reports, a near lockdown situation prevailed: “A few people vowed to name their children after Skylab if they survived the crash. Reports state that insurance to the tune of 36 crore was sold during the time,” says Vishvak. He describes the film as a comedy that has been treated like a musical. He and cinematographer Aditya Javvadi arrived at a cooler colour palette, moving away from the traditional reddish browns associated with Telangana. “I chose my grandmother’s village Bandalingampally for the story since it has a funny ring to it. The main characters are eccentric and the story not only explores what happens when the news of Skylab’s crash breaks out, but also the human psyche. The comedy is situational and in sync with the characters,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/skylab-director-vishvak-khanderao-on-how-a-fictional-story-emerged-from-incidents-in-karimnagar-in-1979/article37848680.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Bollywood’s bad men booked||Prem naam hai mera, Prem Chopra      Mogambo khush hua  These lines by the bad men of Bollywood are etched in our memories along with Pushpa, I hate tears ; Mere paas maa hain ; Don ko pakadna mushkil hi nahi, namumkin hai — all dialogues uttered by iconic antagonists. They may have suffered a raw deal on screen but Kolkata-born author Balaji Vittal gives Tollywood villains their due in the book Pure Evil - The Bad Men of Bollywood , published by Harper Collins, set to be released tomorrow. “The book is a rogues gallery of those despicable characters whom we couldn’t wait to see beaten to a pulp by the hero. But we cannot deny that a big part of the entertainment was because of these very villains. They sacrificed themselves for the cause of the film’s success,” says Balaji. In the process of collecting material for Pure Evil... , Balaji made a list of films to watch and signed up for OTT channels and purchased dozens of DVDs. “I read up close to 20 books on related topics in addition to archival features, news clippings and write-ups. My haunches ached from hours of hunting for old magazines at roadside shops in Delhi’s Daryaganj.” Balaji adds that he sought out the actors, scriptwriters and filmmakers “who filled those villain characters with palpability – and travelled to Mumbai to interview them in person”. Determined his book would not be a mere reproduction of published journals, periodicals, or transcripts of interviews with the personalities he had met, Balaji decided to keep the core of Pure Evil... a logical categorisation of various genres of villainy and a cogent argument on the socio-political trigger behind their emergence. “The narrative is an output — and not a reproduction — of the research, topped up with my sensibility of the villains, based on decades of watching Hindi films. I then identified a few iconic villain characters that exemplified each genre.” Belying the myth that villains have been typecast in Hindi films, Balaji says they travelled with contemporary situations. “With India emerging as a market for smuggled gold in the 1960s, we saw villains like the black-marketers and food grain hoarders of the 1950s being replaced with smugglers in the films of the mid-1960s. Directors were quick to track changing scenarios and cast them on screen.” He adds, “No doubt there were a few stereotypes — like the horse-riding Chambal dacoits or the British villains with their heavily accented Hindi. In balance, a few bad men acted as watersheds in the industry — Shakaal the smuggler in Yaadon ki Baaraat , Rahul the obsessed young man in Darr and of course, Gabbar the dacoit in Sholay .”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bollywoods-bad-men-booked/article37848681.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Humour and heart||Have you wondered at the role of superheroes in the post-pandemic world? According to Trinh Tran, one of the executive producers of Hawkeye , the fifth show from MCU (Marvel Cinematic Universe), they are dealing with it in different ways. “Speaking specifically for Clint Barton/Hawkeye (Jeremy Renner), the struggle is of losing his family and having them back, and the loss of his best friend, Natasha,” says Tran, over a video call from Los Angeles. “The events of Avengers: Endgame has put him in a headspace where he is trying to figure out survivor’s guilt. He is also wondering if he is going to lose his family again. That is his mind-set at the start of the series.” Tran stresses that the six-episode mini-series is different from the ones that have come before. “We were trying to figure out how we can set this particular story apart from all of the other ones that are in the works or have been released such as Wanda Vision, Loki, and The Falcon and the Winter Soldier .” The show, set a year after the events of Avengers Endgame , sees Clint trying to get home for the holidays. Family is the focus of the show, says Tran. “There is the emotional aspect of Clint having lost his family during the five-year blip.” Tran describes the show as a fun adventure between Clint and his protégé and super fan, Kate. “There is humour and heart. It is set in the holidays in New York where we see both characters bond during a mission.” The show explores Hawkeye’s Ronin avatar when he wreaked vengeance on those who survived the blip. “We wanted to explore what it meant for Clint to change from Ronin to Hawkeye.” The Hawkeye story started off as a movie, Tran says. “As we were researching, we realised there was so much rich material in the Matt Fraction and David Aja's Hawkeye comic run. We wondered how we were going to introduce a new character and have enough time to tell their stories. We figured that a six-hour series would explore the character’s backstory.” Hawkeye streams on Disney+ Hotstar in English, Hindi, Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/humour-and-heart/article37848679.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A step towards inclusivity||The last performance on the bill of fare, it was greeted with seats more vacant than occupied. The sprinkling of spectators were abashedly apologetic about it, and willed themselves t//o do every hallowed thing in their power to conceal this embarrassing fact from the Bharathanatyam dancers. The mission was accomplished with these spectators using their paws as cymbals and wowing the best formations and movements with extended claps — an effort that threatened to outlast Beatles’ memorable outre (“na na na nananana, nannana, hey Jude”, if you are casting around for it). That evening, each pair of hands in the room — including this writer’s — equalled a hundred. One believes the five female Bharathanatyam dancers from Bengaluru-based Articulate Ability hardly registered that the auditorium was largely stark. They are vision-impaired, with partial sight, which was as reliable as a reed in a tempest, given the blindingly intense but essential lights thumping the stage at Dhakshinamurti Auditorium in Mylapore. If they had harboured any lingering suspicion that much of the audience had trooped out into the nippy winter night after the main events, the thunderous applause from the handful of spectators would have quelled it. The performance was part of Marghazhi Matram, an inclusive concert being organised by California-based arts-promoting non-profit, SciArtsRUs. After the last party of regular performers — a Carnatic troupe — had hurriedly shuffled off the stage, an elaborate preparation followed. Every possible stumbling block was swiftly shoved out of the way. Lengths of tapes were fastened on to the performance arena. These dancers feel their way through their performances, and these tapes were an indispensable guide. A vertical divider tape gave them a sense of the space around them, dividing the stage into two clean sections. A horizontally-pasted tape, one that went the length of the stage, kept them from overstepping the performance area and coming to any harm. Despite these precautions, their guru Suparna Venkatesh, founder of Articulate Ability, did not want to leave anything to chance. She tutored the five girls about the dimensions of the stage, and any offending object found on the fringes, through instructions in Kannada. As Suparna would reveal later, these girls are from remote villages of Karnataka, who found education through Deepa Academy for the Differently Abled in Bengaluru. Suparna notes that the Academy also offers these vision-impaired students boarding and lodging at its hostel. In a collaborative exercise, Articulate Ability teaches these students bharathanatyam. Suparna is adept at Kathak and Bharathanatyam — while she takes the stage herself to perform Kathak, she helps others take the stage for Bharathanatyam performances. As it was past 9 p.m., when they stepped on the stage, these dancers from Articulate Ability had to be content with a truncated performance, one involving just two pieces of music. Mallari, which, as Suparna explained, is “a unique piece of music played on the nadaswaram when the presiding deity of a temple is taken on a procession”. The nadaswaram artistes play the music, accompanied by Tavil players. The other piece had the Articulate Ability dancers weaving movements that delineated an understanding of how the chakras are believed to work. Whenever they pulled off an exacting formation, spectators would go into a tizzy of excited clapping. While the performance was under way, Suparna’s response was priceless: leaning on the lectern, she would watch the dancers gimlet-eyed, particularly the movement of their feet, a smile constantly fleeting across her lips. “It was so fulfilling to see them back on the stage after such a long time,” she would remark later, after the curtains had fallen on the day’s show. “Before the pandemic, they had performed in Bengaluru; some of them have even performed abroad.” Due to the pandemic, for nearly two years, Suparna had not been able to go to their hostel to conduct classes for them. “We are hopeful of restarting the classes in January 2022,” she noted. Before this concert at Marghazhi Matram, this team had to be put through a wringer of a practice session, which in the best of times can be a challenge. “What would take one day of training for an ablebodied student would take these vision-impaired children seven days. I have to be patient — sometimes, they may miss out on a movement. Their memory of the movements has to be pretty sharp as they do not have the luxury of watching someone and copying a movement. As they take what they have learnt to the stage, they have to remember it clearly. To achieve that level of muscle memory, more practice sessions are needed. Even for rangapravesa, I use recorded music, as that makes it easy to conduct practice sessions. Musicians will not come for 10 or 15 practise sessions,” says Suparna. She let in on a behind-the-scenes panic that had gripped the team at the eleventh hour. One of the six girls had received news of a bereavement in the family and rushed to Coorg. They movements and formations had been tailored to a six-member team. They had to adapt to the new situation, besides taking in their stride the regular challenges of a stage performance. “As she had been in all the rehearsals, the other five had to adjust to her absence, reworking the formations in their mind.” The actual performance on the stage has its own grammar, one that is as difficult to master as irregular verbs in French — for any artiste, and more so for one with impaired vision. Besides its team of vision-impaired female dancers, Articulate Ability also has a group of five vision-impaired male dancers, two of whom are totally blind. The dancers resort to alternatives offered by nature to crack this grammar. “They are provided with guidelines (tapes) on the stage, but they find their way around with their other senses. When they are completely blind, the dancers feel the light on their skin. Two of these girls cannot even open their eyes when they come on to the stage with its blinding lights. So, they feel the harsh light on their skin and come to know where the audience are seated. They also feel the breath of the audience. And they also feel the sound waves from the speakers. Because everything is closed, they tend to feel these things clearly,” Suparna explains. And the proof of the pudding: one rasika, K Kumar, a sabha-hopper during the Madhazhi season and a volunteer at Mardhazhi Matram, was struck by the impossibility of certain formations. He particularly referred to one sequence where the dancers sitting on their haunches had to snap back into the standing position and also achieve alignment as they did so. He remarked, “It is only by the touch of the hand, the dancer realises that the one before her has stood up. It is amazing how they did it with perfect synchronicity. I will make a post about this incredibly brilliant performance on FB tomorrow.” Another rasika tut-tutted over the empty seats, echoing the prevalent sentiment of the evening. She was heard telling Suparna: “It is sad that there are not enough people in the audience to appreciate and marvel at this brilliant performance.” Thanks to the enthusiastic cheering, the five dancers would never know that.  Whenever they pulled off an exacting formation, spectators would go into a tizzy of excited clapping||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-step-towards-inclusivity/article37848087.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||When a lake takes on a new character||During the north-east monsoon — especially the kind witnessed in 2015 and probably the one under way now — Kelambakkam lake should go with an alternative carte de visite . It undergoes a temporary change in character, acquiring an enhanced status. During heavy floods, the lake is flush with fish, some not its own. The calling card should be embossed with an image where a trevally shares the frame with a carp. The lake is always home to brackishwater fish. And in unusual times, it is also “refugee camp” to freshwater fish violently ejected out of their habitats: the freshwater lakes and ponds nearby. In the evening hours of November 28, despite the skies behaving like a stubborn zipper that would not close up, an informal fish market had sprung up on the narrow landing of a bridge on Kelambakkam-Kovalam Link Road. While hawking the catch from the lake, the sellers seemed its perfect spokespersons, indirectly advertising the lake’s enhanced diversity. Freshwater fish had flowed into the lake along with the gushing waters that had spilled over from neighbouring freshwater waterbodies: the catch reflected the sudden event. The question to be answered: how long will the catches be eclectic? Phrasing it differently, how long will the freshwater fish survive out of their familiar waters? There are freshwater fish that would find this brackishwater lake too salty for their taste. And these would make their preference known in unmistakable terms: they would die — without wasting much time. There are freshwater fish that make themselves at home in the brack water due to their capacity for adaptation: they would thrive. There are other freshwater fish that hold on, barely managing to adjust to their new home, helped by factors, including dilution of brack water: they survive till salinity begins to shoot up. “If the freshwater fish are directly introduced into brackish water, they will not survive. Here is a scenario where due to the floods, there is a heavy inflow of freshwater, which would cause dilution of brakishwater characteristics. As the process is gradual, the fish can acclimatise themselves to the new environment. There are some freshwater fish that have a higher tolerance threshold to salinity and they would be able to manage in this environment,” notes A Bijukumar, professor and head of the department, Aquatic Biology, Kerala University. M Yuvan, a naturalist and a member of Madras Naturalists Society’s team that studies and documents biodiversity along the Tamil Nadu coast, notes that at least for a month after the monsoon had generously stirred freshwater into a brackishwater lake such as the one in Kelambakkam, the salinity levels will be abysmally low, enabling many freshwater fish species to continue without much uncertainty to their well-being. Yuvan illustrates: At the peak of the monsoon, even a lake of the size of Pulicat will seemingly take a break from its regular character, registering an incredible drop in salinity levels, due to freshwater influx from Kosasthalaiyar and Araniyar rivers. “Other examples in our parts include the Cheyyur lagoon, which is similarly impacted by the monsoon. Maximum salinity is in the summer, and at other rimes, these lakes are brackish. If you take the Kaliveli lake, only during peak summer does it display a form of salinity. Though a lagoon, by virtue of being tucked deep inside, Kaliveli lake has various kinds of freshwater inflows; and for most part of the year, it is as good as a freshwater lake.” When the waters go back to being brackish, the freshwater fish that seemed to have survived will find their adaptability being severely tested. “Catfish is highly adaptable due to the presence of an accessory respiratory organ, and even changes in salinity will not impact them. Tilapia has a long history of surviving in saltwater. Snakeheads also tolerate saline systems very well; and eels do make themselves at home in brackishwaters.” The freshwater fish that are unlikely to make it past the changed circumstances alive include the smaller barbs. Bijukumar remarks that some of the smaller barbs that are typically freshwater cannot adapt. However, there are larger barbs that are accustomed to backwater systems and put up a performance when overtaken by such events. The loaches are a goner straightaway when thrust into brackishwater systems. While the freshwater fish were trying to blend in last week, making the most of a changed circumstances, adaptation from another quarters was in striking display. A series of weather systems and resultant choppiness of the sea had put the fishermen at Kovalam out of action, and some turned towards the Kelambakkam lake, with nets, paddle boats and hope. Even on November 30, when the all-clear had been given to the fishermen on Chennai coast for them to put out to sea, the interest in the Kelambakkam backwaters persisted. However, as one group reported, the lake was unyielding, doling out only miserly portions of its largesse — the reason being that the lake had guzzled considerable water, which was working out to the advantage of the fish, increasing their longevity. As the water level had risen, the fish sail over the muddy obstacles in the lake, which normally trap and concentrate them in easily accessed pockets. Around 7.30 a.m., Gopi Vasanthakumar was winding up, and the catch in front of him was unremarkable — a couple of green crabs; a lone catfish; some tilapia; and small clutches of purely brackishwater fish. Over to the Kovalam beach, a group of fishermen were lost in deep thought, undecided about venturing out to the sea the same day. They however did not even remotely entertain the thought of carrying their nets to the Kelambakkam backwaters. J Venkatesh and K Venkatesh explained why. For one thing, the freshwater fish do not provide that much of a yield. He illustrated his point by drawing up a comparison between eri veeral and kadal veeral, with the former paling before latter in terms of size. Two, the best time to fish in the Kelambakkam lake is when it experiences inflows of sea water, which was out of the question at that point as the lake was bloated. Besides, the inflow happens only when the sea is totally at rest, J Venkatesh revealed. On the morning of November 30, the sea still had some lingering irritability carried over from the recent weather systems to deal with.  There are some freshwater fish that have a higher tolerance threshold to salinity and they would be able to manage in this environment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/when-a-lake-takes-on-a-new-character/article37848094.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Bring on the music||If there are no severe restrictions in Chennai on account of the pandemic in the immediate future, a few sabha organisers are planning to host kutcheris in the suburbs this season. Neighbourhood sabhas have had some success in racking up a following during December Music Season. Marriage halls to ashram premises have served as venues for Carnatic music performances. A majority of them did not collect a fee from audience. Nada Sudha, which hosts its music season at Ganapathi Sachidananda Ashram in Velachery, is planning a 10-day fest starting from December 25. “We have rasikas from Pallikarnai, Velachery and Shollinganallur who attend our events but with the pandemic, there is hesitation over attending in-person shows,” says S Chandrasekaran, treasurer, Nada Sudha. He points out that the sabha has been functioning for more than 10 years and its main aim is to promote young musicians. “A hall at Guru Nanak College hall was our venue for some years before we moved to a space that has an air -conditioned hall that can accommodate 700 people,” says Chandrasekaran. Last year, the sabha did not conduct any event as part of Marghazhi. “We do not want to have one more break in our calendar, so we are keen on conducting the music fest but if the situation warrants it, we will opt for a digital fest,” he says. Chandrsekaran says a studio has been rented for artistes to have shows recorded for the digital platform. Valayyapatti Naadhalaya Kaashyap Trust is planning a three-day offline Marghazhi fest from December 23 at its favourite venue — Ranjini Hall in Nanganallur. This is the Trust’s 27th year and it does not want to discontinue the tradition. In 2019, our programmes ran for seven days. “Last year, we had a digital festival where artistes recorded in a studio and we put it together,” says Magitha Malarvannan, whose husband Valayyapatti S Malarvannan  is Trust’s secretary. Honouring upcoming thavil and nadaswaram artistes with awards has been a practice with the trust. “This year, we plan to have three shows a day featuring a young artiste, a professional and a popular musician at three time slots — 3 p.m., 4.30 p.m. and 6 p.m. respectively,” says Magitha. She says Nanganallur does not need any branding for the Carnatic events as they have always had good turnouts. “This year we will have an audience; just that we need to ensure COVID protocols like social distancing and mask-wearing are strictly followed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bring-on-the-music/article37848092.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||California-based non-profit runs inclusive concert in Chennai for the Marghazhi season||Ranjini Kaushik has not realised the Frostian ideal of fusing vocation and avocation, but she could not care less. She has let them run on parallel tracks — tracks that cannot intersect except in rare circumstances. A California-based biochemist, Ranjini engages with visual and performing arts as an enthusiast, admittedly often taking a dilettante interest in ever-growing new aspects of it. “I have a doctorate in biochemistry and worked for 15 to 20 years in a corporate environment, in a biotech company. I dabble with the arts and do learn music every once in a while,” discloses Ranjini, who grew up at Sundar Nagar in Guindy, and holds a flat in Abhiramapuram, which she and her family return to, particularly during the Marghazhi season. SciArtsRUS, a non-profit she founded two years ago, before Coronavirus started hogging the headlines, is the closest she has allowed herself to attempt achieving that Frostian ideal. Though the non-profit explores the links between arts and science, it has not boxed itself into that pursuit. She notes that after two decades of working in a 9to5 corporate environment, she now engages in consulting as a bio-chemist; and that her non-profit plonks down on her head the demands of a regular, full-time job. During the pandemic, as part of the non-profit, she started a project “Artabilities 4 All” to support artistes with disabilities. It rode the digital wave that swept through the home-bound world, and managed to herd around 200 artistes across four continents. The initiative also has able-bodied artistes on board to collaborate with disabled artistes. It brought the second edition of Marghazhi Matram that hit the high note of inclusivity by featuring disabled artistes in two days of live shows at the Dakshinamurti Auditorium (December 3-4). The performances placed them alongside able-bodied musicians. Excerpts from an interview with Ranjini Kaushik that took place on the eve of the inclusive concert.  Q: ‘Artabilities 4 All’ being a child of the pandemic, is it essentially an exercise to help differently abled artists get through financial difficulties?  Ranjini: There are two ways to look at it. One is that it is born out of an interest to help them financially also. We pay our artistes a honorarium. But I think it is truly formed to provide them with performance opportunities. If you talk to any disabled artiste, they will tell you opportunities are difficult to come by. If you are differently abled, organisers have to take that much extra trouble, go the extra mile to feature you. If you have to get blind dancers from Bengaluru, they need help: they cannot travel alone. It is not just in India, but you talk to anybody across the board, you would hear of these challenges. One of the reasons that the opportunities are not as many as they should be is the notion that this is not doable. We want to quash that notion that inclusive performances are harder. All you have to do is plan a little bit in advance and then you will be able to do it and feature inclusive concerts. You need to take care of the little things such as having a bigger stage when blind artistes are performing.  Q: As a non-profit, how does SciArtsRUs sustain itself? Is it earning its keep?  Ranjini: It started off as a passion; and there were some kind donors who have been supporting us. It has now gotten to the point where the Mayor of the City of Thousand Oaks and the Mayor of Simi Valley, which is around where we live, have been totally behind our cause. It is even mirrored in the recognition that we are giving our artistes — not just in India but globally. Mayor Keith L Mashburn has given recognition certificates signed by him, from the city of Simi Valley. He has been impressed with the work, and the artistes and their accomplishments and he feels the artistes who have gone above and beyond are role models and must be recognised. I have brought recognition certificates signed by Mayor Mashburn all the way from California to give the artistes. The Mayor has been asking us to apply for grants through the city over there. My hope is that we do this sustainably and scale it up. That may mean we are going to have to write grants like this from either the city of Thousand Oaks or Simi Valley or any other organisations that are trying to licence out our programmes like artability for instance. They may be asking us to curate programmes and we could be licensing it out to them.  Q: What is that one thing that is at the very core of artability? How has it grown since it was visualised and went on stream?  Ranjini: When we think of accessibility the first thing that comes to mind is the disabled population; that is one end of it and on the other end are able-bodied artists. We felt: ‘Let us create a platform for different abled folks within the artistic space and that the disabled and able-bodied would come together eventually through all of our initiatives.’ Also because disabled artists are a marginalised lot, and if we look around, there are not many initiatives exclusively done for them; nor are there any platforms for them. Our initiative grew very fast — 200 artistes in one year globally. There are artistes from Malawi, Uganda, Rwanda in Africa, the United Kingdom, Austria and Canada. The majority are from India. I think we are hoping that globally we can do live events and through conventions together.  Q: How connected are you to Chennai?  Ranjini: I grew up in Chennai, living at Sundar Nagar in Guindy. I went to a school nearby: St. Dominic’s Convent. For high school, I went to Vanavani here on the IIT Campus. From there, I went to Ethiraj College, where I did my bachelors in chemistry, and did my masters in biotechnology at IIT-Bombay. After that, I came to the United States, doing my doctorate at UCLA. After that, I started working for this biotech company. I have been in the US for 24 years. Now, when we come back to Chennai, we stay at an apartment that we have in Abhiramapuram. My son Rishabh Kaushik learnt Carnatic music: he started to perform although he is just twelve. We come here every year — for the last three years my son has been performing and so we figured that our base should be in the Mylapore music area and we have this apartment in Abhiramapuram.  We want to quash the notion that inclusive performances are harder. All you have to do is plan a little bit in advance and then you will be able to feature inclusive concerts   I have brought recognition certificates signed by Mayor Mashburn all the way from California to give the artistes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/california-based-non-profit-runs-inclusive-concert-in-chennai-for-the-marghazhi-season/article37848090.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Residents’ groups join ‘gainful’ plastic recycling initiative||A tenement of the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board at Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in Thiruvanmiyur is getting rid of plastic waste, gainfully. It is aligned with “Bottles For Change” — a plastic recycling initiative by Bisleri International Pvt. Ltd. — that pays for any discarded plastic handed over to it. Every Sunday, a truck from Bottles For Change picks up the collected plastic discards and compensates the giver. Jayanthi Premchander, a resident of Valmiki Nagar, sees in this initiative an opportunity to sensitise the children at the tenement to the hazards that go with accumulating plastic waste. The children are encouraged to take this route to disposing of the plastic waste that comes their way. They have a piggy bank that is now valuable by Rs. 800 received in return for the plastic waste they gave away over three months. Saranya has instructed her mother to keep aside milk packets, sachets of shampoo, tea, coffee, detergents, and wrappers of chocolates and other snacks. Saranya is an influencer, having got two young neighbours to emulate her. Another influencer, U. Varsha goes the extra mile, literally, and brings home the plastic waste collected from the house of a friend living in Palavakkam. Varsha’s grandparents living in the same tenement follow her example. The Bottles For Change initiative offers the participants two options. They can either take the money or choose to have it utilised for the welfare of the underprivileged. “Residents of Valmiki Nagar have gone for no-money option; but we have advised the children at the tenement to go in for the monetary reward option,” says Jayanthi, a member of Valmiki Nagar Residents Welfare Association. At Karpagam Avenue in Raja Annamalaipuram, residents of Sneha Sadan apartments are warming up to Bottles For Change. “Of the 48 flats, only 10 have expressed interest to be part of this initiative. Many are reluctant to accumulate the waste at home for a week as they prefer everyday disposal. Senior- citizens in our apartments find it difficult to climb down to hand over the waste when the truck arrives. So, we have roped in children who will visit the houses of the seniors citizens to collect the plastic at their doorstep. We have opted for money in return for plastic. In three months, the waste has fetched us Rs. 730. We have decided to use it for the welfare of the workers and security guards of the apartment,” says Sandhya Sreekumar, a resident of Sneha Sadan. Bollineni Hillside Phase II, a gated-community with 499 flats in Perumbakkam, joined this initiative in August. “So far, only 230 flats are handing over plastic waste. Our aim is to bring all the flats to support this initiative. Whenever we have a truckload of plastic waste, we call the Bottles For Change team. So far, the plastic waste has fetched us Rs. 5,500 which was equally distributed among our 18 house-keeping staff,” says Muneeswaran P, president, Residents Welfare Association Exclusively For Bollineni Hillside Phase II. AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association in Velachery West has seen this initiative resurrect its waste segregation programme. “Since 2016, we have unsuccessfully tried different ways to get residents to segregate waste. The Bottles For Change initiative has got them to do it. Since September, 15 houses are supporting it. We have gone for no-money option,” says Geetha Ganesh, secretary, AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association. Bottles For Change representative Justina Carolin D says: “We are carrying out this initiative with the consent of the Greater Chennai Corporation and have partnered. The collected waste is handed over to Paperman Foundation.” To join the Bottles For Change initiative, call Justina Carolin D at 97890 02229.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/residents-groups-join-gainful-plastic-recycling-initiative/article37848081.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Adyar resident represents India in TT at Portugal||Thirteen-year-old paddler PB Abhinandh is representing India at the World Youth Championships — December 2 to 8 — in Portugal. The young Adyar resident is buoyed up on the success of a recent outing at the national level, which was not just title-winning, but also signalled his remarkable transition from cadet to sub-junior category with its greater demands. At the National Ranking North Zone Table Tennis Championship held in Mohali, Punjab recently, Abhinandh picked up the title in the Under-15 category in a performance undergirded by mental toughness. A press release issued by the youngster’s coach MB Subin Kumar and father PB Muralidharan, makes a pointed reference to how Abhinandh has added a new weapon to his arsenal — an ability to stay unruffled and focus harder on the points while teetering on the brink of defeat. While his service variations — a hallmark of his game — came to his aid, it was largely resilience that carried the day for him in the quarterfinals, where he successfully fought his way back from a 0-2 scoreline, the release notes. Similarly, in the summit clash with Balamurugan Muthu, also from Tamil Nadu, Abhinandh was up against a 1-2 scoreline and also the confidence-sapping memory of losses in previous encounters to the opponent. He took the next three games to clinch the title. Bronze medals in the under-15 events at WTT Youth Contender — Tunisia and WTT Youth Contender — Muscat championships are among his recent achievements on the international stage. Currently holding the top ranking at the national level in the Under-15 category, Abhinandh is trained by MB Subin Kumar, an IITF high performance certified coach at Chennai Achievers Table Tennis Academy in Thiruvanmiyur. In the release, Muralidharan mentions: “Abhinandh has reached this level due to the constant fine-tuning of his skill and techniques and mentoring by his coach Subin Kumar.” The press note adds: Abhinandh is a Class IX student of Sri Sankara Senior Secondary School in Adyar where the principal and teachers are a source of support to him as he seeks laurels on the 2.7 m by 1.5 m table.  Bronze medals in the under-15 events at WTT Youth Contender — Tunisia and WTT Youth Contender — Muscat championships are among his recent achievements on the international stage||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/adyar-resident-represents-india-in-tt-at-portugal/article37848072.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Dealing with chronic lower back pain||Chronic lower back pain (CLBP) affects 40% of the adult population. In terms of healthcare expense, CLBP ranks ahead of cardiac ailments, diabetes, cancer, and others. New clinical studies show chronic pain can be unlearnt by training and that has helped shine a spotlight on non-pharmacological intervention. Relief from the pain can be had through psychological and behavioural interventions, says a press release from JOGO Health. JOGO’s intervention for chronic pain is built on the principles of neural plasticity. JOGO treatment for chronic pain is available at its many locations in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Madurai, and Trivandrum. For details, visit https://www.jogohealth.com/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/dealing-with-chronic-lower-back-pain/article37848074.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Doyens honoured||The second edition of Marghazhi Matram, an inclusive concert plus visual arts show (December 3-7) by California-based non-profit SciArtsRUs has honoured veteran artistes and stalwarts such as Sangita Kalanidhi M Chandrasekaran, Guruvayur Dorai, H S Sudhindhra, Ghatam Suresh Vaidyanathan and Valangiam Thyagarajan with lifetime achievement awards. At the Dakshinamurti Auditorium in Mylapore, Padmashri Nalli Kuppuswami Chetty presided over the inaugural function; and eminent art promoter VV Sundaram over the awards function, a press release noted. H S Kamakshi, a visually impaired vocalist, received the Apex award from SciArtsRUs. These awards recognise those who have made a mark in arts, music and culture despite their disabilities and have overcome many obstacles, the release added Mentors in Indian carnatic classical music and dance such as KN Shashikiran, Sikkil Gurucharan, Mullaivasal Chandramouli and Suparna Venkatesh were also honoured with the role-model mentor award for mentoring differently-abled artists free of cost through the non-profit’s mentor-me programme. The second edition of Marghazhi Matram is set in a hybrid format: two days of live performances of primarily carnatic music at the Dakishinamurti Auditorium in Mylapore, and three days of online performances, a vast chunk of it dedicated to visual arts, streamed on SciArtsRUs’ Youtube channel. (For the global audience, the event would run a couple of days longer, as Wings Unlimited.) The first two days of Marghazhi Matram featured performances by disabled carnatic artistes in collaboration with able-bodied artistes. Last year, the first edition of the event was conducted entirely online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/doyens-honoured/article37848088.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A pattern that plays out at the Adyar Estuary||In typically estuarine systems where there is a constant interplay between the river and the sea, floods can shake things up for the fish. There is a pattern to which fish survive this turbulence and which are overcome by it — one can witness this pattern in the estuarine system closer home, the Adyar estuary. A Bijukumar, professor and head of the department, Aquatic Biology, Kerala University observes: “Typically freshwater fish that had flowed in from the hill-stream area will not survive when the salinity increases. After the rains, when the salinity increases, some of the fish will not survive. A majority of the fish from downstream and midstream area of the river that have some kind of exposure to saltwater entry, will surive. In the majority of the scenarios in Tamil Nadu, there is entry of salt water into the rivers; and downstream and midstream areas will tolerate brackish water.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-pattern-that-plays-out-at-the-adyar-estuary/article37848095.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Sale at Gandhi Nagar||Gandhi Nagar Ladies Club is organising a sale of handicrafts, clothes and food products on December 11 at the premises of the club in 56 B, Ramachandra Adithanar Salai in Gandhi Nagar. Time: From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. To book stalls, call 98414 60780||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sale-at-gandhi-nagar/article37848073.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||DCP post in Adyar vacant since July||The post of Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar district, is lying vacant for months — since this July when V. Vikraman, former Deputy Commissioner, Adyar, was posted as SP, Special Units, Crime Branch, CID, Chennai. TD Babu, founder, Spark, a citizens’ forum based in Besant Nagar, says: “When Mr. Vikraman was the DC, the grievances of the public were addressed swiftly. They would WhatsApp him the complaints. But now, there is difficulty in addressing our grievances. Further, there are no beat officers to patrol in the wee hours of the day and they are not accessible,” say residents. A senior police official pointed out that he was aware that the post is lying vacant for months and would take it to the notice of higher authorities in the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/dcp-post-in-adyar-vacant-since-july/article37848085.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||When a lake takes on a new character||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/when-a-lake-takes-on-a-new-character/article37848076.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A step towards inclusivity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-step-towards-inclusivity/article37848078.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Adyar resident represents India in TT at Portugal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/adyar-resident-represents-india-in-tt-at-portugal/article37848086.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A step towards inclusivity||The last performance on the bill of fare, it was greeted with seats more vacant than occupied. The sprinkling of spectators were abashedly apologetic about it, and willed themselves t//o do every hallowed thing in their power to conceal this embarrassing fact from the Bharathanatyam dancers. The mission was accomplished with these spectators using their paws as cymbals and wowing the best formations and movements with extended claps — an effort that threatened to outlast Beatles’ memorable outre (“na na na nananana, nannana, hey Jude”, if you are casting around for it). That evening, each pair of hands in the room — including this writer’s — equalled a hundred. One believes the five female Bharathanatyam dancers from Bengaluru-based Articulate Ability hardly registered that the auditorium was largely stark. They are vision-impaired, with partial sight, which was as reliable as a reed in a tempest, given the blindingly intense but essential lights thumping the stage at Dhakshinamurti Auditorium in Mylapore. If they had harboured any lingering suspicion that much of the audience had trooped out into the nippy winter night after the main events, the thunderous applause from the handful of spectators would have quelled it. The performance was part of Marghazhi Matram, an inclusive concert being organised by California-based arts-promoting non-profit, SciArtsRUs. After the last party of regular performers — a Carnatic troupe — had hurriedly shuffled off the stage, an elaborate preparation followed. Every possible stumbling block was swiftly shoved out of the way. Lengths of tapes were fastened on to the performance arena. These dancers feel their way through their performances, and these tapes were an indispensable guide. A vertical divider tape gave them a sense of the space around them, dividing the stage into two clean sections. A horizontally-pasted tape, one that went the length of the stage, kept them from overstepping the performance area and coming to any harm. Despite these precautions, their guru Suparna Venkatesh, founder of Articulate Ability, did not want to leave anything to chance. She tutored the five girls about the dimensions of the stage, and any offending object found on the fringes, through instructions in Kannada. As Suparna would reveal later, these girls are from remote villages of Karnataka, who found education through Deepa Academy for the Differently Abled in Bengaluru. Suparna notes that the Academy also offers these vision-impaired students boarding and lodging at its hostel. In a collaborative exercise, Articulate Ability teaches these students bharathanatyam. Suparna is adept at Kathak and Bharathanatyam — while she takes the stage herself to perform Kathak, she helps others take the stage for Bharathanatyam performances. As it was past 9 p.m., when they stepped on the stage, these dancers from Articulate Ability had to be content with a truncated performance, one involving just two pieces of music. Mallari, which, as Suparna explained, is “a unique piece of music played on the nadaswaram when the presiding deity of a temple is taken on a procession”. The nadaswaram artistes play the music, accompanied by Tavil players. The other piece had the Articulate Ability dancers weaving movements that delineated an understanding of how the chakras are believed to work. Whenever they pulled off an exacting formation, spectators would go into a tizzy of excited clapping. While the performance was under way, Suparna’s response was priceless: leaning on the lectern, she would watch the dancers gimlet-eyed, particularly the movement of their feet, a smile constantly fleeting across her lips. “It was so fulfilling to see them back on the stage after such a long time,” she would remark later, after the curtains had fallen on the day’s show. “Before the pandemic, they had performed in Bengaluru; some of them have even performed abroad.” Due to the pandemic, for nearly two years, Suparna had not been able to go to their hostel to conduct classes for them. “We are hopeful of restarting the classes in January 2022,” she noted. Before this concert at Marghazhi Matram, this team had to be put through a wringer of a practice session, which in the best of times can be a challenge. “What would take one day of training for an ablebodied student would take these vision-impaired children seven days. I have to be patient — sometimes, they may miss out on a movement. Their memory of the movements has to be pretty sharp as they do not have the luxury of watching someone and copying a movement. As they take what they have learnt to the stage, they have to remember it clearly. To achieve that level of muscle memory, more practice sessions are needed. Even for rangapravesa, I use recorded music, as that makes it easy to conduct practice sessions. Musicians will not come for 10 or 15 practise sessions,” says Suparna. She let in on a behind-the-scenes panic that had gripped the team at the eleventh hour. One of the six girls had received news of a bereavement in the family and rushed to Coorg. They movements and formations had been tailored to a six-member team. They had to adapt to the new situation, besides taking in their stride the regular challenges of a stage performance. “As she had been in all the rehearsals, the other five had to adjust to her absence, reworking the formations in their mind.” The actual performance on the stage has its own grammar, one that is as difficult to master as irregular verbs in French — for any artiste, and more so for one with impaired vision. Besides its team of vision-impaired female dancers, Articulate Ability also has a group of five vision-impaired male dancers, two of whom are totally blind. The dancers resort to alternatives offered by nature to crack this grammar. “They are provided with guidelines (tapes) on the stage, but they find their way around with their other senses. When they are completely blind, the dancers feel the light on their skin. Two of these girls cannot even open their eyes when they come on to the stage with its blinding lights. So, they feel the harsh light on their skin and come to know where the audience are seated. They also feel the breath of the audience. And they also feel the sound waves from the speakers. Because everything is closed, they tend to feel these things clearly,” Suparna explains. And the proof of the pudding: one rasika, K Kumar, a sabha-hopper during the Madhazhi season and a volunteer at Mardhazhi Matram, was struck by the impossibility of certain formations. He particularly referred to one sequence where the dancers sitting on their haunches had to snap back into the standing position and also achieve alignment as they did so. He remarked, “It is only by the touch of the hand, the dancer realises that the one before her has stood up. It is amazing how they did it with perfect synchronicity. I will make a post about this incredibly brilliant performance on FB tomorrow.” Another rasika tut-tutted over the empty seats, echoing the prevalent sentiment of the evening. She was heard telling Suparna: “It is sad that there are not enough people in the audience to appreciate and marvel at this brilliant performance.” Thanks to the enthusiastic cheering, the five dancers would never know that.  Whenever they pulled off an exacting formation, spectators would go into a tizzy of excited clapping||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-step-towards-inclusivity/article37848096.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Bring on the music||If there are no severe restrictions in Chennai on account of the pandemic in the immediate future, a few sabha organisers are planning to host kutcheris in the suburbs this season. Neighbourhood sabhas have had some success in racking up a following during December Music Season. Marriage halls to ashram premises have served as venues for Carnatic music performances. A majority of them did not collect a fee from audience. Nada Sudha, which hosts its music season at Ganapathi Sachidananda Ashram in Velachery, is planning a 10-day fest starting from December 25. “We have rasikas from Pallikarnai, Velachery and Shollinganallur who attend our events but with the pandemic, there is hesitation over attending in-person shows,” says S Chandrasekaran, treasurer, Nada Sudha. He points out that the sabha has been functioning for more than 10 years and its main aim is to promote young musicians. “A hall at Guru Nanak College hall was our venue for some years before we moved to a space that has an air -conditioned hall that can accommodate 700 people,” says Chandrasekaran. Last year, the sabha did not conduct any event as part of Marghazhi. “We do not want to have one more break in our calendar, so we are keen on conducting the music fest but if the situation warrants it, we will opt for a digital fest,” he says. Chandrsekaran says a studio has been rented for artistes to have shows recorded for the digital platform. Valayyapatti Naadhalaya Kaashyap Trust is planning a three-day offline Marghazhi fest from December 23 at its favourite venue — Ranjini Hall in Nanganallur. This is the Trust’s 27th year and it does not want to discontinue the tradition. In 2019, our programmes ran for seven days. “Last year, we had a digital festival where artistes recorded in a studio and we put it together,” says Magitha Malarvannan, whose husband Valayyapatti S Malarvannan  is Trust’s secretary. Honouring upcoming thavil and nadaswaram artistes with awards has been a practice with the trust. “This year, we plan to have three shows a day featuring a young artiste, a professional and a popular musician at three time slots — 3 p.m., 4.30 p.m. and 6 p.m. respectively,” says Magitha. She says Nanganallur does not need any branding for the Carnatic events as they have always had good turnouts. “This year we will have an audience; just that we need to ensure COVID protocols like social distancing and mask-wearing are strictly followed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/bring-on-the-music/article37848099.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||California-based non-profit runs inclusive concert in Chennai for the Marghazhi season||Ranjini Kaushik has not realised the Frostian ideal of fusing vocation and avocation, but she could not care less. She has let them run on parallel tracks — tracks that cannot intersect except in rare circumstances. A California-based biochemist, Ranjini engages with visual and performing arts as an enthusiast, admittedly often taking a dilettante interest in ever-growing new aspects of it. “I have a doctorate in biochemistry and worked for 15 to 20 years in a corporate environment, in a biotech company. I dabble with the arts and do learn music every once in a while,” discloses Ranjini, who grew up at Sundar Nagar in Guindy, and holds a flat in Abhiramapuram, which she and her family return to, particularly during the Marghazhi season. SciArtsRUS, a non-profit she founded two years ago, before Coronavirus started hogging the headlines, is the closest she has allowed herself to attempt achieving that Frostian ideal. Though the non-profit explores the links between arts and science, it has not boxed itself into that pursuit. She notes that after two decades of working in a 9to5 corporate environment, she now engages in consulting as a bio-chemist; and that her non-profit plonks down on her head the demands of a regular, full-time job. During the pandemic, as part of the non-profit, she started a project “Artabilities 4 All” to support artistes with disabilities. It rode the digital wave that swept through the home-bound world, and managed to herd around 200 artistes across four continents. The initiative also has able-bodied artistes on board to collaborate with disabled artistes. It brought the second edition of Marghazhi Matram that hit the high note of inclusivity by featuring disabled artistes in two days of live shows at the Dakshinamurti Auditorium (December 3-4). The performances placed them alongside able-bodied musicians. Excerpts from an interview with Ranjini Kaushik that took place on the eve of the inclusive concert.  Q: ‘Artabilities 4 All’ being a child of the pandemic, is it essentially an exercise to help differently abled artists get through financial difficulties?  Ranjini: There are two ways to look at it. One is that it is born out of an interest to help them financially also. We pay our artistes a honorarium. But I think it is truly formed to provide them with performance opportunities. If you talk to any disabled artiste, they will tell you opportunities are difficult to come by. If you are differently abled, organisers have to take that much extra trouble, go the extra mile to feature you. If you have to get blind dancers from Bengaluru, they need help: they cannot travel alone. It is not just in India, but you talk to anybody across the board, you would hear of these challenges. One of the reasons that the opportunities are not as many as they should be is the notion that this is not doable. We want to quash that notion that inclusive performances are harder. All you have to do is plan a little bit in advance and then you will be able to do it and feature inclusive concerts. You need to take care of the little things such as having a bigger stage when blind artistes are performing.  Q: As a non-profit, how does SciArtsRUs sustain itself? Is it earning its keep?  Ranjini: It started off as a passion; and there were some kind donors who have been supporting us. It has now gotten to the point where the Mayor of the City of Thousand Oaks and the Mayor of Simi Valley, which is around where we live, have been totally behind our cause. It is even mirrored in the recognition that we are giving our artistes — not just in India but globally. Mayor Keith L Mashburn has given recognition certificates signed by him, from the city of Simi Valley. He has been impressed with the work, and the artistes and their accomplishments and he feels the artistes who have gone above and beyond are role models and must be recognised. I have brought recognition certificates signed by Mayor Mashburn all the way from California to give the artistes. The Mayor has been asking us to apply for grants through the city over there. My hope is that we do this sustainably and scale it up. That may mean we are going to have to write grants like this from either the city of Thousand Oaks or Simi Valley or any other organisations that are trying to licence out our programmes like artability for instance. They may be asking us to curate programmes and we could be licensing it out to them.  Q: What is that one thing that is at the very core of artability? How has it grown since it was visualised and went on stream?  Ranjini: When we think of accessibility the first thing that comes to mind is the disabled population; that is one end of it and on the other end are able-bodied artists. We felt: ‘Let us create a platform for different abled folks within the artistic space and that the disabled and able-bodied would come together eventually through all of our initiatives.’ Also because disabled artists are a marginalised lot, and if we look around, there are not many initiatives exclusively done for them; nor are there any platforms for them. Our initiative grew very fast — 200 artistes in one year globally. There are artistes from Malawi, Uganda, Rwanda in Africa, the United Kingdom, Austria and Canada. The majority are from India. I think we are hoping that globally we can do live events and through conventions together.  Q: How connected are you to Chennai?  Ranjini: I grew up in Chennai, living at Sundar Nagar in Guindy. I went to a school nearby: St. Dominic’s Convent. For high school, I went to Vanavani here on the IIT Campus. From there, I went to Ethiraj College, where I did my bachelors in chemistry, and did my masters in biotechnology at IIT-Bombay. After that, I came to the United States, doing my doctorate at UCLA. After that, I started working for this biotech company. I have been in the US for 24 years. Now, when we come back to Chennai, we stay at an apartment that we have in Abhiramapuram. My son Rishabh Kaushik learnt Carnatic music: he started to perform although he is just twelve. We come here every year — for the last three years my son has been performing and so we figured that our base should be in the Mylapore music area and we have this apartment in Abhiramapuram.  We want to quash the notion that inclusive performances are harder. All you have to do is plan a little bit in advance and then you will be able to feature inclusive concerts   I have brought recognition certificates signed by Mayor Mashburn all the way from California to give the artistes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/california-based-non-profit-runs-inclusive-concert-in-chennai-for-the-marghazhi-season/article37848098.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Residents’ groups join ‘gainful’ plastic recycling initiative||A tenement of the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board at Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in Thiruvanmiyur is getting rid of plastic waste, gainfully. It is aligned with “Bottles For Change” — a plastic recycling initiative by Bisleri International Pvt. Ltd. — that pays for any discarded plastic handed over to it. Every Sunday, a truck from Bottles For Change picks up the collected plastic discards and compensates the giver. Jayanthi Premchander, a resident of Valmiki Nagar, sees in this initiative an opportunity to sensitise the children at the tenement to the hazards that go with accumulating plastic waste. The children are encouraged to take this route to disposing of the plastic waste that comes their way. They have a piggy bank that is now valuable by Rs. 800 received in return for the plastic waste they gave away over three months. Saranya has instructed her mother to keep aside milk packets, sachets of shampoo, tea, coffee, detergents, and wrappers of chocolates and other snacks. Saranya is an influencer, having got two young neighbours to emulate her. Another influencer, U. Varsha goes the extra mile, literally, and brings home the plastic waste collected from the house of a friend living in Palavakkam. Varsha’s grandparents living in the same tenement follow her example. The Bottles For Change initiative offers the participants two options. They can either take the money or choose to have it utilised for the welfare of the underprivileged. “Residents of Valmiki Nagar have gone for no-money option; but we have advised the children at the tenement to go in for the monetary reward option,” says Jayanthi, a member of Valmiki Nagar Residents Welfare Association. At Karpagam Avenue in Raja Annamalaipuram, residents of Sneha Sadan apartments are warming up to Bottles For Change. “Of the 48 flats, only 10 have expressed interest to be part of this initiative. Many are reluctant to accumulate the waste at home for a week as they prefer everyday disposal. Senior- citizens in our apartments find it difficult to climb down to hand over the waste when the truck arrives. So, we have roped in children who will visit the houses of the seniors citizens to collect the plastic at their doorstep. We have opted for money in return for plastic. In three months, the waste has fetched us Rs. 730. We have decided to use it for the welfare of the workers and security guards of the apartment,” says Sandhya Sreekumar, a resident of Sneha Sadan. Bollineni Hillside Phase II, a gated-community with 499 flats in Perumbakkam, joined this initiative in August. “So far, only 230 flats are handing over plastic waste. Our aim is to bring all the flats to support this initiative. Whenever we have a truckload of plastic waste, we call the Bottles For Change team. So far, the plastic waste has fetched us Rs. 5,500 which was equally distributed among our 18 house-keeping staff,” says Muneeswaran P, president, Residents Welfare Association Exclusively For Bollineni Hillside Phase II. AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association in Velachery West has seen this initiative resurrect its waste segregation programme. “Since 2016, we have unsuccessfully tried different ways to get residents to segregate waste. The Bottles For Change initiative has got them to do it. Since September, 15 houses are supporting it. We have gone for no-money option,” says Geetha Ganesh, secretary, AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association. Bottles For Change representative Justina Carolin D says: “We are carrying out this initiative with the consent of the Greater Chennai Corporation and have partnered. The collected waste is handed over to Paperman Foundation.” To join the Bottles For Change initiative, call Justina Carolin D at 97890 02229.  “So far, the plastic waste has fetched us Rs.5,500 which was equally distributed among our 18 house-keeping staff”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/residents-groups-join-gainful-plastic-recycling-initiative/article37848103.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||West Mambalam residents take up flooding issue||The ordeal caused by the recent floods in West Mambalam has brought various residents welfare associations in the locality together to form a federation. It is called Federation of West Mambalam Residents Welfare Associations. “Around 17 residents' associations are part of the federation. They include associations of postal colony, KV Colony, Vivekanandapuram First Steet, Jubilee Road, Veeraswamy Street, Brindavan Street, Sri Vidya Apartments, Lakshmi Street, Kuppiah Street and many more. We are in the process of registering the federation,” says K. Ramanathan, a member of Postal Colony Residents Association. Bala Krishna Mudali Street is one of the worst affected localities in West Mambalam. According to G.V.S Sathish and Muthukrishnan L, president and vice-president of Sri Vidya Apartments Owners Welfare Association in Bala Krishna Mudali Street, the association spent Rs.5 lakh in November towards pumping out water from the apartments. Many residents of ground floor were put to a lot of hardship. Some moved to hotels. This problem is faced by residents whenever there is a heavy rain. Due to this, owners will find it difficult to rent out their houses and it also brings down the rental value, they add. “All our clothes need to be discarded. I have given my car for repairs. I need to check whether the refrigerator could be salvaged because rainwater mixed with sewage entered into it. There is no point in a buying a new fridge, if the flooding is going to happen during the next monsoon too,” says R. Suman, a resident of the apartment. West Mambalam residents believe flaws in stormwater drains have caused the flooding. “During the rains in the first week of November, water was pumped out considerably but it was still not receding. We also realised that the stagnant water was much more than the water received from the rains. May be water is coming from neighbouring areas. All of these things call for corrective measures,” says Suresh Kumar, a resident of Postal Colony. Another reason residents cite is poor maintenance of stormwater drains. “Desilting of stormwater drains as a monsoon-preparedness exercise was not carried out in various parts of West Mambalam. The flooding also drives home the need for widening the stormwater drains,” says S. Murali, honorary president of Vivekanandapuram First Street Residents Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/west-mambalam-residents-take-up-flooding-issue/article37848107.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||An app to help locate neighbourhood grocery stores||In April 2020, when lockdown forced stores to down shutters temporarily, A Prasad’s in-laws in Chennai did not have an enjoyable time sourcing a brand of diaper and skin cream for the youngest member of the family. What eCommerce and hypermarkets could not do, a neighbourhood store in Abhiramapuram did for them. Witnessing such cases, former colleauges of an IT major have come together to start InStock, an application for small businesses that encourages neighbourhood shops to digitise for better reach of their customer base . Dowloading the app from Google PlayStore and setting up an online account is what it takes to get started. The founders — Saravanan Chandiran, Pavankumar HV and Manickavel Chandiran — note that the app provides an efficient way of locating essentials in one’s locality and encourage them to compete with eCommerce outlets. Shoppers shop online and can seek home delivery. They also get to compare prices of various products. The app has a clutch of similar tech-enabled initiatives launched during the pandemic to compete with. “Most e-tailers offer delivery at home while InStock allows customers to discover one’s neighbourhood store — whether to pick up or deliver items at the doorstep,” says Prasad, a core team member who is from the FMCG background. The team launched their pilot in Anna Nagar and are slowly expanding to other neighbourhoods. They say impressing the advantages of going digital upon owners of kirana stores has not been difficult as the pandemic had already forced some of them to adopt technological tools. “Out of 14 stores, 10 agreed to onboard the first day itself,” says Saravanan. He says one main advantage these stores see is that they do not have to pay each time for finding a customer or pay a commission at all. “We are planning to charge a small subscription fee, which is the cost of having tea a day,” says Prasad. ‘Store special’ is another feature that the team is trying to promote. “From the people who joined the platform, there are some stores that specialise in certain items. A small business that has a coconut farm was offering a discount on coconuts. Similarly, another maligai outlet was selling a type of kadalai mitai ,” says Prasad. Other features include an automated call to the retailer when a shopper places an order. “When we interacted with retailers, we were surprised to learn that some of them wanted an SMS-like notification to go to the customers for a bill made, so this was incorporated,” says Pavankumar, a resident of Valsaravakkam, who lends to the enterprise, his expertise with technology. Knowing that a good number of the retailers are over 45 years old and had some resistance in using an app initially, the platform has gone in for a big screen size. The app is multi-lingual and currently supports Tamil and English. “There are short videos that train retailers to add a product,” says Saravanan. InStock is currently onboarding grocery outlets in Chennai. As per the latest count, more than 1000 grocery outlets have signed up for the platform. We will soon be adding hardware, stationery, salons and other small businesses in the app, they add.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/an-app-to-help-locate-neighbourhood-grocery-stores/article37848101.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Doyens honoured||The second edition of Marghazhi Matram, an inclusive concert plus visual arts show (December 3-7) by California-based non-profit SciArtsRUs has honoured veteran artistes and stalwarts such as Sangita Kalanidhi M Chandrasekaran, Guruvayur Dorai, H S Sudhindhra, Ghatam Suresh Vaidyanathan and Valangiam Thyagarajan with lifetime achievement awards. At the Dakshinamurti Auditorium in Mylapore, Padmashri Nalli Kuppuswami Chetty presided over the inaugural function; and eminent art promoter VV Sundaram over the awards function, a press release noted. H S Kamakshi, a visually impaired vocalist, received the Apex award from SciArtsRUs. These awards recognise those who have made a mark in arts, music and culture despite their disabilities and have overcome many obstacles, the release added Mentors in Indian carnatic classical music and dance such as KN Shashikiran, Sikkil Gurucharan, Mullaivasal Chandramouli and Suparna Venkatesh were also honoured with the role-model mentor award for mentoring differently-abled artists free of cost through the non-profit’s mentor-me programme. The second edition of Marghazhi Matram is set in a hybrid format: two days of live performances of primarily carnatic music at the Dakishinamurti Auditorium in Mylapore, and three days of online performances, a vast chunk of it dedicated to visual arts, streamed on SciArtsRUs’ Youtube channel. (For the global audience, the event would run a couple of days longer, as Wings Unlimited.) The first two days of Marghazhi Matram featured performances by disabled carnatic artistes in collaboration with able-bodied artistes. Last year, the first edition of the event was conducted entirely online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/doyens-honoured/article37848097.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Sewage on busy road irks pedestrians||Guild Street and Madley Road in T Nagar were a picture of squalor recently, with overflowing sewage. Residents say this problem is not caused by the rains but is a recurrent problem that gains proportion during monsoon. “Even during a light rain, the sewage overflows, inconveniencing pedestrians and motorcyclists,” says S. Sekar, honorary principal, The Stenographers’ Guild. As the stretches are used by a good number of people going to Mambalam railway terminal, Station Road and Arya Gowda Road, the issue needs a long-term solution. Pedestrians walking through Guild Street are the worst-affected. The street has become fertile ground for mosquitoes to breed. “For the past five years, I have been making complaints in this regard to the CM Cell, Deputy Engineer, Assistant Engineer and Assistant Deputy Engineer, Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board, but no long-term solution has been found for this issue,” says Sekar. Last year, after repeated complaints, steps were taken to clear the stagnant sewage by deploying sucker tankers, he says. During heavy rains, the problem gets aggravated. “The manholes are not de-silted before the rains. It looks like sewage has seeped into the groundwater,” says Sekar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/sewage-on-busy-road-irks-pedestrians/article37848111.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Successful hip surgery on 98-year-old||Kedar Hospital in Mugalivakkam performed a successful hip fracture surgery on a 98-year-old patient. According to a press release, the patient is C. R. Lakshmi, a former actress from Malayalam and Tamil films. To name a few films, she had acted in Kochumon, Mister Kerala and Idhaya Kamalam. She is also the mother of noted Tamil film producer and actor Rajan Radhakrishnan alias Raj Thilak, says the release. The patient sustained a fall at her residence on October 20 following which she was unable to stand or walk. She was admitted to Kedar Hospital in Mugalivakkam. After examination, it was found that her left hip bone had broken into three pieces for which she was advised to undergo surgery. The surgery was performed by Dr. Madu Sridhar, consultant orthopaedic surgeon, with the help of anaesthetist Dr. Pugazhvendan, says the press release. “ Considering the proper functioning of all other organs, I decided to operate on her so that she will be relieved of pain and also would be able to get back on her feet at the earliest. The hip fracture was fixed with proximal femur nail, a minimally invasive technique with minimal blood loss and short operating time. The patient withstood the procedure well and post-operation, we were able to make her stand and walk within a week following the surgery,”explains Dr. Madu Sridhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/successful-hip-surgery-on-98-year-old/article37848105.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||SWDs pose a risk at Ranganathan Street||Damaged manhole lids of stormwater drains and percolation pits give a tough time for the motorists taking Ranganathan Street in T. Nagar. The public has to exercise caution while using this road which is a shopping hub. It is a busy road as it connects Mambalam railway station and a vegetable market. According to P. Thamizh Durai, a vendor at the street, a motorcyclist was about to fall while negotiating a caved-in stormwater drain manhole but fortunately he didn’t. However, pedestrians have tipped over and fallen on this road often, he adds. There are two manholes on this road without lids. Instead they have been covered with cardboards. Further there is no signboard to caution the public. Shop owners and vendors want the Greater Chennai Corporation to do the needful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/swds-pose-a-risk-at-ranganathan-street/article37848109.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The king as circus-owner||Once upon a time there lived a comatose former sultan who stubbornly refused to die. As a sign of his tenacious grip on life, he farted profusely at regular intervals in his bedchamber, just as in his halcyon days, he had mated indiscriminately, populating his kingdom with his progeny. Since his highness was habitually forgetful, he maintained a catalogue of the children he has sired, with the meanings of their names (bestowed by him) explained. Anees Salim’s latest novel, The Odd Book of Baby Names , constitutes the accounts of a chosen few among the king’s offspring, whose lives gather some steam in the countdown to his passing. They are all located in a fictitious but well-defined city centred around Cotah Mahal, the king’s mansion. The city is part of a kingdom lost to annexation; Nehru makes an appearance sharing a contemplative smoke with the king just before he is stripped of power. But even in the age of democracy, the hierarchies stay intact, religiously upheld by the people themselves. So Moti Bagh is the posh part preserved in antiseptic silence where lives the king’s depressed daughter, Humera; there’s the bustling commercial district in and around Begum Laila Road with its dingy rows of shops, including Nizam Tailors and Mumtaz Café, where two of the king’s sons (Muneer the tailor and Zuhab the shop hand) can be found; the sprawling insalubrious part of the city roils with life and houses two more sons — Shahbaz the poet and Sultan, dead at 13 in an epidemic, but living on as a ghost. The rich and the poor hardly touch each other, unless in exploitation of the kind that produced the royal bastards. Within the palace, courtly rules have been replaced by bureaucratic strictures, which are as firm. So entry is strictly by invitation only; the two legitimate heirs, Azam and Moazzam, are still revered as princes; ministers, secretaries and servants (another son, Hyder, is one of the king’s nurses) tiptoe around, always acting, sometimes overacting, according to unwritten rules. But Cotah Mahal is not Kafka’s Castle. Life, riven though it is with injustice, inequalities, loneliness and grief, is absurd, as is death, given the reassuring presence of Sultan’s ghost. Comic figures The king, the hallowed font of power, is himself a comic figure. In his dotage, he is convinced that he was a circus-owner. Moazzam contemplates: “If the circus was a carefully chosen metaphor for the kingdom he had ruled, and the acrobatics for the various ploys he, in a desperate attempt to retain power, had employed in vain, I was fine with it. But he never had a penchant for metaphors and allegories. He was a blunt man…” It is said that he roamed the city dressed as a nautch girl in his youth, and was given to poetry, employing poets to write on his behalf. He maintained a royal menagerie and is suspected of having fed the keeper, Baabar — the queen’s rumoured paramour — to the resident lion. His only prowess was sexual, it seems. If his decadent and exploitative way of life is passé, the life of loyalty (Hyder) is forgettable, the life of privileged ennui (Humera) ends in self-destruction, the life of arts and poetry (Shahbaz) is utterly useless, even the life of relentless labour as exemplified in Zuhab leads to disappointment. Everything ends in a whimper, or rather, in a long-drawn fart, in the novel’s scheme of things. But if one has to go looking for judgement, the scales can be found slightly tipped in favour of riff-raffs like Shahbaz and Zuhab, who can at least make rhymes out of recalcitrant life or feel alive enough to rebel. As Muneer grudgingly acknowledges, “It was not easy to sack a communist. Times had changed.” Decidedly odd The Odd Book of Baby Namesis decidedly odd, and therein lies its charm. Nothing really happens here: the king’s death is the MacGuffin, meaningless in itself since he is long past his expiry date, but serving as a narrative ploy in turning his children’s thoughts towards him and themselves. If there is irony, it isn’t rubbed in. Neither is life’s darker side. Melancholy lurks in every corner but life doesn’t permit tragedies. The brief and doomed affair of Humera and Shahbaz must be one of the funniest in literature, with Humera’s vinegar thoughts bleaching Shahbaz’s secondhand poetry of all colour. The effect of nonsense is exacerbated by metaphors made literal: the lion has a lion’s share of Baabar’s intestines; a fez being prepared by Nizam Tailors stays half-finished because it is cut in half and one half carried away by its maker; and our king, of course, gives paternalism a whole new meaning by being the biological pater to most of his subjects.  The Odd Book is a novel of quiet, old-fashioned artistry where the author disappears and the characters take over. Its visual counterpart would be a Hogarth painting — teeming with robust, mischievous, unruly life, which cocks a snook at death.  The Odd Book of Baby Names Anees Salim Penguin Hamish Hamilton  Rs. 599    Life, riven though it is with injustice, inequalities, loneliness and grief, is absurd, as is death, given the reassuring presence of Sultan’s ghost||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-king-as-circus-owner/article37848125.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Dharma always comes with dharma-sankat||In a crime, the victim accuses the villain. But when the villain counter-accuses the victim, and insists the victim is villain too, we call it ‘whataboutery.’ This word is a neologism, first used in the 1970s in the context of violence in Northern Ireland. Whataboutery creates a moral ambiguity as to who is right and who is wrong. Those at the receiving end see it as the devil’s strategy. Those deploying it insist it is an act of wisdom, to replace a narrow revolutionary focus with a wider social and historical perspective. Whataboutery is most evident during Indian festivals. Here is a case in point: Right wing: Ram is god.  Left wing: He is a flawed character who abandoned his wife Sita following public gossip about her character.  RW: Ram rescued Sita from Ravana who abducted her.  LW: Ravana respected Sita and was simply avenging the mutilation of his sister by Lakshmana on Ram’s orders.  RW: Shurpanakha was a vile woman who did not respect Ram’s marriage.  LW: You clearly approve violence against women.  RW: You clearly do not care for consent, be it Ram’s or Sita’s.  LW: No one asked for Sita’s consent when she was kicked out of the palace.  These never-ending repetitive conversations have been happening for decades. Earlier the LW felt righteous, as defenders of the minorities, the poor and the downtrodden. In the social media age, the RW is feeling righteous, as they have declared themselves defenders of all things Hindu, from Islamic, Christian, secular, and atheist invasions. Both implicitly believe in the concept of justice. Concept of rebirth Now, generations of historians have casually translated dharma as justice. But justice presupposes a single life. Dharma is based on the concept of karma and rebirth. In other words, dharma and justice belong to two very different paradigms. This is rarely factored in even by scholars, who implicitly align with the one-life paradigm. Christians and Muslims believe that when we die, we will be judged by god on Judgement Day on how we have conducted ourselves in our one and only life vis-à-vis god’s laws. The concept of Judgement Day, and god’s law, is not found in rebirth cultures such as Buddhism, Jainism and Hinduism. One life leads to another, shaping our circumstances based on past deeds. But Manusmriti and Garuda Purana , as well as Jain and Buddhist mythologies, do refer to multiple hells of torture for sinners before their eventual rebirth into another life. This belief in judgement after death seems at odds with the belief in rebirth: if one has already been punished in one of the multiple hells, then under what considerations is the nature of the next life decided? Be that as it may, justice, in the rebirth context, assumes many lives, many heavens, many hells, and temporary stays everywhere. By contrast, justice in Christian and Islamic context assumes a single life, single law, single heaven, single hell, and eternal stay in the final destination. Greco-Roman justice meant respecting social hierarchy, and so allowed for unequal distribution of wealth and power. Theoretically, in Christianity and Islam, this idea poses problems as justice is linked to equality, but it applied only to converts and was not in practice in feudal Europe or Persia. On what basis does god decide who should have more and who should have less? Is the inequality at the input level (opportunity distribution) or at the output level (reward distribution)? This is exactly the conversation in modern academic circles, where the influence of Christianity and Islam is undeniable, considering these faiths dominate 50% of the world, and colonisation gave rise to similar institutions around the world. Justice and equality are hegemonic ideas today. Secularism is conditioned to see them as good and decent and right. This is why it feels rational when we challenge oppressors. We accuse the privileged and the elite of injustice and unfairness. When they push back, with counter accusations, we see it as whataboutery. Nature has no rights Animals do not seek justice. Justice is a human construct. In nature, there is no villain, victim, or hero. There are only the eaters and the eaten. In the Mahabharata , when a king tries to save a dove from a hawk, the hawk tells the ‘just’ king to first find it an alternative source of food. The only way out for the king is to offer his own flesh! In nature, there are no rights or properties. The strong wins. The weak cannot inherit. When Arjuna, a prince, has a dispute with a Kirata, a tribal, he has to indulge in a duel to claim the wild boar he shot. There is no equality in nature either. Nature is full of pecking orders. But there are no favourites either. It’s a pure meritocracy. Every plant and animal has strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. Nature balances the system so that the number of prey is balanced by the number of predators. And even the strongest has to eventually grow old and die. Immortality and eternal claims over land are cultural, not natural, themes. In the forest, where there is no law, there is no concept of marriage, husband, or wife. No concept of fidelity. So, as creatures of the forest, Shurpanakha and Ravana are behaving as animals will — using force and cunning to get what they want. Ram, Lakshman and Sita, as creatures of domesticated spaces, are behaving as cultured civilised beings should, upholding man-made codes of decency and propriety. Cultural standards, however, cannot be applied to animals and creatures of the forest. Ravana alone, not Shurpanakha, is judged, since he is presented as being educated in Vedic ways, just like Hanuman. Ravana, king of Lanka, struggles with fidelity. Vali, king of Kishkinda, struggles with sharing. Neither Lanka nor Kishkinda belongs to Aryavarta, where dharma-shastra is instituted and established. In dharma , the strong take care of the weak, but doing so goes against the natural order, where the strong feed on the weak. Thus, the practice of dharma cannot escape dharma-sankat or moral and ethical dilemmas. It’s the context  Dharma-sankat is what whataboutery reveals. It shows that victims in one context can be villains in another. Modern courts insist that a case being discussed must be seen in isolation, and not contaminated by other pending cases. For the crime of murder, it does not matter if the killer is a king or a beggar, if he is kind or cruel. But in the dharma discourse, all contexts have to be considered. The focus must be balanced with perspective. The king is reminded constantly that he has no role in natural conflicts, only in cultural ones. Arjuna is asked to behave with greater grace than an entitled brat. Traditional Indian dharma theory valued rebirth, denominators and contexts, the heterogeneity of diversity over the homogeneity of equality. Ram, the king, is great. Ram, the husband, is not. Ravana, the brother, is good. Ravana, the king, is not. Of course, like justice, the dharma discourse is open to all sorts of cleverly argued rational manipulation, by the devil, say some, by the ego, say others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dharma-always-comes-with-dharma-sankat/article37848160.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Voice against discrimination||In his prime, he was the quintessential calm before the storm and that inspired umpire Dickie Bird to name him ‘Whispering Death’. Such was the stealth with which cricketer Michael Holding operated as a premier speed merchant from the Caribbean islands. Following his retirement, the fast bowling legend became a superb commentator, speaking with depth in that droll West Indian accent. He recently quit commentary but at 67, Holding remains a voice of reason. As ever he leans on his dignity. When dinner conversations extended beyond the willow game, he would then say: “Look at what is happening in West Asia.” And when his daughter called from the U.S., he would step aside and become a doting father. In a world where silence is preferred over forthright expression of thoughts about what affects mankind, Holding refuses to join the politically correct bandwagon but his candour is always steeped in civility. When the Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement gathered momentum following the murder of George Floyd in the U.S., his neck wedged under policeman Derek Chauvin’s knee, Holding made an emotional speech about what it means to be Black and the discrimination that his race suffers. Speaking up The collective grief and anger of an oppressed race had to be vented. Holding’s speeches weren’t mere catharsis, they were building blocks and the product of all that angst and his spirit of enquiry is Why We Kneel, How We Rise , an incredible book that he wrote in association with Ed Hawkins. This tome straddles sport, sociology, anthropology and global politics, and holds a mirror to humanity, warts and all. Holding categorically states that this isn’t a sports book even if most of his large cast of characters, who speak about racism, are leading athletes. This is a difficult book as it relentlessly opens your mind to the unspeakable horrors that mankind can inflict on fellow human beings, especially Blacks. ‘A book of facts’ This isn’t about Holding standing on a pulpit and acting holier-than-thou. He concedes his privilege of being an elite sportsman. He admits to his indiscretions, especially that wretched act of kicking stumps during a match in New Zealand. But overall, he sticks to the history of the oppressed, prefers truth and sidesteps euphemisms. “I want to be clear: this is not a book of complaints. It is a book of facts. I hope it will enlighten, inspire, surprise, shock, move. And, above all, help to bring about real change,” Holding writes on the fifth page and when you get through the remaining 300, it is remarkable to know that he achieved all that he aspired to do. Popular culture, be it films or the odd book, has dealt with hidden prejudices. Atticus Finch’s words to his child — “Most people are, Scout, when you finally see them” — on the concluding page of Harper Lee’s iconic To Kill a Mocking Bird , reiterates an old truism: most people are good but only if you see them without blinkers. Atticus was reacting to his child’s remarks about their reclusive neighbour Boo Radley being good. Surely, Holding allows us to see beyond simplistic tropes, makes us understand that to judge someone based on his or her skin is cruelty. Holding speaks to fellow Jamaican Usain Bolt and they dwell upon casual racism, about store attenders following them in European countries. Of course, this was when they were rookies. Obviously, the presumption was that they were Blacks and hence not in a position to afford the goods on display. Nothing was said but the two gents understood the suspicion in the air. Varied shades At one point, Naomi Osaka asks Holding: “Why do you think there are detractors against the (BLM) movement? It seems reasonable to me that all we want is equality. I can’t think of any rationale. A lack of education and empathy maybe?” That different shades of racism exist is painfully driven home when Holding mentions how his father was treated as an outcast by his mother’s family, just because he was darker than the rest! And then at varying points, he highlights how colonial history and our own shared knowledge passed across generations tends to emphasise racism without us realising how the poison is being injected. Time to change Holding’s gaze is all-encompassing, taking in Africa from where indentured labour was sourced to the colonies, and the American civil-war, and he uses Floyd’s death to stress that racism is still thriving. The ageing speedster makes us even look at Alex Haley’s Roots with fresh eyes. Considered an epochal book on the slave trade, Holding says that “it was a palatable version for the masses”. Yet, Holding hopes that racism will vanish: “One day, people of colour might have equality.” Later, he says: “I will be long gone by the time we have a genuine level playing field.” He is being practical but this conscience-stirrer of a book will defy time. This book is a classic, one that will make you aware that inequality is a horrific reality and it is time to change that.   Why We Kneel, How We Rise Michael Holding Simon & Schuster UK/India  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/voice-against-discrimination/article37848142.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||No wrong step||“Be safe” is no more a war cry. It is a peace cry too. Especially now. Practically every conversation or communication ends with this peace cry. Now everyone from three-year-olds understand the message. Is it only in letter? My mind time travels back 60 years. Working in a research organisation, I was given the additional responsibility of a safety coordinator, an unwanted baby for most colleagues. I think I had done the right thing to accept this addition to my research. It did not require much time but it provided me an opportunity to look up books or journals on industrial safety. The tasks were simple. To organise safety drills and mock exercises and prepare work-specific pamphlets along with safety authorities. Monthly reports of accidents and number of accident-free working days would be sent from our organisation to the Industries Department. In the event of a major accident involving loss of life and property, the coordinator was called upon to assist in investigations. In one such accident, my junior colleague died on the spot, having inhaled a large amount of a chemical. This accident and the suicide of his wife within a couple of days created an impact in me to carry the message of safety everywhere including homes. Naturally my wife became the target at home, who felt I was overdoing it. Many people ignore the fact that both kitchen and bathroom harbour potential safety hazards. The system of ombudsman is unfortunately not practised in our country. If it were, the police would have received a pile of reports from safety-conscious citizens on road users endangering themselves and others. In nuclear establishments, the conventional safety requirements will be augmented by additional stricter surveillance and control of operations. Fail Safe was the criterion introduced in the nuclear industry, meaning if the system fails on any account, the workplace and people will be protected by suitable measures. Three Mile Island (1979), Fukushima (2011) and Chernobyl (1978) are in our memory in order of increasing magnitude of damage to life and health. I moved from the research organisation to a large engineering and manufacturing organisation making power-generation equipment. Though the nature of my main job changed, the task of coordinating safety was an added responsibility again. Pandemic concerns The entire globe is in a pandemic and hence must learn to make every day a safety day (not only March 4, World Safety Day). Starting with public health workers, epidemiologists, virologists, scientists in research laboratories, manufacturers of drugs or vaccines, people engaged in storage and distribution of vaccine and drugs and medical and paramedical officials in administering the drugs and vaccines, all have a crucial role to play in taking care of “unsafe conditions” for community and people. Enforcement agencies such as the police can only catch offenders and fine them as per law. That is not the end of the matter. The safety measures constantly being drilled through media are adequate for facing the current pandemic. Following these rigorously and religiously is everyone’s responsibility. We owe it for our sake, for the sake of our children and the humanity at large. lakshmibashyam@yahoo.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/no-wrong-step/article37848118.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The secret store of happiness||It is with the circle of life and death that Nawaaz Ahmed begins his debut novel, Radiant Fugitives. In a hospital room in San Francisco, Seema dies giving birth to her son Ishraaq, the novel’s narrator. As he seesaws between life and death, we meet the rest of Seema’s family in the waiting room: her ex-husband Bill, her mother Nafeesa, and her younger sister Tahera.  Radiant Fugitives is a story of three women — a mother and her two daughters torn apart by their past and brought together in a final attempt at reconciliation by their dying mother. Seema’s pregnancy unites her with Nafeesa and Tahera years after she was disowned by her father for coming out as lesbian. Tahera, a staunch, practising Muslim, is critical of her sister’s life choices. Terminally-ill Nafeesa travels to San Francisco to set things right between her daughters against the express wish of her husband. From the time of Ishraaq’s birth, the story moves through flashbacks as Ahmed traces the complex roots of their hostilities towards each other and, more importantly, towards themselves. Families within families Most South Asian intergenerational novels focus on the struggle between modernity and tradition as the primary reason of strife between its characters. Ahmed offers a much more nuanced take. Here the struggle is about individual identity when the forces shaping it — political, religious, gender, familial — are themselves in conflict with one another. The characters break under the tension between loyalty to themselves and to their familial roles. As Seema’s partner Leigh observes, Seema’s reservations about introducing Leigh to her mother and sister is not so much about Islamic strictures as about the imagined judgement of these two women. Ahmed is spot-on in his observation of families within families as an undeniable reality of South Asian households — Tahera and Nafeesa’s bond deepens when they have to depend on each other to withstand the joint force of the father and the elder daughter’s strong personalities. Poetic turn Throughout the novel, Ahmed remains conscious about of how much of the political he makes personal. Seema and her ex-husband Bill come together and are separated on the issue of same-sex marriages and politicians’ stance on it in the countdown to the presidential elections. While they both support Obama and Kamala Harris, Seema is sceptical of Obama because he does not risk coming out in full support of same-sex marriages. The rise of intolerance against Muslims in America, the Iraq war — all these are issues deeply affecting the cast as they worry about America’s future. Tahera is conscious of being stared at because of her hijab and Nafeesa advises her to blend in to prevent ostracisation in post-9/11 America. To lighten the tension of families and politics, Ahmed turns to poetry, interspersing the narrative with poems of Keats, ghazals, and loving descriptions of Islamic rituals. The foggy beauty of San Francisco allows the characters to breathe between pivotal events. Making Seema’s unborn son the narrator, however, seems like an unnecessary trick. It tends to confuse after some time. What underlies Radiant Fugitives are choices. The ending is an elegy to the price one pays for being individualistic: Seema gets the freedom of not being pushed around by the world “at the expense of keeping everyone at bay. She recalls her family, her friends, her lovers, her homes, the many she’s left behind or escaped from... She only knows how to fight the universe, as if there were no other way to access its secret store of happiness.” Nawaaz Ahmed’s debut novel is singular not only for its characters but also for its prose. One wonders if it will have repercussions on the way we view the canon of the great American novel. The reviewer is a freelance writer and illustrator.  Radiant Fugitives Nawaaz Ahmed Westland  Rs. 699    The rise of intolerance against Muslims in America, the Iraq war — all these are issues deeply affecting the cast as they worry about America’s future||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-secret-store-of-happiness/article37848127.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Discovery of ancient sites through an archaeologist’s eyes||“All my Books in Nos. 3 & 4 Boxes are destroyed — The Camel sat down in the middle of the Ahsin River with them — & nearly killed my cook also.” From Shekohabad on February 28, 1877.   “No bread at Kutnee! One of my Servants is going to Jabalpur by tonight’s train for bread and meat...” From Camp Sleemanbad, December 8, 1876  These two snippets are among the various bits of news — both professional and personal — that form part of Alexander Cunningham’s letters to his assistant J.D.M. Beglar. Apart from archaeological discoveries, the first Director-General of the Archaeological Survey of India talks about the travails of travel and camp life, makes enquiries of friends and family, and a lot more. 190 letters Historian Upinder Singh has carefully put together around 190 letters from what seems to be a voluminous correspondence in The World of India’s First Archaeologist: Letters from Alexander Cunningham to J.D.M. Beglar . These span a period of 15 years from 1871, when he took over the ASI. The first is his offer to Beglar to work under him for “Rs.100 a month in addition to present allowances and travelling allowance of Rs.5 a day while in camp.”  Cunningham also explains what he wants: “The general work would be to visit ancient places, and make reports on all the buildings, sculptures and other antiquities, together with ground plans and sections (to be returned to you), according to exact measurements. Of course, if you could photograph any of the remains, both architectural and sculptural, so much the better. All information regarding the remains that could be picked up from the people would also be required as well as copies of the inscriptions”. In her Introduction, Singh sets out the context for the letters and offers explanations where necessary. Cunningham came to India in 1833 as a 19-year-old Second Lieutenant with the Bengal Engineers and spent the next 46 years in India, though he retired from the army in 1861. Thanks in part to his military postings, he was able to indulge his interest in “antiquarianism”. This term, Singh explains, was “an umbrella term used for the study of India’s early past”. She also gives a quick sketch of the interest in Indian history during the 19th century and why the British government of India wanted to encourage such studies. She touches upon criticism of Cunningham’s work but admits that, in the final analysis, his contributions were critically important. “Our first images of many major ancient Indian sites are through the eyes of Alexander Cunningham and his Assistants,” she writes. Diverse worldview While the letters are arranged in chronological order, it is rather fascinating to dip into them at random. Letter No. 45 (October 15, 1875) combines his views of the Russian occupation of Armenia, education for lowers classes in England, information on his family and an exposition of his work on Asokan inscriptions. Letter No. 100 (August 12, 1878) opens with setting Beglar right about the story of a swindler in England and goes on to talk about photography. A marginal note will make readers smile: all your drawing paper is bad. The ‘bad’ is underlined. Letter No. 145. (May 22, 1881) talks about fixing dates, photography plates and ends with news of “two scented geraniums of different kinds”. Not only does the reader get a ringside view of exciting archaeological discoveries and a sense of the hard work that went into them but also the mistakes and frustrations of archaeologists. Instead of the serious individual his portrait makes him out to be, Cunningham emerges as an emotional and even highly strung personality, judging by the copious underlined words and exclamation marks. Now, if only we could have had Beglar’s side of the correspondence.  The World of India’s First Archaeologist: Letters from Alexander Cunningham to J.D.M. Beglar Upinder Singh Oxford University Press  Rs. 2,495||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/discovery-of-ancient-sites-through-an-archaeologists-eyes/article37848137.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On December 5, 1717, English pirate Edward Teach ransacked a merchant ship and kept her captain, Henry Bostock, prisoner. On release, Bostock provided the first ever record of this infamous pirate’s appearance, and the source for his name. He reported burning hair and a thick knotted beard. He became the inspiration for many fictional pirates. How better do we know this fearsome pirate? 2 On December 5, 1766, James Christie founded this legendary institution in London when he held his first sale at the Pall Mall. Now with yearly sales of over US $7.4 billion, it is one of the most successful of its kind. In October 2020, they sold a T.rex skeleton for US $31.8 million, setting a new world record. What institution is this? 3 On December 5, 1846, C.F. Schönbein obtained a patent for nitrocellulose, a mild explosive used in rockets, printing ink bases, leather finishing, and manufacturing of billiard balls. It could be made into a fluffy white powder, which was better than black powder as a projectile. Owing to its use in artillery and its appearance, by what name was it commonly referred to? 4 On December 5, 1848, U.S. President James K. Polk confirmed that a certain precious metal had been discovered in California. This led to a sudden influx of 3,00,000 people from other parts of the U.S. and the world into California. This led to an invigoration of the economy and fast-tracked California becoming a State. It also led to genocide, where the Native American population was decimated. The term given to this event became a part of pop culture, featured in many films and now is used as any sudden urge which might not have results. What was the name of this event? 5 On December 5, 1854, Aaron Allen, a theater owner in Boston patented his concept of a then special chair. This allowed him to use precious space efficiently and remove the aisles between rows. His design has remained practically unchanged for more than a hundred years, and till today is one of the most sought-after chair designs. What did he design which we see in theaters even today? 6 On December 5, 1876, Daniel Stillson patented the first practical version of a plumbing tool which could be adjusted as per requirement. It had hardened serrated teeth on its jaws which bite into the softer metal of the round pipe and provide the grip needed to turn a pipe. There are two names for the tool, one referring to the fact that it is used on a pipe and the other refers to an animal, which is supposedly the misspelling of an earlier inventor, Charles Moncky. How do we know this important tool? 7 On December 5, 1892, Almon Strowger, an undertaker in Kansas obtained a patent that revolutionised the telecom industry. One day he noticed his work had dropped considerably, and there was a new undertaker in town. He discovered the telephone operator was married to the new undertaker. When anyone called for Strowger’s business, she would direct them to her husband. So, he invented a machine which allowed callers to contact one another directly, without the need of a human intermediary making sure that never again would an operator misdirect people. What did Strowger invent? 8 December 5, 1952 is the date on which a particular infamous weather event started in London. A cold night combined with rampant air pollution brought the great city to a standstill for four days during which, according to the Ministry of Health, an estimated 4,000 people died. The name given to this weather phenomenon was a portmanteau of two words — one, the byproduct of rapid industrialisation, and the other because of water vapour condensation. What was this event? 9 On December 5, 1958, this service was inaugurated in the U.K. by Queen Elizabeth II when she spoke to Lord Provost in a call from Bristol to Edinburgh. This was the first time a long-distance call could be made without requiring switchboard operators. Nowadays, the term is not used as the distinction between local and such long distance calls are no longer relevant, but the acronym of the term is found in many shops where the service was once available. What is the service and what is the acronym which could also be mistaken for an unfortunate medical situation? 10 Born on December 5, 1901, this American director, producer and screenwriter co-founded a company which is now valued at $93 billion and makes about $1,110 per second. His work went on to revolutionise the movie industry, the theme park industry and children’s entertainment industry. He holds the record for the most individual Oscar wins (22) and nominations (59), and even uniquely was awarded seven Oscar awards which are smaller than usual. Who is this person whose name has become iconic in pop culture? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article37848150.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Season of Migration to the North by Tayeb Salih||Sudan is in turmoil. In October, the military declared a state of emergency and imprisoned Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok, leading to massive, violent protests against the coup. Last month, in a climbdown of sorts, the Prime Minister was reinstated, but marches continue in the capital Khartoum against the military’s involvement in politics. After Sudan got independence in the 1950s, shedding a colonial past, conflicts arose between its diverse populations — there was a prolonged civil war too — with South Sudan finally seceding in 2011. Making sense of Sudan’s past and present, Tayeb Salih has written novels and short stories to portray a country pulled in different directions. His 1966 short novel, Season of Migration to the North , was hailed as one of the finest novels to be written in modern Arabic literature. A novel about crossings in a post-colonial era, Edward Said said it “reverses the trajectory” of Conrad’s Heart of Darkness . In Conrad’s story, the protagonist journeys south from Europe to the Congo, witnessing an “African nightmare”, and exploiting people in the name of civilising them. Stranger in the midst In Salih’s book, a key character, Mustafa Sa’eed, travels north to the heart of the British colonial empire, London, and what follows is a “stubborn confrontation”. Translated by Denys Johnson-Davies, the novel begins with the narrator stating that he has returned to his village at the bend of the Nile after getting a doctorate in Britain — “a land whose fishes die of the cold” — on an obscure English poet. Waking up to familiar sounds, he listens intently to the wind, “which in our village possessed a merry whispering — the sound of the wind passing through palm trees is different from when it passes through fields of corn.” But amid known faces, he spots a stranger, Mustafa Sa’eed, who arrived in the village five years ago, bought himself a farm, married a local villager’s daughter and settled down. During an evening of drinking and merry-making, Mustafa inadvertently recites a poem in English. Soon he is telling his secrets to the unnamed narrator about his past in England, where he used his “exotic appeal” to unleash violence on himself and women. Layers of hierarchy It’s left to the narrator, who has also returned from England, to make sense of the post-colonial world: “Over there is like here, neither better nor worse. But I am from here, just as the date palm standing in the courtyard of our house has grown in our house and not in anyone else’s. The fact that they came to our land I know not why, does that mean that we should poison our present and our future? Sooner or later they will leave our country, just as many people throughout history left many countries. The railways, ships, hospitals, factories, and schools will be ours and we’ll speak their language without either a sense of guilt or a sense of gratitude. Once again we shall be as we were — ordinary people — and if we are lies we shall be lies of our own making.” Mustafa’s seemingly idyllic life unravels and other lives too are destroyed. The shadow of colonialism will not go away easily, but there are shadows cast by the present too. Mustafa’s widow Hosna dies fighting for her rights. In his introduction, Wail Hassan writes that one source of the novel’s power is its dramatisation of the ways in which colonial hegemony is inextricably linked with racial and gender hierarchies. As a Sudanese, says Hassan, Salih came from a liminal place where the Arab world merges with black Africa, and he wrote as an immigrant in London. “His fictional village of Wad Hamid in northern Sudan represents the complexities of that location: situated between the fertile Nile valley and the desert, inhabited by peasants but a frequent stop for nomadic tribes, it is a meeting place for several cultures.” Many writers have responded to Conrad’s controversial novel of the empire. Chinua Achebe questioned it deeply, calling it racist. Salih’s elegant novel too is a literary resistance to stereotypes. The writer looks back at one classic every month.  The shadow of colonialism will not go away easily, but there are shadows cast by the present too||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/season-of-migration-to-the-north-by-tayeb-salih/article37848123.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The plurality of an early mystic||The repetition of Kabir’s name in the title of Purushottam Agrawal’s Kabir, Kabir , The life and work of the early modern poet-philosopher , perhaps comes from the epigraph, a couplet by the 15th-16th century mystic: “I have made my mind as pure as Ganga water,/ Hari follows after, calling out ‘Kabir, Kabir’.” But that would be a simplistic way to explain the plurality that defines Kabir. A difficult task    Who was this poet, a weaver from Kashi who lived an extraordinarily ordinary life? There is no singular answer to this. Was he Hindu or Muslim? Did he try to establish a new religion or sect? Who was Kabir’s Ram, the crown prince of Ayodhya or eternal consciousness? What was the essence of the Bhakti Kabir preached and what were his views on death and moksha (salvation). Though his couplets are widely quoted and his bhajans are sung across the country, understanding Kabir and his message is not an easy task. Drawing from several references and his scholarship on Kabir, Professor Agrawal’s book throws light on different facets on each of these complex subjects in great detail. The book points out that Kabir’s worldview does not easily fit into any of the six philosophical systems of the Vedic tradition, nor with Buddhism and Jainism. “Kabir takes all these aspects of Nirgun bhakti to great heights. He articulates his longing for God while showing the moral courage to take on scholars and religious authorities on their versions and interpretations of the ‘laws of god’,” Agrawal writes. Kabir’s rejection of caste hierarchies is discussed at length. Another recurrent theme in the book is the centrality of Ram in Kabir’s Bhakti, not as an incarnation of Vishnu and the crown prince of Ayodhya but as an intimate and soothing name given to cosmic consciousness. Ram is Kabir’s favourite name for the innermost spiritual experience. Kabir’s Ram “With the help of Narada bhakti sutras, we can guess why the name Ram is so crucial to Kabir.... Kabir’s Ram is at the core of his love, longing and emotions; Ram is the source of vivek (wisdom),” Agrawal writes. The book also provides a glimpse of the times in which Kabir lived. Through the lens of Kabir and a few other poets, Agrawal raises the question whether Europe was the sole inventor and exporter of modernity. There are also interesting anecdotes about Kabir’s life. His mother led a delegation to Sikandar Lodhi (1489-1517) to file an official complaint about Kabir’s activities. When a bemused Sikandar asks the petitioners in what way had the weaver harmed the people, their answer is blunt: “He has dared to tread a new path. He has discarded the ways of Islam and does not care for Hindu traditions.... He has corrupted so many people. He is neither a Hindu nor a Muslim.” Devdutt Pattanaik embellishes the book with illustrations. In the introduction, he also exhorts readers to enjoy the several ‘Kabirs’ presented in the book. Kabir is not only one of the greatest early modern poets but his philosophy is so profound that it accepts yet rejects all the existing traditions. In the present times when religion and faith is being tailored to a one-size-fits- all notion, and where differences of views are not welcome, this book is an eye-opener about the multiplicity of all religions and faith.  Kabir, Kabir: The life and work of the early modern poet-philosopher Purushottam Agrawal Westland Books  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-plurality-of-an-early-mystic/article37848139.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Eyes open||Today’s deal offers an interesting declarer play problem. Declarer has to make a key decision at one point in the play. South wins the opening club lead with dummy’s ace and leads a spade to his queen, winning the trick. What now? There are seven top tricks and a 3-3 split in diamonds would provide two more. There is no rush to try the diamonds, as a 3-3 split in spades will also give you nine tricks. A spade to the king loses to the ace and East returns a club to dummy’s king. South sheds a heart on the jack of spades, as does West. What now? You could hope for a favorable split in diamonds or you could give up a spade and set up the last spade as your ninth trick. The defense would then prevail if one opponent, presumably West, started with five clubs. That would be sad, indeed, if the diamonds were splitting 3-3 all along. The answer is back at trick one. What club did West lead? Were your eyes open? It was the two! West might have made a deceptive lead, but the opponents usually tell the truth early in a deal because they do not want to deceive their partner. The fourth best lead tells you that the winning play is to give up a spade. They will not have enough club tricks to defeat you.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/eyes-open/article37848154.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Being human||It was common knowledge that Indra was wealthy because she got dropped to school in a chauffeur-driven car. But I was ignorant of the other perks that a rich home provided. “You don’t have to say thank you to her! She is our cook!” Fifty-plus years later, I can still hear those words in my ear, complete with the amusement with which it was delivered and the self-conscious giggles that emanated from the other girls. I suppose the memory of this one-time visit to my classmate’s home has stayed because of the strong emotions that the remark evoked. I had felt diminished and foolish; and I was dismayed that because of my stupidity, the woman who had just served us a plate of snacks was within earshot of us and would have heard the remark. So, when she came up again with glasses of water, I looked up hesitantly, and was relieved to see her acknowledge me with a smile. That minor incident did not break my habit. From shopkeeper to vegetable vendor and autorickshaw driver, I have said thank you to all. Over the years, I have learnt to say thank you with more words: “Thanks a bunch”, “Thanks a million”, “You made my day”, “My lucky day”. While sending out a message, the joined palms and heart symbols and the different emoticons do the talking! After years of sticking with these, it was a five-year-old’s sensitivity that made me realise that it is the emotion behind the words that reaches the recipient. I was witness to a tiff between the little boy and his nine-year-old sister. “Nobody can know everything”, the girl declared with the authority of a big sister. “Alexa knows everything,” the boy shot back. “Alexa is not human. She is a machine,” the girl said. “No, she is a person!” the boy said vehemently. And in an instant, he turned towards the device and said “Alexa, I love you.” “That is nice of you to say,” replied the digital assistant. “See!” the boy said triumphantly, “she is kind!” The child had a clear understanding of what tells apart a human from a machine! Compassion is a characteristic of humans! My mind jumped back to that day in my friend’s house and I understood the magic of that instant when my eyes met those of the humble woman. kamalabalachandran199@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/being-human/article37848120.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Letters||The story reveals the role of women in building a prosperous country. (Arms and the woman; Nov. 28) By acknowledging their efforts, we inspire more women to do the same. Praveen Babu nUNSCR 1325 spells out the role of women in peace keeping. With education and empowerment of Indian women, there is radical change in our country. Though we have a long way to go, change is happening. Sri Vrinda nAs a first step towards making the path to justice less arduous for women in conflict zones, the government needs to amend to draconian laws such as the Armed Forces Special Powers Act, and remove the impunity it bestows on the armed forces. M. Jeyaram nThe latest edition of the global Women, Peace, and Security Index reflects a shared vision that countries are more peaceful and prosperous when women are accorded full and equal rights and opportunities. K.M.K. Murthy nOne way to protect the rights of women in conflict zones is to ensure that the forces deployed in such areas comprise at least 50% women. Further, the armed forces should be held accountable for human rights violations. While recompensing victims is necessary, prevention of violation of women’s rights should be the basic tenet of conflict area policies. Kosaraju Chandramouli nWomen are not merely victims of armed conflict. They are active agents. They possess critical perspectives and organise collectively in response to those situations, like taking up arms in liberation struggles, or participating in struggles against inequality based on race, ethnicity, religion or class. Women know the importance of peace processes and join a variety of grass-roots peace-building efforts aimed at rebuilding the economic, political, social and cultural fabric of societies. Kumarika Roy   The review of a former foreign secretary’s book by another former foreign secretary should have been more revealing, but it conceals more than it reveals. This reluctance is the main reason behind our failures in international affairs. Prajeet Dev Boinapally   Biodiversity mapping has come a long way from the days of painstaking manual cartography by the French Institute of Pondicherry. The utilisation of digital maps with the application of latest data analysis and interpretation techniques will go a long way in assessing the conservation status of each species and its habitat. N. Rama Rao   Hope is what keeps us alive, not just during a pandemic, but at any point of time. A podcast with the sole aim of inspiring people with hope is definitely a great venture. When talking about hope, one always remembers Micawber’s famous line from David Copperfield — ‘something will turn up’. Sandhya Suresh V.   The weekly ‘Easy like Sunday morning’ quiz is undoubtedly one of the best features of the Magazine . However, it mostly focuses on the Western world. Surely, India and other Asian countries are an equally rich treasure trove of information and trivia? Madan Mohan Mathur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/letters/article37848116.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The Shadows of Men||Abir Mukherjee  Harvill Secker Rs. 699 Calcutta, 1923. When a Hindu theologian is found murdered in his home, the city is pushed to the brink of a religious war. Can officers of the Imperial Police Force, Captain Sam Wyndham and Sergeant Surendranath Banerjee, track down those responsible in time to stop a bloodbath?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-shadows-of-men/article37848129.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Better off Dead||Lee Child and Andrew Child  Bantam Press Rs. 699 In the 26th Jack Reacher thriller, Reacher finds himself on a deserted Arizona road, where a Jeep has crashed. With him is Michaela Fenton, an FBI agent who is trying to find her twin brother. They head to the nearby border town filled with hostile people who would rather die than reveal their secrets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/better-off-dead/article37848131.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The Greatest Tamil Stories Ever Told||Edited by Sujatha Vijayaraghavan   & Mini Krishnan  Aleph Book Company Rs. 699 An anthology of some of the best Tamil short fiction, from the last century to the present day. Included here are stories by Subramania Bharati, Sa. Kandasamy, Bama, Perumal Murugan, and Poomani, and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-greatest-tamil-stories-ever-told/article37848133.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||India and the Bangladesh Liberation War||Chandrashekhar Dasgupta  Juggernaut Rs. 625 Fifty years after the Bangladesh liberation war of 1971, questions remain about India’s aims and policy. Drawing on unexplored archives and records, a diplomat, who served at the embassy in Dhaka, sheds new light on the war and India’s role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/india-and-the-bangladesh-liberation-war/article37848135.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A Venetian at the Mughal Court: The Life and Adventures of Nicolò Manucci||Marco Moneta  Vintage Rs. 699 Venetian Nicolò Manucci arrived in India with few connections, and lived here till his death at 82. Moneta tells the story of a man who was witness to the intrigues in Mughal and European territories, and who survived them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-venetian-at-the-mughal-court-the-life-and-adventures-of-nicol-manucci/article37848144.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||A Luxury called Health||Kavery Nambisan  Speaking Tiger Rs. 599 Drawing upon her work as a surgeon for over four decades in rural and small-town India, Nambisan depicts the highs and lows of medical practice through her patients’ stories in her memoir. She also examines the evolution of medical practice and the state of India’s public health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-luxury-called-health/article37848146.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Looking for the Enemy: Mullah Omar and the Unknown Taliban||Bette Dam  HarperCollins Rs. 599 An investigative journalist managed to track down the reclusive Taliban chief, Mullah Omar. In due course, she got to know the Taliban inside out, realised how misinformed the global forces fighting it were, and made a startling discovery about Omar’s whereabouts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/looking-for-the-enemy-mullah-omar-and-the-unknown-taliban/article37848148.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3179||Across  1 My jape is silly, overshadowing isolated overnight events (6,7) 8 Bootlegging, excluding number that’s suggestive (4) 9 A nun, woozy with a cigar from somewhere in Central America (10) 10 Small amount of money Everyman’s hiding, getting stick (6) 11 Without a plan to lose home, becoming derelict (8) 12 Dame; unsettling macabre author, uncomfortable reading including eerie Rebecca, primarily! (2,7) 14 Some Blairism that’s essential in vision (4) 15 Tasteless rubbish! American! I’m off! (2-2) 16 Monsieur altered canton to include limits of Basel and an Alp (4,5) 20 Scratching head, orthopod’s performing skilful manœuvre (4-4) 21 Haunt with unnatural sobs describing evacuated entrails (6) 23 Leafy green — or cheese and white wine? Not half! (5,5) 24 Complain as storyteller returning (4) 25 Strict type of ballerina, initially narcissistic drama queen withholding support (4,3,6)  Down  1 ‘Table’ in France: a single dish with water (7) 2 Writer in bliss before seeing cheque... gutted (5) 3 Troll using some ‘gammon’ stereotypes (7) 4 Correspondence from overseas resort captured Tropics (7,8) 5 Equality — with prince becoming king — it’s seldom seen (6) 6 Ordinarily, flipping Luxembourg and Austria mostly backslide, ‘neutral; independent’ (2,7) 7 They rebuke people found on roofs (7) 13 Topple after a little Negroni and fizz as starters (9) 15 Pour most of the whiskey out — what you may do later? (5,2) 17 Also, the German harbours run as per specifications (2,5) 18 Time to note: what was more savoury now more indecent (7) 19 Tea, followed by tea dance (3-3) 22 Hone temper(5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3179/article37848157.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Pedal for peace||Relief Riders, a group of Bengaluru-based cyclists who made it their mission to deliver essential provisions such as food and medicines to the marginalised, especially the elderly, during the peak of the pandemic, has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize. Over 70 volunteers on bicycles delivered 110 sorties over 19 days across 45 wards in the city, according to the leader of the group, ‘bicycle mayor’ Sathya Sankaran. “Not only did we help more than 2,000 people, we also saved more than five tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions. We were able to demonstrate the power and resilience of the bicycle in a humane way,” Sankaran told journalists. Soon, volunteers from more cities, including Mumbai, Chennai, Gurugram, Hyderabad, and Belagavi, joined the programme. People with other expertise joined hands — coders to help with requests and deliveries and volunteers who created digital maps so that the project runs smoothly and delivers essentials to the most needy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pedal-for-peace/article37848115.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The Punch Magazine: Anthology of New Writing||Edited by Shireen Quadri  Olive Turtle Rs. 395 The Punch Magazine’s inaugural anthology comprises 18 short stories by women. Steeped in the cultural moorings of the places they are set in — from Kashmir to Kerala, from Washington to Rome — the stories represent concerns in and outside home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-punch-magazine-anthology-of-new-writing/article37848122.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article37848113.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||An innovation that can better protect power grids||Researchers from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur have come up with an innovation that can help protect power grids against sudden, unexpected current surges. An innovative variation of the superconducting fault current limiter (SFCL), this smart SFCL not only shields the grid from large current surges and consequent fire accidents, it can also sense when the current surges will happen and warn the system about it. Power grids need protection from sudden surges in the current (fault current) that arise due to short-circuits, sudden overdrawing of power or excess power generated due to a falling demand. These surges cause heating of the wires and perhaps melting and consequent short-circuits and fire accidents. Earlier this used to be controlled by using circuit breakers, which would cut off the current in the event of a surge. These suffered from the limitation that if the response time to the current surge was too large, they would fail to be effective. Also, once the circuit was broken to avert the accident, the switch had to be manually turned on once again, and this could lead to longer power cuts. Using superconductors In the last decade, mainly in developed countries, a new way to tackle this situation is being explored – using superconducting fault current limiters (SFCL). This device uses a superconductor, which allows a dissipationless passage of current under normal circumstances, as it offers zero resistance to current flow in the superconducting state. However, if the current flowing through it increases beyond a threshold value, as during a fault, its resistance increases sharply. “The operation of a SFCL is very rapid and automatic. Once the fault current reduces and the current flow returns to below the threshold value, the resistance of the SFCL also automatically goes down to zero,” explains Satyajit Banerjee, Professor from the Department of Physics at IIT Kanpur and an expert on superconductivity.  Over a period of about three years, Prof. Banerjee and his PhD scholars have developed this “smart” SFCL device which deploys an array of Hall sensors around a basic SFCL. The array of Hall sensors placed around the SFCL constantly “measure and monitor as well as map” the current flowing inside the superconductor. “This sensor circuitry we have incorporated also serves the purpose of monitoring the current flow in the SFCL, which, in turn can be used to detect the initial stages of the current surge during the appearance of a fault,” says Prof Banerjee. He further explains that this can help the detection of a fault situation even while it is developing and therefore, before the large surge fully sets in, one can take pre-emptive action to intentionally switch the SFCL into a high resistive state and limit the increase in fault current and also divert the excess current through a lower resistance path. There is also another aspect of smartness to the device. All SFCLs are susceptible to internal thermal instabilities. The prototype they have developed is able to sense this too. This is an added advantage. Lower cost The imported SFCL devices cost around a million Euros. The prototype “smart” SFCL developed by Prof. Banerjee’s group cuts this cost by 50%-60%. However, he is not at the moment thinking of taking this to the industry. “Scaling up of these technologies cannot be a one man show… Such a thing can happen only with a match of efforts from the Industry and innovations by the academia. The future of the innovation is that it has to be implemented with current state-of-the-art developments in SFCLs to make them more powerful,” he opines. Handling larger currents Some interesting further innovations that his group is aiming for are in developing high temperature superconducting materials which have larger critical currents, as this will allow the SFCL to operate up to higher currents. “Another important area in this direction is to use our sensor array to enhance its sensitivity further so that we can pinpoint the location of a instability developing in the superconductor in space and time and study its evolution,” says Prof. Banerjee. Though this is a challenging area and a “non-trivial task,” it is absolutely essential in order to develop more reliable, intelligent and efficient SFCLs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/an-innovation-that-can-better-protect-power-grids/article37848256.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Was Omicron designated a variant of concern in haste?||On November 26, the World Health Organization designated the newly identified SARS-CoV-2 lineage B.1.1.529 with a whooping 32 mutations in the spike protein alone a variant of concern and named it ‘Omicron’, making it the 13th lineage to receive a Greek letter under its nomenclature system. The Greek letter nomenclature of variants was introduced by the WHO in 2021 as a uniform system of naming variants of interest and concern. This nomenclature system unifies the different systems of nomenclature that have existed since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. These largely include the scientific names assigned by GISAID, the largest open-access global database of genome sequences and related data of SARS-CoV-2, Nextstrain, which provides a phylogenetic context of the genome sequences available in the public domain, and Pango, a network of researchers for dynamically identifying and naming lineages of SARS-CoV-2. Bypassing stages With the designation of Omicron as a variant under monitoring and further as a vaariant of concern (VOC) within a short span of two days, the WHO bypassed the stage of initially designating it as a variant of interest (VOI), which is a significant departure from the precedence followed for other variants of concern in the past. For context, while the designation of Delta took about six weeks from the reporting of the lineage to the Pango network to the designation of the lineage as a VOC, Omicron was designated within a week of detection of the lineage (B.1.1.529). Delta, in contrast, was first designated a VOI in April this year and was further upgraded to a VOC on May 11, taking into consideration the emerging evidence on the transmissibility, epidemiological correlations from India as well as experimental evidence from across the globe. Omicron, in contrast, was designated as a variant under monitoring on November 24 and was classified as a VOC two days later. The rapid pace at which WHO designated Omicron a VOC was a decision that did not come out of haste but was based on concrete scientific evidence which came early from Africa, although further efforts for evaluating the variant shall continue to gain more evidence. The timely detection of Omicron is predominantly attributable to the routine genome sequencing efforts of Network for Genomic Surveillance in South Africa (NGS-SA), an elaborate genomic and epidemiological surveillance network in South Africa comprising over 10 laboratories and academic institutions having a rich experience of having dealt with previous waves of COVID-19, including the detection of the VOC Beta late in 2020. Three factors Typically, a variant is designated a VOC if it has evidence that supports one of the three possible factors – increase in transmissibility or a detrimental change in COVID-19 epidemiology, increase in virulence or change in clinical disease presentation, or decrease in effectiveness of public health and social measures including vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics. The early evidence for Omicron suggested a detrimental change in COVID-19 epidemiology, along with possible increase in transmissibility and decreased effectiveness of vaccines. The detection of the variant epidemiologically coincided with an outbreak and a further uptick in the number of COVID-19 cases in Gauteng, South Africa, which was previously affected by the Delta wave and was expected to have high community immunity. There were multiple instances of fully vaccinated cases, including where a booster dose had been received. This suggested that the variant poses a higher risk of reinfection and vaccination breakthrough. In contrast with the previous VOCs, a significant corpus of datasets having functional annotations of mutations in the virus based on evidence gathered from in-depth experiments from across the world is now available to help gain a deeper understanding of mutations in the context of transmission, immune escape and impact on current diagnostic tools and therapeutics. Of the 32 mutations identified in the Spike protein, a significant large number were associated with immune escape, cell entry as well as better binding to the human receptor proteins. Early structural analysis was also suggestive of better binding to the host receptors, which provided added confidence in the preliminary assessments. The early reports of a number of Omicron cases from different countries in Europe also suggested that the variant was indeed spreading fast. Apart from this, scientific evidence gathered, lessons learnt and wisdom gained while dealing with the previously designated VOCs – Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta also helped in the assessment. Convergence of evidence The rapid designation of Omicron as a VOC is therefore the convergence of a number of factors, scientific evidence of all the above-mentioned factors. A cluster of genome sequencing originating from Botswana, South Africa, as well as a traveller from Hong Kong, all met the eyes of researchers in South Africa, which led to the designation of the cluster as the lineage B.1.1.529 by the Pango network. While a part of the world prepares itself to combat the new variant with booster doses of vaccines and augmented healthcare preparedness, it is a grim reality that a large number in another part of the world are yet to receive their first dose of vaccine. The emergence of Omicron is thus a reminder that the virus will continue to evolve and prevail as long as a large part of the population lacks vaccines. The world should be reminded of the researchers in Africa, where under 7% of the population is currently vaccinated, who worked in not the best of infrastructure, funding and support systems that the world can offer, but have faithfully contributed to presenting with evidence that allows the world to be better prepared to handle the next wave. It is thus a shame that the healthcare workers in Africa would have to grapple with an upcoming wave of infection without access to vaccines, therapeutics and support essential for combating the new variant. With the emergence of Omicron as a variant of concern, that we may lose many of our brave African frontline warriors, for want of vaccines to the very threat they helped alert the world should indeed be a concern.  (The authors are researchers at CSIR-IGIB, New Delhi.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/was-omicron-designated-a-variant-of-concern-in-haste/article37848246.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Study finds mechanism of blood clots after giving Oxford vaccine||A multi-institutional study published on December 1 in the journal Science Advances has revealed for the first time the mechanism responsible for blood clots arising from thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS) following vaccination with AstraZeneca vaccine. Thrombocytopenia syndrome causes low platelet count. A low number of platelets – blood cells that help prevent blood loss when vessels are damaged – can result in no symptoms or can lead to an increased risk of bleeding or, in some cases, clotting. Rare adverse effect Thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome is a very rare serious adverse effect following vaccination using chimpanzee adenovirus Y25 (ChAdOx1), human adenovirus type 26 (HAdV-D26), and human adenovirus type 5 (HAdV-C5). In June 2021, scientists from Germany and Norway reported that antibodies that activated the platelets, a blood component involved in clotting, were seen in young people who developed the clots after vaccination with AstraZeneca vaccine. But the precise mechanism behind it was not known then. AstraZeneca vaccine and the Indian counterpart Covishield use the chimpanzee adenovirus Y25, while Johnson & Johnson vaccine uses the human adenovirus type 26. The Sputnik vaccine uses both human adenovirus type 26 and human adenovirus type 5 as vectors to ferry the spike protein into certain cells. The researchers found that all three adenoviruses used in a few COVID-19 vaccines as vectors bind to platelet factor 4 (PF4). They found that adenoviruses form stable complexes with PF4. Misplaced immunity According to an Arizona University release, in very rare cases, the viral vector may enter the bloodstream and bind to PF4, where the immune system then views this complex as foreign. The scientists believe this misplaced immunity could result in the release of antibodies against PF4, which bind to and activate platelets, causing them to cluster together and triggering blood clots in a very small number of people after the vaccine is administered. They used state-of-the-art computational simulations to demonstrate an electrostatic interaction mechanism between platelet factor 4 (PF4) and the viral vector used in the AstraZeneca vaccine. They determined the structure of the viral vector used in AstraZeneca vaccine to carry out the computational simulation. In addition, the researchers also confirmed it through in vitro studies involving cell-based experiments and surface plasmon resonance. “Vaccine-induced immune thrombotic thrombocytopenia (VITT) only happens in extremely rare cases because a chain of complex events needs to take place to trigger this ultra-rare side-effect. Our data confirms PF4 (platelet factor 4) can bind to adenoviruses, an important step in unravelling the mechanism underlying VITT. Establishing a mechanism could help to prevent and treat this disorder,” Dr. Alan Parker, an expert in the use of adenoviruses for medical applications from Cardiff University’s School of Medicine, said in the release. “We hope our findings can be used to better understand the rare side-effects of these new vaccines – and potentially to design new and improved vaccines to turn the tide on this global pandemic,” he added. The scientists believe that the specific interaction between the fibre knob protein of the adenovirus and platelet factor 4 (PF4), and the manner the complex is presented to the immune system might prompt the immune system to see it as foreign and release of antibodies against this complex. Electrostatics in action One of the ways the fibre knob protein of the adenovirus and platelet factor 4 tightly bind is through electrostatic interactions. The group showed that the fibre knob protein is mostly electronegative across approximately 90% of its surface, interrupted in interhexon spaces, where the surface potential rises. On the other hand, the platelet factor 4 (PF4) has a strong electropositive surface potential. This makes the fibre knob protein attract other positively charged molecules, particularly the platelet factor 4 (PF4) to its surface. They found that the human adenovirus type 26 (HAdV-D26) has an overall electronegative surface potential but less strong than chimpanzee adenovirus used in AstraZeneca vaccine. “We demonstrate that this interaction is not specific to chimpanzee adenovirus Y25 (ChAdOx1) fibre knob protein and that platelet factor 4 forms interactions with Ad5 and Ad26 with similar affinity. We also observed that heparin reduces the ability of platelet factor 4 (PF4) to associate with chimpanzee adenovirus fibre knob protein,” they write. The human adenovirus type 26 has also been implicated in TTS at a similar frequency to chimpanzee adenovirus Y25 (ChAdOx1) on a per dose basis. Using a previously published model of Ad26, the researchers performed simulations for ChAdOx1 and observed that platelet factor 4 (PF4) contacted Ad26 less frequently than ChAdOx1. But further studies are needed with Ad26 before reaching any conclusions, they note. Using heparin “Current clinical guidance from the World Health Organization advises against the use of heparin in the treatment of TTS. Although our data suggest that heparin may inhibit the proposed interaction between ChAdOx1 and PF4, it does not provide any insights as to the effect of heparin on patients after they develop symptoms or its behaviour in the wider biological context. Therefore, it is important to continue to adhere to current clinical guidance pending further studies on the role of heparin in TTS,” they write. “With a better understanding of the mechanism by which PF4 and adenoviruses interact there is an opportunity to engineer the shell of the vaccine, the capsid, to prevent this interaction with PF4. Modifying ChAdOx1 to reduce the negative charge may reduce the chance of causing thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome,” Dr. Alexander T. Baker from Arizona University says in the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/study-finds-mechanism-of-blood-clots-after-giving-oxford-vaccine/article37848247.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Bees from Asia||Where did western honey bees come from? Research led by York University has shown that a species of honey-producing bee called the western honey bee (Apis mellifera) most likely originated in Asia, settling the hotly debated topic for decades. Until recently, it was believed that these bees had originated in Africa. The study (Science Advances) found that the western honey bees expanded independently from Asia into Africa and Europe creating seven separate geographically and genetically distinct evolutionary lineages traceable back to Western Asia, a York University release says. The research team sequenced 251 genomes from 18 subspecies from the honey bee’s native range and reconstructed the origin and pattern of dispersal of honey bees. The team found that an Asian origin – likely Western Asia – was strongly supported by genetics. The study highlights several “hot spots” in the bee genome that allowed honey bees to adapt to new geographic areas. While the bee genome has more than 12,000 genes, only 145 of them had repeated signatures of adaptation associated with the formation of all major honey bee lineages found today, the release says. The sequencing of these bees also led to the discovery of two distinct lineages, one in Egypt and another in Madagascar. The researchers hope their study finally lays to the rest the question of where the western honey bee came from so future research can further explore how they adapted to different climates and geographic areas. The western honey bee is used for crop pollination and honey production throughout most of the world, and has a remarkable capacity for surviving in vastly different environments – from tropical rainforest, to arid environments, to temperate regions with cold winters. It is native to Africa, Europe and Asia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/bees-from-asia/article37848248.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||When can an individual get statutory bail?||The story so far: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has approached the Supreme Court against a Bombay High Court order granting bail to advocate and activist Sudha Bharadwaj. In its bail order, the court has asked the NIA Court to decide the conditions for her release on December 8. While she was given ‘default bail’, eight others were denied the benefit in the same case. The case highlights the nuances involved in a court determining the circumstances in which statutory bail is granted or denied, even though it is generally considered “an indefeasible right”. What is default bail? Also known as statutory bail, this is a right to bail that accrues when the police fail to complete investigation within a specified period in respect of a person in judicial custody. This is enshrined in Section 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure where it is not possible for the police to complete an investigation in 24 hours, the police produce the suspect in court and seek orders for either police or judicial custody. This section concerns the total period up to which a person may be remanded in custody prior to filing of charge sheet. For most offences, the police have 60 days to complete the investigation and file a final report before the court. However, where the offence attracts death sentence or life imprisonment, or a jail term of not less than 10 years, the period available is 90 days. In other words, a magistrate cannot authorise a person’s judicial remand beyond the 60-or 90-day limit. At the end of this period, if the investigation is not complete, the court shall release the person “if he is prepared to and does furnish bail”. How does the provision vary for special laws? The 60- or 90-day limit is only for ordinary penal law. Special enactments allow greater latitude to the police for completing the probe. In the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, the period is 180 days. However, in cases involving substances in commercial quantity, the period may be extended up to one year. This extension beyond 180 days can be granted only on a report by the Public Prosecutor indicating the progress made in the investigation and giving reasons to keep the accused in continued detention.   In the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the default limit is 90 days only. The court may grant an extension of another 90 days, if it is satisfied with a report by the Public Prosecutor showing the progress made in the investigation and giving reasons to keep the accused in further custody. These provisions show that the extension of time is not automatic but requires a judicial order. What are the laid-down principles on this aspect? Default or statutory bail is a right, regardless of the nature of the crime. The stipulated period within which the charge sheet has to be filed begins from the day the accused is remanded for the first time. It includes days undergone in both police and judicial custody, but not days spent in house-arrest. A requirement for the grant of statutory bail is that the right should be claimed by the person in custody. If the charge sheet is not filed within the stipulated period, but there is no application for bail under Section 167(2), there is no automatic bail. In general, the right to bail on the investigation agency’s default is considered an ‘indefeasible right’, but it should be availed of at the appropriate time. What happened in Sudha Bharadwaj’s case? In the Bhima Koregaon case, which is under UAPA, the prosecution got the 90-day limit extended to 180 days. Ms. Bharadwaj completed 90 days in prison in January 2019, but the charge sheet was filed only in February. Meanwhile, she had applied for default bail on the ground that the extension given by a Sessions Court earlier was without jurisdiction. The court agreed that only a Special Court could have authorised the extension beyond 90 days. Therefore, she was entitled to statutory bail. However, eight others, who had argued that the court order taking cognisance of the charge sheet was defective, but did not specifically seek default bail, were not given the same relief.  A crucial requirement principle for grant of statutory bail is that the right should be claimed by the person in custody||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/when-can-an-individual-get-statutory-bail/article37848178.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Detecting Omicron||The story so far: The Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus has been confirmed in India and in at least 30 other countries by the World Health Organization (WHO). While the variant can only be reliably confirmed with genome sequencing, the WHO has also recommended that certain commonly used COVID-19 detection tests, with ‘S-gene dropout’ capabilities, can be used to quickly screen for an Omicron infection. What is the S-gene drop out? Tests usually look for three target genes related to parts of the virus: S (spike), N2 (nucleocapsid or inner area) and E (envelope or outer shell). The S-gene refers to the gene that codes for the spike protein, or the most distinctive part of the coronavirus. The SARS-CoV-2, like many other coronaviruses, has key protein-regions that define its structure: The envelope protein (E), thenucleocapsid protein(N), the membrane protein (M) and the spike protein (S). To accurately identify the virus, diagnostic tests are made that can identify characteristic genes that make these proteins. To maintain the balance between cost, turn-around time and efficiency, makers of diagnostic kits usually target 1-3 genes on these regions. The SARS-CoV-2 virus incidentally has one of the largest genomes in the coronavirus family. One popular kit, called the TaqPath COVID-19 assays, identifies three gene targets from three regions one of which is the S region to confirm or rule out the presence of the coronavirus. Some versions of the coronavirus, notably B.1.1.7, known as the Alpha variant, and the Omicron variant (B.1.1.529), have characteristic amino acids missing on the S protein. Amino acids are the building blocks of protein. When tests designed to look for the ‘S’ gene encounter these coronaviruses with the missing amino acids, they show up as negative for the S gene and this is called the S Gene Targeted Failure or popularly S-gene drop out. Despite the negative ‘S’, the test will return positive in case of the presence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus because the genes on the ‘E’ and ‘N’ will likely signal a match. Some parts of the coronavirus are more conserved, or don’t change too much, and make for more reliable test targets. The spike protein can change a lot—the coronavirus is continually evolving, trying to adapt to antibodies created from vaccines or prior infections—and tests too must keep changing to find appropriate targets. How is this useful in the case of Omicron? On November 26, the WHO declared Omicron as a variant of concern, practically the highest level of risk that it attributes to specific variants. It noted that several labs from around the world indicated that for “one widely used PCR test”, one of the three target genes is not detected and this therefore could be used as a marker for this variant, pending sequencing confirmation. Using this approach, this variant had been detected at faster rates than previous surges in infection, suggesting that this variant may have a growth advantage. The WHO appeared to be referencing the TaqPath test but this by no means is the most widely used test in India. A challenge with RT-PCR tests is that companies often don’t reveal what primers, or chemical tools, they employ to look for specific viral genes. Therefore, it is hard to determine which test is best for certain variants and which can fail. “The TaqPath is one of the few that looks for three genes whereas India’s official rules are that they must only be equipped to detect at least two,” said a genome scientist, who declined to be identified. “Their test is a useful surrogate and a quick fix. Other variants and mutations can also cause a dropout and it is possible that the TaqPath doesn’t pick it up.” If a person manifests symptoms and is returning positive on a RT-PCR test, that also returns negative on the S gene, then it’s a sign that the sample ought to be sent for a genome scan. India only scans a small percentage of positive samples to ascertain genomes and so a test that throws up intriguing results such as an S-gene dropout, may be prioritised for a more thorough genome scan. What is the most reliable way to check for the new variant? The Union Health Ministry has stated that all of the standardised RT-PCR tests coupled with genome sequencing are effective at detecting Omicron. While factors such as clinical symptoms and viral loads help in determining the virus, a variant can only be confirmed by genome sequencing which means waiting for a day or even weeks depending on available facilities.  India only scans a small percentage of positive samples to ascertain genomes and so a test that throws up intriguing results such as an S-gene dropout, may be prioritised for a more thorough genome scan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/detecting-omicron/article37848180.ece
05 December 2021||December 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Fruits of labour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fruits-of-labour/article37848329.ece
