06 December 2021||Guwahati/ New Delhi,||Army operation in Nagaland goes awry, 15 civilians dead||At least 15 civilians and one soldier were killed in a botched operation by the Army in Mon district of Nagaland on Saturday and retaliatory violence over 24 hours, prompting the State Government and the Army to order an investigation. Unconfirmed reports put the civilian death toll at 17. Around 5 p.m. on Saturday, a special unit of the Army mistakenly opened fire at a pick-up van carrying coal miners from the Tiru area to their village Oting about 15 km away, killing six on board. Seven more civilians and a soldier died when people, alarmed by the gunshots and the death of their fellow villagers, clashed with the troops with machetes and sticks about an hour later. Several civilians and soldiers were injured. Two villagers have been missing since the incident. At least two vehicles of the Army Special unit were set on fire. Following the incident, protests erupted across Nagaland on Sunday with a mob of about 500 men attacking and vandalising a camp of the paramilitary Assam Rifles in district headquarters Mon. At least two persons were killed during the attack, a police official said. The Army’s 3 Corps based near Dimapur town in the State admitted to an intelligence failure with a statement of regret. It said a specific operation was planned to be conducted in the area of Tiru based on credible intelligence of the likely movement of insurgents. “The incident and its aftermath are deeply regretted. The cause of the unfortunate loss of lives is being investigated at the highest level and appropriate action will be taken as per the course of law,” the statement said. It also said the security forces suffered severe injuries in the incident and confirmed the jawan’s death. District officials said four civilians injured during Saturday’s violence were admitted to a hospital in Mon, while two were taken to the Assam Medical College and Hospital in Dibrugarh. Local tribal organisations claimed 11 villagers were injured, and feared the two who went missing were dead. Soon after the violence in Mon, ban orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure were imposed in the district to prevent gatherings and restricting the movement of vehicles barring those carrying essential items from Sunday. The State Government also suspended mobile Internet and data services and bulk SMS in the entire district. CM, Shah condole Union Home Minister Amit Shah said he was “anguished” by the ambush blunder, and promised to investigate the incident by a high-level special investigation team and ensure justice to the bereaved families. Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio, who was in Delhi, condemned the incident before returning to Nagaland. He chaired a Cabinet meeting in the State capital, Kohima, in the evening. The Chief Minister’s Office said he would visit Mon on Monday to attend the funeral of the civilians killed. Organisations such as the Naga Hoho, the apex Naga tribal body and the Naga Mothers’ Association condemned the incident. The Naga Students’ Federation unfurled its flag at half-mast to protest the killings. The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, the key player in the Naga peace talks, described it as a “black day” for the Nagas. “It is learned the killing was the work of the trigger-happy 21st Para Commandos/Assam Rifles. The Nagas had in the past faced trigger-happy Indian security forces, acting with impunity under the Government of India’s AFSPA which is mainly used against the Naga political movement,” the outfit said in a statement. An Army officer said there was specific input of the movement of NSCN (K-YA) cadres in a vehicle of specific colour and type following which the Tiru-Oting area was cordoned off. The coal miners approached in a similar vehicle and “did not cooperate” when asked to stop, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/16-dead-after-armys-nagaland-ambush/article37860039.ece
06 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Report recommends promoting estuarine, riverine tourism in State||A report, “Rapid Assessment of Blue Economy Potential in Karnataka”, prepared by the College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, under contract to the World Bank, has recommended to the government to tap the potential of estuarine and riverine tourism in the State for the socio-economic development of adjoining communities. The report released recently said that the State has not made any serious inroads to tap the enormous potential that the sector offers. Estuaries are bodies of water where rivers meet the sea. Rivers spread out and slow down when they meet the sea, creating unique variations and conditions that help a plethora of creatures thrive in that setting. Estuaries are often called the “nurseries of the sea” because many marine animals reproduce and spend the early part of their lives there. As the tide rises and falls, water depth and chemistry changes, creating a wide range of habitats. Each estuary displays unique beauty and attracts many visitors to them. There are abundant opportunities to improve the tourism potential in the scenic rivers and estuaries. Activities such as boat rides, canoeing, kayaking, sport fishing can be promoted in them. House boats, floating restaurants and cruise tours also hold tremendous potential to create livelihood opportunities and usher in socio-economic development, it said. The presence of home stays, resorts as well as petty shops, restaurants, shops selling souvenirs, handmade crafts, homemade delicacies and other businesses that can create livelihood opportunities and additional income to coastal communities should be prioritised. Strong marketing strategies and policy initiatives are essential to boost the tourism potential, the report said. It said that the State needs to pursue and promote sustainable river tourism in line with the Kerala model/strategy to attract tourists at the national and international levels. The nearly 1,500 houseboats in Kerala employ 4,300 people. The Kerala Government provides free potable water and subsidy for electricity to support the house boating sector. It has also come up with schemes such as one-time financial assistance to houseboat owners for maintenance of houseboats that were idle due to the pandemic. “The State Government must encourage houseboat businesses and attract more investment in this sector by providing subsidies for running costs rather than for the initial investment, provide good infrastructure support (jetties and dredging of channels) and guidance/publicity support through strategic marketing initiatives,” the report said. This will create a lot of alternative livelihoods to communities and indirect employment for the youth in the hospitality segment, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/report-recommends-promoting-estuarine-riverine-tourism-in-state/article37860446.ece
06 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Wall at children’s park at RK Beach caves in||The parapet wall of the children’s park at RK Beach collapsed partially and the soil developed big cracks along the wall. The partial collapse of the wall, that occurred during the early hours of Sunday, is believed to be due to sand erosion. The lawn and walking track in the park have also developed cracks and a few cement benches in the park suffered damage. The police cordoned off the park and service road adjacent to the main Beach Road by erecting barricades to prevent the entry of visitors and tourists in view of the danger. The park is located right on the beach at a height of about 10-foot from the sand. The erosion is said to have been caused by tidal waves due to cyclone Jawad. “Erosion is common this season. But this particular event is associated with the tidal action due to the cyclonic weather. During this season, one side sand erosion takes place and at some other place, sand deposition takes place. When erosion took place near the Kursura Submarine Museum during the International Fleet Review (IFR), deposition had occurred near Rushikonda,” G.P.S. Murty, Chief Scientist and Scientist-in-Charge of National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), Visakhapatnam, told The Hindu . “This kind of activity is common during this season and there is no cause for worry. It remains to be seen where sand deposition has occurred,” Mr. Murty added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wall-at-vizag-beach-park-caves-in/article37860498.ece
06 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Sultan Battery now beckons tourists as ASI completes conservation works||The Sultan Battery watchtower in Boloor on the banks of the Phalguni (Gurupura) now beckons tourists and denizens of Mangaluru as the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has completed conservation works. Said to have been built by Tipu Sultan in 1784 as a watchtower, dockyard and ammunition storage, the Battery was rendered in bad shape due to nature’s vagaries as well as “assault” by tourists and visitors. While its external wall was covered with vegetation, walls atop the monument were smeared with graffiti by tourists. An iron fence too came to be erected around the monument last year, reportedly by WAPCOS, earlier known as Water and Power Consultancy Ltd., an undertaking of the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti. ASI officials told The Hindu that the conservation work that started in August lasted till October-end, interrupted by rain occasionally. Concrete lining was provided to cover the cracks on the top of the monument to arrest rainwater seepage. Similarly, graffiti on the inside of the walls were removed and lime-wash was given to the walls, the officials said. The ASI also got vegetation covering the external wall removed, administered lime-plastering to cover cracks and also gave lime-wash to the walls. The hitherto inaccessible rear side of the monument was made accessible to visitors by clearing vegetation and laying stone slabs, the officials said. As far as iron fencing was concerned, ASI brought the public displeasure over the structure to the notice of WAPCOS and efforts are on to get it removed. The fence did not gel with the structure that was built of black and laterite stones, the officials said. Soon, ASI will erect boards displaying information about the monument, they added. Hundreds of tourists as well as residents of the city visit Boloor every day and their numbers swell during weekends. The ferry point next to Sultan Battery connecting the famous Tannirbhavi Beach with the city also attracts a large number of people. The Boloor Mogaveera Mahasabha that manages the ferry line has built a small park and children’s play area near the jetty that also attract people. The Fisheries Department has constructed a dockyard for mechanised fishing vessels next to the ferry line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sultan-battery-now-beckons-tourists-as-asi-completes-conservation-works/article37860449.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘COVID cases could surge from mid-Jan’||The upcoming year may not start on a good note as another surge in COVID-19 cases is anticipated by Health authorities. However, complete restriction on movement of people is unlikely . “According to our estimates, cases in our State or country would increase from January 15, and might peak in February,” said Telangana’s Director of Public Health Dr G. Srinivasa Rao at a press conference here on Sunday. Whenever a new variant spreads in India or other countries, analysis is taken up to draw an estimate of how fast the new variant would spread, when it can enter our State, its severity and other aspects. On multiple occasions, the senior health official said that Omicron spreads six times faster than Delta. However, officials from the Health department have sounded hopeful, citing reports from South Africa which stated that patients with Omicron did not develop severe form of COVID-19, or die from the infectious disease. When asked if there would be any containment measures, Dr Rao ruled out the possibility of lockdown regardless of the situation in the coming days. Measures taken by the Health department, precautions to be maintained by people were cited as tools to combat the virus. Effect on livelihoods of people, impact on financial situation were cited while ruling out restrictions on movement.At the press conference, the senior health official has said that it shouldn’t be surprising if the new variant (Omicron) is detected in Hyderabad in the coming days. Since it takes a few weeks for the effect of vaccines to kick in, people were urged to take the jabs to gain protection from coronavirus. New variants are seen where vaccine coverage is less. Usage of masks too was insisted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-cases-could-surge-from-mid-jan-peak-in-feb/article37860314.ece
06 December 2021||Bengaluru,||International tourism takes a beating amidst Omicron scare||It was among the sectors that took one of the hardest beatings with the onset of the pandemic, and also one that bounced back with equal rigour, thanks to what was termed ‘revenge tourism’. But like it happened with the vicious second wave of COVID-19 infections, a new variant is already affecting tourism, and specifically, international tourism. Global tour operators, who were banking on the holiday season, are witnessing cancellations to foreign destinations amidst the Omicron scare. Sanjar Imam from the Karnataka Tourism Forum told The Hindu that though domestic tourism is not yet affected, the Omicron strain of the coronavirus is having a definite impact on international travel. “We have had some cancellations for South Africa particularly. International travel had just picked up, but now people are seeing even Europe as too much of a risk. Further, they are also avoiding travel to other African countries such as Kenya, Botswana, Tanzania and Egypt,” he said. In-bound travel too The owner of an international travel agency, who requested anonymity, said it was not just outbound; inbound tourism, too, has been affected. “We are seeing cancellations in inbound bookings from the US now. Even from other places, there is definitely a worry because of new rules being put in place in India. Many are postponing trips to next year. In fact, even parents whose children are studying abroad and want to return for the holidays are reconsidering because they are scared that borders may be shut again,” she said. The travel industry, especially international tourism, was just recovering from the pandemic, she said. “We had clients asking about destinations such as the Netherlands for January. But countries have begun shutting borders. Earlier, we would have said yes. But now there is too much uncertainty. A corporate meet in Switzerland was recently pushed to May 2022 after they initially started banning participants from at-risk countries. Travel to Europe and the UK is out of the question now,” she added. December is among the peak travel seasons. But enquiries, operators say, have dried up. The silver lining, they say, is Maldives, which appears to have become the go-to destination for anyone who can afford it. “There is a lot of traffic to Maldives. Hotels are almost full and no one is cancelling. The other destination seeing some amount of traffic is Sri Lanka. Dubai, which is usually popular, is affected due to high airfares, so people are thinking twice,” said another tour operator. When contacted, South African Tourism, while not acknowledging the impact of the new variant, said, “We are cognizant of the new COVID-19 variant Omicron (B.1.1.529) identified in South Africa, and applaud the diligence and swiftness of local scientists who quickly discovered the variant through collaborative efforts. We have complete confidence in the country’s health sector, which has demonstrated resilience, competence and exceptional expertise since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020.” However, they maintained that the country is open to tourism: “At present, South African borders continue to remain open and the destination is ready to welcome leisure tourists and business events delegates from all over the world. We assure travellers that the safety of South African residents and all visitors to the country continues to remain of the utmost importance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/international-tourism-takes-a-beating-amidst-omicron-scare/article37860072.ece
06 December 2021||KANNUR,||UDF official panel wins Mambaram hospital polls||The United Democratic Front (UDF) has swept the Mambaram Indira Gandhi Hospital Cooperative Society by winning all 12 seats to which elections were held on Sunday. In the elections, held under tight security, the UDF panel won a majority of 1,700 votes polled for the director board. K.P. Saju, Kandoth Gopi, K. Shuhaib, C.G. Arun, C.K. Dileepan, Mithun Maroli, N. Muhammad, Sushil Chandroth, T.P. Vasantha, A.V. Shailaja, Meera Surendran (women reservation) and Manoj Aniyarath (SC) were elected. One person was elected earlier to represent the staff on the 12-member director board. The elections gained attention when chairman of the hospital Mambaram Divakaran, who was expelled from the Congress for violating the party code of conduct, had fielded a 12-member panel against the official panel of the District Congress Committee (DCC). The polls were held under tight police security following a complaint by Mr. Divakaran that Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran would sabotage the polls by fielding goons. Voting took place at the Mambaram Indira Gandhi Public School. Voting was scheduled from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., but continued until 6.30 p.m. Victory for Sudhakaran The elections turned out to be a major political victory for Mr. Sudhakaran as Mr. Divakaran stepped down as head of the hospital after 30 years. From Sunday morning, the UDF had been conducting a rigorous campaign. Activists had reached Mambaram as far from Payyanur. K.C. Mohammad Faisal, DCC organising secretary, said Mr. Divakaran was trying to protect his personal interests above the party and that the Congress was against it. Party’s drive The party had removed the Taliparamba Cooperative Bank president Kallingal Padmanabhan and now Mr. Divakaran as part of the party's drive to control the cooperatives. Earlier, a clash broke out between the faction supporting Mr. Sudhakaran and the faction led by Mr. Divakaran. The police had to intervene to quell the violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/udf-official-panel-wins-mambaram-hospital-polls/article37860358.ece
06 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Breathalyser tests back in city after almost two years||Drivers will again be stopped at random and asked to take breath alcohol tests across the city, with the traffic police resuming drunken driving checks after a gap of 20 months. For the past five days, police teams have been conducting enforcement drives at various places, flagging down drivers and asking them to blow air into a ‘breathalyser’, which determines the level of alcohol in one’s blood. The tests were stopped in March 2020 after the outbreak of the COVID-19 in order to avoid the risk of transmission of the virus. While the COVID-19 scare is yet to fully subside, police officials said they were forced to resume the tests in order to crack down on the rising menace of drunken driving. “Taking advantage of the suspension of breathalyser tests, many motorists began driving after downing one too many pegs. There were several accidents reported in the city limits due to drunken driving,” a police official said. Additional DCDP (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana said several areas like Kancharapalem and PM Palem were witnessing accidents due to drunken driving. “In November alone, the city reported four deaths due to road accidents which occurred as a result of driving under the influence of alcohol. Last month, two youths had died at PM Palem, while they were returning home in an inebriated condition,” he said, appealing to motorists not to indulge in drunken driving which is an offence punishable by imprisonment of up to six months and a fine of Rs. 10,000. Mr. Adinarayana said the police teams are taking all precautions such as wearing face masks and gloves and using hand sanitisers while conducting the tests. “We do not check each and every vehicle. We only check those we find are being driven in a suspicious manner,” he added. Traffic police teams have been conducting checks from November 30, and since then they have booked 183 drunken driving cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/breathalyser-tests-back-in-city-after-almost-two-years/article37860578.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Bihar, Kerala update COVID-19 death toll||India saw a single-day rise of COVID-19 fatalities by 2,796 with Bihar and Kerala updating their COVID-19 data, pushing the national death toll to 4,73,326, according to Union Health Ministry data on Sunday. India’s total tally of COVID-19 cases has increased to 3,46,33,255, the data updated at 8 a.m. showed. India had recorded a single-day rise of 3,998 fatalities on July 21 after Maharashtra carried out the 14th reconciliation exercise of its COVID-19 data. As for a high 2,796 fatalities, the Union Health Ministry said, 2,426 reconciled deaths by Bihar were adjusted in Sunday’s data. Kerala also cleared a backlog of 263 deaths. Hence, the nation’s death tally is showing a spike. The daily rise in infections has remained below 50,000 for 161 consecutive days now. The active cases stand at 99,155, comprising 0.29% of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.35%, the Health Ministry said. A decrease of 819 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.73%. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 62 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.80%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihar-kerala-update-covid-19-death-toll/article37860032.ece
06 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR/kolkata,||Odisha bears brunt of Jawad rain||Heavy rain lashed coastal Odisha submerging harvest-ready crops of vast hectares of land as Cyclone Jawad weakened into a depression on Sunday. While coastal areas of West Bengal, including Kolkata, witnessed incessant rain, no major damage was reported. “The deep depression, remnant of cyclonic storm Jawad is likely to continue to move north-northeastwards, along Odisha coast towards West Bengal coast and weaken into a well-marked low-pressure area during next 12 hours,” the India Meteorological Centre (IMD) said. The port town of Paradip recorded 109 mm of rainfall from 2.30 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. Since 8.30 a.m., the city received 201 mm. Ersama, close to Paradip, recorded 188 mm. Balikuda, Kujanga and Nuagaon recorded 130 mm, 114 mm and 123 mm, respectively. The IMD issued an orange warning for Puri, Khordha, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapada, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, and Mayurbhanj in Odisha for Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-bears-brunt-of-jawad-rain/article37860191.ece
06 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,||Thirty-nine medical students test positive||Around 39 medical students of Chalmeda Anand Rao Institute of Medical Sciences (CAIMS) at Bommakal in Karimnagar rural mandal have tested positive for COVID-19, apparently following the college’s annual day fest held on the college premises over a week ago. Some staff members of the college have also reportedly tested positive for coronavirus. According to sources, at least 13 medical students were diagnosed with COVID-19 on Saturday when coronavirus tests were performed on them after they exhibited symptoms of the infection. Another 26 students tested positive for coronavirus in the tests conducted for the second consecutive day on Sunday, taking the total infection count to 39. Following this, the college management declared holidays and expedited efforts to ensure COVID-19 testing for all its students, faculty and other staff members, sources added. The entire premises of the medical college including the hostel complex and 1,000-bedded teaching hospital have been sanitised as a safety precaution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/thirty-nine-medical-students-test-positive/article37860315.ece
06 December 2021||Belagavi,||Over a 1,000 take part in Half Marathon||The College of Physical Education Playground was full of activity at day break in Belagavi on Sunday. Over a 1,000 people, young and old and men and women, participated in the fourth edition of the Belagavi Half Marathon. They included many first-time runners. Over a third of the participants were women. Runners Arun Malavi, Mridula Halgekar, Vinayak Jambotkar, Clefa Dias, George Thomas and Pritiva Lobo won the first prize in various categories. The other winners were Shahaji Kirulkar, Megh Shivalkar, Pranali Jadhav, Nur Aqilah Zulkarnain, Kartik N.G., Dhiren Vaity, Vandana Gavade, Shanthi Baliga, Jagadish Reddy, Swaminathan Balakrishnan, Durga Sil and Deepa Tendulkar. YouTooCanRun, a marathon event management agency, was the management partners of the Belagavi Half Marathon. It was a charitable initiative by Lakeview Foundation and Rotary Club of Venugram. The unique feature was that it was certified by the international body of AIMS (Association of International Marathons and Distance Races). The event had three distance categories of 21 km Half Marathon, 10 km and 5 km runs. Major General P.S. Bajwa and Colonel Manoj Sharma of the Maratha Light Infantry Regimental Centre and Inspector-General of Police N. Satish Kumar flagged off the different categories of runs. All COVID-19 protocols were followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-a-1000-take-part-in-half-marathon/article37860293.ece
06 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Asilmetta underpass off-limits for bikers||The traffic police on Sunday issued orders barring the entry of two-wheelers through the underpass at Asilmetta Junction in the city from Sunday. The decision was taken as several two-wheeler road accidents are being reported on the underpass. On November 2, a 45-year old man from Maddilapalem died in an accident on the underpass. Two-wheeler riders now have to use only the service roads on either side instead of going through the underpass. Police sources said that a combination of faulty median construction, poor lighting inside the underpass and bad road conditions, several accidents are being reported on the underpass. Moreover, a number of motorists and APSRTC bus drivers were found to be driving at a high speed on the underpass, sources added. Though the police have made temporary arrangements by placing medians, the speed limit is not being checked. ADCP Ch. Adinarayana said two constables have been posted at both sides of the underpass to prevent the entry of two-wheelers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/asilmetta-underpass-off-limits-for-bikers/article37860579.ece
06 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Apartment associations seek advisory||A day after the Chief Minister announced that apartments should only allow entry to guests who are fully vaccinated, most associations on Sunday said they would implement it only after the State Government or the BBMP issued an advisory. Many pointed out that they could not stop unvaccinated or partially vaccinated residents from entering their own homes, while others said enforcement should not be the responsibility of associations. The Bangalore Apartments’ Federation described it as a knee-jerk reaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/apartment-associations-seek-advisory/article37860078.ece
06 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi reports first case of Omicron||The Capital recorded its first case of Omicron on Sunday after a 37-year-old fully vaccinated man who arrived from Tanzania tested positive for the new variant of the coronavirus. Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain said the patient has been admitted to Lok Nayak (LNJP) Hospital. Sixteen more cases of Omicron were reported across the country during the day, taking the total number of cases to 21. According to health officials, the patient in Delhi had a sore throat, weakness and body ache. His travel history is being collated and his contacts are being traced. Mr. Jain said the Delhi Government was testing all passengers arriving from the affected countries. “So far, 17 corona positive cases have been found and all these patients have been admitted to LNJP Hospital,” the Minister said. So far, genome sequencing of 12 patients has been completed. In Delhi, all international travellers who have tested positive for COVID-19 are being admitted to LNJP Hospital, where a dedicated ward has been set up for isolating and treating them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-reports-first-case-of-omicron/article37860190.ece
06 December 2021||IDUKKI,||T.N. opens 9 shutters of Mullaperiyar||Tamil Nadu opened nine spillway shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam releasing 7,341.06 cusecs of water to the Periyar by 6 p.m. on Sunday. There was heavy rainfall in the Chokkenpetty forest area in the afternoon resulting in increased inflow. Though water level was 141.95 ft at 4 p.m., considering the chances of it reaching the upper rule curve level of 142 ft, it was decided to open more spillway shutters. At Idukki dam The water level fell to 2,400.70 ft (blue alert level) in the Idukki reservoir at 4 p.m. on Sunday. The upper rule curve level is 2,403 ft. A Kerala State Electricity Board dam safety official said the water level was expected to decline further in the coming days. With the water level in a safe position, the annual maintenance works at the Moolamattom power house has begun. The official said the works are expected to be completed within 90 days, ahead of the peak production season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-opens-9-shutters-of-mullaperiyar/article37860377.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Lighting up the sea||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lighting-up-the-sea/article37860580.ece
06 December 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,||Constable injured as gun misfires||A police constable, Y. Srinivas Rao, on guard duty at the Collectorate, suffered a bullet injury when the weapon he was carrying misfired on Sunday. He suffered critical injuries and was rushed to hospital, said Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal. The Krishna district police created a green channel from Machilipatnam to Tadepalli near Vijayawada, to rush him to a private hospital, where he underwent a surgery. “The incident occurred when Mr. Srinivas was cleaning his weapon. A bullet pierced his chest. His condition is serious,” Mr. Siddharth said and directed officers to ensure proper treatment to him. Meanwhile, following the directions of Mr. Siddharth, the Machilipatnam police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/constable-injured-as-gun-misfires/article37860581.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Talk of 2024 leadership premature’||Days after Trinamool Congress chief and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee spoke about forming a front of regional parties, Congress leader Anand Sharma on Sunday said a non-BJP Government was not possible without the Congress being a part. Mr. Sharma, a member of the Congress’s group of 23 leaders seeking party reforms, said any talk of leadership in 2024 at this stage was “premature and speculative”. Priority for any political party should be “how to defeat BJP”, Mr. Sharma told The Hindu in an interview. “You cannot put the post-electoral menu of 2024 on the table in 2021. For any non-BJP Government, the Congress remains central and without Congress, such a thing is just not possible. We can’t say that Congress alone can do it but nobody should say that we can do it without the Congress,” Mr. Sharma said. He said that parties had differences with regard to leadership of individuals. “We may speak in different voices, can express our strong disagreement with an approach or have our own observations on leadership but personal bitterness must never be injected,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/talk-of-2024-leadership-premature/article37860040.ece
06 December 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,||Constable injured as gun misfires||A police constable, Y. Srinivas Rao, who was on guard duty at the Collectorate, suffered a bullet injury when the carbine weapon which he was carrying misfired on Sunday. He suffered critical injuries and was rushed to the District Government Headquarters Hospital, where the doctors referred him to Vijayawada for better treatment, said Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal. The Krishna district police created a green channel from Machilipatnam to Tadepalli near Vijayawada, to rush him to a private hospital, where he underwent a surgery. The SP spoke with the doctors and enquired about the health condition of the constable. “The incident occurred when Mr. Srinivas was cleaning his weapon. A bullet pierced his chest. His condition is stated to be serious,” Mr. Siddharth said and directed the officers to ensure proper treatment to him. Meanwhile, following the directions of Mr. Siddharth, the Machilipatnam police registered a case on the alleged ‘misfiring’ incident and took up investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/constable-injured-as-gun-misfires/article37860031.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Lighting up the sea||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lighting-up-the-sea/article37860573.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Breathtaking halt||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/breathtaking-halt/article37860074.ece
06 December 2021||ABU DHABI,||SL adviser links Pak. lynching to Taliban takeover||A senior Sri Lankan Government adviser has drawn a link between the lynching of a Sri Lankan national in Pakistan’s Sialkot on Friday to the Taliban’s takeover of Kabul. Rohan Gunaratna was speaking at the Indian Ocean Conference in Abu Dhabi, a regional meeting where countries spoke about the outcome of events in Afghanistan. He added that terrorist groups and religious radical groups across South Asia had been emboldened. At the meeting, Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa called for a regional mechanism to share intelligence and coordinate actions against the threat posed by “religious extremism and terrorism”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sl-adviser-links-pak-lynching-to-taliban-takeover/article37860192.ece
06 December 2021||Jaipur/Mumbai/New Delhi,||17 more Omicron cases detected||India reported 17 more cases of the Omicron variant on Sunday — nine in Jaipur, seven in Pune and a 37-year-old fully vaccinated man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania — taking the country’s tally to 21. Most of them either arrived from African countries or were in contact with such people. page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/17-more-omicron-cases-detected-in-india/article37860033.ece
06 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||One killed in attack on RLD leader’s convoy||One person was killed and five others were injured when the convoy of a Rashtriya Lok Dal leader was attacked by unidentified gunmen in U.P.’s Bulandshahr on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-killed-in-attack-on-rld-leaders-convoy/article37860194.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Sidhu does a Kejriwal, joins teachers’ protest||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu joined the sit-in protest of guest teachers outside Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence in Civil Lines on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sidhu-does-a-kejriwal-joins-teachers-protest/article37860195.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Not floating a new party now: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Amid speculation that Ghulam Nabi Azad could be floating his own party, the senior Congress leader on Sunday said he has no plans for a separate party now but could not say what would happen in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/not-floating-a-new-party-now-ghulam-nabi-azad/article37860196.ece
06 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Airport helps woman||The Mangaluru International Airport walked an extra mile to come to the aid of a family that faced a mid-air health crisis. The Air India Express aircraft in which the family of five were travelling to Sharjah from Kannur made an emergency landing at MIA on December 3 after a woman suffered a cardiac arrest and breathing issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/airport-helps-woman/article37860447.ece
06 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Corpn. stops collecting manual tax returns||Mangaluru City Corporation has now stopped accepting manually filed property tax returns under the Self-Assessment Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/corpn-stops-collecting-manual-tax-returns/article37860452.ece
06 December 2021||BELAGAVI,||Siddaramaiah campaigns||“BJP wants to see only RSS leaders in important positions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is a RSS volunteer,” Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/siddaramaiah-campaigns/article37860291.ece
06 December 2021||bELAGAVI,||There is no proposal to change CM, says Joshi||There is no proposal before the BJP to change the Chief Minister of Karnataka,” Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said in Hubballi on Sunday. He was responding to the recent statement by Minister K.S. Eshwarappa that Murugesh Nirani would “become the Chief Minister one day”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/there-is-no-proposal-to-change-cm-says-joshi/article37860294.ece
06 December 2021||BELAGAVI,||Issues related to GSTN portal, others raised||Principal Chief Commissioner, Central Tax, Bengaluru Zone, Ranjana Jha, met representatives of trade bodies and some professional associations in Belagavi recently. The attendees raised various issues, including those relating to GSTN portal and Section 16(2) of GST Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/issues-related-to-gstn-portal-others-raised/article37860296.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||After RS suspension, Sena MP quits Sansad TV show||Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi, who is among the 12 Rajya Sabha members suspended from the winter session of Parliament, on Sunday resigned from her position as anchor for the Sansad TV showMeri Kahani. She said she was doing so with “deep anguish”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/after-rs-suspension-sena-mp-quits-sansad-tv-show/article37860411.ece
06 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||One killed, four hurt in attack on RLD leader||One person was killed and five others were injured when the convoy of a Rashtriya Lok Dal leader was attacked by unidentified gunmen in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr on Sunday. While party sources said the attack was politically motivated, police said it was the result of a family fued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-killed-four-hurt-in-attack-on-rld-leader/article37860412.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Not floating a new party now: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Amid speculation that Ghulam Nabi Azad could be floating his own party, the senior Congress leader on Sunday said he has no plans for a separate party now but could not say what would happen in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/not-floating-a-new-party-now-ghulam-nabi-azad/article37860414.ece
06 December 2021||Srinagar,||Be ready to emulate farmers’ stir: Farooq||Farooq Abdullah, National Conference president, on Sunday asked party workers “to remain steadfast and be ready for sacrifices on the lines of farmers’ agitation” to get back the rights snatched by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/be-ready-to-emulate-farmers-stir-farooq/article37860413.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Centre reaches out to Naga insurgents||The Union Government has reached out to all Naga insurgent groups, including the Isaak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM), following the killing of 13 civilians in an operation by the armed forces in Mon district of Nagaland on Saturday. A senior Government official told The Hindu that efforts were being made on the ground to assuage the situation. Following the killings, widespread protests have erupted in Nagaland and adjoining areas. The NSCN-IM, the largest Naga group that signed a framework agreement with the Centre in 2015 to find a solution to the Naga political issue, said in a statement on Sunday that it “is one of the most unfortunate incidents of the Indo-Naga ceasefire signed in 1997.” The group in its statement said, “Under this situation we find it difficult to use the right words to condemn the killing of unarmed civilians and it cannot be justified in any manner in this part of the civilised world where the Indo-Naga peace process has seen much progress.” In a parallel development, former interlocutor and Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi left Chennai for Delhi on Sunday apparently to attend an emergency meeting. Mr. Ravi had stepped down as interlocutor and was appointed Governor of Tamil Nadu in September, after talks with the IM faction hit rough weather last year and the group demanded his removal. The talks have been revived after the transfer of Mr. Ravi, with the Centre deputing retired Intelligence Bureau Special Director A.K. Mishra. The NSCN-IM is demanding a separate flag and Constitution. There are four other groups with whom the Centre has signed a ceasefire agreement — the NSCN (NK), NSCN(R), NSCN (K-Khango) and NSCN (Niki Sumi). The official said it was too early to say if the Mon incident will have a bearing on the ongoing talks but they were keeping a watch. Another Government official said the campaign to repeal the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) has also gathered steam. Nagaland has been declared a “disturbed area” by the Union Home Ministry under AFSPA, which empowers security forces to conduct operations anywhere and arrest anyone without prior notice. AFSPA has been in force in the Northeast since 1958 and Nagaland acquired Statehood in 1963.  (With inputs from   B. Kolappan in Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-reaches-out-to-naga-insurgents/article37859837.ece
06 December 2021||Srinagar,||Be ready to emulate farmers’ stir, Farooq tells party workers||National Conference (NC) president and former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir Farooq Abdullah on Sunday asked party workers “to remain steadfast and be ready for sacrifices on the lines of the farmers’ agitation”. “We may also have to offer similar sacrifices [like farmers] to get back those rights snatched from us by the Centre. All of you have to be steadfast,” Dr. Abdullah said. He was speaking at the memorial to Sheikh Muhammad Abdullah, the founder of the party, on his 116th birth anniversary. Dr. Abdullah said the Centre repealed the farm laws due to the sacrifices made by 700 farmers. “NC leaders and workers have to stay connected with people in every village and locality,” Dr. Abdullah said. The former Chief Minister said the resistance shown by the families of three persons killed in the Hyderpora encounter forced the administration to exhume the bodies of two and return them to the families. “The body of the third innocent is yet to be handed over to his family in Ramban,” Dr. Abdullah said. Slams Shah He also questioned Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s comparison between tourism and the return of normalcy in Kashmir. “What does it mean that tourism is picking up in Kashmir. Is tourism everything [to reflect the ground situation],” the NC chief questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/be-ready-to-emulate-farmers-stir-farooq/article37859843.ece
06 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India reports 17 more Omicron cases||With 17 more cases of Omircon being reported across the country — nine persons in Jaipur, seven in Pune and a 37-year-old fully vaccinated man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania — the total number of cases has increased to 21. Most of those who tested positive for the new variant had either recently arrived from African countries or were in contact with such people. With this, four States and the national capital have now reported cases of the potentially more contagious variant. The nine people who tested positive in Jaipur include four members of a family who returned from South Africa recently. “Genome sequencing has confirmed that nine persons are infected with the omicron variant,” Rajasthan Health Secretary Vaibhav Galriya said. The new cases in Maharashtra include a woman who along with her two daughters came from Nigeria, and her brother and a man who returned from Finland in the last week of November, officials said. The number of cases in the State now stands at eight. Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain said the national capital’s first patient has been admitted to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital. The patient had a sore throat, weakness and body ache, according to health officials, who added that the patient’s travel history is being collated and his contacts being traced. Mr. Jain said the Delhi Government is testing all the people coming from the affected countries. “So far, 17 corona positive cases have been found and all these patients have been admitted to LNJP Hospital,” he said. So far, genome sequencing of 12 people has been completed, out of which according to the initial report, one person who came from Tanzania has been confirmed to have the Omicron variant. In Delhi, all COVID-positive international travellers are being admitted to the LNJP Hospital, where a dedicated ward has been set up for isolating and treating them. Mr. Jain said, “People of Delhi should not panic. Omicron is not a new disease but a variant of the coronavirus itself. Its symptoms are also similar to almost all the last variants.” The Minister said the protocol for treatment and prevention is same as before. “Seeing the cases of corona decreasing, people were not following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour but now is the time when you need to be more careful. People who have not yet taken the vaccine should get vaccinated as soon as possible,” he said. On the Centre's decision not to halt flights from all countries affected by the Omicron variant, Mr. Jain said, “It is very unfortunate. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had written a letter to the Centre and appealed to stop the flights coming from these countries for some time. But the Central Government did not do so”. He further added that “Delhi receives the maximum number of flights from abroad, so Delhi is most at risk from this... flights coming from all the countries affected by the Omicron variant should be banned at the earliest.” Mild symptoms In Maharashtra, the Indian- origin woman from Nigeria has mild symptoms and other five have no symptoms at all. Out of the six people, three are under 18 years of age and therefore, have not taken any vaccine. The three adults have taken both doses of vaccine. All these patients are being treated at the Jijamata Hospital in Pimpri-Chinchwad and are stable. Meanwhile, 28,221 international passengers have arrived at Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur airports since December 1, of whom 4,901 were from at-risk countries and underwent RT-PCR testing. Around 543 passengers from other countries were also tested. Nine from at-risk countries have tested positive. Through airport and field surveillance, 30 samples have been sent for genomic sequencing.  (With inputs from   Alok Deshpande and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-reports-17-more-omicron-cases/article37859854.ece
06 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No non-BJP Government is ever possible without the Congress’||As the war of words between the Congress and the Trinamool Congress intensifies, the Deputy Leader of the Congress in the Rajya Sabha, Anand Sharma , says a non-BJP Government can never be formed without the Congress. Asked about the Opposition’s face for the 2024 Lok Sabha election, Mr. Sharma, who is part of the group of 23 leaders seeking internal reforms, says the Congress Working Committee will deliberate on the issue at an appropriate time. Edited excerpts:  Divisions within the Opposition have been the dominant feature in the winter session of Parliament. The Trinamool Congress has refused to be part of any Congress-led initiative in Parliament, and there is a bitter war of words outside Parliament. The Opposition, by and large, has stayed united. It has stood together on issues and also in prioritising what we have to raise in the House. Meetings convened by the Leader of the Opposition (LoP) have been attended by 14 or 15 political parties. So it may not be the right thing to say that the Opposition has split, but yes, it is true that the Trinamool has drifted away. But on issues, all the parties stand together. That is what matters in parliamentary democracy. Whether it is the Congress, the Samajwadi Party (SP) or the Trinamool, we all say the same thing on the same subject. But the Opposition parties are fighting among themselves. Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee has reached out to NCP chief Sharad Pawar, denied the UPA’s existence, and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav has backed her. Electoral politics in a multiparty democracy is a contested space and it is always a dynamic scenario. There have been times when political parties have been together in government or in larger coalitions and have then moved their own respective ways. Political rhetoric and positioning during elections or prior to elections should not be treated as something, stated with finality. In politics, nothing is frozen, nothing is sealed and there has to be inbuilt flexibility. You cannot have a democracy which has only one view, one approach, one party. There are aspirations of the regional parties but the role of the national parties is important. We are in power in Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Punjab and are in coalition with the Shiv Sena and the NCP in Maharashtra, the JMM in Jharkhand. Our alliance is there with the DMK in Tamil Nadu and the United Democratic Front in Kerala. We may speak in different voices, can express our strong disagreement with an approach or have our own observations on leadership, but personal bitterness must never be injected. But leadership is the main issue. Trinamool wants Mamata Banerjee to be the Opposition’s face for the 2024 Lok Sabha election, while many in the Congress believe it should be Rahul Gandhi. Many also argue that senior leaders like Mr. Pawar or Ms. Banerjee will not accept his leadership. Don’t you think that this is a big distraction? Has the Congress brought up the issue of leadership for 2024 at the stage? I feel it is both premature and speculative. The priority at this stage is to look at one clear objective: how to oppose and defeat the BJP. You cannot put the post-electoral menu of 2024 on the table in 2021. For any non-BJP Government, the Congress party remains central and without the Congress, such a thing is just not possible. We can’t say that Congress alone can do it but nobody should say that we can do it without the Congress. Congress has a national footprint and has 20% of the national vote. No doubt, we have lost two national elections [2014, 2019 Lok Sabha poll] and no party or leadership can be comfortable with it. But look at the recent bypolls in Himachal Pradesh, the BJP lost their security deposits on some seats. Elections are presidential in nature these days and people want to know who is the Opposition’s face against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Trinamool says it is Mamata Banerjee. Trinamool has every right to say so, but as a Congressman, I have not been authorised to make that determination. The Congress Working Committee (CWC) and the Congress president will take a call at the appropriate time. What would be the permutations and combinations after the 2024 election cannot be dissected today as things will keep changing and evolving. Election strategist Prashant Kishor too said there is space for the Congress, but leadership is not someone’s divine right if the party loses 90% of the elections in the past 10 years, hitting out at Rahul Gandhi without naming him. The results are also very well recorded with the Election Commission of India and it is really no nuclear science. True, we have lost elections but when he [Mr. Gandhi] was the party president, we won Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and gave the BJP a run for their money in Gujarat. So I am not getting there. Whatever observations I make is after having half a century of experience as a political activist, as an ideologue and as a parliamentarian for long. I do not come from the understanding or perspective of a consultant or strategist. Didn’t the G-23also raise the leadership issue with regard to Mr. Gandhi? That is not a correct perception. We gave suggestions for wide-ranging reforms in the party and also talked about leadership at various levels, right from the District Congress Committees to the Pradesh Congress Committees and to the CWC and the Parliamentary Board. It is purely an internal issue. It would be injustice if reformists are labelled as rebels. That wouldn’t be fair. Mrs. Sonia Gandhi is the Congress president and we have never had a vacancy. The membership drive is on nationally and the CWC has decided on a schedule of elections. Finally, one week of winter session is over, and the Rajya Sabha has been paralysed over the suspension of the 12 Opposition MPs. Are we going to see another washout? The Congress party and all the like-minded parties which are together with us are clear that the session should be productive. This is the only time we can hold the Government to account. The Government will be interested just to rush through its legislative agenda without any parliamentary scrutiny and give no space to the Opposition. The logjam in the House is most unfortunate, and it is the duty of the ruling party/ ruling alliance to ensure that Parliament functions. What happened in the last session should have never happened. We all believe in the dignity of Parliament, which is the highest forum for discussion and debate. But the Government was not willing to allow a discussion on the farm laws and Pegasus. That was the monsoon session and the session was prorogued on August 31 by the Honourable President of India. The winter session of Parliament following the prorogation of the monsoon session is neither an extension nor a continuity. So, I feel strongly that it is a miscarriage of justice.  You cannot put the post electoral menu of 2024 on the table in 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-non-bjp-government-is-ever-possible-without-the-congress/article37859847.ece
06 December 2021||ABU DHABI,||Sri Lankan adviser links Pak. lynching to Taliban takeover||Drawing a link between the lynching of a Sri Lankan national at Sialkot in Pakistan on Friday to the Taliban’s takeover of Kabul, a senior Sri Lankan Government adviser, speaking at a regional conference where countries spoke about the outcome of events in Afghanistan, said that terrorist groups and religious radical groups across South Asia had been emboldened. “The lynching and burning of the Sri Lankan is a clear reflection of the spread of Salafi Wahhabism in the region. And it’s a cancerous ideology that has to be contained, isolated and eliminated,” said Rohan Gunaratna, Director-General of the Sri Lankan military think tank, the Institute of National Security Studies, who accompanied President Gotabaya Rajapaksa to the Indian Ocean Conference in Abu Dhabi, in an interview to The Hindu . Speaking at the conference, Mr. Rajapaksa had called for a regional mechanism to share intelligence and coordinate actions against the threat posed by “religious extremism and terrorism”. State backed militancy The Sri Lankan Government has expressed its outrage over the killing of Sri Lankan national Priyantha Diyawadana, a manager at a factory, who was beaten to death and burnt by a mob that claimed that he had committed “blasphemy” by asking for the removal of posters of radical Islamist group Tehreek-e-Labaik Pakistan (TLP). The Pakistan Government had lifted a ban on the TLP only last month, and taken its leader, Saad Rizvi, off its terrorist list, under pressure from massive public protests. “Since the return of the Taliban on August 15, we are seeing that terrorist organisations have come to power in Afghanistan, which is once again emerging as the epicentre of terrorism, and Afghanistan, maybe a new Syria,” Mr. Gunaratna added, expressing concern that the development had given a fillip to radical Islamist groups in South Asian countries, particularly in Pakistan. On Saturday evening, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar had also alluded to the fallout of events in Afghanistan, that he said, apart from the COVID-19 pandemic, has had the biggest impact on Indian Ocean countries, given “proximity and sociology”. Serious concerns “The American withdrawal from Afghanistan... leaves both the immediate and extended region grappling with serious concerns about terrorism, radicalism, instability, narco-trafficking and governance practices,” Mr. Jaishankar said, in the first such comments that indicated clear differences with the U.S. policy on Afghanistan. In July this year, after meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Mr. Jaishankar had said India and the U.S.’s views on Afghanistan were “quite similar”, and also in October, days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi met U.S. President Joseph Biden, he had said they were on “similar pages” on most issues on Afghanistan, including terrorism. When asked about the comments, a senior U.S. diplomat said that the U.S. does understand the need to keep “partners in the region” close on what happens in Afghanistan. “If we didn’t understand before, we certainly do now,” Jennifer Larson, U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asia, said in response to a question from The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sri-lankan-adviser-links-pak-lynching-to-taliban-takeover/article37860079.ece
06 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Omicron leads to flood of enquiries on booster dose||While Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in the Lok Sabha earlier this week that the Central Government was in no hurry to give the green signal for the booster dose and that it would wait for proper scientific analyses, private hospitals have confirmed that they are flooded with requests for booster dose. Several individuals also confirmed that they were getting the “additional vaccine protection.” “With this new strain Omicron spreading rapidly, there have been a lot of queries related to third dose of the COVID-19 vaccine,” said Dr. Ankita Baidya, consultant-Infectious Disease, HCMCT Manipal Hospital, Dwarka, Delhi. Dr. Baidya added that while about 50% of the eligible population in India had the full vaccine coverage of two doses, hospitals were creating an awareness of the need for getting fully vaccinated. “Right now we must stress complete vaccination. The third dose of vaccine is not required based on the current evidence,” Dr. Baidya said. The doctor, however, said that healthcare workers and frontline workers got their shots early in the course of this vaccination programme in January and February. “Since their exposure is maximum and may grow in the near future we might start the booster dose programme for these groups, but it is not recommended to all other individuals,” Dr. Baidya said. K. Preetam, Medical Superintendent, Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, said that till there was an official green signal, hospitals should avoid giving booster dose. “People should wait for the guideline as this is a dynamic virus and we are still learning about several aspects of this,” he said. “There is no clarity regarding third dose interval,” cautioned Sundari Shrikant, Director Internal Medicine QRG Super Specialty Hospital, Faridabad, stating that they were currently asking people to wait for Government recommendations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-leads-to-flood-of-enquiries-on-booster-dose/article37859856.ece
06 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ruing the loss of a moment on stage||President Ram Nath Kovind’s decision to step down from the stage to hand over awards to wheelchair users during the national awards for the disability sector on December 3 has left some awardees and activists crying foul. The annual awards ceremony, organised by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD) under the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry, was held on the International Day of PwD at the Vigyan Bhawan here. Individuals, institutions, Government departments and States are honoured for their work of empowering PwD at the annual awards. While other PwD awardees were invited on stage to receive their awards from the President, Mr. Kovind walked down from the stage to award the wheelchair users. Para-swimmer Mohammad Shams Aalam Shaikh, who won the award for best sportsperson with disability, said the awardees had gone through several dress rehearsals where a hydraulic lift was used for wheelchairs. “If we can do the dress rehearsals, we can do the final take as well. I’m not blaming the Ministry, but don’t make us feel like we are disabled again,” he said, adding that because of the last-minute change of plans, he was handed over the medal of another awardee. 2003 experience For rights activist and wheelchair user Anjlee Agarwal, who received the national award from the then President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam in 2003 at the Vigyan Bhawan, this year’s ceremony brought back memories of her own experience. She said the wheelchair users were told that the President would walk to them to hand over the awards, but she had insisted on going on the stage. “Two bodyguards assigned to me then pushed my wheelchair up a very steep ramp and I received a standing ovation for breaking the rules. But I wanted equality and the sense of grace and dignity of going up on stage to receive the award. I feel bad for the awardees that they were not given that few moments of dignity that they would have remembered all their lives,” Ms. Agarwal said. She said there was a need to change the mindset and to lead with “actions, not words”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ruing-the-loss-of-a-moment-on-stage/article37859858.ece
06 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR/ kolkata,||Coastal Odisha bears brunt of rain triggered by Jawad||Heavy rain lashed coastal Odisha submerging harvest-ready crops of vast hectares of land as Cyclone Jawad weakened into a depression on Sunday. While coastal areas of West Bengal, including Kolkata, witnessed incessant rain, no major damage was reported. “The deep depression, remnant of cyclonic storm Jawad is likely to continue to move north-north-eastwards, along Odisha coast towards West Bengal coast and weaken into a well-marked low-pressure area during next 12 hours,” the India Meteorological Department said in the evening. The port town of Paradip recorded 109 mm of rainfall in just one hour from 2.30 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. Since 8.30 a.m., the city received a total 201 mm. Ersama, close to Paradip, recorded 188 mm. During the day, Balikuda, Kujanga and Nuagaon recorded 130 mm, 114 mm and 123 mm, respectively. The IMD issued an orange warning for Puri, Khordha, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapada, Jajpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, and Mayurbhanj in Odisha for December 6. The weather office also predicted light to moderate rainfall at most places over North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Kolkata, Hooghly, Murshidabad and Nadia districts and at many places over rest districts of Gangetic West Bengal. Farmers shattered The unseasonal rain shattered the hopes of farmers in coastal Odisha’s Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Balasore districts with little hope of salvaging harvest-ready paddy from the inundated fields. At many places, people also failed to shift harvested paddy from the fields ahead of the storm. In Ganjam, bundles of harvested paddy crop were seen swept away in the swirling waters. “I had taken a Rs. 1 lakh loan this year. As the ripened paddy continues to remain under water, I lost all my hopes to harvest it,” said a devastated Sarada Rout, a farmer of Ersama block in Jagatsinghpur district. The Agriculture Department has warned of ear-head caterpillar infestation after the rain recedes. Farmers were advised to shift harvested paddy to safer place. But, given the amount of rainfall recorded in different coastal districts, farmers said they were not expecting the cropland to get dry in next one week. About 17,000 people have been evacuated from low lying areas of West Bengal so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coastal-odisha-bears-brunt-of-rain-triggered-by-jawad/article37860023.ece
06 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Family donates Morarji’s effects to Museum of PMs||A copy of the Bhagavad Gita, a Parker pen, a Gandhi topi (cap) and a tulsi mala are some of the personal effects of former Prime Minister Morarji Desai that will make their way to the Museum of Prime Ministers set to be inaugurated a few weeks later. The former Prime Minister’s great grandson, national vice-president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, the youth wing of the BJP, has taken on the task of sifting through the memorabilia that will be handed over to the museum authorities. “I was contacted by museum authorities if there were some personal effects and specific photographs, like that of Bapuji’s [Morarji’s] primary school etc. Most of what was connected to him was already sent, according to his wishes, to the Gujarat Vidyapeeth. Thus his Bharat Ratna and the Nishan-e-Pakistan [awarded to Morarji in 1988] are all with the Gujarat Vidyapeeth, we have some personal effects that we have selected, and depending on what the museum wants to display, they will be shared,” said Madhukeshwar Desai, speaking to The Hindu . An ordinary Parker pen that was held dear by the former Prime Minister has an interesting story attached to it. In 1977, an aircraft Morarji was travelling on crashed in Jorhat, and while the five-member crew perished, Morarji and his entourage survived, with the former Prime Minister the least harmed. “He came away with a fractured rib and somehow associated this pen with that escape, as it had been in his pocket near his heart,” said Mr. Madhukeshwar Desai. Other objects that could be sent to the museum include a Bhagavad Gita and a tulsi mala that remained with Morarji till his death in 1995. A Gandhi topi one of several in his collection, has also been kept aside for the museum. Mr. Madhukeshwar Desai has around 14 cartons of only photographs to sift through as well, but is happy that the project is marking the contribution of all Prime Ministers of India. The museum, under the Ministry of Culture, will be 10,975 sq km in size and digital and virtual reality displays will also be there alongside physical display of personal effects and photographs of former Prime Ministers. Space for future Prime Ministers has also been kept aside, while the museum dedicated to the first Prime Minister, Jawahar Lal Nehru, will remain in the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library (New Delhi) premises as before.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/family-donates-morarjis-effects-to-museum-of-pms/article37859830.ece
06 December 2021||ABU DHABI,||Sri Lankan adviser links Pak. lynching to Taliban takeover||Drawing a link between the lynching of a Sri Lankan national at Sialkot in Pakistan on Friday to the Taliban’s takeover of Kabul, a senior Sri Lankan Government adviser, speaking at a regional conference where countries spoke about the outcome of events in Afghanistan, said that terrorist groups and religious radical groups across South Asia had been emboldened. “The lynching and burning of the Sri Lankan is a clear reflection of the spread of Salafi Wahhabism in the region. And it’s a cancerous ideology that has to be contained, isolated and eliminated,” said Rohan Gunaratna, Director-General of the Sri Lankan military think tank, the Institute of National Security Studies, who accompanied President Gotabaya Rajapaksa to the Indian Ocean Conference in Abu Dhabi, in an interview to The Hindu . Speaking at the conference, Mr. Rajapaksa had called for a regional mechanism to share intelligence and coordinate actions against the threat posed by “religious extremism and terrorism”. State backed militancy The Sri Lankan Government has expressed its outrage over the killing of Sri Lankan national Priyantha Diyawadana, a manager at a factory, who was beaten to death and burnt by a mob that claimed that he had committed “blasphemy” by asking for the removal of posters of radical Islamist group Tehreek-e-Labaik Pakistan (TLP). The Pakistan Government had lifted a ban on the TLP only last month, and taken its leader, Saad Rizvi, off its terrorist list, under pressure from massive public protests. “Since the return of the Taliban on August 15, we are seeing that terrorist organisations have come to power in Afghanistan, which is once again emerging as the epicentre of terrorism, and Afghanistan, maybe a new Syria,” Mr. Gunaratna added, expressing concern that the development had given a fillip to radical Islamist groups in South Asian countries, particularly in Pakistan. On Saturday evening, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar had also alluded to the fallout of events in Afghanistan, that he said, apart from the COVID-19 pandemic, has had the biggest impact on Indian Ocean countries, given “proximity and sociology”. Serious concerns “The American withdrawal from Afghanistan... leaves both the immediate and extended region grappling with serious concerns about terrorism, radicalism, instability, narco-trafficking and governance practices,” Mr. Jaishankar said, in the first such comments that indicated clear differences with the U.S. policy on Afghanistan. In July this year, after meeting with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Mr. Jaishankar had said India and the U.S.’s views on Afghanistan were “quite similar”, and also in October, days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi met U.S. President Joseph Biden, he had said they were on “similar pages” on most issues on Afghanistan, including terrorism. When asked about the comments, a senior U.S. diplomat said that the U.S. does understand the need to keep “partners in the region” close on what happens in Afghanistan. “If we didn’t understand before, we certainly do now,” Jennifer Larson, U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asia, said in response to a question from The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sri-lankan-adviser-links-pak-lynching-to-taliban-takeover/article37859834.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Not floating a new party now, says Azad||Amid speculation that Ghulam Nabi Azad could be floating his own party, the senior Congress leader on Sunday said he has no plans for a separate party now but could not say what would happen in the future. Mr. Azad, who is a part of the Congress’s group of 23 leaders that has sought internal reforms in the party (the “G-23”), has been holding public rallies across Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), leading to speculation about floating his own outfit. Stating that he had no such plans for now, he told NDTV, “No one can say what will happen next in politics, like no one knows when he will die.” The veteran Congress leader also said, unlike in the past when divergent views in the party were encouraged, his party does not appreciate such criticism. “No one is challenging the leadership. Perhaps, Indira Gandhi and Rajiv ji had given me too much freedom to question when things were going wrong. They would never mind criticism. They would not see it as offensive. Today, the leadership sees it as offensive,” Mr. Azad was quoted as saying by NDTV. ‘No to nobody’ “When Rajiv ji joined politics, Indira Gandhi called both of us and told Rajiv ji that Ghulam Nabi can even say ‘no’ to me, but that ‘no’ doesn’t mean disobedience or disrespect, that’s for the good of the party. Today, no one is ready to listen to that ‘no’. For saying ‘no’, you become nobody today,” he quipped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/not-floating-a-new-party-now-cant-say-about-future-azad/article37859845.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||After RS suspension, Shiv Sena MP quits Sansad TV show||Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi, who is among the 12 Rajya Sabha members suspended from the winter session of Parliament, on Sunday resigned from her position as anchor for the Sansad TV show Meri Kahani.  Ms. Chaturvedi said she was doing so with “deep anguish”. In a letter to Rajya Sabha Chairperson M. Venkaiah Naidu, Ms. Chaturvedi said, “After my arbitrary suspension, that has totally disgraced established parliamentary norms and rules, to stifle my voice, my party’s voice inside the chamber, I am unwilling to continue taking space on Sansad TV when my primary oath to the Constitution is being denied to me.” “That this suspension also chose to disregard my parliamentary track record and my contribution beyond the call of duty so as to give a platform to women parliamentarians to share their journey, I believe injustice has been done but as it is considered valid in the eyes of the Chair, I must respect it,” she added. The Opposition MPs have been protesting against the suspension, with the 12 members staging a sit-in on Parliament premises. The Opposition parties have appealed to Mr. Naidu to revoke the suspension of the members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-rs-suspension-shiv-sena-mp-quits-sansad-tv-show/article37859840.ece
06 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha historians to study legal records||The Orissa High Court is considering roping in historians to study centuries-old legal records and carry out research on the evolution of the State judiciary. Even as the digitisation of case records and other legal documents is going on at a very fast pace and massive scale, some records are stated to be beyond the scope of digtisation. “There are records which are in such fragile condition that those cannot undergo the process of scanning. Such records are permanently preserved in a separate room called the Fragile Record Room,” said the State Law Department here on Saturday. “Records ageing more than two centuries are preserved there and there is a proposal for consulting historians and facilitating them to study such records and research on the evolution of the State Judiciary,” it said. The work of scanning and digitisation of the legacy records is going on at court's Record Room Digitisation Centre (RRDC) through National Informatics Centre Services Inc. (NICSI). The Orissa High Court was established in 1948. Legacy records (disposed of records) were stored and preserved securely and that accessibility to such records remained convenient and less time consuming for posterity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-historians-to-study-legal-records/article37859852.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,||States told to adopt Delhi Police model||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs has urged the State Governments to follow the crime analytics model of Delhi Police in preventing street crimes against women through crime mapping and identification of hotspots for reinforced action. Communicating this to the Chief Secretaries of the States and Union Territories, the Union Home Ministry said the Crime Mapping Analytics and Productive System and related tools were deployed on the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS). As part of the initiatives to strengthen the capacity to deal with cases of crimes against women, it was recommended that the SOP on registration of FIRs should include guidelines to police to record reasons for delay in reporting of crimes by the complainants to the police. A provision was made for recording this statement in the FIRs on the CCTNS. The States and Union Territories weretold to widely circulate the BPR&D’s handbooks on ‘Women’s Safety & Security’ and ‘First respondents and Investigators’ to police personnel, and include the guidelines in the training modules. In Tamil Nadu, which leads the nation in the concept of all-woman police station, Director-General of Police/Chennai Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal says police were sensitised to the need for taking proactive measures to avert crime against women and children and also to prosecute offenders in such cases expeditiously. “Chennai Police have a woman officer in the rank of a Deputy Commissioner of Police to exclusively deal with crimes against women and children. An analysis of crimes against women by taking into account the nature of offence, hotpots, age vulnerabilities, etc., was done to devise an effective strategy. We have a zero tolerance policy towards such crimes…the number of cases has gone up in the recent past owing to the proactive measures,” Mr. Jiwal said. He said the pattern of crimes against women reported in Delhi could not be compared with that of Chennai.  … the pattern of crimes against women reported in Delhi could not be compared with that of Chennai Shankar JiwalChennai Police Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-told-to-adopt-delhi-police-model/article37859862.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Anti-drone tech for Pak. borders: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said that indigenously made anti-drone technology would soon be available to tackle the challenges faced by drones in areas bordering Pakistan. Mr. Shah was speaking at the 56th Raising Day Parade of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Jaisalmer on Sunday. This is the first time that the Raising Day Parade of the border guarding force has been held outside Delhi. Mr. Shah also invoked the surgical strike operation after the 2016 Uri terror attack and the Balakot air strike post Pulwama attack in 2019 to drive the point that the Government was serious about national security. Director General of Border Guard Bangladesh Shafeenul Islam was among the special invitees present on the occasion. Earlier, BSF Director General Pankaj Kumar Singh had said that this year, at least 67 drones had been sighted along the Pakistan border. The BSF is deployed along 6,386.36 km of the International Border with Pakistan and Bangladesh. Mr. Shah asked the force personnel to ensure that people living in border areas had access to electricity, gas connections and other amenities. He said that the Government would leave no stone unturned to provide the best technological equipment and infrastructure facilities to ensure that the operational challenges arising due to the present day geo-political scenario are fully met. Stating that all welfare requirements of troops will be accorded top priority, he elucidated the various programmes initiated by the Government to ensure that all force personnel and their families are cared for. He added that 50,000 personnel had been recruited and their training was under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-drone-tech-for-pak-borders-shah/article37859835.ece
06 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Editor of Assam portal charged with sedition||The Assam police have charged the editor and co-owner of a local news portal in the Barak Valley with sedition for a November 28 editorial deemed to promote enmity between Assamese and Bengali-speaking people of the State. The Barak Valley is dominated by Bengalis and the Brahmaputra Valley by Assamese speakers. Anirban Roy Choudhury was charged under Section 124A (sedition) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code on the basis of an FIR filed by Santanu Sutradhar, a Silchar-based businessman and member of the All Assam Bengali Hindu Association, on December 2. The other sections include 501 for “printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory” and 153-A for “promoting enmity between different groups”. The editorial the complainant found objectionable was titled “Welcome to the Paradise of the Spineless — We are Assamese”. It was published after a former BJP leader and Gauhati High Court advocate, Pradip Dutta Roy, was also charged with sedition and arrested in Silchar on November 27. Mr. Roy had objected to the use of only Assamese language in a hoarding on a Government scheme, pointing out that it should have been in Bengali, the official language of the Barak Valley under the Assam Official Language (Amendment) Act, 1961. The hoarding was taken down and replaced with another displaying slogans and information in both Assamese and Bengali. “The police came home to deliver the summons yesterday [on Saturday]. I have been told to appear at the Silchar Sadar police station at 11 a.m. on Monday,” Mr. Choudhury told The Hindu . ‘Nothing but harassment’ “This is nothing but harassment for a fairly innocuous editorial. But I knew this could happen as we are the only publication, online or print, that is critical on issues concerning the Barak Valley and its people,” he added. Mr. Roy, sent to judicial custody till December 10, is undergoing treatment at the Silchar Medical College and Hospital for a liver ailment, officials said.  I knew this could happen as we are the only publication, online or print, that is critical on issues concerning the Barak Valley and its people Anirban Roy Choudhury Journalist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/editor-of-assam-portal-charged-with-sedition/article37860027.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘UPA will collectively decide face of 2024 poll’||Days after the “no UPA” jibe by Mamata Banerjee, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday attacked the Trinamool Congress chief, saying she must clarify whether she wanted to make the Trinamool the main Opposition party by fighting those in power or by taking on fellow Opposition parties. He said no Opposition alliance was possible at the national level without the Congress. Mr. Baghel said a decision on who would be the face of the Opposition in the 2024 general election would be taken collectively by the constituents of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA), headed by Sonia Gandhi.   On the Trinamool entering the poll fray suddenly in some poll-bound States such as Goa, Mr. Baghel said it seemed that they wanted to help the BJP in those States. “They don’t have anything in Goa but want to fight. So they want to divide the Opposition vote,” he alleged. Mr. Baghel also hit out at poll strategist Prashant Kishor for his remarks that the space represented by the Congress was vital but its leadership was not the “divine right of an individual”, an apparent swipe at Rahul Gandhi. “Prashant Kishor works for money, be it for the BJP, Congress, Trinamool or JD(U), for poll campaigns. He is a professional person, so he should say who he is working for now,” the Chhattisgarh Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/upa-will-collectively-decide-face-of-2024-poll/article37859838.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Coastal Odisha bears brunt of Jawad rain||The weather office also predicted light to moderate rainfall at most places over North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Kolkata, Hooghly, Murshidabad and Nadia districts and at many places over the remaining districts of Gangetic West Bengal. Farmers shattered The unseasonal rain shattered the hopes of farmers in coastal Odisha’s Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Balasore districts with little hope of salvaging harvest-ready paddy from the inundated fields. At many places, people also failed to shift harvested paddy from the fields ahead of the storm. In Ganjam, bundles of harvested paddy crop were seen swept away in the swirling waters. “I had taken a Rs. 1 lakh loan this year. As the ripened paddy continues to remain under water, I lost all my hopes to harvest it,” said a devastated Sarada Rout, a farmer of Ersama block in Jagatsinghpur district. The Agriculture Department has warned of earhead caterpillar infestation after the rain recedes. Farmers were advised to shift harvested paddy to safer places. But, given the amount of rainfall recorded in diﬀerent coastal districts, farmers said they were not expecting the cropland to get dry in the next one week.  About 17,000 people have been evacuated from low-lying areas of West Bengal, particularly from Kakdwip and Namkhana and islands like Mousuni and Ghoramara. Several teams of National Disaster Response Force and West Bengal police have been deployed in the coastal areas of the State. As the cyclone weakened, there was breach of embankments at Mousumi Island in Sunderbans, located on the mouth of Bay of Bengal about 120 km from Kolkata. Some areas of Sagar Island in South 24 Parganas were submerged because of enhanced sea activity and rainfall. The officials at the weather office have predicted squally winds of 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph along and off West Bengal coast during next 24 hours and a gradual decrease from Monday afternoon. The State administration has asked tourists not to visit coastal areas such as Digha, Mandarmani, Bakkhali, Frazerganj, and other coastal areas on the weekend and stopped ferry services on the Hooghly River. The State administration has heaved a sigh of relief with the weakening of the cyclonic storm Jawad but the concern remains as embankments in the Sunderbans may be breached because of cumulative effect of high tide and enhanced rainfall activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coastal-odisha-bears-brunt-of-jawad-rain/article37860197.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Sidhu joins teachers’ protest in New Delhi||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu joined the sit-in of Delhi guest teachers demanding regularisation of their jobs outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence in Civil Lines on Sunday. Last month, Mr. Kejriwal had joined the contractual teachers in Punjab’s Mohali, who staged a protest making a similar demand. In the run-up to the Punjab polls, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener has announced a slew of sops for different sections of society, including teachers. Among the assurances are regularising contractual teachers and revamping the education system in the State if voted to power. Punjab goes to polls in early 2022 and AAP is not leaving any stone unturned to make a decisive presence in the border State. Hitting out at Mr. Kejriwal, Mr. Sidhu said the Delhi Government was following a contractual model of education. “Delhi Education Model is Contract Model … Delhi Govt has 1031 Schools while only 196 schools have Principals … 45% teacher’s posts are vacant and schools are run by 22,000 Guest Teachers on daily wages with every 15 days renewal of contracts,” Mr. Sidhu said in a tweet. The Punjab Congress chief said that there were 12,515 job vacancies for teachers in Delhi in 2015, but in 2021, the number had shot up to 19,907. He said the AAP government had been filing up the vacant posts by hiring guest lecturers. “AAP promised to regularise contractual teachers give equal wages as permanent staff but made it worse by just having guest teachers. Through School Management Committees, so called AAP volunteers earn Rs 5 Lac yearly from Govt funds that earlier were meant for school’s development,” Mr. Sidhu’s another tweet said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhu-joins-teachers-protest-in-new-delhi/article37859825.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Bihar, Kerala update COVID-19 death toll||The active cases stand at 99,155, comprising 0.29% of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.35%, the Health Ministry said. A decrease of 819 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.73%. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 62 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.80%. It has remained below 1% for the last 21 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,40,60,774 while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.37%. The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far has exceeded 127.61 crore. India’s COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore COVID-19 cases on May 4 this year and three crore on June 23. The 2,796 new fatalities include 2,426 from Bihar, 315 from Kerala and 14 from Maharashtra. Kerala has been reconciling deaths for the past few days, hence the death tally of the State is high. The total 4,73,326 deaths reported in the country include 1,41,163 from Maharashtra, 41,439 from Kerala, 38,224 from Karnataka, 36,519 from Tamil Nadu, 25,098 from Delhi, 22,911 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,534 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70% of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-kerala-update-covid-19-death-toll/article37859826.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Army operation in Nagaland goes awry||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said he was “anguished” by the ambush blunder, and promised to investigate the incident by a high-level special investigation team (SIT) and ensure justice to the bereaved families. Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio, who was in Delhi, condemned the incident before returning to Nagaland. He chaired a Cabinet meeting in the State capital, Kohima, in the evening. The Chief Minister’s Office said he would visit Mon on Monday to attend the funeral of the civilians killed. Organisations such as the Naga Hoho, the apex Naga tribal body and the Naga Mothers’ Association condemned the incident. The Naga Students’ Federation unfurled its flag at half-mast to protest the killings. The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, the key player in the Naga peace talks, described it as a “black day” for the Nagas. “It is learned the killing was the work of the trigger-happy 21st Para Commandos/Assam Rifles. The Nagas had in the past faced trigger-happy Indian security forces, acting with impunity under the Government of India’s AFSPA which is mainly used against the Naga political movement,” the outfit said in a statement. Nagaland’s Mon district borders Myanmar from where members of the NSCN (Khaplang-Yung Aung) are said to carry out hit-and-run operations. An Army officer said there was specific input of the movement of NSCN (K-YA) cadres in a vehicle of specific colour and type following which the Tiru-Oting area was cordoned off. The coal miners approached in a similar vehicle and “did not cooperate” when asked to stop, he added. The shooting ensued, apparently instinctively. Local organisations have demanded action against the guilty personnel and threatened to approach national and international human rights organisations. Members of the victims’ families refused to receive their bodies if justice is not delivered fast. Reacting to the incident, the Eastern Nagaland People’s Organisation (ENPO) announced the withdrawal of six tribes it represents from the annual Hornbill Festival ongoing at Kisama near Kohima. The ENPO had a few months ago adopted a resolution against bloodshed in its area. People in Dimapur, Kohima and other towns carried out a candlelight march on Sunday evening to mourn the death of the civilians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/16-dead-after-armys-nagaland-ambush/article37859828.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Coastal Odisha bears brunt of Jawad rain||At many places, people also failed to shift harvested paddy from the fields ahead of the storm. In Ganjam, bundles of harvested paddy crop were seen swept away in the swirling waters. “I had taken a Rs. 1 lakh loan this year. As the ripened paddy continues to remain under water, I lost all my hopes to harvest it,” said a devastated Sarada Rout, a farmer of Ersama block in Jagatsinghpur district. 17,000 evacuated About 17,000 people have been evacuated from low lying areas of West Bengal particularly from Kakdwip and Namkhana and islands like Mousuni and Ghoramara. Several teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and West Bengal police have been deployed in the coastal areas of the State. As the cyclone weakened, there was breach of embankments at Mousumi Island in Sunderbans, located on the mouth of Bay of Bengal about 120 km from Kolkata. Some areas of Sagar Island in South 24 Parganas were submerged because of enhanced sea activity and rainfall. The officials of weather office have predicted squally winds of 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph along and off West Bengal coast during next 24 hours and a gradual decrease from Monday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coastal-odisha-bears-brunt-of-jawad-rain/article37859827.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Lalsawta made Mizoram Congress chief||The Congress on Sunday named Lalsawta as the chief of its Mizoram unit after Sonia Gandhi accepted the resignation of former Chief Minister Lal Thanhawla from the post, the party said in a statement. The Congress also appointed Mr. Thanhawla a member of the Congress Working Committee. Ms. Gandhi on Saturday accepted the resignation of Mr. Thanhawla as Mizoram Congress chief and invited him to join the CWC as a member. In a letter, Ms. Gandhi hoped that the rich legacy he bequeathed will be carried forward by his successor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lalsawta-made-mizoram-congress-chief/article37859841.ece
06 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘No crowding at Chaitya Bhoomi’||The Maharashtra Government has issued guidelines appealing to people to not crowd at Chaitya Bhoomi in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic and Omicron variant of the coronavirus to pay respects to Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar today on his death anniversary. As per the directives of the State Home Department, no book stalls and food will be allowed and permission to hold public meetings, dharnas, and protests will not be given.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-crowding-at-chaitya-bhoomi/article37859851.ece
06 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Neelam Rao appointed PF Commissioner||The Government on Saturday appointed Madhya Pradesh cadre IAS officer Neelam Shammi Rao as the Central Provident Fund Commissioner in the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). The ACC approved Ms. Rao’s transfer from her current post, Director General (Training) in the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, to the top post of the retirement fund body in the rank of Additional Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/neelam-rao-appointed-pf-commissioner/article37859859.ece
06 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea against 84-day gap for Covishield||The 84-day gap between two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, is a violation of the right of an adult to protect himself better from a possibly fatal disease, a petition in the Supreme Court has argued. Kerala-based company, Kitex Garments Limited, contended that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had said Covishield is most effective if administered with a gap of six to eight weeks between the two shots. The plea has questioned the “discrimination” in Government policy, which relaxes the 84-day limit for foreign workers and sportspersons, but remains rigid for their domestic counterparts. Kitex Garments, represented by advocate Haris Beeran, has argued that companies are anxious for the welfare of their employees and the safety of their work environment. The company has filed its appeal against a decision of a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court in December. The Division Bench had set aside an order of the Single Judge Bench, which allowed the administration of the second dose of Covishield vaccine after four weeks, for those willing to take it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-against-84-day-gap-for-covishield/article37859861.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi/KOLKATA,||Rahul slams Govt., Mamata seeks probe||The Congress on Sunday attacked the Centre over the killing of 13 civilians during an anti-insurgency operation in Nagaland, with party leader Rahul Gandhi saying the Government must give a “real reply” as to what the Union Home Ministry was doing when “neither civilians nor security personnel are safe in our own land”.  Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted, “Heartbreaking news coming out of Nagaland, my deepest condolences to all the bereaved families. They deserve justice.” Mamata Banerjee also demanded a thorough investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-slams-govt-mamata-seeks-probe/article37859833.ece
06 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||One killed, four injured in attack on RLD leader||One person was killed and four others were injured when the convoy of RLD leader Haji Yunus was attacked by at least four unidentified gunmen in Bulandshahr district of western Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-killed-four-injured-in-attack-on-rld-leader/article37860021.ece
06 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Stolen Mirage tyre returned to Air Force||Two persons who had allegedly stolen a tyre of a Mirage fighter jet being transported in a truck to Jodhpur from Lucknow returned it a few days later, the police said on Saturday. The two persons claimed they had taken the tyre with them thinking that it belonged to a truck, said the Lucknow police. An FIR had been lodged at the Ashiana police station under Section 379 (punishment for theft) of IPC on the complaint of the truck driver. The truck was transporting Air Force equipment from the Bakshi Ka Talab Air force Station to Jodhpur. On December 4, two persons identified as Deepraj, a driver, and his nephew Himanshu Bansal, arrived at the BKT Air force station and returned the tyre, said police. On December 3, the two came across the news about the stolen aircraft tyre and after figuring out that the tyre in their possession looked unusual, decided to return it, added the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stolen-mirage-tyre-returned-to-air-force/article37859831.ece
06 December 2021||Srinagar,||J&K withdraws Class 7 textbook||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday withdrew a Class 7 textbook from schools and sought a First Information Report against the publisher for drawing a sketch of Prophet Muhammad, which is considered blasphemous by Muslims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-withdraws-class-7-textbook/article37860024.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||ED detains Jacqueline at airport||The Enforcement Directorate on Sunday stopped actor Jacqueline Fernandez from flying abroad as she may be required to join an ongoing money laundering investigation against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekar, officials said. The 36-year-old actor was stopped by the immigration authorities at the Mumbai airport on the basis of a Look-out Circular (LoC) issued by the federal probe agency, they said. Agency sleuths later reached the Mumbai airport and disallowed her travel asking her to remain in the country as she may be required to join the probe. The actor of Sri Lankan origin had been questioned by the ED in multiple sessions in connection with the over Rs. 200-crore money laundering case being probed against Chandrashekar and his actor wife Leena Maria Paul. The agency on Saturday filed a chargesheet before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in this case and named Chandrashekar, his wife and six others in it. It had alleged that Chandrashekar had gifted the actor numerous costly gifts, including some Persian cats and a horse. He is accused of cheating some high-profile individuals such as former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh’s wife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-detains-jacqueline-at-airport/article37859832.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Open spaces turn swamps, cause flooding in neighbourhood||While the impact of the record rainfall received in November was felt across the city, one of the issues that was under-reported was how large open spaces like playgrounds of educational institutions and parks remained inundated for days together. The neighbourhoods adjacent to these places bore the brunt when the stagnant water was pumped out. Water pumped out from Stella Maris College, which faced severe inundation, flooded the neighbouring residential areas. “The college has paved roads. It prevents the percolation of rainwater. Rainwater harvesting on such campuses should be improved. The drain network in such areas should get a makeover,” said a resident living near the college. Similar problems were reported in many other campuses. A staff member of Dr. Ambedkar Government Arts College in Vyasarpadi said that water stagnation on the campus was a problem even during short spells of rain. “Even now, a section of the playground has stagnant water. No measures have been taken to solve it permanently,” he said. Other campuses that faced inundation were Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Tanuvas), Loyola College, Government Arts College for Men in Nandanam, Thakkar Bapa Vidyalaya in T. Nagar, and S.R.S. Sarvodaya Girls Hostel. Residents in areas near Church Park Convent opposed pumping out of water from the campus. The nearby slum was flooded when water drained out. Dr. Ezhilan Naganathan, Thousands Lights MLA of the ruling DMK, said that he had identified many places that got flooded near such sprawling campuses. “The water from AG’s Office and DMS office premises had to be pumped out towards low-lying residential areas on the other side of Stella Maris College. The drain inside the college to carry such water was defunct. The water had to be diverted towards T.T.K. Road and then to Cooum river,” he said. Some of the institutions, however, said the problem was not of their making. The management of Stella Maris College said the residents in adjoining areas like Ellaiamman Colony, Chokalingam Nagar and Parthasarathy Pettai drilled holes in the college compound wall and let the water from their colonies flow into the campus. Crisis on campus “This has been going on for many years, but this time the unprecedented rain has aggravated the situation. The college was inundated with water mixed with sewage up to a height of three to four feet since the second week of November. Water entered all buildings; many aged nuns had to be carried to safety; 500 hostel residents have been put to great anguish along with 50 sisters who had to deal with lack of power supply, potable drinking water and inundated hostel rooms. The situation poses a great threat to the health and safety of all on campus,” the management said. Pointing out that the college was unable to reopen because of the inundation, the management said it had no option but to request the GCC to pump out the stagnant water into stormwater drains. “Since the capacity of the drains is limited, the water overflowed into the surrounding areas,” it added. S.R.S. Sarvodaya Girls Hostel management said that water pumped out from neighbouring locality inundated the campus. Poor infrastructure Highlighting the need for long-term solutions, Dr. Ezhilan said there was a proposal to restore the sewer mains, stormwater drains and other infrastructure in the vicinity of Cathedral Road to prevent flooding in residential areas. Greater Chennai Corporation officials said as part of a drive, the residential areas flooded by water pumped from large campuses would be identified. A proposal to mitigate the problem of flooding in residential areas in the vicinity of large educational institutions would be readied shortly, said the official.  The college has been inundated with water mixed with sewage up to a height of four feet since the second week of November Management of Stella Maris College||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-spaces-turn-swamps-cause-flooding-in-neighbourhood/article37860139.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State had Rs. 3.78 lakh crore liability from SDLs as of March||Tamil Nadu had an outstanding liability of about Rs. 3.78 lakh crore as of March 2021 on funds raised through the issue of bonds called State Development Loans (SDLs). About Rs. 55,168 crore, or 14.6%, is coming up for repayment by 2023-24. As per Reserve Bank of India (RBI) data, of the outstanding SDLs as of March 2021, about 22.7%, or Rs. 86,000 crore, is coming up for redemption in 5-7 years’ time, and about 41.1%, or Rs. 1.55 lakh crore, would come up for repayment in about 7 years and beyond. About 3.6%, or Rs. 13,603 crore, would mature in 0-1 years’ time, while 18.1%, or Rs. 68,393 crore, would mature in 3-5 years’ time. According to the RBI report ‘State Finances: A Study of Budgets of 2021-22’, SDLs accounted for 67.5% of Tamil Nadu’s total outstanding liabilities of about Rs. 5.59 lakh crore. To bridge the gap between its income and expenditure or, in other words, fiscal deficit, Tamil Nadu borrows from the market through the issue of SDLs. Kavita Chacko, senior economist, CARE Ratings, pointed out that the maturity profile of the SDLs showed that Tamil Nadu was borrowing more for a longer tenure, probably with the aim of limiting its short- to medium- term debt servicing obligations. Tamil Nadu’s total outstanding liabilities are expected to increase to about Rs. 6.59 lakh crore in 2021-22, of which SDLs account for Rs. 4.65 lakh crore. The remaining components of the liabilities include obligations from UDAY bonds, loans from financial institutions and others. The RBI said that across States, 64.2% of the outstanding SDLs was in the residual maturity bucket of five years and above, as of March 2021. SDL redemptions are likely to more than double from 2021-22 to 2026-27 and beyond, it noted. As per its data, Tamil Nadu raised Rs. 62,425 crore in 2019-20, Rs. 87,977 crore in 2020-21 and Rs. 39,000 crore in 2021-22 (till September 2021) through market borrowings. It repaid Rs. 12,599 crore in 2019-20, Rs. 11,181.10 crore in 2020-21 and Rs. 4,000 crore till September in 2021-22. The White Paper on the State’s financial position, tabled by the DMK Government, pointed out that in the last three to four years, borrowing had been restored even for non-discretionary spending like salaries, pension and interest payments, and urged that the practice be stopped. As per RBI data, Tamil Nadu is expected to spend 20.5% of its revenue receipts on interest payments in 2021-22. According to PRS Legislative Research, a New Delhi-based think tank, States, on aggregate, are estimated to spend 12.8% of their revenue receipts on interest payments in 2021-22, and 16 States have estimated their interest payments to be higher than the recommended level of 10%.  To bridge the gap between its income and expenditure or, in other words, fiscal deficit, Tamil Nadu borrows from the market through the issue of SDLs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-had-rs-378-lakh-crore-liability-from-sdls-as-of-march/article37860118.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police tighten security across city||The Greater Chennai Police have deployed more than 6,000 police personnel at important places in the city to tighten the security and prevent untoward incidents on December 6 in view of the anniversary of Babri Masjid demolition. A senior official said temporary barricades would be set up and mobile units would be stationed in all the sensitive places. Police personnel would be posted at airport, railway stations and bus terminus. The police have already taken steps to carry out checks in lodges and mansions to keep a tab on the visitors. Meanwhile, the Southern Railway has made elaborate security arrangements in Chennai Central, Egmore and Tambaram railway stations. RPF deployed The Railway Protection Force personnel have been posted and baggages of passengers are thoroughly checked. Security personnel have been deployed on the platforms of all important railway stations. Quick Response Teams have been kept on standby and armed escorts would be travelling in trains. The railway authorities are coordinating with the city police and the Government Railway Police to ensure a safe journey for the passengers, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-tighten-security-across-city/article37860144.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Making large campuses resilient to heavy rain||With the intense spell of rain like the one witnessed in November likely to become a frequent phenomenon owing to climate change, experts stressed on the need to make large open spaces more resilient to floods. Shilesh Hariharan, principal architect at Madras Terrace, who is associated with the City of Thousand Tanks initiative, said installation and strengthening of rainwater harvesting and recharge wells must be done based on soil profile on campuses. He said it was important to identify the region of clay, the region of sand and so on to make the percolation of water efficient. Regular maintenance of rainwater harvesting structures prior to monsoons was important. Mr. Hariharan stressed on the need to ensure that sewage did not mix in rainwater allowed to percolate. Kavitha Selvaraj of City Works, which has worked with Greater Chennai Corporation in designing public spaces, highlighted the need for holistic planning while designing and transforming public spaces as these spaces can play a role in recharging groundwater. She said that the tendency need not be to pump the water out from such large spaces, but give it time to percolate with adequate structures in place while at the same time ensuring that the stagnation did not lead to health hazards. Balaji Narasimhan, a faculty at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras, however, struck a note of caution on using rainwater harvesting as the panacea. “The water table is already very high and hence is unable to absorb at the same rate as the rain is falling,” he said. The city’s flat topography with only sandy and hard rock aquifers added to the problem, he explained. “RWH is not a magic bullet. When the underground structures get filled and the storage is full what can we do? RWH is ok for slightly below or above average rainfall, and can only help in avoiding nuisance letting,” he said. Sekar Raghavan, director of Rain Centre, said the rainwater harvesting the State government had taken up in earnest was ironically a contributing factor to flooding this year. He said that earlier this year, under a Rotary project, the centre was trying to construct rainwater harvesting projects in a few schools in R.A. Puram and T. Nagar. “We could not dig beyond seven feet. We could not execute the project as the water table was high,” he said. “Even at that time we knew that the first spell of northeast monsoon would flood the city,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/making-large-campuses-resilient-to-heavy-rain/article37860140.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to have draft policy to weed out invasive plants||Tamil Nadu will, by February, have a draft policy on the ecological restoration of its forest areas, infested with invasive alien plant species. Despite efforts over the years to clear these invasive species from the forests, there has not been much success. Tamil Nadu will now frame a new policy to identify, target and weed out these species. An announcement was made in this regard in the Assembly this September, and the government has now formed a three-member committee to come up with a draft policy in three months. V. Naganathan, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Forest Conservation Act) has been named its chairman. S. Anand, deputy director of the Srivilliputhur Megamalai Tiger Reserve, Theni, and Vismiju Viswanathan, Deputy Conservator of Forests (Project Formulation), are among its members. The committee will consult experts from the field and get inputs from them, through outsourcing and by co-opting them to prepare the draft policy, according to an order by Supriya Sahu, Principal Secretary, Environment, Forests and Climate Change. The panel will identify, demarcate and assess the extent of area infested with invasive alien species in the forests of Tamil Nadu; formulate standard operating procedures for removal, disposal and eco-restoration of the infested areas and suggest permanent measures to eliminate the species. According to a government order, invasive plant species adversely impact biodiversity, leading to a decline in or elimination of native species.They also disrupt local ecosystems. Most exotic tree species were introduced in the forests of Tamil Nadu to satisfy industrial or commercial needs. The plan is to prioritise problematic species and develop strategies to manage their proliferation. In the past, there have been efforts in this direction, but a comprehensive policy framework was never created for the same. A policy is necessary, keeping in mind the serious threat posed by invasive species like Lantana camara, Acacia mearnsii and Prosopis juliflora, among others. The Nilgiris district remains a classic example, where invasive species have overrun native species on some stretches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-to-have-draft-policy-to-weed-out-invasive-plants/article37860156.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu logs 724 infections and 10 deaths||With 724 more people testing positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, Tamil Nadu’s tally touched 27,30,516. Fresh infections in Chennai and Coimbatore continued to remain high — the former saw 131 infections and the latter 124. Tiruppur logged 65 cases and Erode 59. Chengalpattu recorded 61 infections, Namakkal 41 and Salem 37. Twenty-one districts recorded cases in single digit. Perambalur, Theni and Ramanathapuram saw no fresh case. The State’s active caseload touched 8,041. Recoveries in State With 743 people being discharged after treatment, total recoveries touched 26,85,946. Chennai’s active caseload stood at 1,183, and case tally at 5,58,637. So far, 5,48,838 people have been discharged after treatment. The district’s toll reached 8,616. Ten more people succumbed to the infection, five of whom died in government facilities. Tamil Nadu’s toll reached 36,529. One of the deceased, a 63-year-old woman from Pudukottai, had no co-morbidity. She was admitted to the Sivagangai Medical College Hospital on December 3, and tested positive for COVID-19 the next day. She died the same day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Nonagenarian dies A 91-year-old man from Chennai, who was admitted to a private hospital on November 17, with complaints of cough and difficulty in breathing for three days, tested positive on December 3, and died the same day. Doctors gave the cause of his death as COVID-19 pneumonia. As many as 1,01,820 people were tested for COVID-19 on Sunday.  Chennai’s active caseload stood at 1,183, and case tally at 5,58,637. So far, 5,48,838 people have been discharged after treatment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-logs-724-infections-and-10-deaths/article37860125.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Road repairs in four districts nearing completion||The Highways Department will soon complete temporary restoration of 320 km of roads in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu divisions. The divisions have a combined length of 4,800 km of roads of which Chennai city division alone has 256 km of roads. Sources in the department said that cold mix comprising bituminous mix, which is a mix of bitumen and aggregate of size 12 mm and 6 mm, was being used to fill potholes and patches on roads. “Since there is a lot of moisture in the atmosphere and the road surfaces are not completely dry, we are using a cold mix that would bind with the surface quickly. The cold mix obtained from the central hot mix plant would be at atmospheric temperature,” said a source. In Chennai city, rain in the last few weeks had caused 2,756 potholes on roads maintained by the Highways Department. Of these, 1,734 potholes had been filled and the 16 km of roads that had suffered damages to surface had been re-laid. A total of 55.90 km had been damaged due to waterlogging and vehicles driving over the surface. The department is using its pothole fixer machine at Koyambedu, Vadapalani, Kilpauk, Vepery, Kolathur, Chromepet, Pallavaram, Pallikaranai, Sholinganallur and Puzhuthivakkam junctions. Another source explained that after December 15, work will be taken up again to ensure that the patchwork matched the original riding surface. “As part of temporary restoration in some places, we have used concrete, bricks in some and cold mix in others. In the next phase, cold milling would be done,” he said. Minister for Highways and Public Works E.V. Velu inspected the work being carried out in various parts of the city.  In Chennai city, the rain in the last few weeks had caused 2,,756 potholes on roads maintained by the Highways Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-repair-work-nearing-completion-in-four-districts/article37860148.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pulianthope to get new network of stormwater drains||The Greater Chennai Corporation will develop a new network of stormwater drains in Pulianthope. The new drains will be developed along Pulianthope High Road, Demellows Road, Decastor Road and so on. To be linked with the Gandhi Canal, the proposed stormwater drain network will be built at a cost of Rs. 7.1 crore. The storm water drain network is expected to be linked to Gandhi Canal at three or four spots. During recent showers, when 20 cm rain was recorded in just six hours, Pulianthope in Thiru Vi Ka Nagar zone was flooded, affecting hundreds of homes. The Corporation installed pumps to drain water as the existing brick and mortar drains collapsed. These drains had the capacity to deal with water flow if there was just 2 cm rain. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin visited the locality on November 27 and directed the line agencies to start work on stormwater drain network, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pulianthope-to-get-new-network-of-stormwater-drains/article37860134.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jadooz to set up 5 screens in Q1 of 2022||Entertainment start-up Jadooz, which is in the business of mini theatres in rural pockets with an average seating capacity of 30-50, will be starting five screens in Tamil Nadu during the first quarter of 2022. “We were supposed to do this in 2019 when we got funded. But due to the pandemic, we had to put our plans on hold,” Rahul Nehra, founder and managing director of Jadooz said. The firm will soon be reaching out to the Tamil Nadu Government and look out for spaces lying unused. “There are many small spaces available in rural pockets which can be converted into mini theatres. We will see if we can work with the State Government on this,” Mr. Nehra said. “In the morning hours, these screens can be used for educational purpose too,” he added. The Chennai-headquartered start-up has about 10 screens already built (across India) and another 30 in various stages of construction. The screens are primarily in Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Uttarakhand, Assam, Gujarat and Arunachal Pradesh. There are screens in Nepal too. And last month, Jadooz forayed into Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang. The start-up also had plans of piloting its model in rural railway infrastructure. “There are many small stations in India and there is space available in some of these places. These spaces can be used for mini theatres,” Mr. Nehra said. The firm is open to the franchisee route too – anyone having a hall and funds to the tune of Rs. 35 lakh can be the owner of a cinema hall. Post COVID-19, many movie-goers have started watching films on OTT platforms. Many single screens are struggling to attract crowds. But Mr. Nehra feels that good content on the big screen still attracts people. “As the screens opened last month, we saw a surge of viewers in cinema halls. This surge is beyond our expectations, and all our screens are cash-positive in spite of the hiatus,” he said, adding that OTT was eating into the television pie and surprisingly competing with social media content also. The start-up is also in the process of raising about $3 million.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jadooz-to-set-up-5-screens-in-q1-of-2022/article37860145.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rasika Ranjani Sabha seeks to crowdfund its loan repayment||Saddled with a loan of Rs. 10 crore incurred from constructing a new building, the 93-year-old Rasika Ranjani Sabha in Mylapore plans to crowdfund its loan repayment. The sabha was established in 1929 and then too the founders A.K. Ramachandra Iyer and Loganatha Mudaliar had taken a loan of Rs. 83,000. “M.S. Subbulakshmi performed a concert for us and gave us Rs. 25,000. The balance was met through funds from membership drives,” said sabha president and industrialist A.R. Santhanakrishnan. Speaking at the inauguration of the sabha’s December 2021 festival titled “Music in Perpetuity”, he said they had tied up with GoCrowdEra, which has given a blueprint as to how the proposal should be taken forward. “ The idea is to make the public participate so that along with repaying loan, we can also create a corpus. We urge the members of the public to donate liberally,” he said. The Centre had graciously granted Rs. 6 crore to the sabha as a special case, Mr. Santhanakrishnan added. M. Murali of Sri Krishna Sweets said that just the mention of the name Rasika Ranjani Sabha or RR Sabha in short, brought happy memories. It has a hoary past. “Be it M.S. Amma or D.K. Pattammal, musicians who performed in these august portals breathed life into their music,” he said. Violin vidhushi and guru A. Kanyakumari said that she came to the city in 1968 and at that time used to come to the sabha to listen to concerts. Then, she has performed as an artist. She urged sabhas and the listeners to encourage instrumentalists. The inaugural was preceded by Nagaswaram performance by Sembanar Koil S.R.G.S. Mohandass and Mylai K. Selvam. It was followed by a lec-dem by Harikesanallur Venkatraman and N. Gayathri Ravi. Office-bearers — T.R. Rajagopalan, Srinivasan K. Swamy, Aruna Prabha Ranganathan, R. Nagarajan, Chella Vaidhyanathan and N. Anush—were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rasika-ranjani-sabha-seeks-to-crowdfund-its-loan-repayment/article37860276.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Buddhi Clinic holds webinar on seizures and autism||Buddhi Clinic hosted a webinar on “Seizures & Autism” on Saturday. Among the issues discussed were epilepsy, characterised by repeated seizures and considered the most common serious neurological disorder, as well as Autism Spectrum Disorder, a condition that affects language, communication, socialisation and emotional expression in children as young as two years. In a large proportion of children, the two conditions overlap. Doctors from various places interacted with Buddhi Clinic founder and neuropsychiatrist, Ennapadam S. Krishnamoorthy. They highlighted the role of brain in these disorders, the role of genetics and neurobiology and recent advances in diagnosis and treatment. Initiatives launched On the occasion, Buddhi Clinic launched several initiatives such as Buddhi Online, its proposed app featuring do-it-yourself therapy programme supported by specialists through video calls. It has signed a five-year agreement with Natural Minds, a healthcare technology company, to facilitate this. Other programmes that were launched include the “Buddhi Seva” and a new membership programme for the benefit of patients with long-standing complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/buddhi-clinic-holds-webinar-on-seizures-and-autism/article37860277.ece
06 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK leaders pay homage to Jaya on her death anniversary||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday led the party in paying homage to former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, at her memorial on the Marina, on her fifth death anniversary. Former AIADMK Ministers, senior leaders and party functionaries accompanied the two leaders and paid floral tributes at the memorial. After this, they took a pledge to protect the AIADMK from “enemies” and said the party was an impenetrable fortress. “We will not allow our history to be changed and we will not let our enemies win anymore,” they said. They also hit out at the DMK Government, alleging that the party had come to power making false promises, such as abolishing NEET... “Did he [Chief Minister M.K. Stalin] do all these?” they said. The cadre, in the pledge, also said the AIADMK had become an umbrella for the people during the rain. It had stood by the citizens during cyclones, making sure that water did not stagnate [during the AIADMK regime], they said. “But today, under the anti-people government [of the DMK], water is everywhere... Under the dreadful rule of this government, neither has the water drained, nor have the people’s lives flourished,” they said, vowing to change this scenario and “put an end to this government”. Sasikala visits memorial Jayalalithaa’s confidante and close friend V.K. Sasikala visited the memorial with her supporters in a car fitted with the AIADMK flag. Her supporters too took a pledge at the memorial, calling upon everyone to come under Ms. Sasikala’s leadership. They vowed to protect the AIADMK and to make the movement a national one. AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran, who also visited the memorial with his supporters, paid respects to the former Chief Minister. Earlier, when the AIADMK leaders congregated at the memorial, AMMK and AIADMK cadre raised slogans in support of their leaders. When Mr. Palaniswami was leaving in his car, AMMK supporters blocked his and other leaders’ vehicles, and raised slogans supporting Ms. Sasikala. A minor scuffle ensued, before the police intervened. Mr. Dhinakaran, in a series of tweets, said his party cadre would not behave in an unruly manner, that too at a “sacred place” like Jayalalithaa’s memorial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-leaders-pay-homage-to-jaya-on-her-death-anniversary/article37860131.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Kamal will campaign for urban civic polls’||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan surprised everyone by going straight to the sets of Bigg Boss, the reality television show that he is hosting, on Saturday right after being discharged from the hospital. Mr. Haasan couldn’t host the show on November 27 after he was diagnosed with COVID-19. During Mr. Haasan’s hospitalisation, MNM leadership were miffed with some media reports, which stated that he would withdraw from politics soon and give up his political ambitions. This prompted the party’s vice-president and retired IPS officer, A.G. Mourya, to issue a statement saying such reports are ‘disheartening’ when Mr. Haasan has reiterated that he would be in politics as long as he lives. “I would like to clarify that party leader Kamal Haasan has never thought about leaving politics,” said Mr. Mourya. Poll prep Mr. Haasan will participate in the campaign for the urban local body polls, though he has been advised rest, said Mr. Mourya. “As soon as Mr. Haasan returned, he called for a meeting and wanted to review the party’s plans for the urban local body polls, and the work happening for it,” he said. Asked whether the party could organise an event to show that its leader would continue to be in politics, a source close to the actor said that he would soon do a campaign for upcoming urban local body elections. “Whether it is going to be an intense campaign or a moderate one would depend on doctor’s advice,” said the source.  As soon as Mr. Haasan returned, he called for a meeting and wanted to review the party’s plans for the urban local bodies and the work that has been happening A.G. Mourya Vice-president, MNM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-will-campaign-for-urban-civic-polls/article37860120.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||India’s first woman psychiatrist passes away at 98||Sarada Menon, the longest serving head of the Institute of Mental Health, died on Sunday. She was aged 98. Born in Mangaluru, she had her education in Chennai. A graduate of the Madras Medical College, she did her psychiatry training at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences in Bengaluru. She is the country's first woman psychiatrist and was honoured with Padma Bhushan in 1992. She founded the Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF India) in 1984 along with psychiatrist R. Thara. “Her death has left a huge void in our lives. I have known her since 1978 and worked with her for 35 years. A great role model and inspiration to all of us. So human at many levels. Until three months ago, she was talking about her passion, the rehabilitation of the mentally ill," Dr. Thara recalled. Lakshmi Vijayakumar, founder of Sneha, an organisation that works in suicide prevention and a student of Dr. Menon, described her as a rare phenomenon. Dr. Lakshmi recalled that when she was a student, Dr. Menon had retired but was taking classes for students in psychiatry. “If Tamil Nadu stands tall in psychiatry today it is only because of her. She has been an amazing teacher and her enthusiasm for learning new things is phenomenal. Even last month she had called up and said ‘I want to learn about the latest research findings’. She asked a friend of mine to organise a meeting and she participated in it. If she had something to learn she would go to anybody and learn. I am privileged to have been taught by her,” she said. Stating that the welfare of patients came first to Dr. Menon, who had a keen clinical acumen, Dr. Lakshmi added, “She could just talk to somebody for five minutes and diagnose. She was humble and down-to-earth. She was a clinician par excellence, an administrator par excellence. Persons like her are rare and very difficult to come across.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indias-first-woman-psychiatrist-sarada-menon-passes-away-at-98/article37860154.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Forum urges govt. to appeal against HC order on TCs||The State Platform for Common School System (SPCSS) has urged the School Education Department to appeal against a recent order by the Madras High Court, directing the department to mention status of fee payment in the transfer certificates issued by matriculation schools. In a memorandum sent to the Principal Secretary of the SE department, the SPCSS said that inclusion of such information will lead to children facing stigmatisation. The order was issued based on two writ petitions filed by two associations of private schools, demanding safeguards to recover the fees. While reiterating that the schools cannot refuse to issue transfer certificates, the court directed the department to make necessary changes in the Educational Management Information System (EMIS) to include an extra detail mentioning whether the fee has been paid and if not mention the pending amount. This detail was already part of the form of transfer certificate mentioned in the Code of Regulations for Matriculation Schools, the court said. The forum said that entering the arrears of school fees in the transfer certificate can be the “crudest” punishment for the child, and the child may have to carry the stigma and humiliation throughout their lives. It said the inability to pay fees should not be construed as a deliberate attempt by the parents to not pay, said P.B. Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary, SPCSS. Every parent intended to pay the fees and the failure was only due to their loss of income or other financial troubles, he added. Most families struggled economically during the pandemic. Although schools did not incur the same expenditure due to absence of physical classes, many schools did not reduce their fees, he said. The memorandum pointed out that while the court had considered the possibility of dispute between the school administration and the parents on the amount mentioned as arrears, it unfortunately did not take notice of the impact on the child’s life on mentioning fee arrears on the transfer certificate. While acknowledging the provision to mention such information, available on the Code of Regulations for Matriculation Schools, the SPCSS said the code was formulated several years ago and needed changes in accordance with the situation prevalent now. It argued that the nomenclature of “matriculation schools” itself has lost relevance with the introduction of Tamil Nadu Uniform System of School Education (TNUSSE) Act. Importantly, the SPCSS highlighted the order was issued without making the parents and students as party to the case as they were the key stakeholders who have to bear the impact of the order.  Entering the arrears of school fees in the transfer certificate can be the crudest punishment for the child, and the child may have to carry the stigma and humiliation throughout their lives State Platform for Common School System||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forum-urges-govt-to-appeal-against-hc-order-on-tcs/article37860560.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPS seeks CBI probe into ex-TNPCB chief’s death||Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday demanded a CBI probe into the death of A.V. Venkatachalam, former chairman of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB). He was under the scanner of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption. The AIADMK leader accused the Tamil Nadu police of acting on the whims and fancies of the DMK Government. Mr. Palaniswami said people had suspicions over Venkatachalam’s death, and hence, the State Government must hand over the probe to the CBI to ensure a fair investigation. The police had said that Venkatachalam had died by suicide at his house. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said whenever the DMK had come to power, those who had stood steadfast with previous governments had died under mysterious circumstances. “People are now raising questions over the deaths of former Chief Secretary Royappa, former DGP P. Durai, Anna Nagar Ramesh [a friend of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin] and his family and Sadiq Batcha [aide of former Telecom Minister A. Raja], all of whom have died mysteriously. People are suspecting that the death of Venkatachalam too is an addition to the list,” the former Chief Minister said. He said: “The DMK captured power by making false promises, and is using the police, which functioned independently during the AIADMK rule. The DVAC, especially, is being misused to falsely target former AIADMK Ministers, their relatives, friends and at least 30 to 40 other people.” He said Venkatachalam was under pressure from the government to provide a statement in line with the cases foisted on the AIADMK Government. He was asked to resign from his post otherwise, Mr. Palaniswami said. “Not just Venkatachalam, but several other officers are being threatened by the DMK,” he said.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available at the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s helpline 044-24640050)  Whenever the DMK has come to power, those who have stood steadfast with previous governments have died under mysterious circumstances Edappadi K. Palaniswami Leader of the Opposition||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-seeks-cbi-probe-into-ex-tnpcb-chiefs-death/article37860123.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||It was a special Sunday for 110 children||A total of 110 children, including some who were HIV positive, in the 12-15 age group were taken to a cinema to watch a movie on Sunday as part of World AIDS Day celebrations in Tiruvallur district. The children from various homes and orphanages watched Simbu-starrer Maanadu at Rocky cinema along with District Collector Alby John Varghese, and Tiruvallur Superintendent of Police V. Varun Kumar. Some parents too accompanied the children. “This year, the theme for World AIDS day is End Inequalities, End AIDS. Even 30 years after discovering the disease and having good diagnostic and treatment methods, the stigma attached to it persists. We did not give any special treatment to children who were HIV positive. In fact, the children did not know who was positive and who was not. All of them enjoyed the day, which was what we aimed for,” said Mr. Varghese. The children were provided snacks and lunch. On World AIDS Day, a samabandhi bhojanam was organised for HIV positive persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-was-a-special-sunday-for-110-children/article37860135.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special ward for Omicron patients||The Government Medical College Hospital in Omandurar Estate has formed a special ward to treat persons diagnosed with Omicron variant of SARS CoV-2. A 50-bed ward has been established on the fourth floor of the Tower 2 in the hospital. As many as 15 beds have been allocated for intensive care and 35 for general care. A separate laboratory that has been established on the fifth floor of the Tower 1 has been assigned above the ward for testing samples from the admitted patients, said Dean R. Jayanthi. Sixteen nurses have been deployed for the ward, including 10 for the ICU and six for the ordinary wards. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian is expected to inspect the wards on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-ward-for-omicron-patients/article37860146.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DGP joins 126-km duathlon to create cancer awareness||Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu participated in the Apollo D2D Duathlon organised by the Apollo Cancer Centres and Neville Endeavours Foundation. The duathlon saw the top police officer cycling more than 126 km along with Neville J. Billimoria, founder of D2D Marathon. Mr. Sylendra Babu said the rising number of cases in childhood cancer has created the need for creating awareness on promoting healthy lifestyle and participating in the duathlon was for a noble cause. Dr. Radhakrishnan Satheesan, Paediatric Surgeon and Senior Consultant of Apollo Proton Cancer Centre (APCC), flagged off the duathlon. Harshad Reddy, Director, APCC, was present. The funds collected from the event would be utilised for treating children with cancer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgp-joins-126-km-duathlon-to-create-cancer-awareness/article37860152.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AVF to hold Vedic Wisdom Festival online on Dec. 11, 12||A virtual Vedic Wisdom Festival will be held on December 11 and 12 by the Aarsha Vidya Foundation (AVF). A press release said the fourth edition of the event looks at how traditional knowledge can help as the world seeks to find its equilibrium in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Aarsha Vidya Foundation founder Swami Brahmavidananda Saraswati was quoted as saying, “The aim is to provide authentic knowledge on what the Vedic tradition is about, especially in today’s world when there is so much confusion regarding Hinduism and the Vedas.” For registration and details visit https://www.vedicwisdomfestival.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/avf-to-hold-vedic-wisdom-festival-online-on-dec-11-12/article37860136.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||107 persons nabbed in drive against drugs||The Greater Chennai City Police recently conducted a “Drive Against Drugs” from December 3 to 5 and arrested 107 persons. Chennai Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal had ordered the drive by forming special teams in all police stations. A senior official said the special raids were conducted by the inspectors in various parts of the city. From these raids, more than 50 kg of ganja were seized and 63 cases were filed for selling and purchasing drugs. The police seized three vehicles from the accused persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/107-persons-nabbed-in-drive-against-drugs/article37860525.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK files complaint alleging threat to EPS||A complaint has been filed by the AIADMK at the Anna Square police station against a group of unidentified persons, allegedly from the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), who tried to heckle former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, when he went to pay floral tributes to the memorial of Jayalalithaa on the Marina on Sunday. A senior police officer confirmed that a complaint had been filed by representatives of the AIADMK, alleging that AMMK cadre had blocked the escort vehicle of Mr. Palaniswami. A Community Service Register copy has been issued, and only after investigation can any case be registered. Some ruckus was created when Mr. Palaniswami returned after visiting the memorial and the police are investigating it, he added. AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran tweeted that they would face their political rivals democratically, and did not believe in violence. The police will know the truth, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-files-complaint-alleging-threat-to-eps/article37860129.ece
06 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Traffic resumes on Avinashi Road underpass after water is pumped out||After Saturday’s heavy downpour that resulted in flooding of all underpass, including Avinashi Road underpass, the Coimbatore Corporation worked non-stop for 15 hours to dewater the places for early restoration of vehicle movement. Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara said the rain that started around 3.30 p.m. Saturday and continued well into the evening had led to such an inundation on Avinashi Road underpass that the water was only a foot or so beneath the iron casing that protected the railway track. Initially, the Corporation had used the motors it had kept ready to dewater the underpass. But it soon realised that it would need more resources, given the increasing water level. I t requested CRI Pumps, which chipped in with three vehicles fitted with as many motors. Starting late Saturday evening, the Corporation used all the six motors to dewater the underpass, Mr. Sunkara said and added that it took the civic body around 15 hours to completely dewater the area. Even as it was dewatering the area, it had kept ready around 50 workers to remove silt. Zonal Sanitary Officer in-charge, Central Zone, T. Jeganathan said the Corporation mobilised around 20 workers each from three wards for cleaning up Avinashi Road underpass and the adjacent one near Kaleeswara Mill. After removing the water to the extent that the Corporation could deploy the workers, it sent the men, armed with necessary tools, to remove the silt. It had kept ready a lorry used for transporting debris to transport the waste. By the time the Corporation completed the work to throw open the underpass for traffic, it was 15 hours since it started work, said Mr. Sunkara. Prior to deploying the workers at the Avinashi Road underpass, the Corporation had used a few men to remove silt from the Kaleeswara Mill underpass, Mr. Jeganathan added. Likewise in Lanka Corner, at the underpass near Kikani school and in North Coimbatore, the Corporation deployed machinery and used motors to flush out water. A Corporation note showed that it had used 10 sullage vehicles, seven motors, three dewatering vehicles, nine earth movers among other vehicles in the cleaning operation. Even as the dewatering work was underway on Saturday night, Collector G.S. Sameeran and Mr. Sunkara visited the inundated places to supervise the work, said a Corporation communique.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-resumes-on-avinashi-road-underpass-after-water-is-pumped-out/article37860171.ece
06 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Flyovers to come up at Saibaba Colony, Thudiyalur junctions||The State Highways Department (NH wing) plans to construct flyovers at Saibaba Colony junction and Thudiyalur junction and also widen the road at Saravanampatti. An official of the Department said that a flyover was planned at Saibaba Colony junction a few years ago too. However, it was decided to just widen the road. Since the junction continued to face traffic snarls, it was decided to construct a flyover for about a km covering the Saibaba Colony junction and Saibaba Temple junctions on Mettupalayam Road. Similarly, a flyover would be constructed for about a km at Thudiyalur. At Saravanampatti, the plan was to widen the road into a four lane one for nearly six km and widen the existing two lane road to 10 metres for 28 km from Saravanampatti. The total cost for this project was expected to be nearly Rs. 100 crore. The Department had submitted the estimate to the government and would start works after getting the approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flyovers-to-come-up-at-saibaba-colony-thudiyalur-junctions/article37860168.ece
06 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||House-to-house survey to identify differently abled in Coimbatore||A house-to-house survey will be conducted to identify differently abled persons in Coimbatore district and their needs, said Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthil Balaji here on Sunday. He said the survey was to identify persons who are yet to get disability certificates and various assistance from the government. Mr. Balaji flagged off ‘Diversity Ride’, a rally of differently abled persons organised by the Swarga Foundation in association with the district administration and Rotary E-Club of Metro Dynamix, to observe International Day of Disabled Persons. District Collector G.S. Sameeran, Police Commissioner Pradip Kumar, Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara, former MLA N. Karthik and Swarnalatha J, the managing trustee of Swarga Foundation, were present. Persons with disabilities took part in the ride which aimed to create awareness about disability and inclusion, to urge the public to build ramps and wheelchair-friendly toilets, to make the city accessible to differently abled persons and to create more opportunities for them. Mr. Balaji later distributed assistance worth Rs. 1.13 crore to 54 beneficiaries under various welfare schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-to-house-survey-to-identify-differently-abled-in-coimbatore/article37860159.ece
06 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Now traffic violators to sit through class taken by police personnel||Motorists who are found violating traffic rules, such as jumping signals or riding two-wheelers without wearing helmet will now have to sit through a ‘class’ taken by police personnel at select traffic junctions in Coimbatore city. The class for traffic violators is being held under ‘zero violation junction’ initiative started by City Police Commissioner Pradip Kumar. Under the initiative, the traffic police will erect shamiana at select traffic junctions in the city where motorists found violating rules will be made to sit through a class taken by officers. “Improving safety on roads is one of the focus areas of the city police. Zero violation junction is part of various measures on this front,” Mr. Kumar said. According to Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) S.R. Senthil Kumar, such shamianas are in place at Chinthamani junction on Sathyamangalam Road and Anna Stature junction on Avinashi Road. “Most of the traffic violations happen when the motorist is careless or is in a hurry. Such motorists, who are caught during violation, will be made to sit through an awareness class,” he said. The police expect that the class,which stretches up to 30 minutes, will have more impact on motorists than the nominal fine they get for the violation. “This is a continuing programme that we aim to conduct at all major traffic junctions,” the Deputy Commissioner added. Jumping signal, riding two-wheeler without wearing helmet, driving four-wheeler without fastening seatbelt and speaking over mobile phone while driving are the most common violations the police find on city roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-traffic-violators-to-sit-through-class-taken-by-police-personnel/article37860164.ece
06 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||HR manager, hostel warden arrested for assaulting woman worker of mill||The Saravanampatti police in Coimbatore on Sunday arrested the Human Resources (HR) manager of a private spinning mill and the warden of its ladies hostel on charges of assaulting a woman employee, a native of Jharkhand. The action was taken after the video of the assault, which took place over 10 days ago, was widely shared on social media. The police said the mill’s HR manager V. Muthaiah, 46 and warden R. Latha, 39, were arrested on Sunday morning. According to the police, a group of women from Jharkhand came to the mill at Udayampalayam, near Coimbatore, two weeks ago. The mill management claimed to the police that the women remained in the hostel and did not report for work for a week. Video goes viral When Latha questioned the women about it on November 27, one of the women allegedly pushed her. This led to a quarrel and the HR manager beat the woman with a stick, the video of which went viral, the police said. The warden was seen pulling the hair of the woman. Thangadurai, Deputy Director of Industrial Safety and Health, Thudiyalur, lodged a complaint with the police on Saturday. Saravanampatti inspector L. Kanthasamy investigated the incident and arrested the Muthiah and Latha for offences under Sections 294 (b) (obscene acts and songs), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 506 (1) (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and Section 4 (penalty for harassment of women) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act. Deputy Commissioner of Police E.S. Uma said the police had informed the Labour Department to look into the incident. Industry sources said any mill where women workers were not treated according to the norms should be taken to task. “We organise awareness programmes and teach the employees [with a supervisory role] how to treat women workers. There are social audits too. Yet, there are such incidents,” a textile mill association representative said. Officials from various departments, including Revenue, Labour, and Industrial Safety and Health, conducted an inquiry on Sunday evening. Official sources said the mill employed nearly 150 workers. A group of women from Jharkhand had worked at the mill earlier and rejoined duty a month ago. Following the incident about 10 days ago, nearly 20 workers of the group had left the hostel, which is located opposite the mill. The officials will submit a report to the District Collector G.S. Sameeran on Monday. Action will also be taken for other lapses in the unit and the hostel, if any, the officials said.  The mill management claimed to the police that the women remained in the hostel and did not report for work for a week||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hr-manager-hostel-warden-arrested-for-assaulting-woman-worker-of-mill/article37860127.ece
06 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘DPR for solving waterlogging in progress’||Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthil Balaji said on Sunday that a Detailed Project Report (DPR) was being prepared to solve waterlogging in Coimbatore city during rain. The Minister said the issue of inundation of low-lying areas, especially roads and underpasses, during rain has come to the attention of the government and officials were identifying the affected places. The city recorded 71 mm rain on Saturday and many low-lying areas came under water. The government has instructed the district administration and Coimbatore Municipal Corporation to clear waterlogging on a war footing. “As a long-term measure, a DPR is being readied to implement the scheme and avert such incidents in future,” said Mr. Balaji. The Minister, along with District Collector G.S. Sameeran, Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara and senior officials, inspected the underpass of the Avinashi Road flyover at Uppilipalayam where a car was trapped in rainwater during a heavy spell that lasted nearly two hours on Saturday. Underpasses of Avinashi Road flyover, Coimbatore north flyover, rail-over bridges at Lanka Corner, and those near Sivananda Colony and Kikani School are among the low-lying areas that witness waterlogging during heavy rain. They lack a proper draining system which is expected to be addressed in the DPR, said a source in the know of the development. Mr. Balaji told reporters that road works to the tune Rs. 200 crore that was announced by Chief Minister for Coimbatore city will commence soon. Installation and repairing of street lights at a cost of Rs. 20 crore will also start at the earliest. The government has found irregularities in the awarding of contracts of various works, including that of road laying works during the two consecutive AIADMK regime in Coimbatore. Many schemes were announced prior to election, with no proper source of funds, he alleged. The Minister said that a report was being prepared on the 24x7 water supply scheme that is implemented by Suez India Pvt. Ltd. for Coimbatore Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dpr-for-solving-waterlogging-in-progress/article37860176.ece
06 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man beaten to death at Mettupalayam||A 30-year-old man was beaten to death by his friends at Mettupalayam during a brawl on Sunday. The police identified the deceased as A. Jaylani of Sathyamoorthy Nagar. According to the police, Jaylani along with his friends Basith, Nasar, Riyas, Ayyub and Divyaprakash consumed alcohol near Gandhi Ground at Mettupalayam. They said that Jaylani demanded Basith and Nasar to give him money to buy more alcohol. The duo refused to give him cash and which led to a quarrel. Basith and Nasar assaulted Jaylani with heavy objects. A man who found Jaylani lying on the side of a drainage alerted the 108 ambulance service. He was taken to the Government Hospital, Mettupalayam, where doctors declared him brought dead. The police took Basith and Nasar into custody and they were on the lookout for the other men.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-beaten-to-death-at-mettupalayam/article37860179.ece
06 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pump manufacturers step in||Heavy rain in several parts of the State during the last few days had led to flooding on streets and water logging at underpass in many places. Pump manufacturers here have stepped in to support the government in dewatering works. CRI Pumps, as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility initiative, came forward to join the district administration and the civic body in carrying out dewatering at strategic locations on Saturday. CRI Pumps Vice Chairman G. Soundararajan said in a press release that a five-member dewatering team with high capacity mobile dewatering pumps in separate vehicles took up dewatering on Saturday night on Avinashi road underpass, clearing 32 lakh litres with two units. Another unit cleared eight lakh litres of rain water at Sivan temple, Karattumedu, and units 4 and 5 cleared 11 lakh litres at two entry points of Avinashi Road flyover. Ekki Pumps has provided dewatering solutions, deploying men and pumps in Chennai. The Southern India Engineering Manufacturers Association has mobilised pumps from around 10 members for flood relief. These will be given to the local bodies, said the Association president KV Karthik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pump-manufacturers-step-in/article37860174.ece
06 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU bags fourth position||Indian Council of Agricultural Research has placed Tamil Nadu Agricultural University in the fourth position in the list of State agricultural universities. ICAR rank The university said in a release the ICAR had ranked it eighth among agricultural institutions across the country, fourth among State agricultural universities and second among southern agricultural universities. Improvement Faculty aiding more students to get junior research and senior research fellowships was one of the reasons for the university improving its position in the education parameter in the ICAR ranking, the release said, quoting acting Vice Chancellor A.S. Krishnamoorthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-bags-fourth-position/article37860157.ece
06 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 124 cases, Tiruppur 65||Coimbatore district on Sunday reported 124 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 129 persons recovered from the disease on Sunday and the district had 1,279 active cases. The district had a test positivity rate of 1.4 % on Saturday when it reported 130 new cases. Tiruppur district reported 65 new cases, while 46 persons recovered from the infection. The district's toll increased to 1,001 after a 72-year-old man died on Saturday. The district had 626 active cases on Sunday. The Nilgiris district reported 10 new cases. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 34,152. The number of deaths stood at 216 on Sunday, while 162 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-124-cases-tiruppur-65/article37860181.ece
06 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||PG course in emergency medicine at KG Hospital||Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthil Balaji launched a postgraduate degree programme in emergency medicine at KG Hospital here on Sunday. The programme, Master in Emergency Medicine (MEM), is a three-year course which involves a selection process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pg-course-in-emergency-medicine-at-kg-hospital/article37860177.ece
06 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TEA’s appeal to Finance Minister||President of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association Raja M.Shanmugham has appealed to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to  extend the Interest Equalisation Scheme on Pre and Post Shipment Rupee Export Credit for another two years to make knitwear garment exporting units, particularly the MSMEs, more competitive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teas-appeal-to-finance-minister/article37860280.ece
06 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman dies in wall collapse||A 69-year-old woman from Kovilpalayam near Coimbatore died after a portion of her house collapsed on her following rain on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as M. Rajammal, a resident of Devampalayam at Kovilpalayam. The police said that Rajammal had been living with his son-in-law S. Rajan and grandchildren. Rajammal was rushed to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital where doctors declared her dead on arrival. The police have registered a case of unnatural death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-dies-in-wall-collapse/article37860178.ece
06 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Brief reports||President of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association Raja M.Shanmugham has appealed to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to  extend the Interest Equalisation Scheme on Pre and Post Shipment Rupee Export Credit for another two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brief-reports/article37860172.ece
06 December 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Medical student attempts to end life||A second year MBBS student at the Dharmapuri Medical College attempted to end his life allegedly due to ragging. He is undergoing treatment at the medical college hospital. V. Saravanan from Namakkal was allegedly forced by four senior students to get liquor and cigarettes recently. A similar incident occurred on Saturday. Saravanan’s father Venkatachalam said the seniors also attacked his son. They did not lodge a police complaint about the first incident after the college authorities pacified them. Dean K. Amudhavalli said the seniors were suspended after the first incident. Further action would be taken based on inquiry.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-student-attempts-to-end-life/article37860275.ece
06 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Submit vaccination details at ration shop’||Family cardholders were asked to submit the details of the date of their vaccination at the respective ration shops in the district. In a release, Collector H. Krishnanunni said the administration was taking steps to ensure 100% vaccination in the district. Hence, the details of persons, who were vaccinated, were being collected at the ration shops. Family members, aged above 18 years, and who had received their first and second doses were asked to fill the application form and submit at their ration shop. Steps would be taken to help people receive their vaccination near the ration shop. The Collector asked the people to cooperate with the administration to ensure that eligible persons received both their COVID-19 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/submit-vaccination-details-at-ration-shop/article37860278.ece
06 December 2021||ERODE/SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Jayalalithaa’s death anniversary observed||The death anniversary of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa was observed by AIADMK cadre here on Sunday. In Erode, party cadre and former legislators paid floral tributes to the statues of Jayalalithaa and former Chief Minister and party founder M.G. Ramachandran at party office here. They also offered a two-minute silent prayer in memory of the leader. The cadre also garlanded and paid floral tributes to the statues of the leaders at the Paneerselvam park junction here. In Salem, cadre and legislators of AIADMK garlanded statues of Jayalalithaa and M.G.Ramachandran on the Anna Park premises here. Party cadre placed the portrait of Jayalalithaa at various important junctions in the city and paid tributes on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jayalalithaas-death-anniversary-observed/article37860286.ece
06 December 2021||GUDALUR,TAMIL NADU||Boating suspended at Thekkadi||Boating in Thekkady had been temporarily suspended from Monday onwards due to rising water level and widespread rain in the catchment areas of Mullaperiyar dam and Thekkadi, officials said on Sunday. The Kerala Tourism Department were organising boating for 90 minutes from 7.30 a.m., 9.30 a.m., 11.15 a.m., 1.45 p.m. and 3.30 p.m. through Janaraja, Jalayatra, Jalajyoti, Vanalakshmi and Jalatharangini boats, the officials said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boating-suspended-at-thekkadi/article37860165.ece
06 December 2021||KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||Inspector in Theni booked for sexual assault||The All-Women Police, Marthandam, have registered a case of sexual assault against a police officer, currently serving as Inspector in Theni district. Following a petition filed by a woman, the court had directed the police to register a case and take action. The 32-year-old woman, a divorcee, had said that she was living alone after separation. She had admitted her 9-year-old daughter to a hostel. A young man in the locality had promised to marry her. However, he allegedly cheated her, following which she approached personnel attached to the Palukal police station, and lodged a complaint with the Sub-Inspector (SI). According to the woman, while she expected relief, the SI, under the guise of helping, sexually assaulted her. When she informed the SI that she was pregnant, the police officer insisted on her getting an abortion. Despite her refusal, some friends, including a policeman and a woman doctor, performed the abortion, she said in her petition. Since then, she had become weak, the woman said. She approached the court, as her complaints at other police stations too were of no help. The court then directed the police to register a case against the officer. A probe revealed that the SI, on promotion, now served in Theni district. The police said cases had also been registered against seven others who allegedly helped the officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-in-theni-booked-for-sexual-assault/article37860122.ece
06 December 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||For Vepanapalli, a river is the only road to education||Every evening, K. Ajith rushes to the Vepanapalli river when students, after school, trudge down the dirt track from the Vepanapalli main road and gather by the river’s bank. Mr. Ajith, 25, runs his own tipper that ferries M-sand from a quarry. But in the evenings, he drops everything to be at the river to help the students of Inam Guttupalli village cross the river. Inam Guttupalli in Naaduvanapalli panchayat, Kundaparalli, is nestled amid farmlands, and is flanked by the Thalli Kottur lake on one side and the meandering Vepanapalli on the other. In the mornings and the evenings, men, mostly the youth, wait by the river to help students wade through the water. Girls are slowly guided through the treacherous rocks on the river bed, at times in knee-deep water and sometimes even up to the thigh. “It is risky, and we know that. But there is no other way,” says 54-year-old Narayanan. As he speaks, N. Murali, a Class 10 student of the Government Boys Higher Secondary School, cycles up to the river, lifts up his cycle on his shoulder and slowly crosses the river, balancing the vehicle and his school bag. For Inam Guttupalli’s residents, crossing the river means an under 300-m access to the Vepanapalli main road, its bus stand and the government primary and secondary schools. The other alternative is the foot-wide unmotorable bunds on the vast fields — a 4 km to 6 km walk to the same main road and bus stand. For the girls, the long walk through the desolate fields after twilight is unsafe. “When there is no adult in sight, we wait, sometime for half an hour or more, till someone comes,” says M. Srisha of Class XII. “Our parents are wage workers, and they cannot always be in the village to come and fetch us from across the river,” says S. Shyamala, a Class XI student. The girls missed school the whole of last week, when the river raged several meters high, something unseen since the 2017 floods here.  “High school students wait by the river even if we adults are a little late. But it is worrying to send the younger ones to school,” says Mr. Narayanan. “We need a bridge,” adds Mr. Ajith. Over the years, the residents have made ad hoc arrangements to cross the river. Some parts were leveled with bedsand to make a makeshift pathway, cutting through the river. Whenever the river was in spate, the sand bridge got washed away. The village, with 42 families, also pooled in a few lakhs of rupees and purchased land parcels to pave a narrow strip, running through the patta lands, from the river to the main road. They paved their own dirt track, wide enough for two cars to pass. “All we need is a bridge across the river,” says Mr. Ajith, mentioning the futile petitions made to local officials and parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-vepanapalli-a-river-is-the-only-road-to-education/article37860290.ece
06 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Full tanks make city residents happy||On his way to work, S. Radhakrishnan, a resident of Gomathipuram, stopped at Melamadai to enjoy the water overflowing from Vandiyur tank. It is almost five years since this much water is overflowing, he says as the sound of gushing and swirling waters almost submerges the excited shouts of those fishing in the waters. This north-east monsoon has brought with it copious rains and almost all the tanks in the city and suburbs are brimming with water. Near Tirupparankundram, waterbodies such as Koothiyarkundu tank are full. For farmers, a bountiful paddy harvest season is in waiting. Madakulam, the biggest tank in Madurai district, is not only full but throbs with life too. The sound of chirping birds is heard above the gentle splash of waters hitting the shore. Karthik from Muniyandipuram says though quite a tidy sum was spent by way of ‘kudimaramathu,’ the work was not done in a sustained manner. As a result, wild bushes strangle the waterbody on all sides. Walking on the bund, one can see surface runoff having carved out its path from the nearby hillock to the waterbody. If rejuvenation of the tank is not done, they may turn into breaches, says Mr. Karthik. For V. Manjula, a homemaker from Bank Colony on the other side of the Vaigai, filling up of Nainarkulam has come as a big relief. She says construction of the elevated corridor on New Natham Road has actually helped in desilting the tank and strengthening of its embankments. A. Chelliah, a realtor in K. Pudur, points out that waterbodies in areas such as Kadachanendal and Surya Nagar are not properly demarcated leading to temporary structures being built on the edges. Pointing out to Kodikulam, he shows how encroachments, piling up of garbage and wild growth of weeds and bushes have led to the shrinking of the tank. ‘It’s a process’ N. Venkatesan, Programme Leader, Dhan Foundation, says, “Maintenance of waterbodies has to be a continuous process, as tanks had not been desilted in the past two years due to COVID-19 pandemic. During peak summer, when tanks are dry, desilting work would be taken up but due to the lockdown it was not possible.” This year, it is due to the bountiful rains that all waterbodies are full. Not just rains in catchment areas of the tanks helped but the rains that lashed across Madurai has added to the capacity of these tanks. Some tanks like Sakkiliankuzham and Chichillipai near Kadachanendal, which never fill up, were for the first time seeing outflow of surplus water. “Hence, we cannot say desilting helped fill up the 56 kanmois within the Corporation limits. It was thanks to the above average rainfall that the district received in November, well exceeding 60 mm,” Mr. Venkatesan adds. Now, what is needed is proper annual maintenance of these waterbodies by the government so that the water table is sustained in the days to come.  Waterbodies in areas such as Kadachanendal and Surya Nagar are not properly demarcated leading to encroachments K. Pudur resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/full-tanks-make-city-residents-happy/article37860437.ece
06 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Plan to make Madurai a hub for exporting horticulture produce’||Madurai would be developed as a hub for exporting horticulture produce from southern districts, said Commercial Taxes and Registration Minister P. Moorthi here on Sunday. Speaking at ‘mupperum vizha’ organised at Agricultural College and Research Institute, he said that the State government had prepared many plans for the development of agriculture sector. Among them was tabling of an exclusive budget for agriculture. After almost over a decade, water from Mullaperiyar dam was released on June 1 for irrigation. Farmers should have benefited due to the timely release, which could not be done in the past. Farmers must make the best use of the recent copious rains. Through new techniques and adopting right technology, they could get higher yield and higher productivity from their lands, Mr. Moorthi said. Agriculture officials must educate farmers about the importance of minimal use of fertilisers so that their produce would attract the importers, as in the case of succesful export of drumsticks, the Minister said. Marking World Soil Day, he gave away saplings of fruit-bearing trees, sprinklers and other gadgets - all worth Rs. 5.40 lakh. - to 19 beneficiaries. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar, Joint Director Vivekanandam, AC and RI Principal Palpandi, MLA K Boominathan were present. The Agriculture Department conducted a training programme under ATMA scheme for the farmers on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plans-for-development-of-agriculture-sector/article37860256.ece
06 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Official conducts speed trial on Madurai-Manamadurai line||Commissioner of Railway Safety, Bengaluru, Abhay Kumar Rai, inspected the electrified railway line between Madurai and Manamadurai on Sunday. Along with Chief Project Director of Railway Electrification Sameer Dighe; Principal Chief Electrical Engineer of Southern Railway R. K. Mehta; and Additional Divisional Railway Manager T. Ramesh Babu, he conducted inspection of the electrified line at various stations, bridges and rail overbridges. Later, he conducted a speed trial on the 47-km stretch from Manamadurai to Madurai at a speed of 100 kmph. Electrification on this section by Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE) began in June 2020 and the line was energised in March 2021. With two ROBs within Madurai city limits having low clearance for the electrified line, the officials waited for their condonation from the Railway Board, according to an official. Passenger trains can be operated on this section after the authorisation by the CRS. Electrification work upto Ramanathapuram (another 60 km) has been completed and final touches are being given. Senior Divisional Electrification Engineer Pitchu Ramesh and Divisional Safety Officer Manoharan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-manamadurai-electrified-line-inspected/article37860268.ece
06 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for attempt to kidnap school boy||Two persons were arrested on a charge of attempting to kidnap a boy at Thuvariman here on Wednesday. Police said the boy, studying Class XII, was riding his bicycle from Thuvariman to his school when two persons tried to waylay him. When they tried to drag him into a cargo van, the alert boy escaped from their clutches and managed to reach the school. When he narrated the incident to his parents on returning home, his father lodged a complaint with Nagamalai Pudukottai police. The police found that C. Senthil Kannan, 34, who runs a vulcanising shop, had conspired with his friends to kidnap someone for ransom to clear his debts. The police arrested Senthil Kannan and his accomplice M. Saravanan of Thuvariman and are on the lookout for one Malaisamy of Virudhunagar. The father of the boy is running a grocery shop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-attempt-to-kidnap-school-boy/article37860259.ece
06 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Singapore returnee tests positive||One person out of four members of a family, which reached Nagercoil from Singapore, after landing at the Madurai airport on Saturday, has tested positive for COVID-19. He has been admitted to the Asaripallam Government Hospital in Nagercoil, after the test result was conveyed by health officials in Madurai. A health official said the man flew down to Madurai via Sri Lanka. The family was allowed to go home after they tested negative in the rapid COVID-19 test. However, the result of the man’s RT-PCR test returned positive on Sunday. The result of the genomic sequencing of the patient’s sample is awaited, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/singapore-returnee-tests-positive/article37860128.ece
06 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Mullaperiyar dam reached its maximum permissible limit of 142 feet with an inflow of 2,406 cusecs and a discharge of 1,344 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 70.11 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 3,545 cusecs and a discharge of 5,090 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 11,110 mcft. Rainfall recorded in various places during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday was (in mm): Idayapatti 51, Shanmuganadhi dam 42.5, Viraganur 37, Sothuparai dam 36, Andipatti 35.2, Veerapandi 32, Madurai 30.2, Kallandiri 28.8, Uthamapalayam 23.4, Mettupatti 17.2, Chittampatti 10.2, Kodaikanal 9.8, Peranai 9, Sathayar dam 5, Gudalur 3.2, Mullaperiyar dam 2.6, Thekkadi 1.6 and Vaigai dam 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37860264.ece
06 December 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Woman, newborn die after home delivery||Mangalamedu police have launched an investigation into the death of a woman and her new born daughter after the delivery allegedly took place in her house at Anukkur village in the district. The incident occurred on the night of December 3 and the matter was reported to the police the next day. Police identified the deceased woman as D. Selvarani, 37, who had a 17-year-old daughter and a 12-year-old son. She is said to have felt ashamed to convey her pregnancy to the family as she already had two grown-up children and reportedly concealed the matter for long claiming that she was unwell, said the police. The woman delivered of a baby girl without any help on the terrace of her house apparently when her husband was also away. She allegedly wrapped the new born in bedsheets, and felt unwell post-delivery. Situation turns worse Her daughter who noticed her mother in poor health alerted 108 ambulance. She was rushed to Perambalur Government Hospital but died. Some time later, the cries of the baby alerted the family who noticed the infant wrapped in the bedsheets. The infant was immediately rushed to the government hospital, but the baby also died. Mangalamedu Police registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on a complaint preferred by the woman's husband, Dileep Kumar, who works in a fuel outlet. The postmortem was done and the bodies were handed over to the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-newborn-die-after-home-delivery/article37860166.ece
06 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Private buses continue to flout rules||Commuting on several pothole-ridden arterial stretches connecting the city with neighbouring districts has become a nightmare for motorists due to reckless driving of private buses. The city traffic police and the Transport Department have been finding it to tough to rein in the errant drivers and ensure smooth flow of traffic. The Union Territory has a little over 7,000 buses. Of these, over 3,600 are inter-State and intra-State buses. With most buses flouting the rules, there is a serious problem, motorists say. A case in point is the Villupuram Road where private buses stop in the middle of the road to allow people to board and alight. With no service lane, the motorists behind are just forced to halt till the buses move. Over-speeding and rash driving are behind over 50% of road accidents, followed by negligence of drivers of heavy vehicles, especially private buses. A majority of road accidents have occurred on the arterial Cuddalore Road and Villupuram Road, data shows. In all these cases, the police registered a case under Section 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code. An errant driver booked under these sections can get imprisonment, which may extend up to six months or be fined or imprisoned and fined. According to an official, though speed limits have been set for national highways passing through the city, private buses continue to flout the rules. Most private buses are owned by politicians and action is rarely taken against them, he says. Private buses crossing the speed limits and posing a threat to motorcyclists and even cars is a common sight on the Cuddalore Road. J.M. Khader, a cab driver, said, “A private bus driver followed me for more than 5 km after I refused to budge at a narrow stretch in front of an educational institution on the Cuddalore Road. He wanted me to make way for him to overtake. Angered, he trailed my car barely a few feet behind and kept honking on the road for the next 10 minutes. I stopped the car and the bus crew threatened to run over me. I noted down the number and informed the police.” Most of the private bus drivers drive the wrong way while overtaking, jump signals and honk incessantly, intimidating other road users. Even when complaints are lodged, revocation of licenses are not done frequently and the drivers continue to indulge in negligent and rash driving, motorists say. Transport Department officials say that cut-throat competition among the crew of private buses to quickly reach their destinations is one of the major reasons for rise in fatal accidents. The department has been conducting day-long drives and booking violators. “We will keep a tab on them in the coming days,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-buses-continue-to-flout-rules/article37860533.ece
06 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 29 new COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory recorded 29 new cases of COVID-19 and no death on Sunday. Puducherry logged 15 new cases, which were detected from 1,464 tests, followed by three in Karaikal and 11 in Mahe. No new case was reported from Yanam. With 43 COVID-19 patients recovering in 24 hours, the active cases stood at 280. Of them, 52 patients were in hospital and 228 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.52%, the case fatality rate 1.45% and the recovery rate 98.33%. The cumulative toll remained at 1,875, with Puducherry accounting for 1,464 deaths, Karaikal 251, Yanam 108 and Mahe 52. The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,29,085 cases and 1,26,930 recoveries. Jabs made mandatory The Puducherry Government has announced that COVID-19 vaccination is compulsory in the Union Territory. A press release from Director of Health and Family Welfare Services G. Sriramulu said the order will come into effect immediately. The government has invoked the provisions of the Puducherry Public Health Act, 1973 to implement the compulsory vaccination. Those violating the order will be liable for penal action, as per the provisions of the Act, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-29-new-covid-19-cases/article37860526.ece
06 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rangasamy unhappy over dip in Central allocation of grant-in-aid||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy has expressed dismay over the continued dip in Central allocation of grant-in-aid for Puducherry. “It is a matter of concern. The grant-in aid from Centre continue to decrease. We don’t have any powers as we come under the control of Union Home Minister. Even though we have intention to implement various schemes, we do not have the resource and power. The Centre should provide grant as was done before,” he said at the valedictory of a stakeholders’ meeting organised by the Tourism Department on Saturday. Mr. Rangasamy’s All India NR Congress is running a coalition government with the Bharatiya Janata Party. The only way forward was to enhance own resources, especially in the tourism sector, he said urging the department to fast-track decision making. The department should give clearance for tourism-related projects in a month after an application was filed to start a venture, he added. “The tourism sector is one of my priority areas as it is a source for revenue mobilisation. The government will give all necessary support. More funds will be sought from the Centre to implement various schemes,” he added. Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan also participated in the function.  The tourism sector is one of my priority areas as it is a source for revenue mobilisation. The government will give all necessary support||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangasamy-unhappy-over-dip-in-central-allocation-of-grant-in-aid/article37860530.ece
06 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Five more held in murder case||The Mudaliarpet police on Sunday arrested five more persons in connection with the murder of a history-sheeter and his friend at Vanarapet here on October 24. The arrested were identified as Devaraj, Venkatesan, Senthil Kumar, Diwakar and Mithun Kumar, all hailing from Lawspet. Police said the five had supplied country-made bombs to the main accused, Arun, of Vanarapet and Praveen of Reddichavadi in Cuddalore district. The victims, ‘Bomb’ Ravi, 33, a history-sheeter of Dubrayapet and Anthony, 28, were riding a two-wheeler when a gang hurled a country-made bomb and hacked them to death. The police seized five mobile phones from the arrested. They were produced before a local court and remanded to custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-more-held-in-murder-case/article37860522.ece
06 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Tank surplus goes waste into sea||Farmers in Ramanathapuram district have appealed to the Tamil Nadu government to prevent the huge amount of water from going waste into the sea by constructing a check dam in the tail end area. At a meeting held here on Sunday, various farmers’ associations said the rainfall in Varushanadu area in Theni district criss-crossed several areas in south Tamil Nadu and reached the Big Tank here. When the maximum level of the tank was reached, the excess water was diverted into the sea through R. Kavanoor canal. When the surplus water overflowed from the tank a few days ago, close to 15 villages, including Sevvur and Pullangudi, were inundated up to knee level or were marooned. The rainwater also entered Tangedco substation at R. Kavanoor. Chilli crop raised on close to 600 acres at R. Kavanoor was destroyed due to the water flow. Since the water could not be drained or diverted, the crop was destroyed, the farmers said. Instead of letting the huge amount of water into the sea, the government should explore the possibility of preserving it by constructing a check dam in the tail end area. If it was done, the water which travelled around 250 km from Theni district to Ramanathapuram could be saved, they said. If a check dam was constructed, the water table in Therbogi, Athiyoothu, Kazhuvoorani, Kuyavankudi, Valantharavai, Vazhuthoor, Perungulam and Panaikulam and other villages would get recharged considerably, the added. Whenever there was a heavy rainfall in Theni district, 8,000 cusecs flowed through Dindigul, Madurai and Sivaganga districts, and reached the Big Tank. Till Paramakudi, the water flowed in the Vaigai. At Aatrankarai in Ramanathapuram district, the water flowed into the Palk Bay, the farmers said and urged the government to build a check dam at a suitable location. Almost 50 years ago, former Chief Minister K. Kamaraj constructed Vaigai dam and the water conserved there benefited five districts. Water was released from Vaigai dam twice a year for irrigation and other purposes, they said and proposed the idea to the government and resolved to submit a memorandum to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in this regard soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tank-surplus-goes-waste-into-sea/article37860262.ece
06 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||3 held for cheating car owners||Three persons were arrested on the charge of cheating different persons and 16 four-wheelers, which were illegally pledged with private financiers, were recovered on Sunday. Bazaar police registered a complaint based on a complaint from Muniasami, son of Chinnakkanu, which stated that he had given a car with M. Illayaraja (39) of Raja Street, Ramanathapuram, and his brother Karthik (34) on a monthly contract for payment. The agreement was that the brothers would have to remit the sum every month and also maintain the car in good condition. However, the duo neither gave the rent nor maintained the car properly as per the agreement. When Muniasami asked them to return his vehicle, there was no response. Hence, he lodged a complaint. Discreet probe revealed that along with the two brothers, their accomplice Subramanian also figured in the case. The Sub-Inspector of Police (crime) Ravichandran said that Illayaraja and Karthik had allegedly been in the habit of giving false promises to people and getting their cars. Assuring that they would give monthly rent, the duo had reportedly cheated as many as 16 people and pledged their cars with some private money lenders and financiers. Based on their confessions, the police recovered the 16 cars and produced the trio before a court. Superintendent of Police E. Karthik commended the team for their good work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/16-four-wheelers-pledged-illegally-recovered-3-held/article37860260.ece
06 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Youth dies after release from custody||L. Manikandan, a 21-year-old college student from Neer Kozhiyenthal village near Mudukalathur, Ramanathapuram district, died on Sunday. He was released from police custody on Saturday evening after being detained during a vehicle check. The police were carrying out a vehicle check on the Paramakudi-Keezhathooval road on Saturday, when Manikandan was riding a motorcycle with his friend. As he did not stop, an officer chased his vehicle and detained him for interrogation at the Keezhathooval police station. In the evening, he was handed over to his parents. Manikandan complained that the police had beaten him, his family said. The youth was found unconscious early Sunday, and was rushed to the Mudukalathur General Hospital. Doctors declared him brought dead. The family said the youth was beaten by the police, causing his death. As news spread on Sunday, Manikandan’s relatives gathered on the Mudukalathur-Paramakudi road and resorted to a blockade. A police team pacified the family and assured them of action as per the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-dies-after-release-from-custody/article37860121.ece
06 December 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Remote Ranipet villages to get piped water supply soon||Long-distance trekking to fetch a few pots of potable water by residents, who are mostly farmers and agricultural labourers, from remote villages in Ranipet district will soon come to an end as the work on the Chembedu joint drinking water project is nearing completion. Various works at an estimated cost of Rs. 42.30 crore under the Centrally-sponsored Jal Jeevan Mission Drinking Water Project have been taken up. Officials said the works including laying of pipelines, construction of Over Head Tanks and installation of borewells along Palar river were being done jointly by the Tamil Nadu Drinking Water Drainage Board (TNDWDB) and Rural Development (RD) Department. District Collector D. Bhaskara Pandian on Saturday inspected several villages where the water supply work is underway. “Tail-end areas, especially remote villages, will get piped water supply soon. Efforts are being taken to complete remaining work in the next few months,” said Mr. Pandian. At present, 2.4 lakh households were given piped water supply under the project. Work on providing water supply to the remaining 1.54 lakh households in the district are underway. Officials said the aim was to provide clean drinking water to residents round the year. Accordingly, each village will have one self -help group (SHG) with five women residents to monitor the water supply and its quality. A testing kit would also be provided to the group. Meanwhile, officials said 365 Sri Lankan Tamils in rehabilitation camps in Vellore and Gudiyatham would get a free Pongal kit containing 20 grocery items to celebrate the festival next month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remote-ranipet-villages-to-get-piped-water-supply-soon/article37860527.ece
06 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK won in Salem by giving false promises’||Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru said the AIADMK won in the Assembly elections in Salem by giving false promises to the public and asked DMK party cadre to work for a huge win in the coming urban local body elections. Mr. Nehru met the DMK party functionaries here on Sunday and discussed measures for the urban local body elections. He said cadre, who had winning probabilities, would be given opportunities in the elections. He said AIADMK won in (majority of seats) the Assembly elections by giving false promises like 10.5% quota for Vanniyar community. No development works had happened in the district during the past regime. The Minister said Rs. 300 crore had been allotted for development works in the district and focus would be on providing basic amenities. Mr. Nehru said the local body elections might be held on a single day. The Chief Minister would launch the urban development scheme and Namukku Namme Scheme during his visit to Salem on December 11. Action had been taken on 26,000 petitions of the over 46,000 petitions received during the special grievances redress camps in the district and the Chief Minister would distribute welfare assistance to the beneficiaries during his visit, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-won-in-salem-by-giving-false-promises/article37860288.ece
06 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Bird enthusiasts to identify more wetlands for waterbird survey||Bird enthusiasts are working on identifying more wetlands for the annual waterbird survey to be conducted in January as the recent rain has replenished many waterbodies in the district. Members of the Salem Ornithological Foundation have been conducting waterbird survey as part of the Asian Waterbird Census in the district for the past two years and recording bird varieties seen along the wetlands in the district. The Foundation has also been recording the characteristics of the wetlands as part of the study. The bird enthusiasts visited over 50 lakes in 2020 as part of the studies. They visited 265 lakes in the district in 2021 and looking at increasing the number to 300 in 2022. S.V. Ganeshwar, member of the organisation, said, “water level has improved in several waterbodies that appeared dried during previous years. Water level has improved in several small waterbodies and ponds in the district. Hence, we are planning to conduct the survey at more number of waterbodies this year.” He said besides surveying the birds spotted at a wetland, they also recorded characteristics of the wetland like if there were any odour, was it polluted, and presence of water hyacinths. Over 20 members are involved in the survey here. Mr. Ganeshwar said the survey would be conducted in January as it was non-breeding period and migration period for majority of birds. Based on the outcomes of the study this year, the organisation is planning to conduct prolonged studies at major waterbodies here. In 2021, of the 265 wetlands studied, 168 bird varieties were identified by the enthusiasts here including varieties like Chestnut-bellied Sandgrouse, Blyth’s Swift, European Bee-eater, Marshall’s Iora and Red Munia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bird-enthusiasts-to-identify-more-wetlands-for-waterbird-survey/article37860282.ece
06 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,600 petitions cleared through camps||As many as 1,659 petitions received through patta correction special camps were addressed immediately, a release said. District Collector S. Karmegham said in a release that special camps were conducted twice a week, on Wednesdays and Fridays between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. at all taluks in the district. A deputy collector rank officer is appointed as monitoring and disposal officer and necessary corrections are made online. Petitions regarding other grievances like old age pension, house patta and lack of basic amenities are received during these camps and receipt for the petitions were provided through the website gdp.tn.gov.in. Mr. Karmegham said the petitions should be sent by January 15, 2022. Nine special camps were conducted in the district between October 29 and December 1 and 6,473 petitions were received in these camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1600-petitions-cleared-through-camps/article37860283.ece
06 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Agriculture training held||The Agricultural Technology Management Agency organised a training for farmers on vermicompost production technologies near Kadayampatti here recently. According to a release, the farmers were trained on various elements of vermicompost production like selection of suitable earthworm and site for vermicompost production, containers, watering the vermibed, harvesting vermicompost and harvesting earthworm nutritive value of vermicompost. The farmers were advised on the benefits of vermicompost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agriculture-training-held/article37860284.ece
06 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 59 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district reported 59 COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday. The district has 754 active cases as on Sunday. In Salem, 37 positive cases were reported on Sunday. According to health officials, 27 cases were indigenous. Namakkal district saw 41 fresh cases. As per the bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Six indigenous cases were reported in Dharmapuri and eight cases in Krishnagiri. As per the bulletin, two deaths were reported in Salem, one in Namakkal and one in Krishnagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-59-new-covid-19-cases/article37860285.ece
06 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Mettur dam up||The discharge from Mettur dam was increased since late hours of Saturday. According to officials in Public Works Department, at 7 p.m. on Saturday, water level at the dam was 120ft and the storage was 93,470 mcft. The inflow to the dam increased to 17,400 cusecs during the late hours of Saturday. The discharge to Cauvery river was increased to 17,000 cusecs and 400 cusecs was released through East-West canal. At 8 a.m. on Sunday, the inflow increased to 17,500 cusecs. The discharge through Cauvery river was w17,000 cusecs and 500 cusecs was released through East-West canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-from-mettur-dam-up/article37860287.ece
06 December 2021||SIVAKASI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in road accident||Two persons were killed after a TNSTC bus hit the motorbike they were riding on Sivakasi-Sitharajapuram Road on Sunday night. The police identified the deceased as K. Kumar, 29, and his friend V. Ponnupandi, 23, of Peranaickkanpatti. The police said when they were crossing a petrol bunk on Sasi Nagar, the bus proceeding to Ezhayirampannai hit the bike. Both were killed on the spot. Sivakasi Town police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-as-bus-hits-motorcycle/article37860258.ece
06 December 2021||SIVAKASI,TAMIL NADU||Boy washed away||A 13-year-old boy, A. Sheik Aslam, was washed away by water that was flowing over Vadamalapuram causeway near Tiruthangal on Sunday afternoon. Fire and Rescue Services personnel fished out his body after more than two hours of struggle. Police said the boy, along with two others, was playing at the spot by riding a moped. While crossing the causeway, the strong water current pulled the moped. While the two boys escaped from the water, Aslam was washed away along with the vehicle. Tiruthangal police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-washed-away-near-vadamalapuram/article37860269.ece
06 December 2021||SIVAKASI,TAMIL NADU||One killed as electric pole falls||A worker, K. Kaliraj, 27, of Namaskarithanpatti was killed and two others, V. Murugesan, 29, and P. Mutheeswaran, 30, both from of M. Pudupatti, sustained bleeding injuries as a concrete electric pole fell down when they were working to provide overhead cable connection at Tiruthangal on Saturday. The police said the new concrete pole had broken a few inches above the ground level when Kaliraj and Murugesan were atop it. As both the workers had fastened themselves to the pole with ropes to fix electrical fittings, they could not escape when the pole came crashing down. Kaliraj was killed on the spot and Mr. Murugesan suffered a fracture and head injury. Mr. Mutheeswaran, who was standing on the ground, also sustained injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-killed-as-electric-pole-falls-down/article37860270.ece
06 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Tank renovated||The renovated tank at Sakarapaniswamy temple, Kumbakonam, was sanctified on December 3. Walls and a widened platform on three sides of the tank were renovated at a cost of Rs. 5 lakh through a sponsor, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tank-renovated/article37860231.ece
06 December 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage protest||Demanding the Union government to take stern action against the Kerala government for its false propaganda on the safety and security of Mullaperiyar dam, farmers from five southern districts of Tamil Nadu resorted to a road blockade on Sunday. As a result of the agitation, vehicular movement on Kumuli-Lower Camp ghat section was choked for over two hours. Vehicles had lined up on both sides of the road for over two kilometres, officials said. The farmers, led by S.R. Thevar and other leaders, had announced to take out a rally to counter the motorcycle rally being taken out by a group in Kerala against Mullaperiyar dam’s existence. As the farmers were proceeding from different parts of Theni district towards Kumuli, a large posse of police personnel, led by ASP Sreya Gupta, was deployed. The police denied permission for the protest. There was some wordy altercation between police personnel and a farmers’ leaders. “When Kerala government gave permission for their people to take out a rally, why are the Tamil Nadu police denying permission to us?,” asked Anwar Balasingam, coordinator of the associations. Since the police were firm, the farmers decided to take out a padayatra to Pennicuick Memorial and squatted on the road. They demanded that the Collector come to the spot. However, Tahsildar Arjunan and other officials held talks with them. They gave an assurance that the issue would be taken up with the Tamil Nadu government and the Centre through the Collector, following which they dispersed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-urge-centre-to-take-action-against-kerala/article37860253.ece
06 December 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Maoist held in Maharashtra, produced in Theni court||A Maoist, Yogesh Madan, 35, from Maharashtra, was arrested by Tamil Nadu Q Branch police team and handed over to Theni police, who produced him before a court. He was remanded in judicial custody at Thekkampatti district jail in Theni district on Sunday. The police said following information that some group was giving training to youth in remote locations in Varushanadu forests, the armed police reached the spot and secured five people, including Yogesh Madan, after opening fire in 2007. After remaining in the prison for two years, Yogesh Madan got bail. Thereafter, he never appeared in the court. Several summons issued to him were returned as he was not in the address given, the police said. When Chief Judicial Magistrate Venkatesan directed the police to arrest the accused and produce before the court within a deadline, the government deployed a special team from the Q Branch, which camped in Maharashtra and nabbed Yogesh Madan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maoist-held-in-maharashtra-produced-in-theni-court/article37860254.ece
06 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for killing stray dog||Sattankulam police have arrested two persons on the charge of killing a stray dog here on Saturday. Following a video, which went viral on the social media, the Blue Cross members informed the Superintendent of Police about the cruelty to an animal. The SP directed the Sattankulam DSP Raju to examine the video and initiate action. A team led by Inspector of Police Baskaran found that two days ago, the dog had harmed a few goats belonging to a resident in Peikulam North Street. In a bid to take revenge, the man identified as E Sundaram alias Das, 30, had sought the help of two of his friends Su Esakimuthu alias Kottai, 36, and P. Kumar, 32. On December 4, they stoned and beaten the dog with a wooden log, the video of which, went viral in the social media. After ascertaining the truth, the team arrested Sundaram and Esakimuthu while they were on the look out for Kumar. Further investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-killing-stray-dog/article37860257.ece
06 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Post-rain, roads cry out for repair||Poor condition of the roads in the city has made driving a nightmarish experience for motorists after the extended spell of seasonal rain during October and November. Barring roads in interior places and lanes, most of the arterial roads were relatively in motorable condition until September, Some of the roads, including Shastri Road, Sivaprakasam Road in Anna Nagar, were relaid soon after the DMK assumed power in May. K.N. Nehru, Minister for Municipal Administration, played a role in relaying some of the important roads. But the road infrastructure suffered extensive damage due to the heavy rainfall to such an extent that even the recently laid ones and the smart roads reflected the drastic impact. Almost all roads have been eroded. Most of the roads are ridden with deep potholes. The residential colonies, which were inundated with water for more than three weeks, have been the worst hit. None of the roads in Kumaran Nagar, Ramalinga Nagar, Srinivasa Nagar, Ammayappa Nagar, Bank Colony, Shanmuga Nagar, Bharathi Nagar is in good condition for vehicular movement. The condition of some roads in the city is so bad that motorists are finding it difficult even to move at a slow pace. Madurai Road, West Boulevard Road, Bheema Nagar, East Boulevard Road and Sivaprakasam Road are among the roads that have been hit hard due to the impact of the rain. Similar is the condition of roads in Srirangam, Thiruvanaikoil, K.K. Nagar, Edamalaipattipudur, Edatheru, Varaganeri, J.K. Nagar, Wireless Road and Thanjavur Road. Though driving of light to heavy vehicles on roads while raining is said to be the main reason for the erosion, many point out that the poor quality of roads and use of sub-standard material have also caused extensive damage. “How do we ride cars or two-wheelers if we encounter deep potholes every 10 to 20 meters?. We need to negotiate very carefully. Poor roads not only make driving difficult but also increase the wear and tear of vehicles,” says M. Venkatesan, a resident of Bharathi Nagar on Vayalur Road. Many complain that Tiruchi Corporation has failed to take steps to make the roads motorable. In some places, the civic body is said to have taken up patchwork. But, the improper patchwork has added to the woes of the commuters. “The damage to the road infrastructure due to rain is unprecedented in recent years. Almost all roads, including bus routes, roads in residential colonies, lanes and bylanes have to be relaid. As the northeast monsoon season shows signs of decline, the Corporation should take up road restoration work immediately,” says Ghouse Baig, a consumer activist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-rain-roads-cry-out-for-repair/article37860240.ece
06 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vigil stepped up at railway stations in Tiruchi division||Vigil has been stepped up at important railway stations in Tiruchi and other places in the division in view of Babri Masjid Demolition anniversary on Monday. The Government Railway Police (GRP) in coordination with Railway Protection Force (RPF) have mobilised strength to mount vigil at various stations and surroundings as a precautionary measure. Extra personnel have been drawn from the Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalion to enhance surveillance, said railway police sources. According to a senior GRP officer here, a separate security scheme has been drawn up and put in place from December 4. RPF and GRP personnel conducted anti-sabotage checks at Tiruchi railway junction on Sunday. The RPF Bomb Detection Squad is also involved in the anti-sabotage checks conducted as part of bandobust measures. The station platforms, parcel office and vehicle parking lot have been thoroughly checked, said a senior RPF officer. The personnel also conducted random checks in the coaches of Mayiladuthurai-bound Jan Shatabdi Express.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vigil-stepped-up-at-railway-stations-in-tiruchi-division/article37860248.ece
06 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A life in darkness on Kavalkaran Street||Most houses on Kavalkaran Street in Woraiyur, predominantly consisting of families of grinding stone makers, are yet to get electricity connection. The homes are tile-roofed and were constructed in 1984, but since then there has been no development or maintenance of the area. In close vicinity to the famous Vekkaliamman Temple in Woraiyur lies Kavalkaran street, where around 12 families of grinding stone makers reside. Their homes are old and dilapidated, with no electricity or even a drainage canal for wastewater to flow. The residents, including at least 10 children, depend on streetlights. Speaking to The Hindu , D. Kathaee, an old woman whose family has lived in the colony for generations, said they were shifted to the present location after one of their members died in an accident. “We stayed along the roadside near Woraiyur police station. One night, a man was run over following which the then Collector gave us this land and shifted us here," she said. The residents lived in the area until 1984 when the then Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran sanctioned constructed houses for them. “The homes had pattas and other necessary documents. However, the then Collector said he would be the custodian of the property titles as he was worried the men would pawn it for alcohol,” Kathaee said. In 2009, some maintenance work was done at some houses in the colony. However, there is still no access to electricity. The residents approached officials of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board, who, on their part, refused to provide connections to houses without pattas. S. Suppamma, another resident, said the suffering families submitted a petition to the Collector a few weeks ago. Due to lack of facilities, around four families vacated the area. The ones who remained did not have the resources to move. “We are planning a protest if action is not taken,” the resident said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-life-in-darkness-on-kavalkaran-street/article37860245.ece
06 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Guest lecturers of 10 govt. colleges stage demonstration||Guest lecturers of the 10 newly converted government colleges staged a demonstration on Sunday demanding immediate settlement of unpaid salaries. Backed by Association of University Teachers, the guest lecturers sought enhanced salary with effect from January 21, and called upon the administration of Bharathidasan University to abide by the government directive to meet the salary expenditure until further notice. Likewise, the State government must pass an order to streamline salary payment, and to extend medical insurance for guest lecturers, the protesters emphasised. During October, the Higher Education Department had directed the university that it was responsible for paying salary and honorarium to teaching and non-teaching staff of the erstwhile constituent colleges until funds were allotted by the government. The government had informed that the expenditure incurred by the university would be reimbursed later. The letter from the higher education department had referred to the unrest on the college campuses and law and order issues. The department letter also said that “disobedience of the order will be viewed seriously”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guest-lecturers-of-10-govt-colleges-stage-demonstration/article37860235.ece
06 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||AIBEA demands withdrawal of Banking Laws Bill||Taking strong exception to the proposed move by the Centre to introduce the Banking Laws (Amendments) Bill 2021 in the current session of Parliament, C.H. Venkatachalam, general secretary, All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA), said the Bill was aimed at accelerating the process of privatising profit-making public sector banks. Speaking to reporters here on Sunday, he said public sector banks had been acting as catalysts in the economic development of the country, in general, and for the underprivileged sections of society and backward regions of the country, in particular. The PSBs had recorded multi-fold increase in terms of number of branches and volume of business since 1969. They were making huge operating profits despite serving extensively on uplift of underprivileged sections. The only issue being confronted by the PSBs was that of huge non-performing assets (NPAs) in which the major share was that of big corporates. But, the Narendra Modi government was projecting that the PSBs were not doing well and, hence to ensure better efficiency, the banks had to be privatised, Mr. Venkatachalam contended. Besides contributing to nation-building, Mr. Vekatachalam said the PSBs had time and again been necessitated to bail out ailing private sector banks in the past. State Bank of India bailed out Yest Bank recently. While the PSB were doing well, several private banks were struggling. But the Centre was making frantic efforts to privatise PSBs. The proposed Banking Laws (Amendments) Bill 2021 should be withdrawn immediately. To register the strong protest against the Centre’s privitisation move, AIBEA had called for all India bank strike on December 16 and 17. More than 10 lakh bank employees, including officials, would participate in it, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aibea-demands-withdrawal-of-banking-laws-bill/article37860241.ece
06 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||PG certificate programme in SHRM begins for second batch at IIM-T||The Indian Institute of Management-Tirchy inaugurated the second batch of the Post-graduate Certificate Programme in Strategic Human Resource Management (SHRM) on Saturday, in line with its objective to develop HR professionals holistically. The new batch of students were apprised by Amita Rout, an alumnus from the first batch, on job opportunities provided by the programme with academic rigour. Addressing the students, V S Ashok, Executive Vice-President & CHRO, Blue Star Ltd, the chief guest, highlighted the increasing significance of HR in work, workplace, and in the workforce. Evolution of HR He talked about the evolution of HR from paper to the digital VUCA (volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity), and emphasised on continous learning. Sanjay Salunkhe, founder of Jaro Education – the program partner, said HR managers had the best entrepreneurial potential due to their multi-domain exposure. Hard work, peer learning, respecting subordinates, and giving back to the community were core responsibilities of the HR industry, Mr. Salunkhe added. Programme Director, Upam Pushpak Makhecha, said the aim of the programme was to develop Human Resource (HR) professionals holistically by strengthening concepts and mastering clarity of HR arguments Pawan Kumar Singh, Director IIM-Trichy, explained that the first stage of the Human Resource strategy was being acquainted with its functions across all domains. The second was making the recruiting process artful, and the third eas the holistic conversion to Strategic HR Management, Mr. Pawan Kumar Singh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pg-certificate-programme-in-shrm-begins-for-second-batch-at-iim-t/article37860233.ece
06 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Good response to 13th mega vaccination camp in central region||The central region inoculated a significant number of people in the 13th round of the mega vaccination camp conducted on Sunday. Tiruchi stood 10th among all districts in the State, as most people rushed to get the jab amid fear of the new variant. A total of 75,369 people took the jab,with 42,949 getting the second dose. In Thanjavur, which stood 14th, 62,893 got vaccinated. In Karur, of the total 34,948 people who took the jab, 19,548 got the second dose. In Tiruvarur, it was 39,020 people and 24,193 took the second dose. In Nagapattinam, 20,110 people were vaccinated, in Mayiladuthurai 26,751 and in Pudukottai district 51,351. In Ariyalur, 25,958 people took the jab and in Perambalur 13,513. 60 new cases The central region reported 60 fresh cases on Sunday. Two patients, from Tiruvarur and t Pudukottai died. Tiruchi reported 20 cases and the remaining eight districts continued to report less than 15 cases. In Karur, it was 14 and Thanjavur 11. Seven patients reported positive in Tiruvarur and four in Nagapattinam. Mayiladuthurai registered two fresh cases, while Pudukottai and Ariyalur reported one case each. In Perambalur, there was no new case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-response-to-13th-mega-vaccination-camp-in-central-region/article37860243.ece
06 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Over 2,300 liquor bottles seized||A prohibition enforcement drive conducted across Tiruchi Range encompassing five districts has led to seizure of over 2,000 liquor bottles and arrest of several persons. The drive was conducted on the instruction of Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, on Friday in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. A total of 223 cases were booked of which 60 cases were registered in Tiruchi, 48 in Pudukottai, 52 in Karur, 32 in Perambalur and 31 in Ariyalur district. A police press release here said 223 people were arrested during the course of the drive and a total of 2,345 liquor bottles were confiscated. The value of the seized liquor was put at Rs. 2.85 lakh. Meanwhile, another release said the Tiruchi City Police had during this year seized ganja worth Rs. 22 lakh from 233 people. Also, 203 people were arrested on the charge of selling banned lottery tickets within the city limits this year. Similarly, gutkha products worth Rs. 22 lakh were seized from 772 people during this year. The press release further said that Tiruchi Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan had warned that stern action would continue to be taken against those found selling ganja, lottery tickets and gutkha within the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-2300-liquor-bottles-seized/article37860246.ece
06 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||1,012 get job offer letters||The district administration, in association with the Startup TN, has called for public participation in creating solutions for the validated problems of government agencies. Speaking at a job fair in which 1,012 youth received offer letters/appointment letters from 98 firms, Collector V Vishnu said on Saturday that interested people could access htttps://tirunelvelistartups.com and give their suggestions. The district administration has posted four challenges and the best or implementable solutions would get up to Rs. 2 lakh each, he said. He said that the ITI at Pettai had signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Bosch, Gangaikondan. Youth, who have studied up to eighth standard, can join electrician/wireman courses to be conducted free of cost. Every year, through this new facility, 100 youths could benefit and become skilled workers. The short term certificate course would fetch them jobs. The Skill Development Corporation and the Livelihood Mission would coordinate with the district administration and the Directorate, Employment and Training officials. Presiding over the job fair, Assembly Speaker Appavoo said that the State government had been taking numerous steps to open up new industries not only in Chennai but in other cities and districts also. Such recruitment drives encouraged more and more youth to register themselves and get jobs. MP Gnanathiraviam, Employment and Training Department Regional Director Jothimani, Project Director Shanthi, college principal John Kennedy participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1012-get-job-offer-letters/article37860563.ece
06 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in lightning||Two farm workers - Muthumari, 35, and Kaliswari, 30, of Natarajapuram near Melapalayam here died after lightning struck on Sunday. Accompanied by thunder and lightning, many parts of the city experienced heavy rainfall. Roads were inundated. Police said that three women, who were engaged in a farm work at Karungulam when lightning struck. While Muthumari and Kaliswari died on the spot, the third person, Valliammal, 65, was rushed to Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital for treatment as she had suffered many injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-lightning/article37860442.ece
06 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Conservancy workers affected by contract system’||The State government must abolish the contract system for engaging conservancy workers in local bodies, urged the Chairman of National Commission for Safai Karamcharis M. Venkatesan in Tiruppur recently. Speaking to reporters after chairing a review meeting at the District Collectorate, he said that the contract conservancy workers are being adversely affected by the system such as receiving low wages and contractors not depositing the money in the bank accounts of the workers. The district administration must crack down on such irregularities by contractors after due investigation, he said “The State government provides the money to the contractors and not the districts concerned,” he said. Alleging that profits through contract conservancy works “neither reaches the government nor the workers,” Mr. Venkatesan suggested that the State government shall directly pay all conservancy workers instead of paying through contractors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-workers-affected-by-contract-system/article37860162.ece
06 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Campaign to change children’s mindsets towards wildlife||The Forest Department has launched a campaign to change the mindsets of children from communities that have a high number of problematic interactions with animals in the region. The eco-ambassador programme, at the Gene Pool Eco Development Committee, currently has more than 160 children enrolled in it, including children from adivasi communities, apart from school students from government and private schools. G. Prasad, Forest Range Officer, Nadugani Range, said the programme was started after two local adivasi children had bought rice from their pocket money to feed to the captive elephants from the Theppakadu Elephant Camp that were being used to drive away wild elephants entering human habitations in the region. The Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle), at the time had sanctioned the programme, to include more students. Currently, the programme is free for adivasi students and children from government schools. For private schools, a fee of Rs. 350 is charged per student, with ten free visits to the Gene Pool EDC in Nadugani. Lunch and snacks are also provided by the Department to the visiting students, many of whom are learning about native ecology for the first time in their lives, said an official of the Department from Gudalur. “The main objective is to work with children from local communities, many of whom have negative attitudes towards wildlife due to frequent problematic interactions caused by encroachments to wildlife habitats. We hope that through such visits, children will learn about the biodiversity in the area, and the importance of conservation. Ultimately, in the long-run, we hope that the children can bring the message of conservation to their own families, and alter behavior of local communities,” said Mr. Prasad. Kommu Omkaram, District Forest Officer, Gudalur division, has also helped to support the programme. Recently, rare endangered tree ferns and orchids, which had become separated from their host trees due to heavy wind and rainfall, were rehabilitated at the Gene Pool EDC. The forest department, has been working with indigenous communities to help in identifying these rare species of flora to ensure their protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaign-to-change-childrens-mindset-towards-wildlife/article37860161.ece
06 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 war room in Vellore, nearby districts on high alert||With Collectors holding detailed discussions with senior health officials on Sunday, COVID-19 war rooms in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur are on high alert to tackle emergencies that can arise due to the Omicron variant of Coronavirus. Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian inspected the war room, set up in the Vellore City Corporation building, on Sunday and instructed health officials on preparedness measures that need to be taken. At present, 50 international fliers have landed in Vellore from the Chennai airport. Despite having a negative test result on the infection, health officials were instructed by the Collector to home quarantine the international fliers, mostly from Chennai, for seven days. The war room with a team of medical staff will monitor these travellers round-the-clock. "Once these travellers land at the Chennai airport, we keep a tab on them for at least a week," P. Ashok Kumar, Commissioner of Vellore City Corporation, said. At present, the district administration has set up a 50-bed isolation ward for the Omicron-infected patients at the Vellore Government Medical College Hospital. Likewise, Tiruvannamalai Collector B. Murugesh has instructed to set up a 125-bed facility, including 25 beds in the ICU, at the Tiruvannamalai Government Medical College Hospital for the Omicron-infected patients. Ranipet and Tirupattur officials are initiating steps to set up such a separate isolation ward. "We will have a meeting with officials and set up such an isolation ward in the coming days," Amar Kushwaha, Tirupattur Collector, said. The hospitals were also instructed to keep ready all medicines, IV fluids, and oxygen points, cylinders and concentrators. As of now, the district administration has not issued any instruction to cut down on non-emergency and out-patient department services. Treatment of non-COVID cases has not yet been disturbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-war-room-in-vellore-nearby-districts-on-high-alert/article37860524.ece
06 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Police attacked by suspects nabbed during arrack raid||A three-member police team attached to Prohibition and Enforcement Wing (PEW) of the district police in Vellore came under attack from suspects who were nabbed after an arrack raid, while being brought down from Sholavaram Hills near Vellore town. The four suspects fled the spot after injuring a police constable of the Armed Reserve (AR) wing of the district police. Negotiations are on with tribal elders to secure the suspects, hiding in the hillock. The suspects belonged to Vellakal Malai and Kurumalai in the Sholavaram Hills, which is part of Jawadhu Hills in Vellore. "The injured police constable was discharged after four stitches on his jaw. Efforts are being taken to capture the suspects from the hillock," a senior police officer said. Team alerted It was based on an alert that a special police raid team headed by Special Sub-Inspector (SSI) S. Deenadayalan and comprising two constables K. Siva Prasanth and B. Suresh from the AR wing, was formed early this week. The trio raided a suspected manufacturing unit on the hillock, destroyed the ingredients used for manufacturing arrack, and nabbed the four suspects. On their return journey, police said, the team was attacked by the suspects with stones, injuring one constable in the hillock. The police team admitted the young constable, Suresh, at the Government Medical College Hospital in Adukkamparai and later shifted him to CMC for further treatment. Since then, efforts are being made to capture the suspects from the hillock, roping tribal elders into the negotiation. Based on a complaint lodged by the constable, a case has been filed by the Vellore Taluk police.  Police raided a suspected manufacturing unit on the hillock, destroyed the ingredients for manufacturing arrack and nabbed the four suspects. On their return journey the team was attacked by the suspects||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-attacked-by-suspects-nabbed-during-arrack-raid/article37860274.ece
06 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||14 cases in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,244 with 14 new cases reported on Sunday. While a total of 48,947 patients have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 156. The death toll is 1,141. Nearby districts Ranipet district recorded four fresh cases, followed by Tiruvannamalai (3) and Tirupattur (1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-cases-in-vellore/article37860528.ece
06 December 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Water released from dams||Downpour along the Western Ghats in Tenkasi and Virudhunagar districts in the last two days brought copious water to Vembakottai and Irrukkangudi dams across Vaippar since Friday night. As the water level increased in both the dams, Public Works Department officials released water from the dams as a precautionary measure. The inflow, which was more than 8,000 cusecs to Vembakottai, decreased to less than 1,300 cusecs on Sunday morning. “Rainwater from Sankarankoil, Puliyangudi and Tiruvengadam areas of Tenkasi, and from the western ghats of Rajapalayam and Srivilliputtur had started flowing in huge quantity since Friday night,” said Executive Engineer, Upper Vaippar, S. Raja. The inflow to Vembakottai dam, which was around 2,700 cusecs on Friday morning, went up to over 8,000 cusecs around midnight of Friday. Consequently, the level rose to 86.15 feet (as against 87.5 feet) on Saturday morning from 84.7 feet on Friday. Collector J. Meghanath Reddy inspected both dams on Sunday morning. “Since, water discharge began late in the night from Irukkangudi dam, we had kept devotees visiting Mariamman Temple (between Vaippar and Arujna rivers) away on Sunday morning as a precautionary measure,” Mr. Reddy said. Both the dams have been receiving water after a gap of six years. Vembakottai dam last got filled in 2015, according to Vembakottai Tahsildar S. Thanaraj. The discharge from Vembakottai dam was stepped up and the level in Irukkangudi dam rose. The storage started to swell from 88.24 mcft on Friday to 163.40 mcft (maximum storage 499.5 mcft) on Saturday. The discharge from the dam was 7,000 cusecs on Sunday morning. “As part of dam safety measure, the water was discharged,” the Collector said. The district is expected to receive more rain. Mr. Reddy said that the improving storage in Irukkangudi dam and all the minor dams in the district will help in recharging groundwater and help drinking water supply. Vembakottai dam is a major source of drinking water for Sivakasi Corporation and Irukkangudi dam for Sattur town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-dams/article37860266.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Aurovillians continue protest against laying of road for Crown Project||She added, “On the contrary we are not actually blocking development. We have made proposals and want to discuss them as a community. But they are refusing to discuss it and instead bulldozing their way through. The TDC are dividing some members of our Working Group together with the Foundation.” The TDC had brought in earthmovers on Saturday to clear trees for laying the road, she said, adding that the Resident Community had blocked them and made it clear that they will not allow any work until they sit down and discuss. “Without any notification or consent, at 1 a.m. they again sent earthmovers with the police this time, and blocked the roads so that we could not reach the venue,” she said. “Though Aurovillians managed to reach the place, the damage had already been done. We are not trying to impose our view. All we want is go through a process and whatever the collective decides, we will go through. There are a few persons in power who are not cooperating, causing a lot of havoc” alleged another member of the Assembly. According to another Aurovillian, the Foundation had organised everything beforehand and brought in police to the contentious place, who intimidated and dragged the protesters into the police vehicle. He saw this as a typical conflict between “faithful and reason”. The former, he said, believes that the road has to be built at whatever cost because it is what The Mother (Mirra Alfassa) had endorsed for the master plan, while the other group is of the opinion that it is difficult to build the city in this manner. “We are not against the road but only suggest to change the routes since it is not environment-friendly. The way the Foundation has been acting against the residents with the police is unacceptable. The two groups can disagree on opinions but violence is not acceptable,” he said. When contacted, SP N. Shreenatha clarified that no police personnel had manhandled any resident of Auroville. “They decided to lay the road and requested for police protection. They had cleared a few metres in the early hours of today when the residents protested again and the work was halted,” he said.  A member of the governing board of Auroville Foundation said a series of meetings and discussions had preceded the commencement of work on the Crown Project. Representatives contended that the master plan evolved as a product of “democratic discussion and debate” across various fora within Auroville. Hence obstructing its implementation after nearly two decades, amounted to a negation of the vision for the universal township. The representatives felt it must be recognised that the master plan, when it came about in 2001-02, made it evident that there was bound to be a sacrifice of tree cover for the development of township. The experts, consulted subsequently at various stages, have concurred on its futuristic and eco-regenerating design. “The vision for Auroville is of an experimental township with about 50,000 inhabitants from the world, not an ecological preserve,” a source argued. One Aurovilian wrote to the Foundation questioning if the protestors had any coherent counter proposal for a master plan. “Had they truly wanted to improve or redo the plan, they would have gotten to it in the last 19 years,” the resident felt. A board member said the master plan will be implemented without allowing “a small group to hold the entire plan to ransom.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aurovillians-continue-to-protest-against-laying-of-road-for-crown-project/article37860236.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Delightful dip||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delightful-dip/article37860535.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Constricted||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constricted/article37860567.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail -DGL||Public Works Department has released Vaigai dam water for irrigation, but the water has not reached the tanks due to the growth of karuvelam trees and bushes along the canals in Ramanathapuram district. I request authorities to clear the wild growth of plants on a war-footing in the interest of farmers. V. Rajendran, Paramakudi.   Many passenger train services have resumed recently, but not the important one between Madurai and Dindigul (Train numbers 56707/ 56708). In the absence of these services, commuters who travel between Madurai and Dindigul are put to much hardship. I appeal to railway authorities to resume this passenger trains. M. Rishidev, Dindigul.   The Madurai division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation suspended issuing one-day bus pass in 2018. Even after three years, it has not resumed the service. I request TNSTC authorities to start issuing the one-day bus pass again. S. Saravanakumar, Tiruppachethi.   In Ramanathapuram, the municipality does not effect name transfer for underground drainage tax assessments stating that the centralised computer system has not yet been mordernised with required uploading of programme for name transfers. This defect needs to be set right immediately. Secondly, even though new door numbers have been allotted to properties, the municipality erroneously continues to mention the old door numbers for underground drainage as well as drinking water assessments. I request the Director of Municipal Administration to rectify these flaws in the best interest of tax-payers. Asmabagh Anvardeen, Ramanathapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-dgl/article37860273.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - City||Tahsildar Nagar has become a haven for stray cattle as we see them regularly in our area. They not only pose a threat to vehicle users and pedestrians but also spoil the space in front of our houses with their dung. Surprisingly, there are some good Samaritans who offer food to these bovines even as they linger at their gates expectantly. Is it not a case of compassion misplaced? K. Natarajan, Tahsildar Nagar   Previously there was a bus service (route no. 16J) from P and T Nagar to Madurai airport at regular intervals - 6 a.m., 8 a.m., 10 a.m., noon, 3 p.m., and 5 p.m. This service has been stopped. First the evening services were withdrawn and later the morning services too. Hence, I request the TNSTC to restore the bus service as it was patronised by people from P and T Nagar, Goripalayam, Nelpettai, Keelavasal, Villapuram, Avaniapuram and Perungudi. Similarly, a bus service from P and T Nagar to Mattuthavani must also be introducedis also required. M. Padmanabhan, Kalainagar Extn.   In Periyar bus stand, there are three bus shelters for passengers waiting to board buses going towards Arasaradi and Kalavasal. All these shelters do not have seating arrangements. One shelter is filled with soil dug up for construction of a sewage canal and another one with mud and the third with empty crates kept by fruit sellers. Pregnant women, elderly people and differently abled persons are not able to jump over the incomplete sewage canal with huge iron rods to reach these shelters. They just sit on the cement slab of the canal under a hot sun. The bus stand is largely encroached upon by makeshift shops. I request the authorities to look into these problems and set them right. M. Sainithii, Sholavandan   The Madurai division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation suspended issuing one-day bus pass in 2018. Even after three years, it has not resumed the service. I request the TNSTC authorities to start issuing the one-day bus pass again. S. Saravanakumar, Tiruppachethi   Many passenger train services have resumed recently, but not the important one between Madurai and Dindigul (Train numbers 56707/ 56708). In the absence of these services, commuters who travel between Madurai and Dindigul are put to much hardship. I appeal to the railway authorities to resume this passenger train at the earliest. M. Rishidev, Dindigul||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-city/article37860441.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements. Coimbatore||COIMBATORE   Tamil Nadu State Council for Science and Technology and Hindusthan Institute of Technology: Inauguration of programme on economic and livelihood development of rural women of SC/ST community, 10 a.m.  Bishop Appasamy College of Arts and Science: Seminar on Concept of Disaster, 10 a.m.  Pollachi   Pollachi Chamber of Commerce and Industry and APEDA: Aawareness meeting on agriculture produce, KKG Thirumana Mandapam, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article37860173.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Kongu Arts and Science College: Department of Computer Science (UG), faculty improvement programme on Open Source/Licensed software installation, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article37860279.ece
06 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Issues related to GSTN portal, others raised||Principal Chief Commissioner, Central Tax, Bengaluru Zone, Ranjana Jha, met representatives of trade bodies and some professional associations in Belagavi recently. The attendees raised various issues, including those relating to GSTN portal and Section 16(2) of GST Act. Their main concern about Section 16(2) of the Act was the specifications on the basic conditions for availing of input tax credit. Some also wanted tweaking of the norms that allow tax payers to avail themselves of credit of input tax on payments towards the value of supply of goods or services. Ms. Jha replied to all queries and promised to look into all the grievances in detail. The Principal Chief Commissioner highlighted the recent changes brought about in GST law and administration and explained how they were beneficial to the taxpayers. She also discussed the key decisions taken in the 45th GST council meeting held in September 2021. She noted that the gross GST revenue collected in November 2021 was Rs. 1.31 lakh crore and she commended the trade and industry for their contribution to nation building. Members of the Belgaum Chambers of Commerce, Chartered Accountants Association Tax Practitioners Association and Institute of Company Secretaries India participated in the meeting at Dr. V.D. Patil Hall at JN Medical College. Ms Jha visited the CGST Executive, Audit and Appeals Commissionerates at Belagavi. Later, she participated in the ground breaking ceremony for the Swachhata project of CGST Department at the School of the Belgaum District Association for Blind at Nehrunagar. Commissioner, Belagavi, Basavaraj Nalagave said that the project involves cleaning the entire sports area, preparation of the cricket ground for visually challenged children, laying a running track, digging rainwater harvesting drains and pits and setting up safe drinking water facility. Chandrashekhar Bembalgi and other members of the Management of the Association attended the function on the school premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/issues-related-to-gstn-portal-others-raised/article37860304.ece
06 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ramesh Jarkiholi says he is alive due to the support of BJP, RSS||“I am alive today as the BJP and RSS senior leaders have stood by me. Or else, they would have finished me off,” BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi said in Belagavi recently. “My political opponents would have finished me off. It is because of the strong support by the BJP and RSS leaders that I got, I am still here. I am thankful to them,’’ the former Minister told journalists. He did not name anyone. He was responding to questions about the allegations made by KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar that Ramesh Jarkiholi was now betraying the BJP, by campaigning for his brother, just as he had betrayed the Congress in the past. “If he was still in the Congress, I would not let him stay for a minute,’’ the KPCC president had said during his campaign in Belagavi a few days ago. He said that he was focussed on the coming Council elections and would not react immediately to the allegations made by Mr. Shivakumar against him. “I will not respond to him now. I will answer all your questions about his allegations on the day of the results on December 14,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramesh-jarkiholi-says-he-is-alive-due-to-the-support-of-bjp-rss/article37860297.ece
06 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah rallies in favour of nominee Channaraj Hattiholi||“BJP wants to see only RSS leaders in important positions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is a RSS volunteer. Basavaraj Bommai is not from the RSS. That is probably why BJP leaders, including K.S. Eshwarappa, are trying to unseat Mr. Bommai,” Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah said on Sunday. Addressing a rally while campaigning for Channaraj Hattiholi, Congress candidate for Legislative Council elections, Mr. Siddaramaiah urged the voters to reject the BJP as it was an anti-people party. “RSS-BJP leaders are descendants of Nathuram Ghodse, who killed Mahatma Gandhi. They don’t want peace. They want disturbance in society. We should reject such people. I want you to give them a fitting reply in the elections and send them home,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. He asked people not to vote for Lakhan Jarkiholi, the younger brother of Ramesh Jarkiholi, MLA and BJP leader. Ramesh Jarkiholi had defeated Veerkumar Patil, the official Congress candidate and worked for the victory of Vivekrao Patil, Independent candidate. “I will not be surprised if Ramesh Jarkiholi works for the victory of his brother leading to the defeat of the BJP official candidate,” he said. “Ramesh Jarkiholi has been going around saying I cheated Vivekrao Patil by denying him ticket. Vivekrao Patil won as an Independent but never joined the Congress. How can we give ticket to a leader who is not a Congress member? If Ramesh Jarkiholi is so concerned about the welfare of Patil, he should have got him BJP ticket. He should have discouraged Lakhan from contesting, at least. After all, Patil is a loyal follower of Ramesh Jarkiholi,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. The Congress has given ticket to leaders from backward classes and minorities. “We have given ticket to three candidates from the Kuruba community. But the BJP has not given ticket to a single member of the backward classes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-rallies-in-favour-of-nominee-channaraj-hattiholi/article37860306.ece
06 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Vote without fear or favour, says D.K. Shivakumar||Congress leaders D.K. Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah campaigned for Channaraj Hattiholi, party candidate, in some villages in Belagavi district on Sunday. At a rally in Kallur village near Ramdurg, Mr. Shivakumar described this as an election of self-respect and asked people to vote for Mr. Hattiholi. “You should vote without fear or favour. You should demonstrate to the world that your choice depends on party ideology and the inclusive agenda of the Congress,” he said. He defended the party’s choice of candidate, saying that it could not be termed nepotism. “We did not give ticket to Hattiholi because he is the brother of Lakshmi Hebbalkar, Congress MLA. We made him candidate as he is a dedicated party worker. He is young and dynamic. He is an engineer and wants to serve the people,” Mr. Shivakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vote-without-fear-or-favour-says-dk-shivakumar/article37860307.ece
06 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||No proposal to change CM, says Pralhad Joshi||“There is no proposal beforethe BJP to change the Chief Minister of Karnataka,” Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said in Hubballi on Sunday. He was responding to the recentstatement by Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa that Murugesh Nirani would “become the CM one day”.“There is no proposal before the party now. I am saying this as a representative of the Central Government. CMwill not change. Basavaraj Bommai will remain the CM. But then no one should talk about change of leadership,” he said. Mr. Joshi said the meeting of JD(S) national president and former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had no political significance. “I believe it was about Mr. Gowda’s demand for an IIT in Hassan. I don’t think it was about the possibility of an electoral alliance between the BJP and the JD(S),” he said. He said the allegations made by the contractors’ association of increased corruption in government contracts were false and baseless. “Allegations of a 40% commission in contracts is baseless. There is no tolerance for corruption in the Modi government. If the contractors have any proof, they should approach the Lokayukta or the ACB,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-proposal-to-change-cm-says-pralhad-joshi/article37860105.ece
06 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Curbs on entry to apartment complexes lead to confusion||A day after Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai stated that entry to apartment complexes would be restricted to only those who have had both doses of the vaccine, many associations questioned the move. They were also sceptical of implementing it without any advisory issued either by the State Government or Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike. While some apartments have jumped the gun in an attempt to implement this, several associations are waiting for an advisory to be issued. Vidya Goggi from Whitehouse Apartments in R.T. Nagar pointed out that the associations could not stop unvaccinated residents from going to their own homes. “We can, at best, create awareness about getting vaccinated and help them get both doses,” she said. With regard to delivery personnel, the businesses are already proactively ensuring that their workforce is safe. “Enforcement should not be the responsibility of associations; we have to be pragmatic and not ostracise people,” she added. Jayalakshmi C. from Adarsh Rhythm in J.P. Nagar, said the managing committee had collected information about the number of residents who had been vaccinated, either both doses or just one dose. The association had also conducted drives by tying up with various private hospitals, apart from ensuring that all the housekeeping and security personnel were vaccinated. The managing committee of an apartment complex in J.P. Nagar has sent messages to residents, quoting the Chief Minister’s statement, and asked them to ensure that all visitors are double vaccinated. Another apartment in Koramangala has interpreted Mr. Bommai’s statement to mean that no visitors will be allowed, while double dose vaccination rules were for residents. Waiting for order It is precisely for these reasons that many associations and even the Bangalore Apartments’ Federation (BAF) are waiting for either an order or an advisory. BAF’s general secretary Vikram Rai sought to know why there were no vaccination checks at public transport and public places. “This seems to be a knee-jerk reaction. This is like the night curfew, which served no real purpose. We have been getting enquiries from various apartment associations; we have asked them all to maintain the status quo and wait for an advisory,” he said. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the intent of the government was clear. “Putting a checking system in place will be helpful for the apartment associations as well. They will know how many of the residents are yet to be vaccinated. We can work with them and organise drives,” he said, and added that the BBMP would issue an advisory soon.  Enforcement should not be the responsibility of associations; we have to be pragmatic. Vidya Goggi, Whitehouse Apartments, R.T. Nagar   This seems to be a knee-jerk reaction. This is like the night curfew, which served no real purpose. We have been getting enquiries from various apartment associations; we have asked them all to maintain the status quo and wait for an advisory. Vikram Rai, BAF general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/curbs-on-entry-to-apartment-complexes-lead-to-confusion/article37860087.ece
06 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for killing 19-year-old neighbour||The V.V. Puram police have arrested a 39-year-old goods autorickshaw driver who allegedly bludgeoned his 19-year-old neighbour to death after he caught him in his house with his minor daughter. The incident occurred last Sunday. Narayana Veeraswamy, who worked in Kalasipalya market, returned to his house in Vinoba Nagar after work and found his neighbour Nivesh Kumar with his daughter. He assaulted the youth with a wooden log. Nivesh sustained severe head injuries and collapsed. According to the police, Veerasamy carried Nivesh in his autorickshaw and drove to Victoria hospital. He dropped him off at the gate and escaped. On seeing the 19-year-old bleeding outside, passersby took him to the hospital’s emergency ward, where he later succumbed. Meanwhile, the Nivesh’s relatives, who had gone to their home town in Tamil Nadu for a family function, returned to find him missing. They approached the police, who took up a missing persons case. During the course of the investigation, the police learned that Nivesh was last seen at Veeraswamy’s house and picked him up for questioning. He allegedly confessed to the crime. “The victim had come to Bengaluru two months ago to work as a labourer and lived with his uncle. He became intimate with Veersawamy’s minor daughter without anyone’s knowledge,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-killing-19-year-old-neighbour/article37860092.ece
06 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rise in vaccinations recorded||The past few days have seen an uptick in the number of people queuing up outside urban primary health centres (UPHCs) to get vaccinated against COVID-19. It coincides with the detection of the coronavirus variant, Omicron, in Bengaluru as well as the government’ new rules barring those who are not fully vaccinated from theatres and malls, and their children from physically attending schools. Going by Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) own accounts, from around 30,000 to 35,000 vaccinations a day, the numbers have gone up to 70,000. Confirming the trend, D.S. Nathan, a citizen volunteer at the vaccination centre in Doddanekkundi ward (Mahadevapura zone) said that a week ago, the number of people visiting the centre was a low 20-30 a day. “Now, we are able to administer around 300 vaccine doses a day, both first and second,” he said. He attributed the increase to not just Omicron, but also to benefits being linked to the vaccination. Recently, one of the recommendations of the technical advisory committee was to ensure that the benefits of various schemes are given only to those who have been fully vaccinated. According to Suraj Mohan, designated COVID-19 doctor at the Jalahalli UPHC, vaccine hesitancy has reduced. He told The Hindu that there was a dip in numbers in October and November, but that is no longer the case. “Our staff were calling those due for the second dose and urging them to take it,” he said, and added that the ASHA workers also undertook a block and lane survey to identify those with vaccine hesitancy. A nurse at the UPHC at Palace Guttahalli, which caters to citizens of two wards Aramane Nagar and Rajamahal Guttahalli, said that until a few days ago, around 70 doses were administered every day. “However, over the past 3-4 days, we are administering more than 100 doses daily,” the nurse said. A similar trend was seen at the mega vaccination centre at Malleswaram which is open round-the-clock. Ayushi Rana, site manager at the centre and district technical officer of CARE India, said that when the centre was started, around 700 doses were being administered every day. The numbers dropped to around 350-400, even though it offers drive-through, on-the-spot registration facilities. “We have noticed that over the past three days, more people are coming from across the city for the first dose. They make up a large percentage of those coming to get vaccinated,” she said. According to civic chief Gaurav Gupta, around 90% of the eligible population has got the first dose, while second dose coverage is around 66%. “We are working on increasing this to 80%, which will be big,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rise-in-vaccinations-recorded/article37860082.ece
06 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three juveniles nabbed for violent behaviour||The Pulakeshinagar police on Sunday arrested three juveniles who are allegedly responsible for creating fear among residents with their rowdy behaviour near Jeevanahalli. The accused, under the influence of drugs and alcohol, robbed motorists and shopkeepers and pelted houses with stones at night. “They even attacked lone pedestrians and labourers living on construction sites. They beat a stray dog to death with iron rods when it barked at them while they were performing bike stunts,” said an officer. Their actions were captured on CCTVs in the area prompting the police to take action. “Residents were scared to venture out at night due to their behaviour.” the police added. The three were booked under various sections of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, and remanded to the State home for boys.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-juveniles-nabbed-for-violent-behaviour/article37860090.ece
06 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. banking on money power to win polls: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said the Congress was trying to win the Legislative Council elections with money power as it had lost people’s support. At a BJP convention at Attibele in Anekal taluk, the Chief Minister said the Congress had stooped to the level of using any means to win the elections. “Fielding those with moneybags as its candidates and making them pay big for the party kitty. Fall of morality in the Congress is very clear. People should show the Congress its place as the party is trying to win the elections through immoral splurge of money,” he said. On Congress leader Siddaramaiah’s allegations that the BJP uses money and muscle power to win elections, Mr. Bommai said it was the Congress which indulges in it. “What morality do you have to talk about it when you are banking on money for selecting the candidate to fight the election? You (Siddaramaiah) did not bother to look at gram panchayats when in power. Your promise just ahead of the last polls to distribute one lakh houses has remained a promise,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-banking-on-money-power-to-win-polls-cm/article37860098.ece
06 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Empowerment of gram panchayats is our aim’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said, “Empowerment of gram panchayats is our Government’s aim. Our programmes have been formulated accordingly.” Decentralisation At a convention organised by the BJP in Bidar, he said, “Government services should be taken to the doorstep of citizens. People should not be made to travel to taluk and zilla panchayat offices for basic services. Focus of our Government is development of villages. Decentralisation of power till the level of gram panchayat is our objective.” Action plan An action plan of Rs. 3,000 crore had been prepared for development of Kalyana Karnataka region. The previous Congress regime had failed to fill vacant posts in Kalyana Karnataka region. “Our Government has approved filling of 1,000 posts in the region,” Mr. Bommai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/empowerment-of-gram-panchayats-is-our-aim/article37860099.ece
06 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Actor Shivaram cremated with state honours||Veteran Kannada actor S. Shivaram, 83, who passed away on Saturday after suffering a brain haemorrhage, was cremated with state honours on Sunday. The mortal remains of the actor were placed at Ravindra Kalakshetra on Sunday morning for members of the film fraternity and his fans to pay their last respects. Several senior actors, including Bharathi, Dwarakish, Anant Nag, Ramakrishna, and Tara caught a last glimpse of the actor and turned emotional. Many recounted how Shivaram, an ardent devotee of Sabarimala Ayyappa, was like a spiritual guide to several people in the film industry. Senior writer and director Baragur Ramachandrappa said Shivaram had a unique, unobtrusive style of acting, especially in comedy that it could be branded the “Shivaram style”. “Not just acting, he was a friend to all and had no foe. He lived a full life and has gone now. We are left behind to feel sad,” he said. Ms. Tara lamented how the film industry was ravaged by successive deaths of many of its stalwarts and hoped the colleagues in the industry could soon meet on a happy occasion. The mortal remains were later taken to the electric crematorium at Banashankari where Shivaram’ssons Lakshmeesha and Ravishankar performed the last rites after the police offered their respects with a 21 gun salute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/actor-shivaram-cremated-with-state-honours/article37860103.ece
06 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘We will write to parents of our students’||Rev. Peter Machado, Archbishop, Archdiocese of Bangalore, announced that the church would seek the opinion of parents of students enrolled in the educational institutions its runs. “We will write to parents of all students in our educational institutions asking whether they have been discriminated against or whether there have been any effort to convert their wards. With this, we want to mobilise larger public opinion against the anti-conversion law that the Government wants to bring,” he said. He added: “What began as a similar campaign against the community in Odisha grew to become genocidal in a decade’s time. An anti-conversion law will only empower goons to take the law into their own hands. People of the State need to think whether Odisha is a model we need to emulate.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-will-write-to-parents-of-our-students/article37860111.ece
06 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Karnataka reports 456 new cases||Karnataka reported 456 new COVID 19 cases according to Sunday’s bulletin of the Department of Health and Family Welfare, along with six deaths. There are 7,132 active cases in the State. The total number of cases so far touched 29.98 lakh, while 38,230 lives have been lost. With 330 new discharges, a total of 29.52 lakh discharges have happened since the pandemic began. The first case in Karnataka was detected on March 8, 2020. With ‘test-track-treat-vaccinate-adherence to COVID appropriate behaviour’ being cited as the ‘five pillars of management’ of the pandemic, the State conducted 1.1 lakh tests on Sunday. The positivity rate was 0.41%, while the case fatality rate was 1.31%. Of 3,634 passengers screened at airports, 1,218 were from high risk countries from December 1. As many as 1.12 lakh people were vaccinated on Sunday. Bengaluru Urban had the highest number of cases at 256.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-karnataka-reports-456-new-cases/article37860084.ece
06 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Samples from 21 MCC students collected||Following reports of a pre-university student at Mount Carmel PU College contracting COVID-19, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has collected samples from 21 students living in the college hostel. The student had tested positive on November 25, following which her father informed the college. “We checked the SRF ID and found that the sample had been collected in Chennai; so, the question of BU ID doesn’t arise,” said a civic official, when asked about the delay in testing other students who may have come in contact with the girl when she attended her practical examinations. Health officials said several students had come to the hostel from different States. Some students displayed some mild symptoms, though they had produced a negative RT-PCR test result. “Some results were more than 72 hours old. We have collected samples and the results are expected on Monday,” they added. A few students have reportedly demanded that the college postpone examinations that are scheduled to begin soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/samples-from-21-mcc-students-collected/article37860086.ece
06 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Girl falls from balcony, dies||A 13-year-old girl student, studying in Class IX in a private school, died after she fell from the 12th floor of her apartment in Hulimavu on Saturday night. The police have taken up the case and are probing to ascertain the cause of death. The Hulimavu police inspected the spot and ruled out that it was an accident. “The deceased is the daughter of a civil contractor, and lived with her family at Venugopal Nagar in Hulimavu. Around 10.30 p.m., after dinner she went to the drawing room balcony. A few minutes later, the family heard her screaming and went to check to find that she had fallen,” said a police officer. The security guard of the apartment, who also heard a loud thud, rushed to investigate and found the girl’s body. She was shifted to a hospital in the area where she was declared brought dead. “We suspect that it is a case of suicide but the reason is yet to be ascertained ,” said a senior police officer. The police are trying to retrieve data from her mobile phone which is locked. “We are waiting for the postmortem report and will question her family members,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/girl-falls-from-balcony-dies/article37860091.ece
06 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man killed in road accident||A scrap dealer, who was waiting at a signal in Electronics City on his two-wheeler, was mowed down by a speeding truck late Saturday night. The victim, Manivannan, 40, a resident of Naganathapura, died on the spot. He was returning home when the accident occurred. The driver of the truck escaped. The police have taken up a case of hit-and-run and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-killed-in-road-accident/article37860093.ece
06 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Research facility at Christ varsity||To augment its research capabilities, Christ (Deemed to be University), Bengaluru, has established the Center for Advanced Research and Development (CARD) on its Central Campus, Hosur Road. According to a press release, the research and development block was inaugurated by R. Ramalinga Reddy, MLA, on Thursday. CARD’s research will be highly interdisciplinary and collaborative, with the primary focus on national and global priorities such as clean energy, climatic change, water remediation and restoration, biomedical and biotechnology, waste management, sustainable development, artificial intelligence, and robotics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/research-facility-at-christ-varsity/article37860080.ece
06 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||Bangalore University (BU) has invited applications for full/part time guest faculties to teach Kannada, English, Political Science, Economics and Mass Communication and Journalism in four year B.A Honours (UG) and to teach Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics and Computer Science in four year B.Sc Honours (UG) new courses under NEP 2020 for the academic year 2021-22. BU in a release said that candidates with Master’s Degrees in the respective subjects as per UGC rules are eligible to apply on www. bangaloreuniversity.ac.in on or before December 8, 2021. The date of online/offline interview will be intimated. For more details, candidates may contact the Chairperson of the Departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited/article37860089.ece
06 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||The weekly market poses its own risks||The Salagame Road in Hassan city is busy on all days. On Tuesdays, it gets congested as a part of it in front of the district stadium turns into a place for the weekly market. Hundreds of people from nearby villages put up stalls to sell vegetables, butter and other products on the pavements. Salagame Road connects Hassan city with Halebidu. Hundreds of vehicles, including KSRTC buses, take the road. As stalls are put up on both edges of the road, there are chances of accidents. The residents nearby and the shopkeepers have been appealing to the district administration to shift the market to a suitable place. Earlier, the weekly market was held on a college road, where the residents complained that the shops closed entry to their places. During the COVID-19 restrictions, markets were banned for several months. When the restrictions were relaxed, Hassan district administration allowed the market in the spacious district stadium. Gradually, the market was shifted to Salagame Road, as the Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports maintained that the vegetable market could not be allowed in the place meant for sports. Sharadamma, a resident of Hemavati Nagar, said, “Allowing the market on the road is highly risky. A minor negligence may lead to an accident, considering the number of vehicles on the busy road. The district stadium offers its place to put up stalls that sell firecrackers during Deepavali. Similarly, the place should be used for the market”. Hassan City Municipal Council Commissioner R.Krishnamurthy said the council made efforts to shift the market to the district stadium premises, where there would not be risk of accidents. “But the person in charge of the district stadium is not allowing it to happen. Somehow we are managing with the available space. If the officers agree, we are ready to ensure cleanliness of the place. Anyhow, only once a week, the market is held”, he said. However, C.K.Harish, Assistant Director of Youth Empowerment and Sports, said market could not be allowed on the stadium premises. “The place is meant for sports activities. There are clear instructions from the department not to allow the vegetable market. Moreover the place where stalls were put up earlier is being utilised to set up kabaddi and kho-kho courts”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-weekly-market-poses-its-own-risks/article37860481.ece
06 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Civil contractors threaten to halt works||Amid complaints about the alleged rampant corruption in civil works and demand for bribe by officials, members of the North Karnataka Civil Contractors Association have threatened to halt works indefinitely if immediate remedial measures are not taken by the government. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad recently, president of the association Subhash Patil said that the civil contractors were facing a lot of problems, particularly during the post-COVID-19 period, as there was large-scale corruption. “We will be forced to halt work indefinitely, if the government fails to intervene and take remedial measures,” he said. Mr. Patil said that compared to the previous governments, corruption in government departments has increased by three-fold under the BJP rule. He said that the association representatives have already met the Chief Minister urging him to take immediate remedial measures. “The association has decided to list the names of the officials in various departments who are indulging incorruption and submit it to the government in a month’s time. The association urges Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to take action against the corrupt and save the contractors,” he said. Mr. Patil said that the association was fed up with the harassment at various levels of the government and would urge the Chief Minister to take action within a month. Otherwise, the association members would be forced to stop work and launch an agitation, he said. Pending bills He said that bills of around 300 civil contractors amounting to not less than Rs. 8,000 crore have been pending for the last several months. This apart, there is a lot of favouritism in allotment of tenders by the officials, he added. Taking exception to the government’s decision of increasing GST to 18% from the existing 12%, secretary of the association Ravindra Mane said that it would be a further burden on the civil contractors. Mr. Mane and Mr. Patil said that the association wanted the government to charge 12% GST for all the works tendered before January 2022 and the difference of 6% should be borne by the respective departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civil-contractors-threaten-to-halt-works/article37860299.ece
06 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Civil engineering hackathon attracts 200 participants||“ELVIC”, a hackathon with amalgamation of civil engineering and electronics organised by KLE Technological University, attracted a total of 200 participants from 10 start-ups and 50 student teams and the winners were rewarded at a function in Hubballi on Saturday. The event was organised under the Make in BVB (MiB) initiative of Centre for Technology Innovation and Entrepreneurship (CTIE) and Hubli ESDM eXchange (HEX), both located at KLE Technological University (KLETU), in collaboration with Jalavahini Management Services Private Limited. The event began on November 27 with the “Qualifier Pitch” event followed by mentoring of short-listed teams from November 30 to December 2. The finale of “ELVIC” took place on Friday, in which winners in different categories were chosen. Presiding over the event, Vice-Chancellor of KLETU Ashok Shettar stressed the need for more academia-industry collaboration to adapt newer technologies in the field of civil engineering. In the student category, Team Trailblazers and Team Elite of KLETU won the first two prizes followed by Team Resonance from Gogte College of Engineering and Technology, Belagavi. In the start-up category, Team Docket Run, Team INDrone System, Team Skill Intentus and Team Energy Max were given prizes for their applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civil-engineering-hackathon-attracts-200-participants/article37860302.ece
06 December 2021||Hubballi/Mysuru/Hassan,KARNATAKA||Omicron scare has little impact on campaigns||The scare sparked off by the Omicron variant of coronavirus does not appear to have made any impact on campaigning by different political parties for the Legislative Council elections. While political leaders have been holding forth on the need for caution over the new variant and the State Government has imposed new restrictions, the campaigning style of either the ruling party or the Opposition has not altered over the last week. All have continued organising conventions of elected representatives of local bodies with least regard for the COVID-19 protocol. Big crowd Last week, in Davangere district, the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa addressed elected representatives of Mayakonda Assembly segment and sought votes for party candidate Arun D.S., son of the former Minister D.H. Shankaramurthy. Wherever he went, hundreds of people attended the meetings. Minister B. Sriramulu too was seen canvassing in the same constituency. In Uttara Kannada district, Minister Shivaram Hebbar was busy campaigning, addressing elected representatives in groups. Congress leaders in Vijayapura district were busy with the convention of elected representatives of Vijayapura, Babaleshwar, and Nagathana Legislative Assembly segments. Along with the former Minister M.B. Patil, various Congress leaders took part in the convention and sought votes on behalf of the party candidate, Sunilgouda Patil. In all these meetings, most of the leaders were seen not wearing masks and social distancing was thrown to wind. In the dual-member Mysuru–Chamarajanagar Local Authorities’ constituency, the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has called upon the State Government to spare no effort to prevent the entry of the mutant virus into the borders of Karnataka. Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekhar, who is leading the BJP campaign in the same constituency, said he had discussed the precautionary measures that were needed to be put in place. But there was no let-up in either of their election campaigns. While Mr. Siddaramaiah held a meeting with party leaders and party councillors from Mysuru city at his residence earlierlast week, Mr. Somashekhar, who campaigned at Periyapatna, later held election meetings of members of local bodies in H.D. Kote and Hunsur, accompanied by a battery of party leaders. JD(S) candidate C.N. Manje Gowda too campaigned as usual and held election meetings in Nanjangud and Hunsur. In Hassan, JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna, whose son Suraj Revanna is the party candidate, held meetings in all taluk centres before finalising the candidate. The party leaders are now convening meetings of small groups at hobli centres and village panchayat headquarters. To intensify And with public campaign ending on Wednesday the campaigning is all set to intensify. While Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai himself has a tight campaign itinerary scheduled for Monday and Tuesday in north Karnataka, Mr. Siddaramaiah was busy campaigning in northern districts on Sunday and on Monday too he is scheduled to address meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/omicron-scare-has-little-impact-on-campaigns/article37860102.ece
06 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Student dead||A 23-year-old student who was preparing for competitive examinations to get recruited in the Police Department was found dead at Naganahalli Police Training College on the outskirts of Kalaburagi on Sunday. It is suspected he killed himself after leaving a note. As per information available, the deceased was identified as Manjunath, a resident of Tigati village of Bailhongal taluk in Belagavi district. A case was registered at University Police Station. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help .)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/student-dead/article37860300.ece
06 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||City corporation stops collecting manual property tax returns||Mangaluru City Corporation has now stopped accepting manually filed property tax returns under the Self-Assessment Scheme (SAS). According to Mayor Premananda Shetty, the civic body launched the online tax filing facility on November 2 and the manual system of filing the returns was done away with subsequently. “Tax payers remitted Rs. 90 lakh with the corporation online in November,” the Mayor told The Hindu . The civic body introduced online facility 13 years after the SAS was introduced on April 1, 2008. Now, tax payers should log on towww.mccpropertytax.into get their details and make payment. Mr. Shetty said that property tax collection for the current financial year was at 41% till November-end. Tax payers have remitted Rs. 28.85 crore against an estimated annual demand of Rs. 70 crore. Usually, tax collection picks up during the last three months of the fiscal. The Mayor said that when a tax payer paid tax online, the prescribed service tax, which varied depending upon the amount of tax, is also collected along with property tax. The service tax is credited to the online software provider. Mr. Shetty said that for the time being, the corporation has retained the option of paying tax by cash (offline). After entering the required details online, a tax payer can pay tax by cash through a challan. Cash can be remitted in all the branches of Canara Bank and Karnataka Bank. The option has been retained as some of the tax payers still do not have online bank transaction facility. The Mayor said that once the tax is paid online by entering all the required basic information, tax payers will find it easy for filing returns from the subsequent year. Initially, there may be some glitches, he said. The Mayor said that notwithstanding COVID-19 factors, tax remittance stood at 73% during 2020-21. He said that revenue officials in the corporation will help those who may find it difficult to file tax returns online for the first time. People can approach them for help. In addition, there are helpers on the ground floor of the corporation who will also assist in filing returns online on payment of a nominal fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-corporation-stops-collecting-manual-property-tax-returns/article37860463.ece
06 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Woman duped of Rs. 5,66,540 online||A 21-year-old woman from Vandse village in Udupi district has complained of losing Rs. 5,66,540 in two instances of online fraud. Udupi District Cyber, Economic and Narcotics Offences Police have registered a case under the provisions of the IT Act and the IPC. Investigation is on. Complainant Anusha told the police that she received an e-mail communication of having been selected for a job at the Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru, in August. Upon contacting the given mobile number, she was asked to pay Rs. 65,000 for document verification and she promptly paid the amount online. Things being so, she received a WhatsApp message subsequently of winning Rs. 25 lakh cash prize in a lottery. She was asked to pay Rs. 5,01,540 towards handling charges and she did the payment through GooglePay, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-duped-of-rs-566540-online/article37860456.ece
06 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Airport aids woman who suffered cardiac arrest, breathing issues mid-air||The Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) walked an extra mile to come to the aid of a family that faced a mid-air health crisis. The Air India Express (AIE) aircraft in which the family of five were travelling to Sharjah from Kannur made an emergency landing at MIA on December 3 after a woman suffered a cardiac arrest and breathing issues. Based on the information that the airport operation control central (AOCC) of MIA received from the commander of Flight IX-745 about this medical emergency at 9.21 a.m., the entire emergency apparatus of MIA and stakeholders were put on alert. With a senior MIA official running point, the family, which included the ailing passenger, her three minor children and her husband, were escorted to A.J. Hospital at Kuntikana, Mangaluru, for treatment in 17 minutes from the time that the aircraft rolled to a stop at 10 a.m., after a doctor attached to the Airport Health Organisation (APHO) examined the passenger on board the aircraft and found her to be stable. The senior MIA official was in constant touch with the airline officials, the ground handling agency (GHA) staff who escorted the passenger, aged 33, to the hospital, and the doctors treating her. Once the doctors confirmed that the passenger was out of danger and had recovered, the senior MIA official got in touch with her husband and assured them of all possible assistance for their onward journey to Sharjah, which they undertook later in the day. The family later departed on Flight 6e-1417 from MIA to Sharjah at 11 p.m. and on their arrival at the airport from the hospital they received priority in clearing the mandatory RT-PCR tests and other statutory clearances. Porters were on hand to escort the family to the boarding gate. The aerodrome rescue and firefighting (ARFF), APHO, Customs, airline, CISF, immigration, and GHA worked in tandem , a release from the airport said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/airport-aids-woman-who-suffered-cardiac-arrest-breathing-issues-mid-air/article37860466.ece
06 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Auto driver killed in road accident||A goods autorickshaw driver transporting fish died and two were injured in an accident involving the autorickshaw, a motorcycle and a car at Saibrakatte in Brahmavar police limits in Udupi district on Sunday. The police gave the name of the deceased driver as Suresh Marakala (40), resident of Achchadi, Madhuvana. Raju Marakala (60) travelling in the autorickshaw and motorcycle rider Subrahmanya Kulal (42), resident of Shiriyara, were injured in the accident. They have been admitted in hospital. The Marakalas used to transport fish daily from Malpe Fishing Harbour and sell the marine product in and around Saibrakatte in their goods vehicle. While they were approaching Saibrakatte on Sunday morning, a car said to be driven in a rash manner, hit the autorickshaw and the motorcycle. The Marakalas were trapped inside the vehicle cabin and by the time they were rescued by local people, Suresh Marakala had breathed his last. Brahmavar Police have arrested the 19-year-old car driver. They have registered a case and are investigating. Pedestrian dies An elder pedestrian, resident of Padnur village in Puttur taluk, died of injuries that he suffered after a two-wheeler hit him near Darbe on Saturday. The police gave the name of the deceased as Keshava Gowda. According to a complaint by the victim’s nephew, P. Jayarama, his uncle was walking on the extreme right side of the road when a two-wheeler being ridden by Abdul Majid hit him on Friday night. The injured was admitted to a private hospital in Puttur initially and later shifted to a private hospital in Mangaluru. However, he died of injuries on Saturday, the police said. Puttur Traffic Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auto-driver-killed-in-road-accident/article37860458.ece
06 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Young Scientist Award for Srinivas University teacher||Sandhya Shenoy, Associate Professor, Department of Chemistry at the College of Engineering and Technology, Srinivas University, Mukka has been conferred with the National Academy of Sciences India (NASI) - Young Scientist Platinum Jubilee Award for 2021. The award, which carries a citation, a medal and cash prize, was presented at a virtual ceremony on Sunday. Ms. Shenoy was chosen for her contributions in the field of energy and environmental applications involving thermoelectric and photocatalytic materials, a release issued by Registrar Anil Kumar said. The NASI is the first science academy of India located in Prayagraj (Allahabad), Uttar Pradesh. It has instituted the award to recognize promise, creativity and excellence in young scientists in India. The number of awards in any year is limited to five and is based on the research work carried out in India. The Registrar said that Ms. Shenoy has also been awarded certificate of appreciation as in the top 5% highly-cited authors internationally by Royal Society of Chemistry, London. Her research was amongst the top 100 papers published across Royal Society Chemistry (RSC) journals globally in terms of citations in 2020. Her publications were also designated as most popular article and hot article in RSC journals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/young-scientist-award-for-srinivas-university-teacher/article37860468.ece
06 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Interventional Radiology Division opened at Manipal KMC||The Interventional Radiology Division was inaugurated at Kasturba Medical College and Hospital in Manipal recently. H.S. Ballal, Pro-Chancellor of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), who inaugurated it, said interventional radiology is a medical sub-specialty utilizing minimally-invasive image-guided procedures to diagnose and treat diseases in nearly every organ system. The main benefits of interventional radiology techniques are that they can reach the deep structures of the body through a body orifice or tiny incision using small needles and wires. Prakashini, HOD, Radiology, said interventional radiology procedures have evolved as an alternative treatment to surgeries. It avoids blood loss, open surgeries, postoperative complications, and reduced morbidity. They involve only a needle puncture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/interventional-radiology-division-opened-at-manipal-kmc/article37860465.ece
06 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tribals demand completion of land allotment exercise||Members of various tribal community in Hunsur in Mysuru district have decried the failure of the Government to complete the land allotment process initiated decades ago as part of rehabilitating the tribes of the region. Development through Education (DEED) and other NGOs have urged the authorities that the delay has affected the lives and fortunes of thousands of families belonging to Jenu Kurubas, Betta Kurubas, Yerava, and Soligas etc. S. Sreekanth of DEED said that the Budakattu Krishikara Sangha has also appealed to the authorities to take up the exercise which has been completely halted citing pandemic as an excuse by the revenue authorities. Senior leaders of the community, including P.K. Ramu, Jayappa, and others, also called on the local revenue officials in this regard and have pointed out that in the absence of land title deeds in their names, members of the tribes are unable to avail loan from financial institutions and are dependent on Government doles. DEED said that nearly 215 tribal hamlets housing about 12,000 families spread across four taluks of Hunsur revenue sub-division. Of these, around 800 families live on forest land, while 600 families have been rehabilitated as per the prevailing schemes under which they have been provided with 2 to 3 acres of land, house, civic amenities and other benefits. But there are also other families who were ousted from the forests before the voluntary relocation of the 800 families. The High Court of Karnataka – based on a report – has ordered the rehabilitation of 3,418 such families, according to Mr. Sreekanth. He said relentless fight for tribal rights resulted in the Government issuing certificate of grant enabling around 2,500 beneficiaries to take up cultivation. Though the certificate of grant has been issued, the revenue authorities are yet to incorporate the details in the records and issue title deeds. The delay has resulted in encroachment, according to Mr. Ramu and Mr.Jayappa who said that the tribes are unable to take up cultivation. There are fears that the encroachment, if left uncleared, could be regularised and tribals would be left landless. Hence the NGOs have sought the immediate intervention of officials to complete the pending land allocation exercise so that the beneficiaries from the tribal communities have the land title deeds in their names.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tribals-demand-completion-of-land-allotment-exercise/article37860483.ece
06 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Disability pension and ECHS facility sought for gentlemen officer cadets||The Vekare Ex-Servicemen’s Trust (VKET) has urged Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to take immediate steps to ensure disability pension and other facilities under Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) to gentlemen cadet officers invalidated and sent home due to injuries suffered during military training. Taking serious exception to the “shabby” treatment meted out to hapless gentlemen cadet officers, who suffer injuries in the “hazardous and tough” training, VKET president Mandetira N. Subramani, in a letter dated December 1, sought a minimum pension to such gentlemen officer cadets so that they are also covered under the definition of ex-servicemen and become eligible for membership of ECHS. Mr. Subramani said the gentlemen officer cadets should be granted minimum pension on par with ex-recruits (who do not belong to the rank of officers) after they are invalidated due to injuries suffered during training. He sought to draw to the Defence Minister’s attention that ex-recruits were also not covered under the definition of ex-servicemen and hence not eligible for medical care under ECHS and CSD canteen facilities until their organisation took up the cudgels on their behalf. Mr. Subramani has cited the cases of two ex-recruits [P.P. Poonacha from Bhagamandala in Kodagu district and Hanumantharayappa from Ashokapuram in Mysuru district] that were represented to Army authorities in 1990 and 2005. After prolonged correspondences and communication, the “policy concerning ex-servicemen was amended to include ex-recruits who were invalidated with service/disability pension due to the injuries suffered during training. Subsequently, they were made eligible for all the facilities such as medical care under ECHS and CSD facilities”, he said. Mr. Subramani termed as “very unfortunate” that gentlemen officer cadets, invalidated due to injury while training, are not covered under the definition of ex-servicemen even though in one of the representations, dated January 24, 1991, addressed to the Chief of Army Staff, with copies to the other two services chiefs, Mr. Poonacha had mentioned the problems and issues of gentlemen officer cadets too, contending “they also joined the forces thinking that they would be taken care in case of any mishaps while undergoing rigorous training”. “If no justice is done, the youth of our country would think twice before taking up careers in the Armed forces,” Mr. Subramani said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/disability-pension-and-echs-facility-sought-for-gentlemen-officer-cadets/article37860482.ece
06 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Omicron scare affects tourism, hospitality sector in Mysuru||The tourism and hospitality sector in Mysuru and surrounding regions is on the edge as there are concerns that the emergence of Omicron cases may hamper the sector’s revival. The sector was bracing for a strong uptick in its fortunes as the COVID-19 cases continued on its downward spiral and the restrictions were eased while things were beginning to limp to normalcy. But with the discovery of two Omicron cases in Bengaluru last week and the heightened anxiety surrounding it, the cascading impact was almost immediate in Mysuru. The hotels and hospitality sector witnessed a 20 per cent cancellation of the bookings while there was a downward trend among the locals frequenting the restaurants to catch a bite. “It is early days to predict but since the last 48 hours about 20 per cent of the rooms booked by tourists were cancelled while the restaurants and hotels in the city saw a 50 per cent dip in the customers during the weekend’’, said Narayana Gowda of the Hotel Owners Association. Among the first – and also the worst – to be affected, the tourism sector came to a grinding halt with the outbreak of the pandemic and announcement of lockdown in 2020. Jobs were lost and hotels shut down but the fortunes began to shore up even as the vaccination rate gained traction post-July. “We were optimistic of returning to the pre-COVID level of operations by December and all trends indicated it till the emergence of Omicron’’, said Mr.Gowda. It is not just the inbound tourists who are playing safe. Even the outbound tourists have cancelled their trip or postponed it and this trend has increased during the last 72 hours, said B.S.Prashanth of Safe Wheels, an organisation involved in providing logistics and travel solutions to tourists. “Continuous rains since October coupled with Omnicorn concern has put paid to all plans for an early revival as even the government has put off the resumption of international flights that were planned to commence from December 15’’, said Mr .Prashanth. However, the footfall at the Mysuru palace have not declined and an average of 3,000 tourists have been visiting daily. But stakeholders in the hospitality sector point out that this is not reflective of the broad trends as the footfall also includes visitors from Mysuru and surrounding region who need not stay in the city. Tourism is a key economic driver of Mysuru and provides direct employment to nearly 75,000 people besides creating ancillary jobs all of which has been affected due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/omicron-scare-affects-tourism-hospitality-sector-in-mysuru/article37860479.ece
06 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CFTRI lab to handle bulk of RT-PCR tests||With the COVID-19 testing target in Mysuru increased from 3,000 to 5,000 a day amid Omicron scare, the bulk of RT-PCR tests are now being handled by the lab at the CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI) with the Microbiology Department’s Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) facility on the premises of K.R. Hospital shut for restoration. The VRDL facility, which has been in the forefront of COVID-19 testing since April 2020, is not in operation since the last few days over a short-circuit incident and the structure housing the lab requires immediate repairs due to leakage from the roof. Now that the scare of a new variant has triggered an alert and the government has asked the districts to ramp up testing to deal with any rise in COVID-19 numbers, the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) has resolved to shift some of the staff from VRDL and the RT-PCR testing equipment to the CFTRI lab for the time being for handling the testing load until the VRDL gets ready for resuming tests.  The MMCRI Testing Centre (Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory) and the CSIR-CFTRI Testing Centre are the two public institutions that have been providing services to the public free of cost since the outbreak. The CSIR-CFTRI came forward to support the district administration in the fight against the pandemic by setting up the testing centre and carrying out RT-PCR tests since testing was key for containing the spread of the disease. VRDL is a part of a network of labs established across the country by the Department of Health Research, Government of India. The rise in the number of viral outbreaks and the resultant mortality from them had been cited as key reasons for the launch of a network of such hi-tech labs. The National Institute of Virology, Pune and the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi will be the top laboratories for the network while the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai will be supervising the data generated by the network of labs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cftri-lab-to-handle-bulk-of-rt-pcr-tests/article37860477.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Reader’s Mail||Sir, - The decision of the traffic police in Bengaluru to issue SMS alerts to traffic offenders is unique, and falls in line with the digital era. Collection of fines will be quicker. The process is less expensive too. Since the SMS will be received by the owner of the vehicle, any chance of the offender getting away due to change in postal address becomes nil. V.N. Subramanyam, Bengaluru   Sir, - The Technical Advisory Committee’s recommendation to restrict access to public facilities and Government benefits, such as pension, for the unvaccinated, appears rash and excessive. Educating the public about the importance of the vaccine would be the right thing to do. Some people might refuse to get vaccinated for reasons that are medically and scientifically valid. Democratic societies are expected to give such latitude for people to exercise their choices. A one-size-fits-all approach should be done away with. G.L. Krishna, Bengaluru  Readers can email to letters.bangalore   @thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/readers-mail/article37860083.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Corridors||The detection of the first two cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus in Bengaluru has not just made citizens anxious, it has also brought with it a fair share of headaches for the health officials in the State and those in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) in particular. Health officials, apart from holding numerous meetings through the day, have to hold press conferences and give “bytes” to the media. With the national attention now on Bengaluru, the pressure on health officials has only quadrupled. A senior official from the BBMP hinted that fear-mongering by a section of the media is tougher to handle than the virus itself. “We have to field questions about the same issue from all media houses, including television channels. Even that is fine. But at the end of the day, we are anxious about the media frenzy surrounding us and ways of handling that,” the senior official said.   Upset over incidents of cattle theft and their illegal transportation in his constituency Tirthahalli in Shivamogga district, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra ( in picture ) vented his ire on police officers recently. Talking to a police officer over the phone, he took serious exception to police administration which he called “corrupt, inefficient and incapable of implementing the law passed by the legislature”. Despite “handsome salaries”, the police had been expecting bribes from criminals to let them off, he remarked. The video of his conversation went viral on social media, leaving him embarrassed. After all, rampant corruption in his own department does not reflect well on him either. Many people commented that his words demoralised honest people among the police. The Minister, who clearly did not expect the conversation to go public, tried to soft peddle it by saying that he was referring only to a section of policemen and not all. Blood is thicker It’s an open secret now. The Jarkiholi brothers have been making all-out efforts to ensure victory of their brother Lakhan Jarkiholi ( in picture ), who is contesting as an Independent in the Legislative Council polls. Though the three elder brothers — Ramesh, Satish, and Balachandra — had initially denied extending support to Mr. Lakhan Jarkiholi, they are said to be doing all they can to send him to the Upper House. Most of their work is discreet, as brothers have been meeting leaders with a hold on rural local body voters. While Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi and Mr. Balachandra Jarkiholi are BJP MLAs, Mr. Satish Jarkiholi is a Congress MLA and KPCC working president. “They have been meeting people with the objective of helping their brother, but still claim they are working for their own parties,” said a municipality member from Gokak taluk. Another BJP leader maintained that the brothers are “fighting for their existence” and to strengthen the non-Lingayat factor in these elections. Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi has met Congress leaders over the last few days, calling them as courtesy visits. Mr. Satish Jarkiholi, the only leader who is in the Congress, said he would ensure victory of his party’s nominee. The district has two seats and both the Congress and the BJP have fielded their official candidates. Chitra V. Ramani Sathish G.T. Rishikesh Bahadur Desai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corridors/article37860108.ece
06 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||RSS trying to sabotage State’s communal harmony: Pinarayi||Hitting out at the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said deliberate attempts are being made to change the basic character and nature of Kerala society by destroying the communal harmony. He was inaugurating the P. Krishna Pillai Memorial Study Centre established by the CPI(M) district committee in Alappuzha on Sunday. “Kerala society has several distinct characteristics. Ours is a secular State. But, of late attempts are being made to bring wholesale changes and sabotage the society by creating divisions on religious lines,” Mr. Vijayan said. Provocative slogans Referring to the provocative slogans raised by RSS activists during a march at Thalassery in Kannur, the Chief Minister said the Sangh Parivar was trying to create hatred and communal feelings in the society. The incident at Thalassery and halal row were part of attempts to intrude into the public consciousness with the aim of stoking communal tension and divide society. The RSS was trying to instil a sense of confusion and fear in the minds of people by unleashing communal campaigns. Left’s presence Mr. Vijayan said the RSS had so far failed to implement its agenda in the State due to the strong presence and stance of the Left front.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rss-trying-to-sabotage-states-communal-harmony-pinarayi/article37860425.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,KERALA||T.N. has Rs. 3.78 lakh-cr. in arrears from SDLs||Tamil Nadu has an outstanding liability of about Rs. 3.78 lakh crore, as on March 2021, on funds raised via the issue of bonds called State Development Loans (SDLs) and about Rs. 55,168 crore or 14.6% is coming up for repayment by 2023-24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tn-has-rs-378-lakh-cr-in-arrears-from-sdls/article37860434.ece
06 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rallies mark end of Gandhi Nagar campaign||Various political fronts took out rallies in the Gandhi Nagar division of the Kochi Corporation on Sunday to mark the culmination of the month-long bypoll campaign. The division will go to polls on December 7. While the United Democratic Front (UDF) highlighted what it termed as the pathetic state of affairs in the division, represented by Left Democratic Front (LDF) councillors for the last three decades, the LDF tried to impress the voters by drawing a comparison between the development initiatives during the 10 months of the LDF ruling the civic body with 10 years of the UDF regime. The UDF has once again fielded District Congress Committee general secretary P.D. Martin, who had lost to K.K. Sivan by a margin of 115 votes in the last election. Bindu Sivan, the wife of deceased councillor Sivan, is the LDF candidate. Bharatiya Janata Party’s district mandalam president P.G. Manojkumar is the party candidate in the division. Mr. Martin, who kicked off his campaign with the slogan ‘Gandhi Nagar will change’, alleged that the LDF councillors who represented the division over the years failed to address any of the development needs of the people. Gandhi Nagar must be the only Corporation division where tube lights were still used for street lamps even as the conventional street lamps in most of the other divisions were replaced with LED lamps, he said. Waterlogging, poor sanitation facilities and absence of good roads were the visible signs of neglect of LDF representatives, he added. Countering the allegations, former Mayor C.M. Dinesh Mani, who led the LDF campaign, said the UDF-led regime that was in power in the Corporation during the past decade blocked all the development initiatives of the division’s councillors. It was the LDF-led administration, which came into power 10 months ago, that gave shape to the development aspirations of the people of the division, he said. He highlighted the housing project, being implemented for the residents of the P&T Colony, with support of the Greater Cochin Development Authority as an example of the development initiative. The counting of votes will be held on December 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rallies-mark-end-of-gandhi-nagar-campaign/article37860392.ece
06 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Call to address landowners’ woes||The Public Works Department (NH Wing) and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) must do the needful to redress the woes of hundreds of people who were left in the lurch after their lands were frozen three decades ago for the Thripunithura bypass project which has not been realised so far, M.M. Mohanan, secretary of EDRAAC-Thiruvankulam Zone, said. The ‘apathy’ towards the plight of landowners has resulted in them being unable to rebuild or renovate their dilapidated houses. Neither can they bequeath their land/houses to their children. MPs, MLAs and representatives of local bodies must proactively help redress the grievances of landowners, most of whom are senior citizens, he added. The demand comes in the wake of NHAI reportedly not confirming whether the plots that were acquired, or were frozen for acquisition, will be acquired as part of the Kundannoor-Angamaly NH bypass project. “Little has happened after I got a notice and 12 survey stones were laid in 2007 to acquire land in my two-acre plot for the Thripunithura bypass project,” said Jaimon Joy, a Thiruvankulam-based civil engineer. “Only 4.5 hectares of the total 16-hectares needed for the project were acquired all through 30 years, following which the acquisition notification lapsed.” “The written assurance given a year ago that the land will be acquired under the Bharatamala project to build highways too has not been adhered to. Following this, senior NHAI officials had visited the alignment in June, heard our grievances and assured us that the plots will be included in either the alignment of Kochi-Theni NH or the Kundannoor-Angamaly NH. It all turned topsy turvy in August, when they cited a distance of hardly 500 m between the two NHs, with the result that we have been left in the lurch. They now say any highway alignment through the stretch that had been planned for the Thripunithura bypass will not be socially, economically and technically feasible, although the Kundannoor-Mattakuzhi alignment is a straight one,” Mr. Joy said. Some landowners are hoping that readying a link road to the Kundannoor-Angamaly NH will bring them some respite. George, a landowner, said he was unable to sell five cents of his land since survey stones were laid in the early 1990s. His house there has been damaged beyond redemption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-address-landowners-woes/article37860382.ece
06 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Online cab sector remains in the red||The ‘high’ commission that prominent online taxi aggregator firms continue to charge, despite the over Rs. 30 per litre escalation in the cost of fuel vis-à-vis pre-pandemic days, and commuters showing a marked preference for personal modes of transport, have resulted in the online-cab sector remaining in the red in prominent cities in Kerala. The stiff opposition to the levy of 26% commission on the fare was doing the rounds well before the pandemic wrecked havoc with the travel and transport sector. Offices closed That the once-booming sector is struggling to stay afloat in the State is evident in that prominent aggregator platforms have wound up their Kochi regional offices. This has resulted in a platform entrusting a sole staffer with the task of coordinating with drivers and resolving customer grievances for the entire State, while yet another does the same from its Bengaluru regional office. Uncertain service Inadequate availability of online cabs, the resultant huge waiting period, and the uncertainty about whether drivers will operate or cancel booked trips, found resonance, as writer N.S. Madhavan tweeted recently that a prominent cab aggregator platform ought to declare that it was officially dead in the State. Seemingly taken by surprise, the aggregator sought details of what triggered his complaint. Numerous people, including cab drivers, have of late been sharing their grouse at aggregator platforms not revising their fare structure, despite the steep hike in fuel prices and “going back” on a host of assurances that had been announced when they forayed into the Kerala market. Sources in an aggregator platform spoke of how it expected the Kochi market to bounce back shortly, after the sector took a severe beating following the pandemic. “Moreover, managing from outside Kerala will have little impact on the State’s ground-level operations,” they said. “We are seeing strong recovery across the country, from riders looking for convenient, affordable and safe mobility options. Four-wheeler business is seeing encouraging week-on-week growth, as offices, schools, and holiday spots reopen, leading to increased demand for affordable rides. We expect to see these robust trends continue over the coming weeks, and into the holiday season,” said a spokesperson of Uber. Sources in the sector justified the 26% cut from the regular fare as inclusive of 5% GST. Drivers in other States too are of late cancelling trips, especially if they are to traffic-snarl-prone areas, they said. Probing alternatives “The common grouse over the ‘high’ quantum of commission has resulted in vast many drivers flocking to alternative online platforms where there is little or no commission,” said Shajo Jose, secretary of Online Cab Drivers’ Association. Prominent among them is Yatri app that was launched in tandem with the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA), he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-cab-sector-remains-in-the-red/article37860387.ece
06 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Keeping a tradition alive||Hanukkah festival was celebrated at the Kadavumbagam Synagogue in Fort Kochi on Sunday. Hanukkah is the Jewish festival of lights commemorating the recovery of Jerusalem and subsequent rededication of the Second Temple at the beginning of the Maccabean revolt against the Seleucid Empire in the second century BCE. Kerala High Court judge Alexander Thomas was the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keeping-a-tradition-alive/article37860384.ece
06 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police find gambling den during raids on Kochi flats||The police team probing the car accident that led to the death of two models and a youth near Palarivattom in Kochi on November 1 and the role played by Syju Thankachan, accused in the case and charged of drug peddling, conducted raids at apartment complexes and a few resorts at Ernakulam South, Thevara, Panangad, and Maradu on Sunday. They were assisted by Narcotic Cell and Excise personnel. During the raids, they discovered a gambling den that was reportedly functioning from an apartment on the banks of Chilavannoor lake. The gang members were found using marked papers and coins instead of currency to hoodwink enforcement personnel. Money used to be transferred to the bank accounts of the “winners”, it is learnt. An apartment where Thankachan reportedly hosted rave parties was raided. The probe team had found photos of the parties on his mobile phone. The police also questioned people who have rented out the apartments. A resident of the apartment was taken into custody. The police said they were in the process of identifying people who were found in the photographs of parties in which Saiju Thankachan, who was slapped with cases at different police stations under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, too was an attendee. The police arrested Tipson Francis, 33, of North Paravur, who was charged with possessing 5 grams of ganja, following the raid. A homestay at Maradu too was raided on Sunday, the police said.  Gang members used marked papers and coins instead of currency to hoodwink enforcement personnel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-find-gambling-den-during-raids-on-apartments-in-kochi/article37860369.ece
06 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Woman dies of burn injuries, one arrested||The Njarakkal police on Sunday took a person into custody after a 40-year-old woman died of burn injuries. Her 18-year-old son is undergoing treatment at a city hospital after suffering over 70% burns. The incident took place at Nayarambalam on Sunday morning. The arrest was made after relatives produced an audio clip of the woman saying the name of a person moments before her death. The woman and her son were living alone. Her husband had died earlier. It was her neighbours who saw smoke billowing out of the house. Her father and brother who were living nearby broke open the door and rushed the woman and her son to hospital, where she died by 10 a.m. The police recovered a bottle of kerosene from the house. Arrested on rape charge An Alappuzha native was arrested on the charge of gang-raping a woman from Malappuram at a lodge at Edachira after lacing her drinks with sedatives. The arrested is Salim Kumar, 33, of Alappuzha. He along with two others allegedly gang-raped her at the lodge and recorded the visuals. The police are on the lookout for the other two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-dies-of-burn-injuries-one-arrested/article37860380.ece
06 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam court to try Lankan detainee case||The case booked for allegedly making a Sri Lankan detainee lie down on a hot iron plate used for cooking chapathi while in Indian Coast Guard (ICG) custody will be considered by a trial court in Ernakulam. The High Court had transferred the case to the Judicial First Class Magistrate I, Ernakulam, considering the plea of the complainant and the limitations of the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court (CJM), Thiruvananthapuram, in probing the alleged custodial torture. L.Y. Nandana, 46, who was arrested along with five others from a fishing vessel from Arabian Sea on March 25 this year, is the complainant. Large quantities of drugs and AK 47 guns and ammunition were seized from the vessel. The petitioner complained that he was beaten up by five ICG officials with iron rods for five days and on the fifth day, he was made to lie in a supine position on a heated iron plate inside the vessel. He reportedly sustained several burns. The alleged incident came to light when K. Biju Menon, the Additional Sessions Judge, Thiruvananthapuram, ordered a probe by the CJM, Thiruvananthapuram, on noticing the burns on the body. Later, the complainant submitted that the court had no jurisdiction to try the case as the alleged offence was committed in the Exclusive Economic Zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-court-to-try-lankan-detainee-case/article37860397.ece
06 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Russian national tests positive in State||A 25-year-old Russian national, who landed at the Cochin International Airport on Sunday has tested positive for COVID-19. He arrived from the U.K. and has been shifted to a Government Hospital at Ambalamugal, near Kochi, Health department sources said. The sample collected from him has been sent for genome sequencing to ascertain whether he is a carrier of Omicron variant. The sample will be tested in Thiruvananthapuram. Russia is among the list of high-risk countries for Omicron spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/russian-national-tests-positive-in-state/article37860407.ece
06 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Aid for differently abled||Viswasanthi Development Foundation, an NGO working for healthcare and education of the underprivileged, organised a function in association with EYGDS to provide assistance to differently abled persons on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities on December 4. Actor Mohanlal, who is also the founder of Viswasanthi Development Foundation, distributed wheelchairs, hearing and walking aids, and smartphones to 25 beneficiaries on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-for-differently-abled/article37860385.ece
06 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Yusuff Ali visits Panangad, thanks residents||LuLu Group chairman M.A. Yusuff Ali visited the residents of Panangad in the district on Sunday to thank them for the help they extended when the helicopter he was travelling in crash-landed in the area in April this year. A communication from the LuLu Group said the people of Panangad had come out without even knowing who was involved in the accident and, at risk to their own lives, had helped the rescue operations. Mr. Ali visited Rajesh and his wife Biji who had first arrived at the accident site, said the communication. Rajesh helped him and the others in the helicopter even amid bad weather conditions while his wife immediately informed the police. Mr. Ali spent time with the family and presented them with gifts as a sign of his gratitude.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yusuff-ali-visits-panangad-thanks-residents/article37860395.ece
06 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||678 fresh COVID cases in Ernakulam||As many as 678 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Sunday. A communication from the Public Relations department said there were 670 cases of local transmission and eight cases in which the source of infection is not known. A total of 702 people were declared COVID-negative on Sunday, the communication added. The test positivity rate is 7.79%. As many as 1,076 people were freshly placed under observation in their homes while 934 people came out of home observation on Sunday. There are a total of 24,843 people under home observation. There are 6,501 people under COVID treatment. A total of 8,700 samples were sent for testing while 1,478 doses of vaccine were given up to 5.30 p.m. on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/678-fresh-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article37860388.ece
06 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Islanders stranded||Over 1,000 passengers bound for islands in Lakshadweep from Kochi are stranded here following cancellation of trips by m.v. Kavaratti, a passenger vessel which caught fire on Wednesday. Fire in the engine room of the vessel, which was sailing to Androth island from Kavaratti, had resulted in the ship being towed by a Coast Guard vessel back to Androth, where all 624 passengers disembarked. Most passengers stranded in Kochi had come for treatment at various hospitals. They were to return to the isles in ships that were to leave Kochi on Sunday and Tuesday. Towing of vessel A senior crew member of m.v. Kavaratti said the towing of the vessel to Kochi was being worked out with the Navy and other stakeholders. On Sunday, a vessel having capacity to carry 150 passengers left Kochi for the isles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-1000-islanders-stranded-in-kochi/article37860379.ece
06 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||An app to realise your dream house||Communicating exact design concepts can be a challenge, especially when it comes to building your dream house. Despite all the effort, the end result may not be what you had envisioned. BrickAr.com, a web application designed by a group of youngsters, addresses this challenge by visualising the project and helping clients imagine spaces. One of the two start-ups selected from the State for the incubation programme of IIM Kashipur, it provides a virtual reality-based platform for architects, designers and contractors to showcase their work and achieve what the client really wants. “BrickAr offers virtual tours that ensure better ways of communication between clients and service providers,” says Abraham Varghese, founder and CEO. Neetu George, Bibin M. Panicker, Anoop Joy, Akhil S. Raju and Aby O. Panicker are the co-founders. Real-time concept The USP of BrickAr is that it helps clients have a real-time experience of their proposed project at the design stage itself. “That means they will be able to explore various possibilities and combinations with proper cost estimation so that cost overrun can be avoided. The real-time experience of design helps customers select proper building material and appropriate furniture within the budget,” he adds. At the time of virtual reality presentation, a client gets a clear idea about various stages of construction and the materials that will be used in each stage. BrickAr uses virtual reality to create the same experience as walking through a new house so that additions and omissions can be made easily. While doing so, the furniture can be repositioned, colours changed and rooms resized. “BrickAr can be used for any kind of construction, including office spaces and other commercial buildings,” adds Mr. Varghese.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-app-to-realise-your-dream-house/article37860430.ece
06 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Shop employees union to stage protest||Shops and Commercial Employees Union (affiliated to the CITU) will organise a protest march on December 10 against the alleged irregularities in land acquisition for NH widening on Ochira-Kadampatkonam road. The district committee had earlier demanded proper compensation for labourers who will lose their jobs since some commercial buildings are also part of the stretch. “Many of the commercial establishments that used to operate in these parts will be wiped out after land acquisition. The stretch also has some rented offices and the workers and business owners of these establishments are entitled to rehabilitation and compensation as per the second schedule of the Land Acquisition Act, 2013,” said district president Ezhukone Santhosh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shop-employees-union-to-stage-protest/article37860427.ece
06 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Hostels asked to follow food safety norms||Assistant Commissioner of Food Safety has instructed student hostels, working women’s hostels, and other such facilities functioning in the district to strictly follow food safety norms. Food safety license or registration is mandatory and the certificate ensuring the quality of drinking water should be kept at all hostels. Strict legal action will be taken against hostels that violate the regulations and the public can call 0474 2766950 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hostels-asked-to-follow-food-safety-norms/article37860428.ece
06 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Last date for applying for course at IMHANS||The last date to apply for the Post Basic Diploma in Psychiatric Nursing course at Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (IMHANS), Kozhikode, has been extended to December 15. General Nursing/BSc Nursing/Post Basic BSc Nursing and Kerala Nurses and Midwives council registration are the qualifications required. A stipend of Rs. 7,000 per month will be provided and application forms are available at the IMHANS office and www.imhans.ac.in. For more information, call 9745156700.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/last-date-for-applying-for-course-at-imhans/article37860431.ece
06 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Surge in placement offers at IIIT-Kottayam||Riding on the back of its institute-coordinated internship programme, the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) Kottayam, an institution of national importance, has witnessed a rise in placement offers to its students in the ongoing academic year. In the first phase of the placement drive that concluded on December 1, students received 94 offers with an average pay package of Rs. 9.68 lakhs per annum (LPA) as against a total 93 offers with an average CTC of Rs. 9.07 LPA the previous academic year. Internship benefits As many as 35 companies have participated in the placement process, which generated three offers with above Rs. 30 LPA, with the highest figure of Rs. 42 LPA. M. Radhakrishnan, registrar, IIIT Kottayam, attributed the rise in placement offers to the excellent performance of students during internships. “The sustained increase in the number of placements and the increasing number of research outcomes this year is a clear reflection of the academic quality of IIIT Kottayam and its students. I am optimistic that we would be able to carry forward this strength,” he said in a release from the institute. Projects The institution has already established sufficient number of memorandum of understandings  (MoUs)  and international and national-funded projects to improve research and innovation ecosystem. This is in addition to projects worth over Rs. 100 crore submitted by the faculties and PhD scholars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surge-in-placement-offers-at-iiit-kottayam/article37860424.ece
06 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||34-year-old arrested for piracy of Marakkar||The police on Sunday arrested a 34-year-old man on charges of circulating a pirated copy of the latest Mohanlal-starrer Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham through the messaging app Telegram. The accused has been identified as Naseef, a native of Kanjirappally in Kottayam district. The man allegedly circulated a pirated copy of the movie through a group titled Cinema Company on the messaging platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-for-piracy-of-marakkar/article37860393.ece
06 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corporation initiates measures to streamline street vending||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation has begun the process of reconstituting its Town Vending Committee as a first step to streamline the operations of street vendors in the city. The election of office-bearers of the committee will be held on December 22 and the election notification has been issued from the office of the City Project Officer of the National Urban Livelihood Mission. The Kozhikode Corporation formed the Town Vending Committee in 2016 and a survey of street vendors was held. The Corporation had then issued identity cards to more than 1,600 street vendors. However, there were complaints that many street vendors were not part of the corporation’s list. A second survey of street vendors in Kozhikode Corporation was held in July 2021, in which 2,323 vendors were identified. But the vendors complained of ill-timing of the survey and that many active vendors were off the streets at the time due to the pandemic. The corporation later accepted applications from more than 500 vendors, which is to be considered by the street vending committee once the election of office-bearers is completed. The new Town Vending Committee will have one third representation of women, while those from the Scheduled Castes and Tribes as well as differently abled persons will also be represented. However, only 1,683 vendors will have voting rights as the others are yet to receive their identity cards. The corporation had issued the notification for election on December 2, and the final voters’ list was published on Saturday. The voters have been informed of the election and the nomination forms will be distributed on Monday. The last date for submission of nominations is December 9 . They will be scrutinised on December 13. The final date to withdraw nominations is December 15. In case there are more contestants for a single post, voting will be held on December 22 and the results will be published on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-initiates-measures-to-streamline-street-vending/article37860363.ece
06 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Post murders, inciting remarks add to tension||Communally inflammatory reactions in the aftermath of the murder of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker in Palakkad last month by suspected PFI activists, and the Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s allegation of conspiracy by the Sangh Parivar behind the murder of its functionary at Thiruvalla in Pathanamthitta a few days ago have raised concerns about escalation of tensions in parts of the State, especially the north Malabar region that has a history of political violence. In Kannur The politically volatile region, especially Kannur district, has witnessed no major incidents of political violence over the past few years. Peace initiatives at various levels have helped rival political workers come out of the spiral of retaliatory violence, mainly involving CPI(M) and BJP-RSS workers. The floods and the pandemic have also taken the bite out of the political rivalry in the region. That peace, however, now appears under stress because of visible attempts to build up tensions. In the wake of the murder of local RSS leader S. Sanjith in Palakkad on November 15, there are fears about political and communal passions being stoked in the region. Provocative slogans Thalassery has witnessed tensions in the past few days following a rally organised by the Sangh Parivar on December 1 as part of the commemoration of the death anniversary of slain BJP worker K.T. Jayakrishnan. Provocative slogans chanted by Sangh Parivar workers triggered protests from the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), among others. Fear of tensions forced the district authorities to impose prohibitory orders on Thalassery on December 3, in effect till December 6. Senior CPI(M) leader and the party’s former Kannur district secretary P. Jayarajan in a Facebook post a few days ago summoned up memories of the communal violence that gripped Thalassery 50 years ago, reiterating the CPI(M)’s claim that it was party workers who had come forward to protect mosques and houses from attacks by RSS workers. That claim, however, was not undisputed. Congress leaders from the district, especially Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran, believe that the 1971 communal riot at Thalassery was a ploy of the CPI(M) to cause panic among Muslims in the region with the objective of forcing them to support the party. Cyclical violence The murder of CPI(M) local secretary P.B. Sandeep Kumar at Thiruvalla on December 2 is also feared to whip up passions in areas haunted by cyclical political violence in the past. Following CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s rebuttal of the police’s initial finding that personal vendetta was the motive behind the murder at Thiruvalla, political rivalry was confirmed as the cause in party circles. The party is organising protests on December 7 against “nationwide attacks” by RSS workers on minorities. As political parties engage in posturing amid tensions, the fraught atmosphere is a throwback to periods of unease that could open the path to serious escalation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/post-murders-inciting-remarks-add-to-tension/article37860396.ece
06 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Standoff between settler farmers, Forest department worsens||The standoff between the Forest department and a section of settler farmers at Thamarassery over the alleged failure of the authorities in controlling wild animal menace worsened with the latest row over sanctioning of compensation for Rasheed Alakkunnathu, a 45-year-old driver-turned-farmer, who was killed in an accident reportedly caused by wild boars. Farmers organisations alleged that the department was responsible for the denial of treatment aid to the man while he was undergoing treatment at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. It was on October 6 that Rasheed along with his family members had met with the accident. Though the others escaped with minor injuries, Rasheed, who drove the autorickshaw, sustained grave injuries. He had been under treatment for nearly two months. The farmers who staged a protest in front of the Thamarassery Forest Range Office on Saturday carrying the body of the victim said Forest officials were disinclined to submit a report in favour of the man to enable him to get a reasonable compensation. “Instead, the report was filed to the higher authorities saying that the accident was not caused by any wild animal. It subsequently led to the denial of treatment aid to Rasheed,” they said. A joint action council of farmers from Thamarassery sought the suspension of officials who were allegedly behind the denial of treatment aid to the man. According to them, it was like a “culpable homicide”, and that the officials accountable for the lapse should be punished. They also warned of launching an indefinite stir in case of laxity on the part of the authorities in initiating disciplinary action. We Farm, a settler farmers organisation, also threatened to launch an indefinite stir in front of the Thamarassery Forest Range Officer’s house from December 11. Meanwhile, Forest officials said they would adopt a considerate approach to ensure compensation for the victim’s family. “Apart from holding discussions with the protesting organisations, we will make efforts for the speedy processing of the compensation claim,” they clarified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/standoff-between-settler-farmers-forest-department-worsens/article37860372.ece
06 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||MCH functioning hit, medicos to intensify indefinite strike||Functioning of the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, is likely to be hit more in the coming days with postgraduate medical doctors planning to escalate their ongoing indefinite strike seeking fast culmination of NEET-PG allotment. According to functionaries of the Kerala Medical Post Graduate Association (KMPGA), postgraduate doctors across the country are boycotting essential services from Monday. The KMPGA, however, is not joining them. A KMPGA leader said that right now they are boycotting only outpatient departments, operation theatre, and ward duty. If there is no word from the government by Tuesday, they would keep off from emergency services such as casualty, intensive care unit, and COVID duty as well from Wednesday. Scheduled surgeries are being postponed for the past four days because of the strike. Patients are not being admitted to wards from the OP section. Only those who are referred from casualty wards are given admission. Doctors are also reportedly discharging non-serious patients from wards. The ongoing strike entered sixth day on Monday. Though the Kozhikode MCH principal has reportedly written to the government saying that the strike had affected the hospital, there are no moves to hold talks. Meanwhile, the house surgeons at the hospital have expressed solidarity with striking postgraduate doctors. Their association has written to the medical college principal seeking appointment of temporary staff to tide over the crisis. The letter claimed that their workload had gone up in the absence of postgraduate doctors in wards and the outpatient department. They also said that they were mentally and physically strained for the past few days. KMPGA functionaries said that the house surgeons had promised to join the strike if there are no talks because they cannot handle the work alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mch-functioning-hit-medicos-to-intensify-indefinite-strike/article37860365.ece
06 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Celebrating 90th anniversary of oldest collective of doctors||Around three dozen doctors, three of them women, from various parts of the then British Malabar huddled at the Calicut Town Hall on March 28, 1931. What they set up nine decades ago later laid the foundation for the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in Kerala. From December 13, the Kozhikode branch of the IMA is celebrating the 90th anniversary of this oldest collective of doctors in the State. According to sources, B. Rama Baliga was the first president and V. Krishna Menon the first secretary of the Malabar District Medical Association formed in 1931. The first meeting was attended by doctors from Calicut, Tellichery, Cannanore, Badagara, Vythir, Tirur, Tanur, Ponnani and Palghat. This was just three years after the first association of doctors practising modern medicine in the country was formed in then Calcutta. Sankar Mahadevan, secretary, IMA, Kozhikode, said that doctors in the then Travancore and Cochin States formed their associations only later. On May 28, 1946, the name of the Malabar association was changed to the Malabar branch of the IMA. Till October 1, 1957, it was under the Madras State branch. When the State of Kerala was formed, all these branches were affiliated to the Kerala State branch. Dr. Mahadevan said that J.A. Jayalal, national president, IMA, would open the celebrations at the IMA Hall on December 13. In the next six days, medical camps for doctors and relatives, musical events, and literary events would be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/celebrating-90th-anniversary-of-oldest-collective-of-doctors/article37860364.ece
06 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Abrupt closure of shops leads to labour issues||The sudden closure of a well-known textile outlet on S.M. Street here has irked trade unions, as its owner has allegedly failed to settle the dues of a few staffers. It came as a rude shock when employees were informed that the outlet owner had decided to close it down. Subsequently, they staged a sit-in in front of the outlet, demanding that their dues be cleared. “Such instances have been common on the pretext of COVID-induced crisis. Several managements have shut down outlets to avoid loan sharks or wholesale suppliers whose dues are to be cleared. It is easier for managements to get rid of employees without settling their dues,” said P. Viji, State secretary of Asanghatitha Meghala Thozhilali Union. A popular textile outlet near the mofussil bus stand was closed down three months ago by its owner who claimed that he was bankrupt. Though he sought time from employees to clear their dues, he failed to keep his word. Subsequently, they lodged a complaint with the District Labour Office. “Labour department officials are with the managements. They ask us to move court. Is it necessary to go to court in all such cases? Then what is the department for?” Ms. Viji asked. In the recent instance, five employees of the textile shop have been left in the lurch. They claimed that the management had settled the dues of all its permanent employees, and that the five temporary staffers had been abandoned. Meanwhile, the management has invited trade unions for a meeting on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abrupt-closure-of-shops-leads-to-labour-issues/article37860361.ece
06 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Labourer killed as concrete slab of house collapses||A 24-year-old labourer was killed when the concrete slab of a house under construction collapsed on him during plastering work at Kakkuni near Kuttiyadi in the district on Sunday. N.P. Jithin met with the accident at 11.30 a.m. Three other workers who sustained serious injuries were admitted to the Kozhikode District Hospital. According to the police, the four-member team was carrying out plastering work near the kitchen. “The concrete slab in the area suddenly collapsed on them. We have sought the support of a scientific assistant to ascertain the actual cause of the collapse as part of further investigation,” the police said. Though the Fire and Rescue team from Nadapuram station carried out the rescue operation in the shortest possible time, the youth succumbed to his injuries at the spot. The other three were taken to the hospital on time with the timely intervention of the rescue squads and local residents. After the inquest, the body of the victim was shifted to the district hospital mortuary. He is survived by father Kannan and mother Chandri. The condition of the other three injured, A. Jijeesh, M.M. Jishnu and T. Ajeesh, was stable, according to the hospital authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/labourer-killed-as-concrete-slab-of-house-collapses/article37860371.ece
06 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||2 held for pawning fake ornaments||The Kasaba police on Sunday arrested two persons who tried to pawn fake gold ornaments with a private lending firm near Kallayi on Saturday. The plan of the suspects, Ali Akbar, 22, and Mohammed Niyas, 29, was to secure Rs. 50,000 from the financier. It was the shop owners themselves who reported the incident to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-held-for-pawning-fake-ornaments/article37860370.ece
06 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Tribal hospital chief in Attappady slams govt.||The superintendent of Government Tribal Specialty Hospital at Kottathara, Attappady, Palakkad district, has come out against the State government for alleged attempts to make him a scapegoat for the failure of the Health department in Attappady. Hospital Superintendent R. Prabhudas alleged on Sunday that he had been deliberately kept away from Attappady when Minister for Health, Women and Child Development Veena George visited the place on Saturday. Attappady tribal hamlets had witnessed a series of infant deaths in successive days owing largely to malnutrition, evoking strong criticism against the government from various quarters. The Oppsoition United Democratic Front (UDF) launched an agitation against the government’s “failure” in ensuring the health of the tribespeople in Attappady. ‘False’ meeting Dr. Prabhudas alleged that he was summoned to Thiruvananthapuram on Saturday in the name of a meeting that never took place. He said a few higher officials in the Health department were playing a vendetta game. The Minister had paid a surprise visit to Attappady on Saturday. Ms. George’s visit had been viewed as an attempt to prevent Opposition Leader V.D. Satheesan from reaping dividends from his scheduled visit on Monday. Dr. Prabhudas alleged that he was being held responsible for the government’s failure, without allowing him to present his side of the story. He said that he would be happy to see the Tribal Specialty Hospital develop even if he was sidelined, adding that the hospital faced several shortfalls, including staff shortage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-hospital-chief-in-attappady-slams-govt/article37860514.ece
06 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad police bust interstate cyber racket||The police here have busted an online swindling racket involving a Nigerian man and a Nagaland woman. Chinedu Hysant (36) from Nigeria and K. Radhika (25) from Nagaland were arrested from New Delhi for online cheating. The police said the duo used to befriend persons through social media, especially Facebook, by convincing them that they were residing abroad. They will then remain in constant touch and promise to send them expensive gifts through courier. They would pretend to be travelling and seek the help of their victims in the name of customs charge and income tax payment while at airport. T.N. man cheated The police said the two were arrested after they had cheated a man from Tamil Nadu, working at Kanjikode in Palakkad district, of Rs. 4.75 lakh. The police cyber wing traced their location to New Delhi and made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-police-bust-interstate-cyber-racket/article37860513.ece
06 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Kodiyeri visits Sandeep’s house||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan here on Sunday called on the family members of the slain CPI(M) leader P.B. Sandeep Kumar and declared that the party will take care of his dependents. Visiting the residence of Mr. Kumar in Peringara, Mr. Balakrishnan said the CPI(M) Pathanamthitta district committee would be tasked with ensuring a job for the slain leader’s wife while his children would be extended financial support to pursue studies. Mr. Balakrishnan interacted with the wife and parents of the slain leader and promised justice to the deceased. Reiterating that the murder was an act committed by the RSS-BJP leadership, Mr. Balakrishnan said about 15 of its workers had been murdered by political rivals since 2016. “Based on a conspiracy hatched by the Sangh Parivar leadership, people from different locations were mobilised for the attack,” he alleged. He also urged the RSS to desist from violence against political rivals and warned that the peaceful stance adopted by the CPI(M) should not be misconstrued as its weakness. Phone conversation Meanwhile, the police team probing the case is examining the authenticity of a purported phone conversation between one of the accused and his friend soon after the murder. As the phone conversation points to a possible conspiracy angle and an attempt to replace the original assailant group with dummy accused, the police will verify their call records and interrogate more persons in this connection. The Judicial First-Class Magistrate Court, Thiruvalla, is slated to consider an application moved by the police seeking custody of the accused on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kodiyeri-visits-sandeeps-house/article37860399.ece
06 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Focus on unsung heroes of freedom struggle’||Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting L. Murugan has urged young film makers to focus on the unsung heroes of India’s freedom struggle. He was speaking after presenting the awards at the ‘She Short Film Festival’ here on Sunday. The Minister acknowledged the great contribution of women from Kerala who became the torch bearers in the fields of sports, healthcare, cinema, literature, arts and science. He said it was important how cinema treats issues such as domestic violence, crime against women and role of women in the society and lauded the concept and content of the She Short Film Festival that was aimed at creating awareness in the general public about women's safety and empowerment. Mr.Murugan urged the youth to explore new ideas and technologies and create cinema with an aesthetic sense. The Minister said the Central government had set up a Film Facilitation Office, as a single point contact for film makers of the country to get permission for shooting in various parts and locales in India. Union Minister of State for Information Technology Rajeev Chandrasekhar and actor Mohanlal addressed the gathering through video. 50 entries Of the 50 entries at the She Film Festival, the top three films were given awards at the function. Noted actors Tovino Thomas and Keerthy Suresh were the guests of honour at the event that also hosted many prominent personalities from the film industry. Women’s safety The Short Film Festival based on the theme of women’s safety was organised by Jatayu Rama Cultural Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-on-unsung-heroes-of-freedom-struggle/article37860556.ece
06 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Medicos hold candlelight vigil||Postgraduate medical students in Government Medical Colleges in the State, who have been on a strike since the past three days as part of a national strike over the inordinate and indefinite delay in NEET-PG allotments, have sought the urgent intervention of the State government in resolving the issue. Kerala Medical Post Graduates’ Association organised a candlelight vigil on Sunday evening in the capital, demanding that the NEET-PG counselling be expedited. In a letter to the Health Minister, KMPGA said that the delay in PG allotment could have been avoided if the Centre or the National Medical Commission had intervened at the right time. PG medicos have been staying away from all non-emergency duties since December 2, as part of their protest. The current stalemate in PG allotment has not just affected the future of over 850 eligible students who are awaiting admission in Government Medical Colleges within the State, it has seriously increased the workload of PG medicos in hospitals too. At present, only two batches of PG students are working in MCHs and the final year students would have to be relieved of duty now as they have to write their final exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medicos-hold-candlelight-vigil/article37860550.ece
06 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Startup ecosystem at KU gains momentum||The Startup ecosystem at the Kerala University has begun to gain momentum with the formulation of its first-ever startup policy a month ago.With nearly 80 enterprises finding their feet under the Kerala University Business Innovation and Incubation Centre (KUBIIC), the university has focused its efforts on tapping external funding sources to maximise its potential in fostering the entrepreneurship ecosystem. Though it had been established back in 2006, it was not until a few years ago that KUBIIC invigorated its efforts to promote startups. Ever since, the centre has been supporting product-based innovations in various avenues including health care, waste management and biotechnology. The introduction of a comprehensive startup policy that derives its guidelines from both National Innovation and Startup Policy and Kerala Technology Startup Policy has provided impetus to the ongoing activities. The university’s startup policy, which was drafted by a panel that comprised academic and industry experts, has proposed converting KUBIIC into a Section 8 (non-profit) company. By positioning the centre as a separate legal entity, the policy makers hope to maximise its potential and prevent its operations from being confined within the legal framework of the university, KUBIIC Director Manoj Changath pointed out. Currently, 79 startups of which four have registered as companies are currently backed by the university. Among these, 13 entities had been floated in its affiliated colleges in various districts. Dr. Changath said a majority of startups have focused on innovations in life sciences areas including biotechnology, botany and zoology. Most endeavours have been focused on product development from the well-equipped laboratories in various departments at the Karyavattom campus. Entrepreneurs who are mostly university alumni are also being mentored by the domain experts there, he added. Rs. 43.5 lakh earmarked While the university recently earmarked Rs. 43.5 lakh for infrastructure development, KUBIIC has set its sights on obtaining a grant of Rs. 125-crore from the Department of Science and Technology through its Sophisticated Analytical and Technical Help Institutes (SATHI) scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/startup-ecosystem-at-ku-gains-momentum/article37860551.ece
06 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Define ‘non-core’ in Ghats: State||Kerala has asked the Union government to clearly define ‘non-core’ areas in the Western Ghats where relaxations from environment protection measures would apply. Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal conveyed the State’s stand at a meeting convened by Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav on Saturday. At the meeting, the State reiterated its demand for the exclusion of 1,337.24 sq km from the Ecologically Sensitive Area (ESA). Mr. Balagopal urged the Centre to demarcate the ESA without disrupting the lives of people inhabiting the region. The fourth draft notification for the demarcation of ESA in the Ghats based on the recommendations of the K. Kasturirangan panel expires on December 31. The Centre held the discussions with the States ahead of the final notification. For Kerala, the debate is centred on 8,656.4 sq km of ‘core’ area and 1,337.24 sq km of ‘non-core.’ According to Mr. Balagopal, the Centre has promised that existing activities — other than red category industries and large-scale mining activities — will not be hit in the non-core region. “But mere verbal assurances will not suffice. It is also ideal that the State has jurisdiction over such areas,” Mr. Balagopal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/define-non-core-in-ghats-state/article37860401.ece
06 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Boost soil productivity: P. Prasad||Minister for Agriculture P. Prasad has stressed the importance of protecting soil and improving its productivity in the context of the challenges posed by climate change. In a World Soil Day message on Sunday, Mr. Prasad called for increased awareness on soil health and the need to curb soil salinisation. December 5 is celebrated as World Soil Day under the aegis of the United Nations to draw global attention to the importance of soil and the growing challenges in sustainable soil management. This year, the theme is 'Halt soil salinisation, boost soil productivity,' Mr. Prasad pointed out. Sustainable farming hinges on the success in increasing the productivity of soil, Mr. Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boost-soil-productivity-p-prasad/article37860553.ece
06 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4,450 more test positive||The State on Sunday reported 4,450 new cases of COVID-19 when 57,722 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The official cumulative case fatality stands at 41,600 on Sunday, with the State adding 161 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on the day. The State’s active case pool dipped to 43,454 patients. A total of 4,606 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health department, only 7.6% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals such as COVID first line/second line treatment centres. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases with 791 cases, Ernakulam 678, Kozhikode 523, Kottayam 484, Kollam 346, Thrissur 345, Kannur 246, Pathanamthitta 219, Idukki 193, Malappuram 158, Alappuzha 147, Palakkad 141, Wayanad 128 and Kasaragod 51.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4450-more-test-positive/article37860406.ece
06 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||791 new COVID cases in capital||The district recorded 791 COVID-19 cases and 692 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 7,157 on Sunday. A test positivity rate of 9.6% was recorded on the day. District Collector Navjot Khosa declared new micro-containment zones in Aishwarya Nagar Residents Association in Edavacode ward of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation and Kaluthukal area in Kalathukal ward of Aruvikkara grama panchayat in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the regions. Meanwhile, Wanda ward in Nedumangad muncipality has been removed from the list of containment zones in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/791-new-covid-cases-in-capital/article37860552.ece
06 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New KMCSU office-bearers||The 53rd State conference of the Kerala Municipal and Corporation Staff Union (KMCSU) elected N.S.Shine as president and P.Suresh as general secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-kmcsu-office-bearers/article37860554.ece
06 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sandeep a victim of infighting in CPI(M): BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran said infighting in the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] had culminated in the murder of CPI(M) Peringara local committee secretary P.B. Sandeep Kumar in Thiruvalla. Mr. Surendran, who sought to distance the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) from the crime, said the ongoing regional conferences ahead of the CPI(M) State conference next year had exacerbated the factional fighting for organisational control in the ruling party. ‘Stance of CM’ Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who heads the Home department, had not blamed the RSS for the murder, he said. Manu, a close associate of Sandeep, had accused a criminal gang, and not the RSS, of his friend’s murder. The CPI(M) later made Manu withdraw the Facebook post as it ran counter to the party’s false narrative about Sandeep’s murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sandeep-a-victim-of-infighting-in-cpim-bjp/article37860400.ece
06 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dose study to benefit transplant patients||Scientists at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) here have formulated a method using genetic studies to predict the optimal dose of an immunosuppressant drug given to kidney transplant patients to reduce the risk of organ rejection and other medical complications. The dose prediction study was focused on the immunosuppressant drug Tacrolimus, which is given to a transplant patient to lower the body's immunity and thereby considerably reduce the chances of organ rejection. Effectiveness For maximum effectiveness, the drug level has to be maintained at an optimum concentration in the blood, especially during the initial period after transplantation. Dr. Radhakrishnan Nair and Dr. Lekshmy Srinivas of the Division of Laboratory Medicine and Molecular Diagnostics, RGCB, conducted the pharmacogenetic study involving patients who have undergone kidney transplantation at the Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, and those who received Tacrolimus as their immunosuppressant. They studied the effect of the genes and their variants that are involved in determining the drug concentrations in patients’ blood. Optimal drug level “We developed a technique that can be used by nephrologists to predict the starting dose of the drug that has to be administered to patients to attain optimal drug level in the initial period after the surgery, based on their genetic profiles,” a pressnote quoting Dr. Radhakrishnan Nair said. “This equation is specific to patients from Kerala who undergo kidney transplantation. The molecular-based method involves testing the DNA of patients for a specific variation, before transplantation surgery,” Dr. Lekshmy Srinivas added. This variation, along with their body weight, can be used to calculate the optimal starting drug dose for the patient. It will help the patients achieve optimal levels of the drug post-transplantation and thus prevent the adverse effects due to overdose and rejection. At present, the dose is calculated based on the patient’s body weight. This approach can lead to a lot of variations in the drug levels. To attain this, blood levels have to be closely monitored and drug doses adjusted, as lower levels can lead to rejection of the transplanted kidney, while higher levels can lead to undesired medical complications. “Though there have been similar studies in other populations before, the predictive value of pharmacogenetic factors identified were insufficient and not much of clinical use. The new development would help prevent the adverse effects of overdose,” said Prof. Chandrabhas Narayana, Director, RGCB. The pioneering study was conducted in collaboration with Dr. Noble Gracious of the Department of Nephrology, Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram. The group also discovered the genetic variants which increases the chances of rejection and adverse effects associated with the drug. The research was jointly funded by the Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), and RGCB and has been published in the journal Frontiers in Pharmacology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dose-prediction-study-to-aid-kidney-patients/article37860433.ece
06 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||CM to inaugurate Care Home housing complex in Thrissur||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate a housing complex for 40 families under Care Home project at Pazhayannur in Thrissur on Monday. The housing complex has been constructed in two phases on 1.06 acres of land at a cost of Rs. 4.63 cr. The facility has 10 blocks with four units each. Each house, with 432 sq.ft., comes with two bedrooms, a bathroom, a hall and a kitchen. The facility features a playground, gym area, community hall, common well, borewell, and a water tank. A common road connects the complex and a garden as well. The Department of Cooperation has so far built 2,000 houses under the Care Home project for people who have lost their houses in the floods. Among this, 503 houses are in Thrissur district. Minister for Cooperation V.N. Vasavan will preside over. Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan, Revenue Minister K. Rajan and Higher Education Minister R. Bindu will be the chief guests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-inaugurate-care-home-housing-complex-in-thrissur/article37860516.ece
06 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Kudumbashree is symbol of empowerment: Minister||Kudumbashree Mission is a symbol of social and financial empowerment and it could make a mark in all fields of life in the State, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating Adaraneeyam — Aswasa Dayakam, a project implemented by the Thrissur district Kudumbashree Mission, here on Sunday. “The Kudumbashree Mission, formed two-and-a-half-decades ago with the aim of alleviating poverty, can be involved in many remarkable projects the State witnesses. Several projects and initiatives, including Nava Kerala Mission, floods loan, women empowerment, janakeeya hotels and survey of the really poor, have been effectively conducted by the Kudumbashree Mission” the Minister said. Financial aid Mr. Rajan distributed financial assistance under the project Pravasi Entrepreneurship Augmentation and Reformation of Livelihood. Young entrepreneurs were honoured at the function. P. Balachandran, MLA, presided. The Adaraneeyam — Aswasa Dayakam project is aimed at honouring persons who have excelled in various fields, and to provide financial assistance to the eligible under various projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-is-symbol-of-empowerment-minister/article37860517.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Immersed in hues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/immersed-in-hues/article37860367.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The festival of joy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-festival-of-joy/article37860558.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Too strong a pull||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/too-strong-a-pull/article37860403.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||High way||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-way/article37860519.ece
06 December 2021||Alappuzha,ANDHRA PRADESH||Celebration of Vellappally’s fete begins||Vellappally Natesan’s leadership in the social service and education sector is highly commendable, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has said. He was inaugurating the year-long celebrations to mark the 25th anniversary of Natesan’s leadership of the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam as its general secretary and as secretary of the SN Trust. Mr. Khan said that Natesan being at the helm of two organisations had implemented the vision and teachings of Sree Narayana Guru. “Leadership is a unique capacity to envision the future and the capability to translate that vision into reality. A leader should possess qualities such as sincerity, determination and above all compassion for fellow beings. Vellappally Natesan has been guided by both the vision and strong will to empower society particularly the less privileged through education. It appears he has groomed many leaders to take the movement forward,” the Governor said. Mr. Khan said that under the leadership of Natesan, the number of branches of the Yogam had increased to 6,456 from 3,882,25 years ago. Recalling the message of Sree Narayana Guru to become enlightened through education, the Governor said the academic institutions had increased from 42 to 127 during this period. Citing some youngsters unable to cope with stress and resorting to extreme stress, Mr. Khan urged to launch campaigns and counselling on societal life with an emphasis on healthy minds. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that Natesan had taken the Yogam and SN Trust to new heights while keeping true to the concepts envisioned by Sree Narayana Guru. Mr. Vijayan said the Yogam had played an important role in the development of Kerala be it industry, education or social sector. On the occasion, the development and welfare programmes of the SNDP Yogam and S.N. Trust were launched. Union Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs and External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad, and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/celebration-of-vellappallys-fete-begins/article37859872.ece
06 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||JAC agitation for PRC to begin in Anantapur tomorrow||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh Joint Action Committee and the Amaravati JAC on Sunday appealed to the State government again to invite the government employees’ association leaders for talks to discuss the implementation of the pending Pay Revision Commission recommendations and Dearness Allowance (DA) payment. “Agitation for achieving the demands will begin on December 7 from Anantapur as announced earlier, and a notice to this effect has been given to the Chief Secretary,” said Amaravati JAC president B. Venkateswarlu at a press conference here on Sunday. “The State government has not paid the Rs. 1,600 crore it had collected from us, and we are legally eligible to get that amount,” said Mr. Venkateswarlu, and demanded the immediate repeal of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). “As the government paid a deaf ear to the employees’ woes, they are forced to come onto the street and fight for their rights,” the JAC leaders said. “We have submitted representations to the Chief Minister’s advisers, officers and others concerned, but none has given us proper answers,” said AP JAC leader Hrudyaraju. “The government seems to have no concern for the delay in the implementation of the PRC recommendations. The pensioners are unable to make ends meet. They do not have money to come to Vijayawada and make a representation to the government,” he observed. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had announced that within one week of coming to power, he would repeal the CPS. More than 100 weeks have passed by and there is no action yet,” they pointed out. The agitation will begin with all the employees wearing black badges, Mr. Venkateswarlu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jac-agitation-for-prc-to-begin-in-anantapur-tomorrow/article37860504.ece
06 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SKU PG exams from today||The post-graduate semester II examinations will be conducted from Monday (December 6), a release from the Sri Krishnadevaraya University said. Students of Vani Degree College, PVKK College and KSN Government Degree College for Women need to come to the SKU campus for writing the examination. The candidates appearing for the law examinations (II semester) also need to write their exam papers on the SKU campus. Question papers The question papers will be mailed to the official mail ID’s of the respective colleges, as usual, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sku-pg-semester-ii-exams-from-today/article37860487.ece
06 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka ranks third in attacks on Christians: report||Karnataka is ranked third among States with highest number of attacks on members of the Christian community and their places of worship, according to a fact-finding report that was released on Sunday. The report, which is a joint initiative of the United Christian Forum, Association for Protection of Civil Rights, and United Against Hate, also revealed that Karnataka recorded the highest incidents among States in south India. Through helpline The report documented calls received on the United Christian Forum’s helpline. Till September this year, the helpline recorded 305 cases across India. Of these, 288 were mob attacks, and in 28 cases, places of worship had been damaged. In 85 cases, police authorities did not allow congregations. A total of 1,331 women, 588 tribals, and 513 Dalits were injured in these attacks, the report said. Of the 305 incidents, 66 were from Uttar Pradesh, 47 from Chhattisgarh, and 32 from Karnataka. The report noted a rise in attacks in Karnataka in October and November in the backdrop of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) mulling over an anti-conversion law. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has announced that his Government would pass the Bill in the Belagavi legislature session starting December 13. Rev. Peter Machado, Archbishop, Archdiocese of Bangalore, who released the report, said he felt sad that Karnataka, known for its progressive politics and for being the IT hub of the country, had earned such a “dubious distinction”. “We seem to have lost our humanity,” he said. By right-wing groups The report may have recorded only a fraction of the attacks as it only documented those that the UCF helpline received. “There have been several attacks, disruption of prayers in remote areas of north Karnataka and we are really worried about the safety of the priests there. Many have also gone unreported,” he added. What the report also does not document is that most of these attacks have been led by right-wing groups and the police have failed to act on them. Instead, community members have had several cases piled up on them — they are both attacked and booked, said the Archbishop. “In Belagavi, the police have told community members not to hold prayer meetings during the legislature session,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-ranks-third-in-attacks-on-christians-report/article37859997.ece
06 December 2021||Chittoor,ANDHRA PRADESH||Omicron threat: round-the-clock surveillance at Tirupati airport||Following the threat of new COVID-19 variant, Omicron, the authorities have put in place round-the-clock surveillance at the Tirupati International Airport. Senior medical and paramedical staff are working in two shifts to screen passengers with COVID-19 symptoms and history of travel to vulnerable countries. District Medical and Health Officer U. Sree Hari told The Hindu that not a single positive case had been detected in passengers who arrived at the Tirupati airport in the last one month. Given the gradual increase in the arrivals at the airport from various boarding points in New Delhi, Chennai and Bengaluru, the two surveillance teams would thoroughly screen the suspect cases. A big chunk of the arrivals at the airport included those bound for pilgrimage destinations such as Tirumala, Srikalahasti, and Kanipakam. “In coordination with the airport authorities, the teams are thoroughly monitoring the travel history of the passengers as and when they arrive. Those having symptoms will have to undergo RT-PCR tests. Those who test positive will be shifted to the Vishnu Nivasam COVID Care Centre in Tirupati for a 14-day quarantine. Their samples will be sent to SVIMS Hospital in Tirupati, or to the Pune laboratory for further tests for confirmation of Omicron virus,” the DMHO said. Dr. Sree Hari said two nodal officers were appointed exclusively to pursue the Omicron cases as and when they would get detected. “Apart from the airport, we have alerted the Railways and the APSRTC authorities to enforce COVID-19 protocols such as wearing a mask. All the medical officers at the Public Health Centres have been instructed to conduct awareness camps to emphasise the importance of wearing mask and using hand sanitisers,” Dr. Sree Hari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/24x7-vigil-at-tirupati-airport/article37860343.ece
06 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. CID bags two awards for best cyber practices||The A.P. CID bagged two awards at the closing ceremony of the third national conclave on ‘Best cyber practices’ held virtually on Sunday. Additional DG, CID, P.V. Sunil Kumar, was given the ‘Lifetime Achievement Award’ at the conclave organised by the Centre for Research on Cyber Intelligence and Digital Forensics (CRCIDF). The award was given in recognition of his services in cyber policing and innovative solutions for cyber safety. SP, CID, P. Radhik, received the ‘Cyber Star Award’ for the best cyber practices, capacity building, and strategies in cyber crimes. The A.P. CID Cyber Crime wing now has the honour of creating highest number of cyber safe logins in India for all the law enforcement officers. The innovative concepts such as Cyber Bully sheets, 4S4U Portal, Fact Check, and APCID YouTube webinars are all designed by Mr. Sunil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-cid-bags-two-awards-for-best-cyber-practices/article37860505.ece
06 December 2021||Hassan,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seventy people test positive for COVID-19 at Jawahar Navodaya School||As many as 70 people including students at Jawahar Navodaya School at Seegodu near Balehonnur in Chikkamagaluru district tested positive for COVID-19 infection on December 5. Total number of infected people at Navodaya Residential School has increased to 70. Among them 63 are students. The infected people have been isolated in the residential school. All are said to be asymptomatic. The district administration has ordered for seal down of the residential school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seventy-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-jawahar-navodaya-school/article37859999.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s Centre’s job to lift paddy, says TRS||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has alleged that the BJP-led Central government was conspiring against farmers of Telangana by dodging its responsibility on procurement of paddy and spreading misinformation on the issue in Parliament. Criticising Union Minister of Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal for his statement in Parliament on paddy procurement in Telangana, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy, along with legislators M. Anand, K. Venkatesh Yadav, S. Vanidevi and others, on Sunday alleged that Mr. Goyal had spoken lies on the supply of rice pertaining to the last rabi season by Telangana. Mr. Niranjan Reddy reminded the Union Minister that the responsibility of paddy procurement was on the Centre/FCI while the State governments cooperated with it and supported the exercise — the practice since Independence. However, the FCI was inordinately delaying shifting or lifting milled (parboiled) rice from the last rabi season lying with millers for want of railway rakes. He even cited examples of the State Civil Supplies Corporation writing to the FCI to lift the milled rice swiftly so that there was no storage problem for paddy/rice pertaining to the recent Kharif season arriving at mills from procurement centres. However, no urgency was being shown by FCI to clear the space with millers by lifting stocks pertaining to the last Rabi citing shortage of railway rakes and storage space in its facilities, he noted. On parboiled rice, the Minister said that it was the Centre, not any State government, that had introduced the system long ago, as milling raw rice was uneconomical in southern States in the second crop (rabi) season due to high temperatures. Hence the paddy produced in rabi was processed only as parboiled rice. Appeal to farmers Even after formation of Telangana, the percentage of parboiled rice procurement from the State during the last seven years was a minimum of 87% out of the total quantity lifted every year, Mr. Reddy said, and explained that in 2014-15, the percentage of raw rice in total rice supplied to FCI was 93, and in 2015-16, it was 89. It was 97% in 2016-17, 94% in 2017-18, 100% in 2018-19, 93% in 2019-20 and 87% in 2020-21. Mr. Reddy appealed to farmers again not to go for paddy this rabi season unless they have any tie-up with millers, traders, trading companies and seed companies as there would not be any procurement in Rabi. He urged them to cultivate alternative crops that have better demand in the market. Meanwhile, official sources stated that millers were being pressurised to slow down milling of paddy pertaining to the last rabi as against the requirement of 40 rakes everyday, only 15 were being allotted to Telangana to shift the last rabi rice (parboiled) from mills to FCI storage facilities. Lorries carrying this type of rice were being made to wait for days together for unloading the stock at rake points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-centres-job-to-lift-paddy-telangana/article37859864.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rosaiah cremated with full State honours||Former Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh and former Governor of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, Konijeti Rosaiah, who passed away on Saturday, was cremated with full State honours on Sunday. Ex-AP Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, Nadendla Bhaskar Rao, Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy, State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, APCC president S. Sailajanath and others visited Rosaiah’s residence and paid floral tributes to him. At around noon, the body was brought to Congress headquarters Gandhi Bhavan so that party workers and others could pay tributes. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge joined TPCC chief A. Revanth Reddy, and former Ministers K. Jana Reddy and Shabbir Ali at Gandhi Bhavan. Speaking to reporters after paying tributes, Mr. Kharge said that the Congress had lost a great leader who was capable of any responsibility endorsed to him. A police pilot later escorted Rosaiah’s flower-bedecked hearse van in the last journey from Gandhi Bhavan to Kompally, via the State Legislative Assembly and Secretariat, his usual route during his time in office. Family members performed the last rites at his preferred place, his farm house at Kompally along the NH-44, on the Hyderabad outskirts. The Telangana government accorded the 88-year-old stalwart of Congress a funeral with police honours. At around 3.40 p.m., police lowered their rifles, played ‘The Last Post’ on a bugle, followed by observing two minutes’ silence and let off the gun salute. Rosaiah family’s four generations participated in the elaborate rituals led by his son K. Shiva Subba Rao before his mortal remains were consigned to flames. A number of leaders marked their presence at the funeral to share the grief with the bereaved family and get a final glimpse of the departed leader. Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, Balineni Srinivas Reddy and Perni Venkataramaiah represented the Andhra Pradesh government at the funeral. Senior Congress leaders from Telangana V. Hanumantha Rao, Marri Shashidhar Reddy and Geeta Reddy accompanied the family members during the funeral. The government has already announced a three-day State mourning for the illustrious leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-ap-cm-rosaiah-cremated-with-state-honours/article37859871.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hyderabad’s rocket men aim for the stars||When Skyroot Aerospace successfully tested Dhawan-1 last month, it became the country’s first privately developed fully cryogenic rocket engine running on two high-performance rocket propellants — liquid natural gas (LNG) and liquid oxygen (LoX). The indigenous engine was developed using 3D printing with a superalloy. That has set the city-based firm on a higher trajectory with an ambitious plan to launch the first private space launch vehicle using cryogenic engine Vikram-2 into orbit in two years. Before that, the two co-founders C. Pawan Kumar (IIT-Kharagpur, 2012 batch) and Naga Bharath D (IIT-Madras, 2012 batch) plan to put its first launch vehicle, 20-metre tall Vikram-1 based on solid propulsion engine, in space. This was after successfully designing and developing the solid propulsion rocket engine, the first private firm in the country to do so. Passion for space tech “We are space enthusiasts, always wanted to become entrepreneurs and capture emerging opportunities in the space sector. The world over, the private sector is driving innovations at a low cost. There was no regulatory framework when we began three years ago, but we are on the verge of taking off now testing multiple engines. Very few countries have developed a cryogenic engine,” said Mr.Pawan Kumar. “It took us a year to conceptualise our work. We knew it required a lot of research, but we were pretty sure of our skill set. We have been able to iron out the deficiencies with a rigorous review system,” Mr. Bharath chimed in. Incidentally, both were flatmates after being recruited by Indian Space Research Organisation, and worked on GSLV Mark III stage rocket before deciding to branch out on their own, together. “Our families supported us, realising our passion for space technology research though we were barely 30. We have been fortunate to have financial backing from Mukesh Bansal (Myntra founder), also a space enthusiast who believed in our dream. We are now a 100-member strong team,” they said. Skyroot is working simultaneously on different stages of both solid propulsion and liquid propulsion engines, named after eminent scientists, like Kalam (Abdul Kalam) series for the former and Dhawan (Satish Dhawan) while the launch vehicles themselves are named after Vikram Sarabhai. In December last year, the intrepid team successfully test-fired the solid propulsion rocket engine. National award The firm has already won a national award for startups in space research and had an online interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Our design is done here, manufacturing happens across the country, test-firing at Solar Industries site in Nagpur and tie-up with ISRO for launch facilities. The future is in small satellites for observation and communication through small rockets and it is a US$370 billion business, of which India has just 2% share,” they said.  Our families supported us. We have been fortunate to have financial backing from Mukesh Bansal (Myntra founder), also a space enthusiast who believed in our dream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hyderabads-rocket-men-aim-for-the-stars/article37859866.ece
06 December 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC panel inspects Disha crime scene||The Supreme Court-appointed Justice Sirpurkar Commission inquiring into the alleged encounter of the four accused in the rape and murder of Disha on December 6, 2019, inspected the crime scene on Sunday. Accompanied by investigating officer J Surender Reddy, the Commission’s chairman and Supreme Court retired judge Justice V.S. Sirpurkar, members - Justice Rekha Sondur-Baldota and former director of CBI Dr. D.R. Karthikeyan, first went to the safe house (Ravi guesthouse) at Mirjaguda, where the four accused - Mohammed Arif, Ch. Chennakesavulu, Jollu Shiva and Jollu Naveen - were questioned during their police custody. Later, they went to Chatanpalli underpass to have first-hand experience of the scene of offence where Disha’s body was set on fire by the four accused after she was sexually assaulted and killed in the late hours of November 27, 2019. “As the underpass was filled with water, they had a look at the spot by standing on the National Highway,” an officer said. The members further walked to the spot, a few metres away from the underpass, where the four accused were killed in an exchange of fire in the wee hours of December 6, 2019. The commission members along with advocates Parameshwar and Virupaksha Dattatreya Gouda examined the spot for more than an hour and left for Shadnagar police station, where the accused were brought after they were picked up from their respective houses in Narayanpet district on November 29, 2019. The members also saw the MRO office, hospital and local court buildings at Shadnagar from their moving cars. On their way back to the city, the SC-appointed commission inspected the open plot abutting the national near Tondupally toll plaza, the place where the 27-year-old veterinarian was gang-raped and killed by the four youngsters. There they had a brief interaction with Disha’s father and told him that they empathise with his feelings. “I requested them to hear my plea, but they said they cannot spare time to interact with me,” the victim’s father told The Hindu . Rachakonda Commissioner of Police and Special Investigation Team chief Mahesh Bhagwat and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shamshabad Zone) N. Prakash Reddy also accompanied the panel members during their visit. Sources said that Commission members are likely to visit Chatanpalli again in the early hours of Monday (December 6) to testify the versions of police officials who appeared before them on climatic conditions of December 6 as by coincidence the incident took place on the same day of the calender year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-panel-inspects-disha-crime-scene/article37860029.ece
06 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||OTS scheme another move to rob the poor: Cong.||The Congress party has lambasted the State government’s Jagananna Sampoorna Gruha Hakku Pathakam, or One Time Settlement (OTS) scheme, terming it yet another move to “rob the poor.” Party’s State Executive president N. Thulasi Reddy said on Sunday that it reflected the government’s resolve to make money out of existing schemes, rather than helping the beneficiaries. “On the one hand the government has promised in its manifesto to build free houses, and on the other, it is seeking to extract money towards registration of houses built over three decades ago by the previous governments. Though the OTS is termed purely voluntary, the government is tightening the grip over the beneficiaries,” Mr. Thulasi Reddy alleged while addressing the media here. The Congress leader demanded that the government either withdraw the scheme, or get the registration done free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ots-scheme-another-move-to-rob-the-poor-cong/article37860506.ece
06 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chendamangalam weavers battle yarn shortage, poor sales||A serious shortage of yarn and dyes and plummeting sales have pushed the popular Chendamangalam handloom weavers’ cooperative societies in Ernakulam district and around a thousand weavers into a serious financial crisis, which now threatens to end up in the closure of at least a few cooperatives. The biggest problem now is the short supply of yarn and the inability of the cooperatives to sell old stock, said T.S. Baby, a member of the State Handloom Council. Ajithkumar Gothuruth, secretary of Karimpadam Cooperative Weavers’ Society in Chendamangalam, said a long-term crisis was brewing because new weavers were not entering the field because of the troubles in the sector. 20% to 30% rise Mr. Ajithkumar said the crisis has been worsened by the shifting of the regional office of National Handloom Development Council (NHDC) office from Kannur to Bengaluru. The NHDC supplies yarn and dyes to the cooperatives, which enjoy government support but cannot buy the raw materials directly. While there is about 20 to 30% rise in the price of yarn, dyes are in short supply. The price of yarn has crossed Rs. 2,000 a kg and the subsidy being provided by the government is not sufficient to help the weavers. GST goes up too The Chendamangalam brand of handloom products have GI registration. The products from these weaving centres include dhotis, double dhotis, bedsheets, and shirting materials. The cost of the materials is high and a double dhoti, measuring about four metres, now cost around Rs. 1,500 a piece. There are not many weavers who can produce these fine materials now, said Mr. Ajithkumar. In the midst of the crisis, the GST rate on handloom products is being raised to 12% from 5%. This will affect the sales in the near future, weavers’ representatives said. A major initiative that had supported the handloom sector was the free uniform distribution for students in government schools. Students in classes between one and seven were being provided with handwoven uniform materials. The COVID-19 crisis disrupted the distribution system. “If uniforms can be distributed to students between Classes 1 and 10, the weavers’ cooperatives may see a revival of fortunes,” Mr. Baby added. Around one lakh metres of uniform materials have been woven in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chendamangalam-weavers-battle-yarn-shortage-poor-sales/article37859995.ece
06 December 2021||KOYYALAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four held for selling ganja||Four persons, including a woman, were arrested for peddling ganja in West Godavari district and contraband worth about Rs. 30,000 was seized from them. The four arrested persons, V. Lakshmi, A. Ramesh, D. Venkateswara Rao and R. Someswara Rao, all natives of Koyyalagudem in the district , were nabbed in a raid by the Koyyalagudem police on Sunday at Upparapeta hamlet following a a tip-off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-held-for-selling-ganja/article37860042.ece
06 December 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bid to bring back bodies from Saudi||Following the directive of Public Works and Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas, the Kozhikode district administration has taken up the responsibility to coordinate with the Indian Embassy in Riyadh to bring back the bodies of the five members of a family from Beypore who were killed in a road accident in Saudi Arabia’s Bisha province on Saturday. According to local body members from Beypore, efforts are on to bring back the bodies by Wednesday and conduct the victims’ last rites in their homeland. Though there were initially plans to conduct the funeral in Saudi Arabia itself, it was later changed following the wish of their close relatives who sought the support of the minister and the district administration. Mohammed Jabir, 48, his wife Shabna Jabir, 36, and their children Laiba, 7, Saha, 5, and Lutfi, 3, were the five victims who lost their lives in the accident which took place nearly 200-km away from Riyadh. Leaders of Non-Resident Keralites’ organisations said a sports utility vehicle reportedly hit Jabir’s car while they were travelling from Jubail to his new workplace at Jizan. The death of the couple and their children was a shocker for Beypore residents. “We have already reached out to the couple’s parents and assured them all mental support to overcome the trauma. All of us are in touch with them to clear the mandatory paperwork for bringing back the bodies on time,” said M. Girija, councillor from Beypore Port ward. She said District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy also promised to do everything possible on his part to facilitate the funeral of the victims in their homeland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/efforts-on-to-bring-bodies-of-accident-victims/article37859998.ece
06 December 2021||Mysuru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yediyurappa sought our support: Kumaraswamy||As the day of polling for the elections to the Legislative Council from 20 constituencies comes closer, a pact between the Janata Dal (Secular) and the BJP still seems to be intriguing even though leaders of the regional party are indicating an understanding between the two parties. On Sunday, JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy ruled out the possibility of the party extending support to the Congress in the elections, but admitted to BJP leader B.S. Yediyurappa contacting him for the party’s support. Fielding reporters’ queries in Mysuru on Sunday, Mr. Kumaraswamy said the Congress had not approached the JD(S) seeking its support. “There have been no requests from the Congress for support either from the local level or the State level. Also, the party’s State leadership has not treated us respectably,” the JD(S) leader said. While taking a decision on the party’s stand on extending support to other parties in constituencies where the JD(S) had not fielded its candidates, Mr. Kumaraswamy said the party would consider the respect given by parties to its political strength. “I can’t go after parties and offer support to them even if they have not sought it,” he said. Though a final decision on the party’s stand on extending support has not been taken yet, Mr. Kumaraswamy said Mr. Yediyurappa had not only publicly sought the JD(S) support in constituencies where the party has not fielded its candidates, but also called him on the phone to request the same. “He is the only one from their party who has spoken to me in the regard,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said while referring to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s statement that Mr. Yediyurappa will discuss the issue with him. However, Mr. Kumaraswamy said the party would announce its stand on the issue at a press conference to be convened in Bengaluru on Monday. While there is a triangular contest in six constituencies, where JD(S) candidates are in the fray, the Congress and the BJP are pitted against each other in the remaining. Meanwhile, Mr. Yediyurappa on Sunday clarified that the party had not entered into any alliance with the JD(S) at the State level, but had merely sought support in constituencies where the regional party had not fielded its candidates. At a meeting to campaign for party candidate Raghu Kautilya in Mysuru, Mr. Yediyurappa said there was no tie-up with the JD(S). The party had only sought the support of the JD(S) in constituencies where it had not fielded candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yediyurappa-sought-our-support-kumaraswamy/article37859867.ece
06 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Capital city uncertainty drove out industries’||Bureaucrat-turned-politician V.V. Lakshminarayana lent his support to the farmers’ demand for retaining Amaravati as the sole capital of the State as the maha padayatra resumed from Puttamraju Kandriga, near Gudur, in SPSR Nellore district on the 35th day on Sunday. The uncertainty following the YSR Congress Party Government’s capital trifurcation decision drove away industries to other States, he said, while walking for some distance along with a group of 157 farmers led by Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti convenor A.Siva Reddy. Captains of industry and trade who had firmed up proposals to set up their units in Andhra Pradesh now preferred Hyderabad or Bengaluru for their expansion plans, he lamented. He lauded the farmers for generously parting with their land to the State when the Government projected a world-class capital. “No mean motive can be attributed to the selfless sacrifice of the farmers who envisaged Amaravati as a growth engine of the State,” he opined. The Jagan Mohan Reddy Government should give a push to Amaravati-centric development even while promoting industries in each and every district in the State, he added. A group of residents from Chennai donated Rs. 7 lakh to the farmers on the occasion, while some presented new saris to women farmers, near Balayapalli village. Farmers from G. Konduru, near Mylavaram in Krishna district, distributed rice bags and vegetables as their counterparts from Amaravati pitched their tent at Vengamampuram village for night halt after covering a distance of 13 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uncertainty-over-capital-issue-drove-out-industries/article37860045.ece
06 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagananna Sampoorna Gruha Hakku boon for loanees, says Housing PD||The ‘Jagananna Sampoorna Gruha Hakku’ scheme has turned out to be a boon for over 2.53 lakh beneficiaries in SPSR Nellore district who could not clear loans taken from the Andhra Pradesh Housing Board for various reasons in three decades, Housing Project Director S.Venugopala Rao says in a conversation with The Hindu . As a result, their outstanding amount along with interest had crossed the Rs. 120 crore-mark in the district. They were provided with only possession certificates and had no freehold right so far. Now, they can be a proud owner of the house paying just Rs. 10,000 in villages and Rs. 20,000 in cities, he said. The beneficiaries will now get a waiver of Rs. 28,000 each in villages and Rs. 65,000 in cities. They can raise fresh loan from financial institutions on registration of the houses with full rights from financial institutions. The beneficiaries were provided only with ‘B’ form patta hitherto and no legal title over the property, whose value had gone up to Rs. 10 lakh in cities and Rs. 4 lakh in villages. Pawani, from Chandrababu Nagar here, said she had been in possession of the house which she had constructed taking a loan of Rs. 25,000 in 1999. “Now I am a proud owner of a house worth Rs. 10 lakh, thanks to SGH scheme,” she said. “I am indebted to Jagananna(Chief Minister) who has come out with an unprecedented initiative to give full rights over the house,” said another beneficiary Zeenat who had taken a loan of Rs. 40,000 in 2004 and had not cleared the amount for economic reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagananna-sampoorna-gruha-hakku-boon-for-loanees-says-housing-pd/article37860488.ece
06 December 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jawad: farmers left counting losses in Srikakulam district||Cyclone Jawad, which skirted Andhra Pradesh and shifted course towards Odisha, has nonetheless left farmers in the district reeling under losses after thousands of acres were left inundated by heavy rains caused under its impact. Coconut crops in Uddanam region were badly damaged in the rains. Other crops such as paddy and groundnut were also damaged. An estimated 25,000 acres of crops have been affected in the rains. Farmers who had suffered losses two months ago when Cyclone Gulab lashed the region were in for a double whammy after Cyclone Jawad inflicted further damage. The district received 1180.1 mm rainfall as against the normal of 979.5 mm between January 1 and December 5, 2021. The district received 20.5% excess rainfall with the impact of Gulab and Jawad. As many farmers failed to insure their crops, they could not avail compensation. CPI(M) Srikakulam district secretary M. Govinda Rao said, urging the government to pay compensation of Rs. 25,000 per acre immediately. Along with other CPI(M) leaders, Mr. Govinda Rao visited various villages in Gara and Srikakulam mandals to listen to the grievances of farmers. “Farming is the lone income source for many villagers in backward Srikakulam district. Instead of earning an income, they are losing their investments due to frequent cyclones and heavy rains. The government should announce compensation immediately,” said Mr. Govinda Rao. ‘Depute teams’ CPI district secretary Sanapala Narasimhulu urged the State government to send teams immediately for enumeration of crop damage so that the farmers would get compensation. “Agriculture Commissioner and Special Officer H. Arun Kumar is already monitoring the situation. He should bring the plight of the farmers to the notice of the government,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jawad-farmers-left-counting-losses-in-srikakulam-district/article37860508.ece
06 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Excise officials bust rave party in Poovar||Excise officials on Sunday busted a rave party in a backwater hideaway in Poovar where several youths indulged in merrymaking with the accompaniment of synthetic drugs and liquor. The State Excise Enforcement Squad (SEES) raided the Karaikkattu Backwaters and Resorts, which is located on an island and can be accessed through the backwater alone, to gatecrash the illegal party that is believed to have got under way on Saturday evening. The team led by Excise Circle Inspector T. Anikumar arrested three people, identified as Akshay Mohan of Aryanad, Peter Shan of Kannanthura and Hashim of Chanthavila. Nearly 20 people who partook in the ‘Nirvana music and fashion festival’ organised by the accused were also taken into custody. At least 50 people, including women, are suspected to have attended the revelry with many believed to have left the island before the arrival of the excise team. They included natives of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Karnataka and various north Indian States, official sources said. The hard disk of the CCTV cameras on the premises have been confiscated to identify the attendees, sources added. The law enforcers found a wide array of narcotic substances including MDMA pills and crystals, lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) stamp, hashish oil and ganja, as well as liquor. According to Mr. Anikumar, the raid was conducted on the basis of a tip-off that suggested the possibility of drugs being peddled at weekend parties being held in the southern region of Thiruvananthapuram district that included the popular tourist destinations of Kovalam and Poovar. Eight officials, including woman officers, reached the island in two boats and pretended to be tourists. After confirming the veracity of the information, the excise team moved in to nab those present, many of whom were intoxicated. The organisers had sold entry tickets that cost Rs. 1,000 and upwards, depending on the requirement of drugs and liquor. They had allegedly coordinated the weekend party through WhatsApp and Instagram that they used to relay information and share location of the venue. Criminal record Mr. Anikumar said Akshay has a criminal record that included several cases relating to drug trade and smuggling and has been under surveillance for a considerable period. He is also known to have organised similar parties in other places. Having brought all those who were detained to the city late Sunday, the investigation team has commenced efforts to identify the origin of the seized narcotic substances and those involved in smuggling them to Poovar, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/excise-officials-bust-rave-party-in-poovar/article37859996.ece
06 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six, including a toddler, killed in road accident||Six persons, including a toddler, died in a ghastly road accident at Ithepalle village on the Tirupati-Chittoor stretch on Sunday. The incident happened when an overspeeding car carrying eight persons on the Puthalapattu-Naidupeta highway rammed into a culvert, overturned and went up in flames, allowing no time for the inmates to rush out. According to Chandragiri police, five of the eight inmates reportedly died on the spot, while one breathed his last while undergoing treatment at a hospital. The deceased were identified as Jishitha (six months), P. Meena (30), K. Suresh Kumar (36), Pydi Hymavathi (51), P. Govinda Rao (61) and K. Srirama Murthy (54), belonging to Medamarthi and Poosapatirega villages in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts. The four-wheeler was burnt beyond recognition and its mangled remains were removed from the spot using an earthmover to facilitate smooth flow of traffic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-including-a-toddler-killed-in-road-accident/article37859869.ece
06 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘A.P. ahead in public service delivery mechanism’||Andhra Pradesh is a frontrunner among States in public service delivery mechanism through panchayat raj institutions, Deputy Commissioner of Rural Development V. Sivasankar Prasad said here on Sunday. Speaking at a webinar on ‘15th Finance Commission recommendations: status and position of PR institutions in Andhra Pradesh’ organised by the Tirupati-based Academy of Grassroots Studies and Research of India (AGRASRI), he called the village secretariat as a path-breaking reformatory step after the introduction of the Mandal Praja Parishat system in the State. He advocated a gram panchayat development plan, capacity building and training programmes and convergence of welfare schemes for viable and comfortable financial management in the State and in fulfilling the conditions stipulated by the 15th Finance Commission for utilising more funds. M. Gopinath Reddy, consultant at the Centre for Economic and Social Studies, Hyderabad, suggested allocation of 40% of the State budget to panchayat raj and nagarapalika institutions on the lines of Kerala, besides preparing the Devolution of Index (DoI) and Performance of Index (PoI). AGRASRI director and event moderator D. Sundar Ram recalled that all the southern States, except Tamil Nadu, had lost their share of grants from the divisible pool of funds from the Centre due to the weightage system in vogue, and at the same time, larger States like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh got immensely benefited with the population criteria. M. Devendra Babu, professor at Karnataka State Rural Development and Panchayat Raj University (Gadag), said the 15th Finance Commission had recommended Rs. 36,000 crore more to local bodies when compared to its predecessor. E. Venkatesu, professor of political science at University of Hyderabad observed that the parallel institutions like janmabhoomi and grama volunteer systems weakened the gram panchayats at the grassroot level. I. Satya Sundaram, retired director at The Hindu College PG Centre, Machilipatnam, attributed the disturbance in the PR system to the enormous revenue deficit accrued over a decade. Karnataka State Panchayat Raj Parishat (Bengaluru) Vice-Chairman Venkatrao Y. Ghorpade hailed Karnataka for being the first in preparing the PoI and DoI indexes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-ahead-in-public-service-delivery-mechanism/article37860490.ece
06 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD cautions people on ‘fake’ job notification||The TTD has again cautioned people not to fall a prey to the “fake job notification” making the rounds in the social media. In spite of repeated alerts not to believe such fake news, the TTD is flooded with enquiries on job offers. In this backdrop, the TTD issued a statement on Sunday on the possibility of miscreants hoodwinking gullible public. Criminal cases The TTD had booked criminal cases in the past against a few persons making such fake announcements, purportedly with a mala fide intention. The TTD made it clear that it would make recruitments through official notification in major newspapers and on its website, and appealed to the people not to believe fake postings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-cautions-people-on-fake-job-notification/article37860096.ece
06 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Psychologists reach out to traumatised flood victims||Members of the World Congress of Psychologists (WCOP) made a visit to the flood-hit villages near Rayalacheruvu in Chittoor district to provide succour to the traumatised residents. WCOP president B. Govinda Reddy and executive committee member P. Venu met 300 families that were rendered homeless in the affected villages. Moral support The psychologists also visited seven households that were severely affected and provided psychological and moral support to the traumatised inmates. The WCOP has announced to conduct a medical camp at the cluster of villages soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/psychologists-reach-out-to-traumatised-flood-victims/article37860489.ece
06 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Poli Swargam’ marks conclusion of Karthika Masam celebrations||The Karthika Masam celebrations came to an end with devotees observing ‘Poli Swargam’ in the city on Sunday. Braving the biting chill of the winter morning, devotees came in large numbers to the bathing ghats to take a dip in Krishna river. The belief is that taking a dip in the river during Karthika Masam cleanses one of sins, expediting the end of the cycle of reincarnation. Durga Ghat, which is close to Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam, was chock-a-block with devotees, who then lit deepam(lamps) in the trunks of a plantain and set them afloat in the river and canals. The devout observe ‘Poli Swargam’ a day after Amavasya (new moon day) of Karthika Masam. Many temples including Sivalayam in One Town, Siva temple near Challapalli Bungalow in Krishnalanka, Ramakoti in Satyanarayanapuram and Sarabhaiah Gullu in Durga agraharam witnessed heavy rush and hectic activity from the morning. In the evening, it was a delight to see thousands of lamps lit at all the major temples. Hundreds of devotees gathered in the temples, recited bhajans and rendered songs in praise of Lord Siva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poli-swargam-marks-conclusion-of-karthika-masam-celebrations/article37860047.ece
06 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre developing ‘Panchteerth’ in memory of Ambedkar: BJP||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Sunday said the Central government was striving to develop ‘Panchteerth’ – B.R. Amedbkar’s birthplace at Mhow in Madhya Pradesh; the place where he stayed in London during his higher studies; ‘Deeksha Bhoomi’ in Nagpur where he took education; ‘Mahaparinirvan Sthal’ in Delhi, and ‘Chaitya Bhoomi’ in Mumbai – as tourist destinations in memory of the great visionary, who was the principal architect of the Indian Constitution and who had dedicated his life for the uplift of the downtrodden, especially the Dalits. Participating as chief guest at the Bharata Rajyanga Dinotsava Abhiyan organised by the BJP SC Morcha in Guntur on Sunday, Mr. Veerraju said the Indian Constitution was unique in its content and spirit. It was because of the Constitution that democracy was flourishing in the country in spite of various pulls and pressures. A major turning point was the adult franchise, i.e. the right to vote vested in the citizens, irrespective of their social and economic status, he observed. Commenting on the political scenario in the State, Mr. Veerraju said that Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had become a “sticker Chief Minister,” who projected a slew of welfare schemes funded by the Centre as his government’s achievement. The impression created was that the Centre was doing nothing for the State. There were a total 36 schemes named after Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, he said. BJP national executive member Kanna Lakshminarayana said the credit for abrogation of Article 370 goes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who gave due importance to highlighting the life and deeds of Dr. Ambedkar. SC Morcha State president G. Devanand, in-charge V. Jayaprakash Narayan, BJP district president P. Ramakrishna, former Minister R. Kishore Babu, and Tobacco Board chairman Y. Raghunadha Babu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-developing-panchteerth-in-memory-of-ambedkar-bjp/article37860502.ece
06 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMA ready to fight the virus||Indian Medical Association (IMA) Andhra Pradesh chapter president C. Srinivasa Raju has said the association will stand in the forefront against the fight against the new COVID-19 variant, Omicron. Addressing the media on Sunday, Dr .Srinivasa Raju said the IMA was ready to face the challenge despite the fact that 85 doctors had lost their lives while fighting COVID-19 in the first two waves. “The State government has been requested to exempt hospitals having less than 25 beds and are below the height of 15 metres from the fire safety regulations. The Central and State governments should also arrange fast-track claim centres to expedite the COVID martyr solatium,” he said. Dr. Srinivasa Raju said public health, affordable medical education, and welfare of the members were top priority of the IMA. Referring to the recent floods, Dr. Srinivasa Raju said the IMA branches in the affected districts were asked to provide help to the needy and work in tandem with government machinery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ima-ready-to-fight-the-virus/article37860511.ece
06 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||International conclave on role of NEP concludes||The international conclave on ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat-Role of the new education policy’, organised by VR Siddhartha Engineering College (VRSEC) in association with Nagarjuna Education Society, concluded on Sunday. A.P. Public Service Commission former chairman P. Uday Bhaskar participated as the chief guest in the valedictory. The two-day event had lectures and presentations by eminent resource persons including, S.K. Shukla from Edith Cowan University in Australia, G.R. Sinha from the Myanmar Institute of Information Technology, Mandalay, M.S. Ray, MD of TCB Cert. Worldwide, Kuwait, B. Srinivasa Murthy, Director of IIT-Hyderabad, N.V. Ramana Rao, Director of NIT-Warangal, Sangam Dairy advisor Alapati Satyanarayana and Efftronics Systems Pvt. Ltd. MD D. Ramakrishna among others, according to a press release by VRSEC principal A.V. Ratna Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/international-conclave-on-role-of-nep-concludes/article37860043.ece
06 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dec. 8 last date to apply for energy awards||The Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) extended the time to apply for State Energy Conservation Awards-2021 till December 8. The application forms can be downloaded from the websites:https:// www.apsecm.ap.gov.in,https:// www. apeasternpower.com,https: //apcpdcl.inandhttps://www.apspdcl.in. The filled-in applications have to be submitted to the SECM CEO through email:seca.apsecm@gmail.com. The awards will be presented during the National Energy Conservation Week beginning on December 14, according to a press release by SECM CEO A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dec-8-last-date-to-apply-for-energy-awards/article37860500.ece
06 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Factory owners told to pay licence fee||Factory owners in Krishna district are required to pay the annual licence fee for the year 2022, by this month-end. Managements of the factories should pay the fee through ‘Citizens Challan’ by opening the website:https://cfms.ap.gov.in, said Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories S. Usha Sri. Two percent fine will be imposed on those who failed to pay the fee in time, she said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/factory-owners-told-to-pay-licence-fee/article37860041.ece
06 December 2021||VILLUPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aurovillians continue protest against Crown Project||The residents of Auroville continued their protest in the wee hours of Sunday as the Town Development Council (TDC) and the Auroville Foundation once again brought in earthmovers and cleared a few metres for laying a road for the Crown Project. The work was stopped yet again due to the protest. The project envisages the establishment of four zones — industrial, cultural, residential and recreational — growing radially out of the Matrimandir. The TDC has been tasked with evolving an action plan for it. The impasse between the protesting residents and the TDC continues as the Resident Assembly has suggested an alternative route for the project. A member of the Resident Assembly said, “We are just asking that the community process be followed. There is a process by which we make decisions as a community, which is approved by the Resident Assembly. This process has not been followed, and they (Auroville Foundation) keep saying that we are blocking development.” She added, “On the contrary we are not actually blocking development. We have made proposals and want to discuss them as a community. But they are refusing to discuss it and instead bulldozing their way through. The TDC are dividing some members of our Working Group together with the Foundation.” The TDC had brought in earthmovers on Saturday to clear trees for laying the road, she said, adding that the Resident Community had blocked them and made it clear that they will not allow any work until they sit down and discuss. “Without any notification or consent, at 1 a.m. they again sent earthmovers with the police this time, and blocked the roads so that we could not reach the venue,” she said. “Though Aurovillians managed to reach the place, the damage had already been done. We are not trying to impose our view. All we want is go through a process and whatever the collective decides, we will go through. There are a few persons in power who are not cooperating, causing a lot of havoc” alleged another member of the Assembly. According to another Aurovillian, the Foundation had organised everything beforehand and brought in police to the contentious place, who intimidated and dragged the protesters into the police vehicle. He saw this as a typical conflict between “faithful and reason”. The former, he said, believes that the road has to be built at whatever cost because it is what The Mother (Mirra Alfassa) had endorsed for the master plan, while the other group is of the opinion that it is difficult to build the city in this manner. “We are not against the road but only suggest to change the routes since it is not environment-friendly. The way the Foundation has been acting against the residents with the police is unacceptable. The two groups can disagree on opinions but violence is not acceptable,” he said. When contacted, Superintendent of Police N. Shreenatha clarified that no police personnel had manhandled any resident of Auroville. “They decided to lay the road and requested for police protection. They had cleared a few metres in the early hours of today when the residents protested again and the work was halted,” he said. ‘Planned via meetings’ A member of the governing board of Auroville Foundation said a series of meetings and discussions had preceded the commencement of work on the Crown Project. Representatives contended that the master plan evolved as a product of “democratic discussion and debate” across various fora within Auroville. Hence obstructing its implementation after nearly two decades, amounted to a negation of the vision for the universal township. The representatives felt it must be recognised that the master plan, when it came about in 2001-02, made it evident that there was bound to be a sacrifice of tree cover for the development of township. The experts, consulted subsequently at various stages, have concurred on its futuristic and eco-regenerating design. “The vision for Auroville is of an experimental township with about 50,000 inhabitants from the world, not an ecological preserve,” a source argued. One Aurovilian wrote to the Foundation questioning if the protestors had any coherent counter proposal for a master plan. “Had they truly wanted to improve or redo the plan, they would have gotten to it in the last 19 years,” the resident felt. A board member made it clear that the master plan will be implemented without allowing “a small group to hold the entire plan to ransom.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aurovillians-continue-protest-against-laying-of-road/article37860095.ece
06 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oppose privatisation spree, urges CPI(M)||Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) Polit Bureau member B.V. Raghavulu on Sunday alleged that the Centre is using the COVID-19 pandemic as a convenient excuse to hasten the process of privatisation and monetisation of public sector units in order to hand over their assets to ‘crony capitalists like Ambanis and Adanis’. Addressing a meeting on ‘Current political and economic situation – Responsibilities’, organised by the CPI(M) Greater Visakha City Committee at Kalabharathi on Sunday, Mr. Raghavulu called upon party workers to create awareness among the public on the ‘agenda of the BJP government’ to hand over public assets to corporate groups. In view of the stiff resistance from people to privatisation policies, the Centre has come out with a monetisation proposal to lease public assets to corporate groups on the plea of raising loans, he alleged. As the ‘strategic sale of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP)’ was being opposed by workers tooth and nail, the Centre is trying to go for partial privatisation like selling coke ovens of the plant, Mr. Raghavulu claimed. “Coke ovens are the heart of a steel plant, and selling or leasing them to private players would put VSP at the mercy of the private player. Similarly, a decision was taken to privatise two banks in the first phase and the unions have announced their decision to go on a two-day strike. Industries manufacturing defence equipment were removed from the purview of the Ministry of Defence, and made into four companies, to prepare the ground for their sale to private players,” he alleged. Referring to the spread of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus and its threat to the world economy, Mr. Raghavulu advised the party cadres to be prepared to render assistance to the people if the need arose, along with NGOs and doctors. He also cautioned party workers to not be complacent but wear masks at all times as studies on the impact of the new variant were still being done. The CPI(M) leader recalled that the pandemic has led to closure of industries and loss of employment and livelihoods besides hitting the education sector badly. In the name of online education, the poorer sections were deprived of education, which was evident from the high dropout rate. The BJP government was putting pressure on State government to toe its line on monetization of assets to avail of loans from banks. He called upon all political parties to oppose the dangerous trend. CPI(M) State Committee member B. Ganga Rao presided. State Secretariat Member Ch. Narasinga Rao, District Committee secretary K. Lokanadham, State Committee member B. Prabhavathi, party leaders B. Padma, R.K.S.V. Kumar, K.M. Srinivas, Botta Eswaramma and B. Jagan took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oppose-privatisation-spree-urges-cpim/article37860495.ece
06 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Farmers’ stir should inspire steel workers’||CPI(M) Polit Bureau Member B.V. Raghavulu on Sunday called upon steel plant workers to draw inspiration from the farmers’ agitation in Delhi and continue their united struggle to force the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre to repeal its decision on the strategic sale of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). Addressing a press meet on Sunday, Mr. Raghavulu said that the Centre has remained adamant in its stand despite all political parties supporting the agitation by VSP employees who have been organising relay hunger strikes for the past 297 days. He expressed optimism that if the steel workers remain united, the BJP government would be forced to repeal its decision. Referring to the proposal of the Centre to privatise the coke oven batteries, he said that the CPI(M) was opposed to privatisation, be it partial or complete. He called upon all other parties to clarify their stand on the issue and appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to take the lead and adopt another resolution in the Assembly against the privatisation of VSP to increase pressure on the Centre to reconsider its decision. On the claims of the Centre on repeal of the Farm Laws, the CPI(M) Polit Bureau Member demanded that it should come out with a statement on payment of compensation to the kin of 750 farmers who had lost their lives during the agitation. The Minimum Support Price (MSP) should be accorded legal status as demanded by the farmers, he said. Referring to the statements of the Centre on its inability to procure paddy at a time when it was ready for harvest, he described them as ‘unfortunate’ and sought procurement of paddy as also cotton, which was produced in the two Telugu States. On the proposal to privatise two public sector banks, he recalled that it was the public sector banks which had prevented an economic crisis despite the pandemic situation. He also sought that the State government revive the cooperative sugar factories in the State, particularly the Thandava and Etikoppaka sugar factories in Visakhapatnam district. He also demanded that the YSRCP government oppose the conditions imposed by the BJP government on ‘metering of free power’, garbage fee and privatisation of discoms. He alleged that the BJP was curtailing the rights of the State governments in violation of the spirit of federal system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-agitation-should-inspire-steel-plant-workers/article37860539.ece
06 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students taught rescue techniques||An awareness camp on disaster management was conducted for the students of BABA Institute of Technology & Science here. Live demonstrations in first aid (CPR, choking), firefighting (theory and demo) and rescue techniques (hand methods and stretcher methods) were given to the students. They were also provided with information on disaster management About 150 girls and 150 boys participated in the programme. Bandi Suresh, State disaster management in-charge, Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation (SSSSO), A.P., and team members Rala, Ramalingeswara Rao and others imparted the training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-taught-rescue-techniques/article37860584.ece
06 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases below 300||The district has recorded 20 new COVID-19 infections in the 24 hours ending on Sunday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,59,020 cases. As many as 61 persons, who were undergoing treatment, have recovered during the same time. The number of recoveries have increased to 1,57,638. The death toll stands unchanged at 1,104 as no COVID-19 death was reported in the last 24 hours. Active cases have further reduced to 278.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-below-300/article37860586.ece
06 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman found dead in well near Simhachalam||The body of a 22-year-old woman was found in a well at an isolated place near Bhairava Vaka near Simhachalam, under Gopalapatnam police station limits on Sunday. The deceased was identified as S. Bhavani (22), a resident of Sontyam village of Anandapuram mandal. It is learnt that Bhavani was working at a shop in Simhachalam. Complaint lodged Police said the woman went missing on Friday. Her family members had lodged a missing person’s complaint at Anandapuram police station on Saturday. On Sunday morning, Bhavani’s body was found in a well near Bhairava Vaka. No visible injuries Sources said that there were no visible injuries on the woman’s body. However, family members stated in their complaint that they suspected that their daughter was murdered. Police have shifted the body to King George Hospital (KGH) for post-mortem. Gopalapatnam police said that they are waiting for the post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of death and said they would investigate the case from all angles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-found-dead-in-well-near-simhachalam/article37860574.ece
06 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kidnapped’ infant rescued swiftly||A three-month-old baby who was reportedly kidnapped by unidentified miscreants two days ago, at Dumbriguda in the Agency area of Visakhapatnam district, was swiftly rescued by the police after the baby’s parents lodged a complaint late on Saturday night. According to the police, the couple, Suraj and Jyothi, hailing from Madhya Pradesh, had come to Araku a week ago. They are engaged in the making and sale of axes and knives. Their son, three-month-old Arjun, was kidnapped by some unidentified persons while they were sleeping in a tent at Dumbriguda in the wee hours of November 3, they said in their complaint. Police questioned several suspects and the baby boy late on Sunday night. While some of the accused were nabbed, a few more are yet to be caught, according to police sources. More details are yet to be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kidnapped-infant-rescued-swiftly/article37860575.ece
06 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Commissioner inspects reservoirs||Commissioner of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) G. Lakshmisha inspected several reservoirs and water pump houses in the city on Sunday. He visited the Gambheeram and Thatipudi reservoirs, the Narava water treatment plant and the Aganampudi and Kanithi pump houses. He asked the engineering officials about the water treatment procedure, chlorination and water supply to colonies. Chief Engineer Ravi Krishna Raju accompanied him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/commissioner-inspects-reservoirs/article37860591.ece
06 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo to remain open today||Curator of Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) Nandani Salaria said that the facility would remain open to visitors on Monday (November 6). Tourists were disappointed due to closure of the zoo for two days (Saturday and Sunday) as part of the preparedness for Cyclone Jawad. Though Monday is a closed holiday, keeping in view the tourists coming from distant places, the zoo would be open this Monday, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zoo-to-remain-open-today/article37860585.ece
06 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man found dead in lodge||A man, aged around 40 years, was found dead in a lodge near the RTC Complex here on Sunday. The victim was a native of Vijayawada and had checked into the lodge on Saturday night, according to police sources. Collecting details He was found hanging in the room in the afternoon. Dwaraka Police are collecting the details. Those suffering with suicidal tendencies, may dial 100 for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-found-dead-in-lodge/article37860491.ece
06 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank cashier missing||A 26-year-old woman, who works as a cashier in a bank at PM Palem here, is reported to be missing. The family members of the woman, who hail from Vizianagaram, lodged a complaint with the PM Palem Police on Sunday. They complained that she had gone to the bank on Saturday and did not return home. Police have registered a missing case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bank-cashier-missing/article37860587.ece
06 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Annual ritual begins at temple||The annual ‘Margasiramasotsavam’ of Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi began at Burujupeta in Old Town on Sunday. Visakhapatnam South MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar formally inaugurated the festival by lighting a lamp. Vedaparayanam, Saptasatiparayana and Lakshmi Homam will be held everyday till January 2, 2022. The sila thoranam behind the idol of the deity was decorated with 60 kg silver makarathoranam, donated by CMR Group managing director Mavuri Venkataramana. Sri Swatmanandendra Swamy of Sri Sarada Peetham inaugurated the makarathoranam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/famous-annual-ritual-begins-at-temple/article37860496.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Solo mission||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/solo-mission/article37860001.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Graceful postures||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/graceful-postures/article37860493.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Suspense over Omicron’s arrival in State continues||When Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao called a press conference on Sunday afternoon, it appeared as though one’s worst fears had come true. Samples of 13 COVID-positive air passengers, who landed at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport earlier this week, had been sent for genome sequencing to confirm the presence of Omicron, the new variant of concern, and the reports were supposed to take about three days. One assumed that the press conference would finally put all suspicions to rest. However, the suspense continues as Dr Srinivasa Rao told reporters that the genome sequencing results were expected only on Sunday night or Monday. The media bulletin issued by the Health department on Sunday evening also mentioned that the genome sequencing results of the 13 samples were awaited.  The department started surveillance at the airport from December 1. 979 incoming flyers A total of 979 international travellers have arrived here from 11 ‘at-risk’ countries. RT-PCR tests were conducted on all of them and 13 tested positive for COVID. Of the 13 samples, one was sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, and the remaining 12 to Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics for genome sequencing. Both labs are located in the city. Listing out the countries and States in India where Omicron variant was detected, the senior health official said that it would not be surprising if the variant is detected in Hyderabad in the coming days. Those who have tested positive have been isolated at Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences in Gachibowli. Their health condition is normal and they are asymptomatic so far. Retest on passengers The international flyers who have tested negative have been instructed to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. Another round of tests will be performed on them on December 8, the eighth day since their arrival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suspense-over-omicrons-entry-into-state-continues/article37860318.ece
06 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Crooks target online advertisers||With popular online marketplace and classified advertising platforms OLX and Quikr blocking the Internet Protocol (IP) addresses originating from the country’s cybercrime hubs — Bharatpur in Rajasthan and Jharkhand’s Jamtara — the fraudsters are pretending to be buyers and cheating people who post ads online. In the past few years, lakhs of people from across the country fell to the tactics of cybercrooks who post fake ads online and dupe them. Complaints galore With the rising number of complaints from law enforcement agencies from each State, the online platforms have started blocking accounts from Jamtara and Bharatpur. However, the fraudsters, like always, find new ways to cheat people. Now, they are targetting those who post genuine ads. They call the seller impersonating as Army personnel, who got transferred recently to their city, finalise the deal without any bargain. And while finalising the payment, the fraudsters tell the seller that they want to transfer money using UPI (Unified Payment Interface) ID and ask the latter to enter his UPI number in the app on their phone. The minute sellers do that, they get a message from the bank, informing them about money getting debited from their account. When again they call the person to figure out what happened, they say something went wrong and ask the sellers to try doing it again. Again when they try the same again, and then again, money gets debited all the time, before the sellers realise that they got conned by entering their UPI PIN, authorising payment, but not any UPI number. These days, the fraudsters are also sending Quick Response (QR) codes to the sellers after finalising the deal and asking them to scan the code to receive money, but in turn, the money gets debited. QR codes Police said that cyber crooks in Bharatpur and Jamtara are generating thousands of QR codes each day in the software purchased from Chinese hackers on the dark web. They are making payments through bitcoins to purchase the software from Chinese hackers. “Most of the fraudsters impersonate as Army personnel who ask the sellers to scan the QR code stating that the money gets debited via Merchant Payment System,” Cyberabad’s Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) Rohini Priyadarshini said. “As they are not able to post fake ads online, they are targeting those who post online,” she said. This year alone, the cybercrime police of Cyberabad and Rachakonda commissionerates received over 170 cases of QR code frauds in which the victims lost over Rs. 25 lakh. Ms Priyadarshini requested people not to scan QR codes to receive money as there is no such facility for receiving money through the QR codes.  Most of the fraudsters impersonate as Army personnel who ask the sellers to scan the QR code stating that the money gets debited via Merchant Payment System. Rohini Priyadarshini, Cyberabad’s Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crooks-target-online-advertisers/article37860334.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mask hypocrisy on display at public health event||If enforcement authorities penalised all the people who did not wear masks at a recent public health event, several thousands of rupees would have poured into the State coffers. When 32 Basthi Dawakhanas were inaugurated in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits on Friday, many were found flouting the mandatory mask rule, said health department staff. While Health Minister T. Harish Rao inaugurated the Basti Dawakhana in Old Bowenpally, elected representatives did the honours in other localities. It was only the day before that Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said they have requested the enforcement authorities to keep a watch on people stepping out of their homes without a mask, in view of the Omicron threat. Police commissioners, too, made public announcements that Rs. 1,000 fine would be imposed for not wearing a mask. ‘Wear mask indoors’ In fact, Dr Srinivasa Rao on Sunday advised people to wear masks in indoor settings too. Ironically, caution was thrown to the wind at the events held at government health facilities. Health staff, who are on the job on conducting surveillance to detect COVID cases, said that they were worried since the venues were jampacked with people, many of whom did not wear masks. “As healthcare workers, we were part of the group during the inauguration functions where many did not wear masks. These are the times when Omicron has emerged as a new concern. If the police or other enforcement authorities imposed fine on all those without masks at the programme, you can bet thousands of rupees would have been collected,” said a senior healthcare worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mask-hypocrisy-on-display-at-public-health-event/article37860323.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jazz music brings tombs complex alive||It was a full house at the garden amphitheatre Deccan Park at Quli Qutb Shahi Tombs complex, which played host to the fourth edition of the Hyderabad International Jazz Festival on Sunday evening. The cynosure of all eyes was German Ambassador Walter J. Lindner, who played the flute along with ‘The Revisit Project’ from New Delhi. “COVID-19 kept us home. With double vaccination and face masks, it is now possible to meet. Music transcends all boundaries,” said the Ambassador to music aficionados who had gathered for the event. The festival was open to all and had free entry with COVID protocols in place. Five other bands — from Hyderabad, Mumbai, Switzerland, Germany and US — kept the gathering entertained with their music for the festival supported by the Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany, US Consulate General in Hyderabad, Goethe-Zentrum; Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. The foreign bands participated virtually as the event was held in hybrid format this year, thanks to the pandemic. ‘Good opportunity’ In an earlier interview, Mr Lindner” had said, “India is such a huge country, I had no idea where I would perform. I will be performing in Hyderabad which is a very good opportunity and has an amazing backdrop, so I am very happy to do it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jazz-brings-tombs-complex-alive/article37860329.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gene mutations being studied to check rare diseases||Scientists at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and the Centre for DNA Fingerprinting & Diagnostics (CDFD) here are screening specific population groups in identified areas ailing from peculiar genetic diseases to check for the mutations to prevent them from moving into the next generation. Senior scientist and CDFD Director K. Thangaraj said that if the genetic mutation response is found in these groups during the ongoing study it will help in taking up counselling the populations concerned and halt the progression into the next generation. This is akin to what the Ashkenazi Jews have been successfully doing for the last few decades through community testing at the school level itself. “When the adults consent to marry, their genetic sequences are compared and either they are advised against marriage or told to keep checking for the genetic disease when pregnant. The Jews have eliminated some diseases through this process,” he told an online gathering during the course of his presentation on ‘Human origin, health and disease’ organised by National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI). Dr. Thangaraj stated that initially Ancestral South Indians migrating straight from Africa and Ancestral North Indians hailing from Europe through Africa, gave rise to many populations independently and during the last 2,000-4,000 years ‘admixing’ between these two founding populations of the country, gave rise to many diverse population groups. This is evident from our varied skin colours across the sub-continent. However, this ‘admixture’ was halted 1,900 years ago due to endogamous marriages (within the group), and the caste system which came up later perpetuated this leading to the present populations, he explained. “Genetically we are more homogenous, yet with every single population having a unique genetic affinity,” said the leading geneticist, pointing out that recessive genetic diseases increases in population in endogamous marriages with the abnormal chromosome having a chance to appear in the next generation. The director said there is no archaeological evidence of when early humans migrated to the Indian sub-continent though it is thought to have happened 65,000 years ago through genetic evidence. Whereas there is evidence to show the migration happened to West Asia 47,000 years ago, Australia 50,000 years ago, China 39,000 years ago and Europe 40,000 years ago after modern man migrated from Africa 160,000 years ago. The country is found to have 4,655 well-defined population groups anthropologically, 533 tribes, 72 primitive tribes, 36 hunters and gatherers after analysing scores of samples. Tribal groups in Andaman & Nicobar Islands have African features having migrated through South India and genome mutations of Great Andamanese, Onge and Jarawa (as there is no contact with the Sentinelese) on showed to be unique because they have been isolated for thousands of years, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gene-mutations-being-studied-to-check-rare-diseases/article37860339.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Harish requests Centre to move quickly on children’s vaccination||A request has been placed before the Union Health Ministry with regard to administering COVID-19 vaccines, which have received emergency use authorisation, to children. Telangana Health Minister T. Harish Rao has also requested Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya to permit booster dose for healthcare workers, frontline workers and people in high-risk groups such as those suffering from long-term illnesses. Sharing the news of this development, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said a response from the Centre is expected in two to three days. Earlier, Mr Harish Rao has suggested the Ministry to reduce the time gap between two doses of Covishield from the existing 12 weeks, to four to six weeks. In a letter to the Union Health Minister on December 2, Mr Harish Rao said eight to 10 months have elapsed since the second dose of COVID-19 was administered to healthcare workers, frontline workers and people in high-risk groups. “With passage of time and emergence of new variants, Government of India may consider providing booster dose at least for the above mentioned categories,” Mr Harish Rao has suggested in the letter. In the third week of October, Dr Srinivasa Rao had said that vaccines for children in the 12-18 years age group might be launched in two to three weeks. Training in this regard was also initiated. However, there has been no further progress in this direction. Corporate hospitals had also floated advance registrations to give the jabs to beneficiaries aged between 12 and 18 years. People were told they an update regarding approval of vaccine for children would be sent to them. Now, the hospitals are flooded with calls with people desperately enquiring about jabs for the under-18 group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-requests-centre-to-move-quickly-on-childrens-vaccination/article37860321.ece
06 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Gouravelli reservoir woman oustee found dead||In a shocking incident, a woman farmer committed suicide by hanging. The incident took place at Somajitanda, a hamlet of Gudatipally village in Akkannapet mandal of Siddipet district on Saturday evening. This has resulted in three children aged 15, 13 and nine years becoming orphans. One Bhukya Lakshmi, a resident of Somajitanda was married to Kanuku. They were having two acres of land. Few years ago, they gave their consent to sell their land to the government for the construction Gouravelli reservoir. For the one acre land, they received the amount but for the remaining 35 guntas of land, the amount was not paid. Meanwhile, Kanuku was having health problems. Worried about not getting amount, he committed suicide three years ago. Since then Lakshmi has been moving around offices to get compensation. Though officials were saying that she would get the amount, she was yet to get it. “Lakshim has been moving to revenue offices repeatedly but never got a positive response from officials. On Saturday, a relative of Lakshmi went to a revenue office and enquired about the pending payment. The officials there reportedly gave improper response stating that they do not know when the amount would be released. The same was communicated to Lakshmi. Worried over her and her children’s future, she took the extreme decision,” Baddam Raji Reddy, sarpanch of Gudatipally, told The Hindu . “The three children - Divya (15), Navya (13) and Ramu (9) - become orphans. There is no one to look after them - neither from mother side nor from father side. Presently, we are taking care of them. The government should come forward and do justice to these children,” Bhukya Sukru, a relative of Bhukya Lakshmi, urged the authorities.    (Roshni - Suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gouravelli-reservoir-woman-oustee-found-dead/article37860544.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mesolithic, Neolithic remains found at Nagarjunasagar||A team led by expert consultant on archaeology and Buddhism E. Sivanagireddy on Sunday found Mesolithic and Neolithic remains on the premises of Buddhavanam, the Buddhist theme park being developed by the government, at Nagarjunasagar. A number of grooves, to grind or sharpen tools, were found along the left bank of River Krishna. These are significant in indicating habitations and a factory site around the place, he said. These pre-historic grooves were formed out of grinding on the surface of the laterite sheet rock and measure about 10 cm in length and almost double the size in width. Also, Mesolithic stone tools like blades, burins, borers and flakes made of chert or fine-grain sedimentary rock were found abundantly, which are indicative of habitations and trade dating back to 8500 BC, Mr. Sivanagireddy said. Both the discoveries were made during the course of inspecting the newly-laid walking tracks around the theme park. Buddhavanam, which emerged as an important tourist destination in Telangana in the Buddhist Circuit, would soon feature walking and trekking tracks to promote leisure tourism, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mesolithic-neolithic-remains-found-at-nagarjunasagar/article37860355.ece
06 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Age no bar for ‘digital’ honey trap||Age knows no limits when it comes to falling into digital honey traps in India. Men of all ages — from a teenager to sexagenarians — faced extortion after they were honey trapped with fake social media profiles of women, sleazy chats and compromising video calls. Since the beginning of this year, the cybercrime police of Cyberabad alone registered 82 cases in which people from all age groups were blackmailed and duped by fraudsters, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) Rohini Priyadarshini told The Hindu . She said over Rs. 1.30 crore was extorted from the 82 victims with the maximum amount being more than Rs. 10 lakh swindled from a single person. The majority of victims are aged between 25 and 35 years with 61 cases being registered, followed by 11 cases in which people from 40 to 60 years were honey-trapped. “In 10 cases, the victims are aged between 35 and 40 years,” Ms. Priyadarshini said.  Though the number of victims is reportedly high compared to cases booked across the State, many do not approach the police due to social stigma. The rise in cases can be attributed to the pandemic, as more and more people are home and working or just surfing online, the officer said. Modus operandi According to Ms. Priyadarshini, the extortion is done using various methods. One modus operandi consists of chatting on Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and online platforms with unsuspecting young women or men posing as women and getting them to send compromising pictures of themselves, and digitally honeytrap the victims with video calls. “The short video calls are recorded using screen recording applications and are immediately sent to the victims for blackmailing,” she said. They threaten the victims that they would upload naked videos on the Internet and share them with their friends and relatives if they do not transfer money to their bank accounts. Initially, they demand anywhere between Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 20,000 and once the victims start paying, they extort more through online banking. Such calls mostly originate from the Siliguri area in West Bengal and so far no arrests were made in any of these cases as tracing the cyber crooks with IP addresses is a challenging task. People who visit pornographic websites are also targeted by these gangs as they place links on websites which record the victim’s activities. Further, the DCP said people should not accept video calls and friend requests from strangers. “Even if they do, they should avoid any indecent request from a stranger during a video call, as they will be recorded and misused for extortion,” she said requesting people not to transfer money and instead approach the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/age-no-bar-for-digital-honey-trap/article37860333.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to raise another Rs. 1,500 crore from RBI||The TS government has decided to raise open market borrowings of Rs. 1,500 crore from the Reserve Bank of India, taking the total borrowing in the current third quarter to Rs. 6,000 crore against the targeted Rs. 6,295 crore. Auction The amount would be raised through auction of State government securities being conducted on Tuesday. The auction would be conducted on the RBI’s core banking solution e-Kuber system. Government stock up to 10% of the notified amount of sale of each stock would be allotted to eligible individuals and institutions, subject to a maximum limit of one per cent of the notified amount for single bid per stock as per the scheme for non-competitive bidding facility, the RBI said. The State government has already raised Rs. 4,500 crore in three tranches during the current quarter – Rs. 1,500 crore on October 5, Rs. 2,000 crore on November 1 and Rs. 1,000 crore on November 16. The total projected borrowings for the current quarter have been pegged at Rs. 6,295 crore, according to the tentative calendar of borrowings by the State governments/Union Territories released by the RBI at the start of the third quarter. The State will be left with open market borrowings to the tune of Rs. 295 crore with more than three weeks pending for the completion of the current quarter going by the tentative calendar of the RBI. However, the commitments of the government had been on the rise with the implementation of Rythu Bandhu payment of Rabi instalment, which is due this month, and the additional burden imposed on account of the revised pay scale for employees. Expenditure for payment of salaries and wages for the current fiscal have been pegged at Rs. 34,609.4 crore as against Rs. 25,364.7 crore of the previous fiscal, according to the RBI’s handbook on State budgets. This reflects the impact of the implementation of pay revision for employees of different cadres with 30% fitment benefit on the State exchequer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-to-raise-another-rs-1500-cr-from-rbi/article37860349.ece
06 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ride hailing app restrained from showing ad||Ride hailing app Rapido has been restrained from showing an advertisement, featuring actor Allu Arjun, which shows the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) in poor light, management of the transport juggernaut said on Sunday. In a statement released to the media, the TSRTC said that the court ‘restrained Rapido and its successors, directors, employees, servants, agents, representatives, from telecating, broadcasting, streaming, reproducing, distributing, making available to the public and or communicating to the public the ‘original and modified’ versions of the ad films, on their websites or through the internet in any manner.’ The commercial was defamatory to the bus services run by the State-owned TSRTC, they added. The court also directed YouTube to block access to the original and modified version of the commercial video on the lines identified by the plaintiff, the TSRTC further stated. TSRTC Managing Director V.C. Sajjanar said that the transport juggernaut is a social asset and that the public ‘should own it up as their own and help maintain its smooth functioning and not defame it in any manner whatsoever’. Mr. Sajjanar appealed to the public to strengthen the TSRTC, which he said is a State-run corporation, and is decades old that has been serving the transportation needs of lakhs of people each day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ride-app-told-to-take-down-ad-on-rtc/article37860357.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Doubts over President’s southern sojourn||With the threat of the new variant of COVID, Omicron, looming large, doubts were expressed in official circles over the southern sojourn of President Ram Nath Kovind in Hyderabad from December 20 to 25. Nonetheless, officials are going ahead with arrangements at Rashtrapati Nilayam in Bolarum for the annual event in December, which was dropped last year due to the COVID pandemic. The officials started making arrangements after an initial communication about the dates were sent to the State government. A senior official said that discussions are going on and a certainty could be reached only when the official communication confirming his visit would be received. Another official said an advance party from Delhi had come and made an assessment about various tasks that different departments should handle for the President’s visit, but an itinerary was not yet sent to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/doubts-over-presidents-southern-sojourn/article37860351.ece
06 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Over 300 people protest in front of police station||Tension prevailed outside Shadnagar police station on Sunday when Supreme Court-appointed Justice Sirpurkar Commission inquiring into the alleged encounter of the four accused in the rape and murder of Disha on December 6, 2019, visited the place. Over 300 people gathered outside the police station to give their representations. Slogans raised However, when the commission members decided not to “entertain” them, they staged a protest and raised, “Go back Sirpurkar Commission” slogans. Police were forced to deploy rope party to stop the protesters from entering the Shadnagar police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-300-people-protest-in-front-of-police-station/article37860336.ece
06 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘TuringMinds’ launched||International School of Engineering and Soothsayer Analytics (INSOFE), USA, have launched TuringMinds.Ai with a goal to establish Centres of Excellence in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning for their clients across industries. A statement said that since 2014, Soothsayer Analytics, USA, has been helping several organisations learn and adapt AI technology to come up with powerful predictions and optical outcomes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/turingminds-launched/article37860340.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dip in testing interrupts rising caseload graph in TS||A spike in COVID-19 cases was recorded in Karimnagar on Sunday with a cluster of cases being detected among students of a private medical college. Overall, however, the State reported comparatively fewer COVID-19 cases as tests fell sharply. In the past six days, around 35,000-40,000 samples were being examined on a daily basis, leading to the detection of around 180-200 people with coronavirus. However, on Sunday, only 25,693 samples were put to test and 156 cases were detected. Of those, 47 were from Karimnagar where the daily new infections was staying under 15 for the past few days. However, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region continues to top the caseload charts with 54 infections. One more coronavirus patient succumbed, taking the death toll to 3,999.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dip-in-testing-interrupts-rising-caseload-graph-in-ts/article37860324.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Correction||In the story - Sugarbox tech to enhance metro travel with more online content - published on page 7 of the Telangana/Hyderabad edition, it should read: SugarBox Networks, whose ‘Hyperlocal Edge Cloud’ based technology is 'building the backbone of the internet connection'  to L&T Metro Rail (Hyderabad) Limited, announced on Thursday that passengers can now consume content from varied sectors of entertainment, education, e-commerce and fintech, and not as was published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/correction/article37860330.ece
06 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Home-maker found dead at home||A 36-year-old home-maker was found dead in her residence at Amberpet on Saturday. The victim, P Vijaya Lakshmi, ended her life by hanging herself from a ceiling fan, allegedly following a disagreement over the way her husband, Srinivas, a tailor, stitched her blouse. “She was not satisfied with the way he stitched her blouse and questioned him. But, when Srinivas refused to listen to her, she locked herself in a room,” Amberpet police said. Around 4 p.m. when their children returned from school, Vijaya Lakshmi was not opening the door despite repeated knocks. Srinivas along with neighbours broke open the door and found his wife in a shocking state. Her body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy.    (Roshni - Suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/home-maker-found-dead-at-home/article37860337.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Employees to get to select their cadre preference: CS||The State government has assured employees that they will be given the option to select their preference of cadre in line with the amended Presidential Order 2018. The government has constituted committees at State and district levels for completing the process of allocation of employees in a smooth manner. The government has also resolved to invite the representatives of the Telangana Gazetted Officers’ Association and Telangana Non-Gazetted Officers’ Association at the time of allocation of cadre to employees. The decision was taken at a meeting convened by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar with representatives of TGO and TNGOs associations on Sunday. The meeting was held to finalise steps taken by different departments for organising cadres at district, zonal and multi-zonal levels and allocation of employees at different levels in accordance with the Presidential Order 2018. The Chief Secretary held discussions with the representatives of employees on allocation of local cadre in the newly-formed districts. He said the process of allocation would be taken up in the districts where the model code of conduct was not in force initially and would be extended to the remaining parts once the MCC was lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/employees-to-get-to-select-their-cadre-preference-cs/article37860350.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AFA’s Chitnis Squadron bags Commandant’s Banner||Air Force Academy Commandant Air Marshal S. Prabhakaran presented the ‘Commandant’s Banner’ for autumn term 2021 to flight cadet Rajat Sharotri of Chitnis Squadron for bagging the winners’ trophy in the inter-squadron drill, marking the culmination of competitions in the schedule of training of under-trainee officers and flight cadets at Dundigal on Saturday. The Commandant’s Banner is conferred to the squadron based on their overall performance in various competitions including sports, debate, quiz, crosscountry, drill and academics conducted as part of the training. The winning squadron is called the ‘Champion Squadron’ and its cadets have the privilege of wearing a lanyard over the uniform during the next semester. The Commandant emphasised on physical fitness and mental toughness as integral parts of military life. Meanwhile, valedictory function of 101st Advance Navigation Course and 133th Ab-Initio Navigation Course was held at Navigation Training School, Air Force Station, Begumpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chitnis-squadron-bags-commandants-banner/article37860325.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Probe ordered into Dalit youth’s ‘torture’||Nalgonda SP A.V. Ranganath on Sunday directed Additional SP Satish Chodagiri to inquire into the allegations of a Dalit youth’s torture by Town-II police. Refuting messages being circulated on social media, including old videos of the torture, he assured that strict action would be initiated against the accused police officers if they were found guilty. He said that Royya Srinivas, the victim, was booked by Town-II police for a cheating case based on a complaint filed on July 6. The petition, police said, states he had sold them a non-existent property and took 35% commission. He was summoned to the police station on November 10 for issuance of notices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/probe-ordered-into-dalit-youths-torture/article37860356.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IICT Director is new DST Secretary||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the appointment of CSIR-IICT director S. Chandrasekhar as Secretary, Department of Science and Technology for a period of two years, with effect from the date of assumption of charge of the post or till attaining the age of 60 years or until further orders, whichever is the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iict-director-is-new-dst-secretary/article37860326.ece
06 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MMTS to restore services from today||The SCR has announced the restoration of 25 MMTS train services from December 6 between Secunderabad – Hyderabad, Lingampalli – Secunderabad, Lingampalli – Hyderabad, Hyderabad – Lingampalli, Lingampalli – Falaknuma and Falaknuma – Lingampalli with the first train starting at 5 a.m. between Secunderabad-Hyderabad, and the last train at 11.50 p.m. between Limgampalli-Secunderabad, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mmts-to-restore-services-from-today/article37860332.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||850 kilometres padaya yatra completed by Ayyappa devotees||A team of 22 devotees of Lord Ayyappa completed 850 kilometres of ‘Maha Padayatra’ on Sunday by reaching Namakkal in Tamil Nadu. They will reach Sabarimala on December 15 by walking another 260 km and thereby complete 1,000 km. They started from Sangareddy on November 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/850-kilometres-padaya-yatra-completed-by-ayyappa-devotees/article37860347.ece
06 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Farmer commits suicide||Unable to clear his debt, a farmer committed suicide at Elkal village in Rayapol mandal of Siddipet district on Saturday night. According to sources, Jala Bhumaiah (56) had about an acre land and was cultivating crops on it. As the returns were not meeting his expenditure, he took loans and was unable to pay them. Worried over the mounting debt, he took the extreme step. (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmer-commits-suicide/article37860348.ece
06 December 2021||JAGTIAL,TELANGANA||Three killed as TSRTC bus rams car||A 45-year-old man and two children were killed after the car they were travelling in was hit by a TSRTC bus at Mohanraopeta in Korutla mandal of the district on Sunday. Three other occupants of the car sustained multiple injuries in the accident. The Jagtial bound bus collided head on with the car on the outskirts of Mohanraopeta on the Jagtial-Korutla main road on Sunday afternoon, sources said. While two occupants of the car died on the spot, four others suffered grievous injuries. Among the injured was a four-year-old boy who succumbed to the injuries on the way to the hospital. Identity unknown The injured trio were admitted to the government hospital in Korutla. The exact identity of the victims of the ghastly road accident could not be established immediately. Sources said that the deceased hailed from Korutla town. A case has been registered and further investigations into the accident are in progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-killed-as-tsrtc-bus-collides-with-car/article37860316.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Leader with a towering personality||Former Chief Minister K. Rosaiah was indeed a towering personality when it came to fulfilling legislative business either in the Assembly or Council. Old timers recall that he was among a handful of Congress leaders who gave then Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao a tough time in the business of the Council from Opposition benches in eighties. NTR later went on to abolish the Upper House. When his turn to tackle the Opposition as Minister in the Assembly came, he handled the situation with equal deftness. On one occasion when Leader of Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu went on haranguing that his government had done a lot for the development of the State, Rosaiah as Legislative Affairs Minister rose up to recall the development in pre-independence era under British rule. “The British had laid several railway lines and took up other works in the country. But, India never asked the Britishers to take back what they had grounded. So, the development in your regime was in the natural course of time”.   In the ongoing tussle between State and Central governments on the controversy over paddy procurement, a thing that stood out prominently was both of them indulging in blame game and leaving farmers in the lurch. Farmers were at a loss to know whether they can wait to take up sowing of paddy in the current Rabi expecting an assurance from the Centre that it will lift the stocks. As last week was crucial for Rabi sowings but there was no response from the Centre, the State government came up with a list of crops that farmers could sow as an alternative. Interestingly, the sowing period for some of them was already over. These included Bengal gram, groundnut, jowar, coriander and safflower.   Use of unparliamentary or foul language in politics has become a regular feature of late, although it was a rarity in the past. Irrespective of the reason, the trend is on the rise and Telangana is no exception. The simmering row over paddy procurement between the State and Centre has given rise to such an unhealthy practice. A sort of duel is on, particularly between the BJP and TRS, and Congress too, is not lagging. What is more disappointing is that the State heads of all the three parties are indulging in the game of slur. Taking a cue from their leadership, the next level leaders are jumping into the ‘cess pool’. Now, they speak as to who should get the ‘A’ certificate, the certification of the censors board for packing excessive obscenity, foul language and violence in feature films before they are given nod for screening. “No party is left behind in this game of slur as the degeneration goes on…”, opines an old-timer (politician).   The State government has released orders sanctioning Rs. 250 crore as special grants for the development of mandal and zilla parishad territorial constituencies. Released at a time when the model code of conduct on account of elections to Legislative Council from local authorities constituencies was in force, the order received adverse notice since the members of the ZPTCs and MPTCs form the electors. They had repeatedly brought their frustration at being ignored in the matter of duties and remuneration to the notice of the government. The government had recently issued order enhancing the honorarium being paid to the elected members of the local bodies and withdrew it within a day after questions were raised on the violation of the model code.  (N. Rahul,   B. Chandrashekhar and   M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/leader-with-a-towering-personality/article37860352.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Making a point||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/making-a-point/article37860342.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Garage Sale||Brand new Beetel landline unused phone in good working condition - Rs. 1200, and two Panasonic well-maintained cordless phones in good working condition - Rs. 6,000. Contact: 91213 83238.   Two oxygen cylinders - 5 litre Longfian make - and 5 litre core healthmake - purchased this year. Contact: 94410 12158/98852 28971.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/garage-sale/article37860335.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Reader’s Mail - Hyderabad||The new COVID variant, Omicron, is spreading fast in a few countries, and if we are not careful, the situation is likely to be very serious. Wearing a mask is the first line of defence and taking the two doses of vaccine as well as avoiding large gatherings and crowds is the need of the hour. While our government needs to step up vaccination drives, I request for imposition of strict rules with regard to restricting the number of people at social gatherings to not more than 50 and ban New Year celebrations this time too. Sunday-Funday events at Tank Bund and Charminar should be stopped immediately. Parimala G. Tadas, A.S. Rao Nagar   Around one kilometre stretch of road on both sides between Himayatnagar ‘Y’ junction to Liberty Basheerbagh ‘T’ junction, which was in good condition, was scratched unnecessarily for a new layer of road about a week ago. But, this work has not been completed due to which it has become difficult as well as dangerous to drive vehicles. A lot of dust flies around, thanks to continuous traffic movement. I request the municipal authorities to look into this matter and complete the road quickly . T. Kailash Ditya, Barkatpura   I had booked two 3AC tickets on IRCTC website for travelling from Bengaluru to Secunderabad on November 21 (PNR 4321219258) and it was confirmed. On reaching Bengaluru railway station, however, I came to know that many berths were vacant in 2AC. I approached the TTE and requested him to accommodate us in it, and he agreed subject to payment of the difference in fare. But, I was asked to pay in cash only and told that online payment will not do. Since I did not have sufficient cash, I was denied the accommodation. I request the railway authorities to facilitate online payments. V.G. Deshpande, Warasiguda   Escalator on platform no.1 at the Secunderabad railway station is not functioning for the past several months and one has to walk up the stairs or use a lift to go to platform no.2 or onwards. It is most inconvenient, especially for senior citizens, women and children to walk such a distance to board trains from other platforms. It is shocking that the railway authorities have not taken steps to make it functional at such a major station, and more shocking is that many are disregarding COVID protocol of wearing masks at the station. K.Durga Prasad Rao,  Srinagar Colony  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu. co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail-hyderabad/article37860327.ece
06 December 2021||Bhopal/Balaghat,||Naxals call bandh against Gadchiroli encounter||Naxalites burnt a road roller engaged in construction work in Madhya Pradesh’s Balaghat district and left behind pamphlets calling for a bandh in M.P., Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh on December 10 to protest the killing of rebels in an encounter in Gadchiroli last month, police said. The incident took place on the intervening night of Friday-Saturday near Korka village of Balaghat, they said. Enraged over the killing of naxals in a police encounter at Gadchiroli in neighbouring Maharashtra, a group of 18 to 20 rebels burnt the roller engaged in road construction work near Korka village under Birsa police station area, Superintendent of Police Abhishek Tiwari said on Saturday. The Maoists also left behind pamphlets, calling for a bandh on December 10 in three States, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/naxals-call-bandh-against-gadchiroli-encounter/article37860415.ece
06 December 2021||Chandigarh/ Delhi,||AAP accuses BJP of trying to poach its MP, MLAs from Punjab||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday accused the BJP of trying to poach its lawmakers from Punjab, including its State unit president Bhagwant Mann who claimed he was offered money and a place in the Union Cabinet if he joined the party ahead of the Assembly election. There was no immediate reaction from the BJP to the allegations. Without naming anyone, Mr. Mann, who is an MP from Sangrur, claimed that a senior BJP leader contacted him four days ago and asked him, “What would you take to join the BJP?”. The AAP leader claimed he was asked if he needed money and was told that he would be made a Union Cabinet Minister if he joined the BJP. “I told him (BJP leader) that I am on a mission not on commission,” Mr. Mann told reporters in Chandigarh. Taking a swipe at the BJP, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha claimed that 25 Congress MLAs have been approaching his party to join it, but the AAP doesn't want this “garbage” and said he is ready to share the list with the BJP if it wants to take them in its fold. Mr. Chadha alleged that “top BJP leaders” from Delhi had approached the AAP leaders in Punjab over phone requesting them to join the party and offering bribes. “Senior-most leaders of the BJP are making phone calls from Delhi to our party leaders, MP, MLAs in Punjab requesting them to join the BJP offering them to take any amount of money, land, property and position they want for coming to their party fold quitting the AAP,” Mr. Chadha alleged in a press conference in Delhi. “Calls have been made to our MP Bhagwant Singh Mann directly from the office of Amit Shah (Union Home Minister),” he added. Hitting out at the BJP, he said leaders and workers of AAP “can neither be intimidated nor purchased”. Mr. Chadha asked the BJP not to try to poach AAP’s MLAs and MP from Punjab, saying that all the phone calls from BJP leaders will now be recorded and made public. “We will make the recorded conversation over the phone public. All the AAP leaders have been asked to record the phone calls from now on from the BJP leaders,” he said. Refusal to share names Mr. Chadha, co-convenor of the party's political affairs in Punjab, refused to share the names of other AAP leaders and MLAs who were allegedly contacted by the BJP leaders from Delhi in this connection. “They have been contacted and asked to quote their price or tell whatever they want for quitting the AAP and joining the BJP,” he alleged. Mr. Chadha claimed that as many as 25 Congress MLAs have been “constantly” approaching the AAP expressing their interest in joining the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-accuses-bjp-of-trying-to-poach-its-mp-mlas-from-punjab/article37860419.ece
06 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||RLD leader attacked||One person was killed and five others were injured when the convoy of a Rashtriya Lok Dal leader was attacked by unidentified gunmen in Bulandshahr district of western Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, the police said. While the party sources said the attack had a political motive, the police claim it was because of a family feud. Haji Yunus, a senior Bahujan Samaj Party leader who finished second in the bypoll from the Buladandshahr Sadar seat in 2020, had joined the RLD on Saturday. On Sunday, he was returning from village Bhaipura near Shikarpur bypass in Bulandshahr when his convoy was attacked by four or five unidentified assailants who came in a hatchback car. Police sources said at least 50 rounds were fired. Mr Yunus escaped unhurt but five members of his escort team got bullet wounds. Two of them got seriously injured and were referred to Delhi. One of them, Mohd. Khalid, died during treatment. Senior Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar Singh said Mr. Yunus had accused his nephew Mohd. Anas, who is lodged in a jail, of plotting the attack. “Teams have been formed to nab the assailants,” he said. An RLD spokesperson said the attack once again proved that the BJP government had failed to control the law and order in the State. A former block pramukh, Mr. Yunus, considered to be a strongman in the region, is the younger brother of two-time BSP MLA Haji Alim who was killed in mysterious circumstances in October 2018. Initially, the police had described it as a case of suicide but his sons Mohd. Anas and Danish and Mr. Yunus had called it a murder. After 18 months of investigation, the Crime Branch of the U.P. Police finally arrested Anas for the murder. While Mr. Yunus expressed satisfaction, Mr. Danish has been accusing him of maligning the brothers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rld-leaders-convoy-attacked/article37860230.ece
06 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||Man held for giving threat calls to Tikait||A man was apprehended for giving threatening and abusive calls to farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, the police said on Sunday. The national spokesman of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) had received two calls on Saturday night from the man who abused and threatened him. An FIR was lodged at Kaushambi police station in Ghaziabad by head constable Nitin Sharma, who is deputed in Mr. Tikait’s security. The police investigated the call data and traced the call to one Surendra Rawat of Karan Prayag town in Uttrakhand, Senior Superintendent of Police Pawan Kumar told PTI . Mr. Rawat was immediately summoned by the local police and was interrogated, Mr. Kumar said. He submitted a written apology to the police saying that he had called Mr. Tikait in an inebriated condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-held-for-giving-threat-calls-to-tikait/article37860219.ece
06 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||‘Demolished wall of illegal structure being rebuilt’||Environmentalist Lt. Col. (retd.) Sarvadaman Singh Oberoi on Saturday submitted an application before the Supreme Court in Khori Basti case that the wall of an illegal farmhouse belonging to former Haryana Minister was being rebuilt just a few months after it was demolished by the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad in pursuant of court orders. Minister’s farmhouse The four-page application filed by Mr. Oberoi through his counsel Amiy Shukla said that the court had directed the Faridabad Municipal Corporation to clear the unauthorised structures on the forest land earlier this year, and the farmhouse belonging to Vipul Goel, who was Environment Minister of Haryana in the previous BJP Government, was demolished. However, the rebuilding of the demolished structure has now started. Mr. Oberoi submitted the pictures, taken on December 3, of the partially demolished and the newly built boundary wall of the farmhouse belonging to the former Minister. Listed in affidavit As per the application, the farmhouse spread across 10.9 acre is situated in Ankhir village of Faridabad and is covered under Section 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act. The farmhouse is at serial no. 3 among 123 illegal encroachments listed in affidavit filed by the Haryana Forest Department before the National Green Tribunal in the matter titled Sonya Ghosh vs. State of Haryana & Ors. In reply to an additional affidavit of the Haryana Government, Mr. Oberoi had last month pointed out as to how the departments concerned had carried out cosmetic demolition of the boundary walls of the illegal structures on the forest land in pursuant to court order just to produce photographs as evidence of demolition. Mr. Oberoi had brought out the fact that the demolished boundary walls of these structures could be rebuilt in just a couple of days and in some case the reconstruction of walls had already started.  Demolished boundary walls of these structures could be rebuilt in just a couple of days and in some case the reconstruction of walls had already started Lt. Col. (retd.) Sarvadaman Singh Oberoi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/demolished-wall-of-illegal-structure-being-rebuilt/article37860204.ece
06 December 2021||Guwahati,||‘Assam ready with road map to take back youth who abjure violence’||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday said that the State government is working to ensure that militants who abjure violence and return to the mainstream are assimilated into society. He also urged the youth who have come back not to be swayed by any promise or assurance and once again forsake the path of peace, an official release said here. Speaking at a function while giving financial benefits as part of rehabilitation package to ex-cadres of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB) at Tamulpur, Mr. Sarma said the State government has prepared a comprehensive road map for all-round development of Assam wherein adequate space has been created to use the services of disgruntled youth of the State who return to the mainstream. The Chief Minister said, “As part of our commitment to bring the disgruntled youths to the mainstream and make them an important part of our composite human resource, I am happy to hand over fixed deposit certificates to them with a request to make good use of the money and help in our endeavour to start an economic movement to make an Atmanirbhar Assam.” He also said those cadres who have been left out of the rehabilitation programme at present will be included in a later phase so that they can also be empowered economically to strengthen the government’s narrative of economic development. Bodo Accord “Rehabilitation of the cadres is one of the important components of the Bodo Accord signed on January 27, 2020. On this occasion, I expressed my gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, and the Bodo leaders who took an active role to herald a new era of peace in Assam,” the Chief Minister said. As part of the rehabilitation package, Mr. Sarma presented fixed deposit certificates amounting to Rs. 4 lakh each to 1,105 ex-cadres of NDFB, belonging to different factions, who have abjured violence and returned to the mainstream of society, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/assam-ready-with-road-map-to-take-back-youth-who-abjure-violence/article37860417.ece
06 December 2021||Lucknow,||Stolen Mirage tyre returned to Air Force||Two persons who had allegedly stolen a tyre of a Mirage fighter jet being transported in a truck to Jodhpur from Lucknow returned the tyre a few days later, police said on Saturday. The two persons claimed they had taken the tyre with them thinking that it belonged to a truck, said Lucknow police. An FIR had been lodged at Ashiana police station under Section 379 (punishment for theft) of Indian Penal Code on the complaint of the truck driver. He alleged that some unidentified persons had stolen one of the five Mirage fighter aircraft tyres that he was carrying in his truck. The truck was transporting air force equipment from Bakshi Ka Talab Air force station to Jodhpur. On December 4, two persons identified as Deepraj, a driver, and his nephew Himanshu Bansal, arrived at the BKT Air force station and returned the tyre, said police, adding that the air force officials confirmed it was the stolen tyre. During questioning the two persons said that on November 26, around 10:30-10:45 pm they had found a tyre on Shaheed Path Cinepolis lying between the main road and service road. They took it home thinking it was the tyre of a truck, said police. On December 3, the two came across the news about the stolen jet tyre and after figuring out that the tyre in their possession looked unusual decided to return it, added police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/stolen-mirage-tyre-returned-to-air-force/article37860225.ece
06 December 2021||Mathura (U.P.),||Anti-riot drill conducted in Mathura||The police in Mathura conducted an anti-riot drill to check its preparedness against the threat by the right wing groups to place a Krishna idol in a mosque on December 6, an official said here on Sunday. Even though the call was withdrawn last week by the group, the police are not taking any chances. The drill was conducted on Saturday at Police Lines area, SSP Gaurav Grover said. He said proper functioning of weapons was also checked in the presence of District Magistrate Navneet Singh Chahal. The police had earlier enhanced the security in the city after the announcement by the right wing groups to install the idol inside the Shahi Idgah Masjid. The police imposed section 144 in the city banning any public gatherings. Security checks including frisking was conducted at borders from Saturday evening, SP City Martand Prakash Singh said. Para-military forces were deployed from Sunday morning at different points, officials said. Traffic restrictions have been imposed till December 7, with complete suspension of any vehicle movement near the temple and mosque area, SP Traffic Harendra Kumar said. Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha leader Rajyashree Choudhary had last month called for installation of the Krishna’s idol inside the mosque after conducting a ‘jalabhishek’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-in-mathura-conduct-anti-riot-drill/article37860227.ece
06 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘We are trying to rejuvenate Mithi, Dahisar, other rivers in Mumbai’||Last month, the Maharashtra Government received the Inspiring Regional Leadership Award at the COP26 for Climate Action in Glasgow. Just a fortnight later, its richest civic body, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation was fined Rs. 28 crore by the National Green Tribunal for polluting water bodies by “discharging untreated sewage in the sea and creeks”. State’s Environment and Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray talks to The Hindu virtually about the Mithi river, one of the oldest in the State, decarbonising public transport and Mumbai’s carbon inventory. Edited excerpts:   You took a strong stand to save Aarey Colony. Why is it that only 323 hectares of the 1,250 hectares have been declared forest land? There are two aspects to it — one is the Sanjay Gandhi National Park. It is a huge area, which is a forest and national park and has adequate protection. There is a committee to see if the non-Adivasi people, who have settled inside, can move to formal homes outside because we want to protect their rights and privileges. Once that is done, we can add to the forest area. On the other side is the Aarey Colony. Right from its inception, there is much more forest area than what has been declared. We found that a lot of space has been turned into habitation. There are organisations that are non-governmental, settlements and buildings. So we want to start from the actual green area that has a large number of trees and biodiversity that can be called forest and has been declared as forest. If there are more areas, we will soon declare them as forest land. After the floods in 2005, the Supreme Court directed IIT-Bombay and the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to come up with a plan to revive the Mithi river. What are the updates? Mithi has two parts to it. There is the Powai lake, a drinking water lake. Mithi also has the backflow of the Arabian Sea. That is where Mithi is formed as a river in Mumbai. In the last few years, we have realised that the biggest problem was the deepening and widening of the river which is now being done very successfully in Kurla, Chandivali, airport area and near Powai. A couple of Sewage Treatment Plants are coming up where the sewage will directly enter two pipelines and not the river. We are also trying to resettle people from the slums into formal homes. Bioremediation is under way. A couple of projects are on with the United Nations Development Programme. We are also trying to rejuvenate the Dahisar, Poisar and Oshiwara rivers. Can they ever be blue? Possibly not. But yes, we are looking at cleaner water today, and wider and deeper navigation. Recently the NGT fined the BMC for polluting water bodies. How can you ensure that untreated water does not enter the rivers? Mumbai’s settlement over the years has increased. There are areas where we needed STPs and there was a delay because the classification of 30 biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) or 10 BOD went back to the Supreme Court and the NGT. Now we have gone into the tender process and as of today, Mumbai throws out almost 3,200 million litres of untreated water into the sea. We are looking at setting up six STPs and one is almost ready at Colaba. We will be treating almost 3,000 million litres per day and bringing it back to the city. This will be as clean as potable water. We are also looking at setting up more STPs in Tier-1 and Tier-2 cities. What steps are bring taken to preserve the natural mangroves? Only in the last 10 years, one has started realising its importance as we started losing them. In the last 11 months, we have protected 9,000 hectares of mangroves and last week, I was told it has increased to 11,000 hectares. Recently, we identified areas where there are mangroves. We are also revisiting and seeing if mangroves need exclusion from protection. We have mangroves along the coast of Mumbai so we are trying to bring in as much under the Forest Act to protect it. Why does Mumbai rank a low 37 in the Swachh Survekshan 2021? Navi Mumbai has done very well and is ranked 4. There are some features of the Swachh survey where we need to work harder. What we are doing with Majhi Vasundara (an initiative that works with all the five elements of nature) has a part of Swachh Bharat in it, which is segregation and composting of waste. In Mumbai, we had almost 10,000 metric tonnes of emissions in 2017. By working closely with the resident associations, we have brought it down to about 6,000 metric tonnes a day. A lot of work needs to be done. A small city like Sambhaji Nagar has 4,000 metric tonnes a day, these are the cities we really need to work on and get the residents, bulk generators, commercial establishments, restaurants and hotels to work together. You talk about decarbonising energy and transport. What is the course of action? Decarbonising energy and transport should be our priority as a country because they are the largest contributors to carbon footprints. Also they are low hanging fruits that the country and State can achieve in a short term goal. In terms of energy it is largely to do with Centre-State relations and how we move towards renewable energy and fossil fuel energy in the next few years. As far as transport is concerned, our electric vehicle policy is one of the most dynamic policies in the world. There are incentives to the purchasers and charging stations. We are looking at decarbonising our public sector so all new vehicles that are bought, including buses, will be electric. Mumbai has just got a 2,100 electric bus bid which will make 50% of our public transport electric by 2023. In the coming weeks, we are holding a conference with major bankers from India for Maharashtra. We keep talking about green financing at a macro level, but when it comes to moving towards a green transition, the banks need to look at micro finance and retail finance. This way we can support individuals rather than institutions. Mumbai is looking at setting up a carbon inventory. Why do we need it and what are the advantages of having one? When we want to move towards carbon neutrality, you need to know where the carbon emissions are from and what you can do to offset it. With 43 cities committed to the Race to Zero (a UN campaign for zero carbon recovery) from Maharashtra, we will have a carbon inventory and a greenhouse gas inventory for all the cities. We are looking at ways to offset carbon emissions, this would be either through having a carbon sync as urban forest or direct air capture, or decarbonising transport and clean constriction habits. What can you say is tangibly achieved by the 43 cities you just mentioned? Under Majhi Vasundara, not just in 43 cities, but all the other cities and nagar parishads, our officers have planted 2.1 million trees, cleaned 776 water bodies, installed solar pumps, changed lights to LED, moved towards electric vehicles and collated with all the five elements of nature. We are now looking at working with NGOs, corporates and individuals, because it all comes down to awareness and habits.  We have planted 2.1 million trees, cleaned 776 water bodies, installed solar pumps||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/we-are-trying-to-rejuvenate-mithi-dahisar-other-rivers-in-mumbai/article37860229.ece
06 December 2021||Mumbai,||Another Thackeray joins green bandwagon||While Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra’s Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray is busy promoting environment-friendly policies of the State, his cousin and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray’s son Amit too has jumped on the ‘green’ bandwagon. “This is a project that is close to my heart. Maharashtra has a coastline of 720 kilometres. When we talk about clean foreign beaches, a thought comes to my mind as to why can’t we have the same level of cleanliness here,” said Amit Thackeray. He said that it is time to come together for this cause without depending on the government. “On December 11, we will be cleaning more than 40 beaches on Maharashtra coastline. I appeal to all those who love Maharashtra’s coasts and live in the vicinity to join us to clean our beaches,” he said. Mr. Thackeray said that it was MNS’s environment wing that regularly cleaned up the Dadar beach to give it a new and clean face. The aspiring politician is presently making his way in to the party’s organisational structure by visiting party officials, interacting with office-bearers and workers and planning on new projects for the party. The campaign which he termed ‘to safeguard the environment,’ would also mark the party’s attempt to present him with an image different from his father’s, which is often ‘provocative and agitating’. The green initiative however has uncanny similarity with another project with which his cousin and Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray was closely associated in which the latter joined hands with environmentalist Afroz Shah to clean Versova beach in western suburbs of Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/another-thackeray-joins-green-bandwagon/article37860423.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Judicial infrastructure, a neglected case||Of a total of Rs. 981.98 crore sanctioned in 2019-20 under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) to the States and Union Territories for development of infrastructure in the courts, only Rs. 84.9 crore was utilised by a combined five States, rendering the remaining 91.36% funds unused. This underutilisation of funds is not an anomaly induced by the COVID-19 pandemic. The issue has been plaguing the Indian judiciary for nearly three decades when the CSS was introduced in 1993-94. This is one of the reasons why the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, recently proposed creation of a National Judicial Infrastructure Authority of India (NJIAI), which will take control of the budgeting and infrastructure development of subordinate courts in the country. “Good judicial infrastructure for courts in India has always been an afterthought. It is because of this mindset that courts in India still operate from dilapidated structures making it difficult to effectively perform their function,” Chief Justice Ramana said on October 23  while inaugurating an extension wing building of the Bombay High Court Bench at Aurangabad. State of infrastructure The Indian judiciary’s infrastructure has not kept pace with the sheer number of litigations instituted every year. A point cemented by the fact that the total sanctioned strength of judicial officers in the country is 24,280, but the number of court halls available is just 20,143, including 620 rented halls. Also, there are only 17,800 residential units, including 3,988 rented ones, for the judicial officers. As much as 26% of the court complexes do not have separate ladies toilets and 16% do not have gents toilets. Only 32% of the courtrooms have separate record rooms and only 51% of the court complexes have a library. Only 5% of the court complexes have basic medical facilities and, only 51% of the court complexes have a library. While the pandemic has forced most of the courts to adopt a hybrid system — physical and videoconferencing mode — of hearing, only 27% of the courtrooms have a computer placed on the judge’s dais with videoconferencing facility. Greater autonomy Chief Justice Ramana, in his speech at the event, highlighted that the improvement and maintenance of judicial infrastructure is still being carried out in an ad-hoc and unplanned manner. He stressed on the need for “financial autonomy of the judiciary” and creation of the NJIAI that will work as a central agency with a degree of autonomy. Explaining the requirement for a greater autonomy for the NJIAI, a source familiar with the development in the Supreme Court, said, “The lack of one particular coordinating agency means each year the funds get lapsed. It remains underutilised.” This claim is supported by the fact that in 2020-21, of the Rs. 594.36 crore released under the CSS, only Rs. 41.28 crore was utilised by a single State — Rajasthan. The data released by the Department of Justice further revealed that in 2018-19, of the Rs. 650 crore released by the Centre under the CSS, the utilisation certificate was submitted by 11 States for a total of Rs. 225 crore. The current fund-sharing pattern of the CSS stands at 60:40 (Centre:State) and 90:10 for the eight north-eastern and three Himalayan States. The Union Territories get 100% funding. “If the scheme (NJIAI) is placed under the Government, it will be much like the current scheme of thing. Nobody will bother. There has to be a special purpose vehicle driven by a sense of belongingness and passion, with a degree of authority. That authority has to come from the Supreme Court,” the source said. NALSA model The proposed NJIAI could work as a central agency with each State having its own State Judicial Infrastructure Authority, much like the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) model. It has also been suggested that the Chief Justice of India could be the patron-in-chief of the NJIAI, like in NALSA, and one of the Supreme Court judges nominated by the Chief Justice could be the executive chairman. But, unlike NALSA which is serviced by the Ministry of Law and Justice, the proposed NJIAI should be placed under the Supreme Court of India, the source said. “In the NJIAI there could be a few High Court judges as members, and some Central Government officials because the Centre must also know where the funds are being utilised,” the source said. Similarly, in the State Judicial Infrastructure Authority, he said, in addition to the Chief Justice of the respective High Court and a nominated judge, four to five district court judges and State Government officials could be members. “The Chief Justice is mindful of the fact that the High Courts are independent of the Supreme Court. The only time when the Supreme Court comes in the picture is the appointment of judges of the High Courts,” he said. Proposal sent to Govt. Chief Justice Ramana said that he had sent the proposal for the establishment of the NJIAI to the Ministry of Law and Justice, and was “hoping for a positive response soon”. He has also urged Minister of Law and Justice Kiren Rijiju to expedite the process and ensure that the proposal to create the NJIAI with statutory backing is taken up in the winter session of Parliament. “Institutionalising the mechanism for augmenting and creating state-of-the-art judicial infrastructure is the best gift that we can think of giving to our people and our country in this 75th year of our Independence,” Chief Justice Ramana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/judicial-infrastructure-a-neglected-case/article37860223.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Police arrest kingpin of ‘sextortion’ racket||The Delhi Police Crime Branch on Friday arrested the kingpin of a sextortion racket being operated out of Paschim Vihar. The main accused and his accomplices used to lure victims of several lakhs of money by indulging in sexual activities. According to Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime) Dheeraj Kumar, a case of extortion was lodged at the Paschim Vihar East police station, wherein the complainant alleged that Rs. 3 lakh had been extorted from him after being honey trapped. “He had paid Rs. 1.5 lakh in cash and another Rs. 1.5 lakh through bank account transfer to the accused persons,” Mr. Kumar said. During the probe, it was established that the accused persons had taken a flat on rent in Paschim Vihar to run the extortion racket. The police had identified the flat and the landlord was examined, the ACP said. Subsequently, the gang and its kingpin was identified as Neeraj of Bahadurgarh in Haryana. A trap was laid and Neeraj was arrested near Prashant Vihar in Rohini, the police said. During interrogation, Neeraj allegedly disclosed that he and his five other gang members, including two women, hatched a plan to honey trap victims and extort money from them. The gang allegedly committed sextortion of more than a dozen victims in the past one-and-a-half years and have extorted Rs. 5 to Rs. 10 lakh from each victim, based on his financial background, the police said. They used to create fake girl profiles on Facebook and send friend requests to their targets, following which they used to chat with their victims and later send obscene photos on their personal mobile numbers. After further enticing the victims with video calls with women, they used to invite them to a pre-decided place to indulge in sexual activities, during which the other members used to barge into the room posing as policemen and threaten the victim of consequences in exchange of money. The other members are currently on the run, the police said.  The gang allegedly committed sextortion of more than a dozen victims in the past one-and-a-half years and have extorted Rs. 5 to Rs. 10 lakh from each victim Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-arrest-kingpin-of-sextortion-racket/article37860207.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Ultimately, everyone’s health is going to be affected due to pollution’||Dr. Anant Mohan, head of Department of Pulmonology at AIIMS, Delhi, told The Hindu in an interview that they see a spike in patients every year when pollution levels are high and the future challenge for hospitals will be to deal with patients with both long-term complications and short-term problems. What are the health impacts of air pollution? It affects several organs. The respiratory tract is the most affected as it is in contact with the airway. In the upper respiratory tract, problems such as nose irritation, inflammation, infection of the sinuses, sore throats, shortness of breath, cough with phlegm occur — these are short-term effects. People, especially those with already diseased lungs, will notice more serious impact like chest infections. And the implications of this will be seen not just short-term, but also long-term. Even though you can’t see it right now, there are long-term impacts such as damage to lungs. Also, life expectancy is highly likely to be shortened by a few years due to air pollution. If children are exposed to this level of air pollution, their lungs would not grow to the normal level. All this will show the effect when they are adults. What changes do you observe in patients over the years? I have been working at AIIMS for more than 20 years and the number of cases of respiratory problems are definitely on the rise. The rate of asthma in children is rising, the rate of COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) in adults is rising, and the rate of lung cancer is also rising. All these are in some ways environment-related. Air pollution is definitely contributing to all these. What do you observe in your long-term patients when pollution spikes? Some of them, who were doing fine, suddenly come back to us saying that for the last one week their symptoms have worsened. The only reason could be environmental factors. These patients have been coming to us in the last 15 days. In the last two weeks, we have seen a 20-25% rise in cases as pollution increased and we see the same pattern almost every year. Do you see a spike in patients coming from other States also when pollution increases? To some extent, yes. But they might be coming in the next couple of weeks. But we see a spike in people from outside Delhi too. What would you suggest people do in terms of precautions? People should keep a close watch on the air quality and be outdoors on the good days and indoors on bad days. They should avoid morning and evening walks. They should go for a walk between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. Wear a mask when you step out. Usually, we don’t suggest people to wear masks indoors as practically it is very difficult. If it’s practical for you, then do it. Does staying indoors actually help? The indoor air is also polluted. But pollution is likely to be more outdoors. There will be dust and pollution from vehicles outside and that can be avoided to an extent if you don’t step out. But even people who are working from offices, they might not be out on the streets the whole day, but exposure to such polluted environment even for a short time is bad enough to cause problems. Do purifiers help? We don’t really suggest people to buy air purifiers as we don’t have that level of evidence right now to prove its benefits. But for people who have significant respiratory diseases and are likely to be indoors, we suggest they use air purifiers as an interim measure as it might help. There is no proven benefit, but due to lack of evidence we suggest it only to ones who need it the most. What precautions do you take at your house? I too have school-going children. At home, we keep the doors and windows closed and keep a close watch on the air quality index. Whenever we go out, we make it a point to wear masks. We also avoid going out at a time when the air quality is the worst. What challenges lie in the future? In the future, hospitals will be dealing with patients who develop long-term complications and also people with short-term problems and it will be more difficult to deal with that situation. A polluted environment is likely to compound problems in those with pre-existing lung diseases, both in the short-term and long-term. Is the situation getting better or is it getting worse? The situation seems to be getting worse, no doubt. It is a sorry situation. Year after year, the same situation [high pollution] is happening and ultimately it is going to really affect everyone’s health in a bad way. We have to tackle the situation on a war footing rather than taking small steps. We have to work together at every level from individual to the community to the legislation to get results. It is an emergency situation. We have run out of time to just talk about it. Time has come not just to do something, but to see what we have done in the past five years and analyse whether we did anything or not. Else, it is going to impact the children, specially, in a very bad way. It has already started to happen.  If children are exposed to this level of air pollution, their lungs would not grow to the normal level. All this will show the effect when they are adults||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ultimately-everyones-health-is-going-to-be-affected-due-to-pollution/article37860212.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Sex racket busted at spa, six arrested||The Delhi Police Crime Branch on Sunday said that its anti-human trafficking unit has arrested six people for allegedly running a sex racket out of a spa and massage centre in Malviya Nagar. According to DCP (Crime) Monica Bhardwaj, decoy customers were deployed at Spa, Ayurveda and Panchkarma Therapy Centre. After placing a demand seeking services of girls, the receptionist provided three girls to the decoy customers for paid sex and took Rs. 2,000 as commission. “After ascertaining the information on illegal activity in the spa and initial formalities, the police team swung into action and detained the accused,” the DCP said. Five months The spa had been functioning for five to six months and it used to provide girls for paid sex and charged Rs. 1,000 as commission for each girl. “Deals were finalised at the reception after initial verification,” the police said. Six people, including the owner, Mohit Tiwari, have been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sex-racket-busted-at-spa-six-arrested/article37860214.ece
06 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||AQI improves slightly but still ‘very poor’||The air quality in the Capital improved sightly but remained in the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category on Sunday. The AQI forecast shows that due to an increase in wind speed, the air quality is likely to improve further but will remain in the ‘poor’ category on December 6 and 7 and fall to ‘moderate’ category on December 8. The IMD has also forecast clear skies from December 6 with a fall in the minimum temperature by a few notches. In another development, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) that has constituted an enforcement taskforce to rigorously monitor enforcement and compliance of directions/orders issued by it, on Sunday, said that it had constituted 40 flying squads/ inspection teams for intensive field-level incognito checks at industrial units, construction and demolition sites commercial/residential units and air pollution hotspots. 140 sites inspected “Till Saturday, more than 140 sites were inspected by the flying squads and based on the reports furnished by them, serious violations by various units are being identified for strict actions, including closure. Suitable actions against other non-conforming units is also being initiated,” the CAQM said. It added that it is holding exhaustive review meetings daily with the 40 inspection teams/ flying squads continuously supervising and rigorously monitoring enforcement and compliance of statutory directions issued by the commission to improve the air quality of Delhi-NCR. The CAQM said it has also advised the respective implementing agencies, including the State Government authorities, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) to continue to ensure compliance and strict implementation of the directions and submit their daily action taken-report to the enforcement taskforce on a daily basis. The CAQM on Friday had ordered shutting of educational institutions, allowing only online mode of education. It had also directed that industrial operations and processes in NCR, not running on piped natural gas or other cleaner fuels, be allowed to operate only up to eight hours a day from Monday to Friday and shall not be allowed to run on weekends. It had also ordered that all industries in NCR, still using unapproved fuels, be closed by the respective Governments with immediate effect and a strict ban on use of diesel generators, except for emergency services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aqi-improves-slightly-but-still-very-poor/article37860206.ece
06 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. school students get chance to scale up their business ideas||From starting off with seed money of Rs. 2,000 to being grilled by investors on the feasibility of a business plan, students of Delhi Government schools under the Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum (EMC) have been given an opportunity to enhance their ideas. They can change a school project to something that creates employment within the community and gain practical experience to run a business. Under the Business Blasters programme of the Delhi Government that is broadcast on television and on other platforms every weekend, a select number of students are being given the opportunity to scale up their business ideas by not only seeking investment and mentorship from investors like Nitin Saluja, founder of Chaayos. Seema Bansal, partner and director of BCG India, Abhiraj Singh Bhal, co-founder and CEO of Urban Company and Sairee Chahal, founder, CEO of SHEROES, but also to anybody who likes their products. Invest in start-ups The Delhi Government has launched a dedicated website for people to purchase products made by the students as well as other investors to join in to mentor the students or invest in their start-up. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that the programme gives students the opportunity to become job providers instead of job seekers and learn the nuances of running a business from a young age. Mr. Sisodia has asked people to be a part of the change and help Government students become self-reliant individuals. On Sunday, Sukh Sagar, a science student from the School of Excellence, Khichripur, who learnt how to repair mobiles and headphones in his leisure at his friend’s mobile repairing shop, picked up funding or Rs. 50,000 and an internship at Chaayos as he and his team impressed Mr. Saluja with their start-up idea called Mobisite. “When the online classes started, many children in my class did not have access to mobile phones. So we decided to refurbish old mobile phones and sell them at a low price so that everyone could afford. Business Blasters did not just teach us pricing, time management and leadership skills but it has also given us a platform to be independent at such a young age and that’s something I am very happy about,” Sagar, a Class 12 student said. Another start-up ‘Home 2 Creations’ started by Sheeza Ali and Sakshi Jha that sells accessories like wall hangings, keychains, knit and loom bags and chocolates, raised an investment of Rs. 20,000 from Ms. Bansal and Mr. Saluja. A third start-up Ink Family that sells personalised printed cups, T-shirts and COVID masks with messages, jokes received additional seed capital of Rs. 80,000 and advanced orders worth Rs. 28,500 as well as internships. Yash Patwal from Ink Family said starting the business was a tough journey but have managed to effectively use social media to gradually increase orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-school-students-get-chance-to-scale-up-their-business-ideas/article37860202.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||DSLSA, Prisons Dept. hold special training programme for inmates||The Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) and the Prisons Department organised a special skills training programme for Rohini jail number 10 inmates and two of them got jobs after completing their course, officials said on Sunday. The ‘Vidhi Sahayk Programme’ ran for about two months and trained the first batch of about 50 inmates, they said. The programme was started in September and ended on November 12. Classes were held for the enrolled inmates, a senior jail official said, adding that certificates were distributed after the end of the course. Two inmates have got jobs in the offices of practising lawyers, the official said. Other participating inmates may also look for jobs after their release in which this course certification will help. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said, “It is a very good initiative by the DSLAS. The inmates will acquire skills and it will help them lead an honourable life after their release. It is another initiative out of many which are being taken with the help of the DSLSA in the Delhi prisons for reformation and rehabilitation of inmates.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dslsa-prisons-dept-hold-special-training-programme-for-inmates/article37860213.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Land pooling policy: DDA officials meet villagers||Delhi Development Authority (DDA) officials held a meeting with residents of Sultanpur Dabas village in outer Delhi on the land pooling policy on Sunday. To address the problem of housing, the DDA has prepared the land pooling policy with the aim to acquire land from owners living in rural areas of the national capital, according to an official statement. “Moving a step forward in this direction, the DDA’s Land Pooling Department held a meeting with the residents of Sultanpur Dabas village. The DDA officials told the villagers that they can submit their documents with the DDA till December 24 to become part of the land pooling exercise,” the statement said. According to Home Multi State Cooperative Housing Society Ltd. chairman Satish Kumar Aggarwal, DDA officials addressed the problems and issues of the villagers. DDA officials informed the villagers and members of various cooperative societies present at the meeting that in Sector 18, pooling of 73% land has already been done after villagers submitted their land documents. Soon the DDA will begin the work of making a consortium for the land, Mr. Aggarwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/land-pooling-policy-dda-officials-meet-villagers/article37860215.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Capital reports 63 COVID-19 cases; positivity rate goes up||The Capital recorded 63 new COVID-19 cases and zero deaths on Sunday. The heath bulletin released by the Delhi Government said that 55,711 tests had been conducted with a positivity rate of 0.11%, which was an increase from the 0.08% positivity recorded a day earlier. The number of active cases in the city stands at 370, of whom 144 are in home isolation. The overall infection tally in the Capital rose to 14,41,358, while the death toll was 25,098. Under the vaccination drive, 1,65,236 beneficiaries were vaccinated, of whom 62,567 got their first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-reports-63-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-goes-up/article37860217.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Anti-smog guns at metro project sites||The Delhi Metro on Sunday said it has pressed into service 14 anti-smog guns as part of the various measures adopted to combat pollution at it’s construction sites. The guns throw mist from time to time to keep a check on the dust pollution in the area. Currently, as part of its Phase-IV expansion as well as some other construction projects, 12 civil contracts are operational across the city. “These state-of-the-art anti-smog guns are capable of spraying fine mist up to 70 to 100 metres. One gun is considered adequate for covering an area up to 20,000 square metre,” a DMRC official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/anti-smog-guns-at-metro-project-sites/article37860208.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Tihar prison cracks down on phone use||The Tihar jail administration, in a bid to prevent inmates from using phones inside the jail, has installed as many as 7,000 CCTV cameras, bought two body X-ray scanners and transferred 120 inmates to different wards. It has also installed three mobile network jammers and procured walkie-talkie sets for jail staff, Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said. We have identified 120 potential mobile phone users among inmates and have transferred them to other wards in order to prevent any mischief. Jail staffers are also being transferred regularly, he said. The move comes after Tihar prison came under spotlight for a spree of incidents of inmate violence and extortion rackets being run out of the jail. The Supreme Court had called for an ‘urgent need for prison reforms’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tihar-prison-cracks-down-on-phone-use/article37860209.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC grants bail to 20-year-old in riots case||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to a 20-year-old student who was in custody since April, 2020 in the north-east Delhi riots case, saying the possibility of him tampering with evidence after release was remote. According to the complaint, the accused, a resident of Gokalpuri, was one of three people who was part of a mob that allegedly set a house on fire and looted goods. The prosecution opposed his bail on the ground that the petitioner is accused of rioting and if enlarged on bail, there is possibility of him tampering with evidence and threatening the witnesses. Justice Subramonium Prasad said that the chargesheet in the case stood filed and proceeded to direct the release of the petitioner on a personal bond of Rs. 20,000 with one surety in the like amount.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-grants-bail-to-20-year-old-in-riots-case/article37860210.ece
06 December 2021||New Delhi,||Over 1 lakh fines issued for violating pollution norms||As part of its crackdown on those violating anti-pollution norms, the Delhi Traffic Police issued 1,08,004 challans in the last two months for related offences as the city continues to battle high air pollution levels, officials said on Sunday. The crackdown was undertaken to execute the Delhi Government’s winter action plan against rising air pollution. According to the data shared by the Delhi Traffic Police, at least 32,343 of the total challans in the last two months from October 1 to November 30 were issued to owners of vehicles found without valid pollution under control (PUC) certificates. A total of 1,866 challans were issued and 1,104 old vehicles impounded for those found running beyond the permitted 10 years (for diesel vehicles) and 15 years (for petrol-run vehicles). Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) A.K. Singh said strict action will be taken against those not having PUCC and also those still plying old-age petrol and diesel vehicles beyond the specified number of years. “In the last two months alone, we have checked 44,853 goods vehicles at all the border entry points,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-1-lakh-fines-issued-for-violating-pollution-norms/article37860203.ece
06 December 2021||Shajapur,||Missing boys found dead||The bodies of three minor boys were found floating in a water-filled quarry in Madhya Pradesh's Shajapur district on Sunday, a day after they went missing, police said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/missing-boys-found-dead/article37860420.ece
06 December 2021||Srinagar,||J&K withdraws Class 7 textbook over sketch||The J&K administration on Sunday withdrew a Class 7 textbook from schools and sought an First Information Report (FIR) against the publisher for drawing a sketch of prophet Muhammad, which is considered blasphemous by Muslims. “Jay Cee Publications Limited, New Delhi, has published a Social Studies book for Class 7 wherein content of a sensitive nature has reportedly been published and is in circulation. The book is stocked and distributed by Paradise Book Shop, Parraypora, Srinagar. It’s requested to take stern action against the publishing house and the distributor as per law,” Additional District Magistrate, Srinagar, Dr. Syed Haneef Balkhi, said in an order. The move to lodge an FIR came hours after the J&K Board of School Education directed all schools in the Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh to not use the “contentious Class 7 ‘History and Civics’ textbook over the depiction of Muhammad”. Officials said the publication house has tendered an apology. It reads: “Due to lack of knowledge about prohibition of picturisation in Islam, we made an unintentional mistake in our book. We apologise and highly regret for the inconvenience.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jk-withdraws-class-7-textbook-over-sketch/article37860226.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Flying high||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/flying-high/article37860221.ece
06 December 2021||Washington,||U.S. slams ‘summary killings’ of ex-security forces by Taliban||The United States on Saturday led a group of Western nations and allies in condemnation of the Taliban over the “summary killings” of former members of the Afghan security forces reported by rights groups, demanding quick investigations. “We are deeply concerned by reports of summary killings and enforced disappearances of former members of the Afghan security forces as documented by Human Rights Watch and others,” read a statement by the United States, the European Union, Australia, Britain, Japan and others, which was released by the State Department. “We underline that the alleged actions constitute serious human rights abuses and contradict the Taliban’s announced amnesty,” the group of nations said, as it called on Afghanistan’s new rulers to ensure the amnesty is enforced and “upheld across the country and throughout their ranks.” Early this week Human Rights Watch (HRW) released a report that it says documents the summary execution or enforced disappearance of 47 former members of the Afghan National Security Forces, other military personnel, police and intelligence agents “who had surrendered to or were apprehended by Taliban forces” from mid-August through October. Setting a deterrent “Reported cases must be investigated promptly and in a transparent manner, those responsible must be held accountable, and these steps must be clearly publicised as an immediate deterrent to further killings and disappearances,” the countries — which include Canada, New Zealand, Romania, Ukraine and several European nations — said in their statement. “We will continue to measure the Taliban by their actions,” it added. The Taliban took power in Afghanistan in August as the U.S.-backed government in Kabul and the country’s military collapsed. Their return to master the country came some 20 years after they were driven out by U.S. forces who ended a fundamentalist rule. Today’s Taliban leaders, keen to gain international respectability, have pledged their regime will be different. But the new government has continued to carry out violent punishments, and the United Nations has expressed concern about “credible allegations” that the Taliban has carried out reprisal killings since their victory, despite the promises of amnesty for the fallen government’s troops. Screening for ties In its report, HRW said Taliban leaders have directed surrendering security forces to register with authorities in order to be screened for ties to certain military or special forces units, and to receive a letter guaranteeing their safety. “However, the Taliban have used these screenings to detain and summarily execute or forcibly disappear individuals within days of their registration, leaving their bodies for their relatives or communities to find,” HRW said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-slams-summary-killings-of-ex-security-forces-by-taliban/article37859822.ece
06 December 2021||Lumajang,||Indonesia volcano eruption kills 14, damages 11 villages||Rescuers in Indonesia raced to find survivors in villages blanketed by molten ash on Sunday after the eruption of Mount Semeru killed at least 14 persons and left dozens injured. The eruption of the biggest mountain on the island of Java caught locals by surprise on Saturday, sending thousands fleeing and forcing hundreds of families into makeshift shelters. At least 11 villages of Lumajang district in East Java were coated in volcanic ash, submerging houses and vehicles, smothering livestock and leaving at least 1,300 evacuees seeking shelter in mosques, schools and village halls. “We did not know it was hot mud,” said Bunadi, a resident of Kampung Renteng, a village of about 3,000 people. “All of a sudden, the sky turned dark as rains and hot smoke came.” Dramatic footage showed Semeru pumping a mushroom of ash into the sky that loomed over screaming residents of a nearby village as they fled their localities. At least 56 people, including two pregnant women, were injured in the eruption, health officials said, and most suffered serious burns. President Joko Widodo on Sunday ordered a rapid emergency response to find victims after the scale of the disaster became clear, said state secretary Pratikno. The country’s geological agency said rain is expected in the next three days that could further hinder rescue work. There is also a risk of the rain causing ash sediment to form a new river of hot lava, the country’s top volcanologist Surono told the TV station. Many people who sustained burns had mistaken the hot mud flow for floods so stayed in their villages, said Lumajang Public Order Agency spokesman Adi Hendro. “They did not have time to run away,” he said. Lava mixed with debris and heavy rain destroyed at least one bridge in Lumajang, preventing rescuers from accessing the area. Ash spewed by the volcano travelled up to four kilometres away, Indonesia’s geological agency reported, reaching as far as the Indian Ocean in the southern part of Java.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/indonesia-volcano-eruption-kills-14-damages-11-villages/article37859817.ece
06 December 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar junta chief meets Suu Kyi party stalwart||Myanmar’s junta chief sat down with a prominent senior figure of Aung San Suu Kyi’s ousted party on Sunday, the first significant meeting since the February coup. The military deposed Ms. Suu Kyi and her National League for Democracy party from power, pushing many of her closest political allies into hiding while others have been arrested. The junta has alleged electoral fraud in last year’s poll as a justification for the putsch, but much of the country is in open revolt calling for a return to democracy. Help extended Junta chief Min Aung Hlaing on Sunday met with longtime politician and NLD stalwart Tin Oo, who has in recent years receded from the political landscape due to old age and poor health. “Min Aung Hlaing told U Tin Oo that health treatment could be provided if necessary, and his army hospital will help,” the junta’s information team announced. The junta chief also met with Khin Nyunt, former spy chief-turned-Prime Minister before he was arrested under the former junta. “Min Aung Hlaing also went to meet U Khin Nyunt... and asked about his health condition.” While some in the West saw him as a potential reformer, Khin Nyunt’s reign as spy chief saw activists harassed, arrested and tortured en masse. Khin Nyunt’s intelligence apparatus — which once infiltrated every neighbourhood across Myanmar — was purged after his ouster, while Tin Oo no longer plays an active role in NLD party affairs, said Richard Horsey, International Crisis Group’s Myanmar senior advisor. “It seems unlikely this meeting was sanctioned by the NLD,” Mr. Horsey said. “Given that Min Aung Hlaing seems determined to sideline Aung San Suu Kyi and won’t meet with her, perhaps he’s looking for other meetings that will be politically cost-free.” A former NLD MP — who is now part of a group of ousted lawmakers working underground to undermine the junta — criticised the meeting Sunday. Doubting intentions “The intention of this meeting is dishonest. Min Aung Hlaing wants to take political advantage out of this meeting,” said Htun Myint, who is currently on the run. Sunday’s meeting came on the eve of a junta court verdict on Ms. Suu Kyi’s charges of incitement and breaching coronavirus restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-junta-chief-meets-suu-kyi-party-stalwart/article37859820.ece
06 December 2021||Moscow,||U.S. spy plane nearly caused mid-air ‘catastrophe’: Moscow||Moscow has said that a U.S. plane threatened civilian aircraft but “catastrophe” was avoided when a Russian passenger plane dived to avoid the NATO reconnaissance aircraft that crossed its path above the Black Sea. On Friday morning, a NATO CL600 reconnaissance aircraft descended rapidly across the planned route for a Tel Aviv to Moscow Aeroflot service with 142 people on board, Russia’s Federal Air Transport Agency said in a statement. The Aeroflot flight reportedly had to drop 500 metres (1,600 feet) to keep its distance from the reconnaissance aircraft, which the pilots saw from the cockpit with the naked eye. A second plane, a smaller CL650 aircraft, flying from the Black Sea resort Sochi to Skopje, also had to divert to avoid the spy plane, the Russian air transport authority said on Saturday. “The direction and altitude of the commercial flights were immediately altered” to avoid a collision, the agency said, adding that the unknown plane did not respond to radio hails from air traffic control. While the Federal Air Transport Agency did not say which nation had operated the spy plane, Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova indicated on Sunday that the reconnaissance aircraft belonged to the United States. “The actions of the US Air Force have created a threat to civil aviation,” Ms. Zakharova said. “If now a catastrophe in the airspace over the open waters of the Black Sea has been averted, this does not mean that the United States and NATO can continue to risk people’s lives with impunity.” The Federal Air Transport Agency said it would lodge a diplomatic protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-spy-plane-nearly-caused-mid-air-catastrophe-moscow/article37859818.ece
06 December 2021||Washington,||Chris Cuomo fired for aiding Governor brother||CNN fired veteran anchor and correspondent Chris Cuomo, the cable news channel said on Saturday, amid an investigation into his involvement with helping defend brother Andrew Cuomo, the former New York Governor, against sexual misconduct allegations. Chris Cuomo had been suspended from CNN over the matter just days before his termination. “We retained a respected law firm to conduct the review, and have terminated him, effective immediately,” a statement posted to CNN’s official communications Twitter account said. “While in the process of that review, additional information has come to light.” The termination comes after documents surfaced showing that Mr. Cuomo, who anchored the 9:00 p.m. news slot, offered advice to his politician brother that was deemed too close for comfort by his employer. “The documents, which we were not privy to before their public release, raise serious questions,” a CNN spokesperson said on Tuesday, adding they “point to a greater level of involvement in his brother’s efforts than we previously knew.” “This is not how I want my time at CNN to end but I have already told you why and how I helped my brother,” Mr. Cuomo, 51, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chris-cuomo-fired-for-aiding-governor-brother/article37859816.ece
06 December 2021||Tel Aviv,||Israeli police questioned after attacker shot dead||Israel’s Justice Ministry said on Sunday that two police officers were brought in for questioning following the shooting death of a Palestinian who had stabbed an Israeli man in east Jerusalem. Israeli police released surveillance video in which the attacker can be seen on Saturday stabbing the ultra-Orthodox Jewish man and then trying to stab a Border Police officer before being shot and falling to the ground. Police identified the attacker as a 25-year-old from Salfit, in the occupied West Bank. A widely circulated video shot by a bystander appeared to show an officer from Israel’s paramilitary Border Police shooting the attacker when he was lying on the ground, and another appeared to show police with guns drawn preventing medics from reaching him. The shooting drew comparisons to a 2016 incident in which an Israeli soldier was caught on camera shooting a wounded Palestinian attacker who was lying on the ground. The Justice Ministry’s police investigations unit said the police officers were questioned shortly after the incident and released without conditions. Bennett’s support Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett reiterated his support for the officers’ actions at a meeting of his Cabinet on Sunday. “The officers acted outstandingly, exactly as is required from fighters in an operational situation like this,” he said. “They deserve all of our support and appreciation for preventing murder and acting with operational quick-wittedness within fractions of a second.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-police-questioned-on-attackers-shooting/article37859823.ece
06 December 2021||Gao,||Two blasts hit UN camps in northern Mali||Two explosions hit UN camps in the northern Mali city of Gao on Sunday, causing damage but no casualties. The blasts which occurred at 0545 GMT shook the barracks of the United Nations mission in Mali, called MINUSMA, forcing the occupants to take refuge in shelters for two hours. The French army said there was only material damage. The latest violence comes after 31 people were killed in an attack on Friday by suspected jihadists near the central town of Bandiagara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/two-blasts-hit-un-camps-in-northern-mali/article37859824.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The Omicron response is not making sense||We noticed that towards the end of November 2021, when a new SARS-CoV-2 variant, B.1.1.529, was designated as a variant of concern (VOC) and named Omicron, by the World Health Organization, the response of many countries had an uncanny similarity to the initial pandemic response around February-March 2020. The flights to the countries which had reported the new variant were unilaterally halted. A few countries jumped into action to either expand or start COVID-19 booster dose vaccination for their population. The virus was often referred to as the South African and Botswana variant. An irrational retreat It appeared as if the world had barely learnt anything, while the reality is that the world of December 2021 is very different from that of March 2020. Back then, SARS-CoV-2 was a new virus and everything was unknown. In contrast, Omicron is just another variant of a virus we have known for nearly two years. Back then, nearly everyone was susceptible and now, with natural infection and/or vaccination, the pool of susceptible population has come down. Currently, a little more than half of the world’s population has received at least one shot. Also, there is reasonable testing and genome sequencing capacity, including the availability of some new drugs with greater evidence of effectiveness, which are widely used. All of this should have brought some nuance and granularity in the response. The scientific developments should have assured all that the response ought to be calmer, composed and evidence-informed. However, that seems to be missing, mostly if not always and all throughout. It is not making enough sense. The South Africans, instead of being applauded for the work of their medical doctors, researchers and scientists in the identification and the reporting of the new variant in real time, have ended up as a nation that has been punished with a travel ban, which had even threatened essential COVID-19 lab supplies. Contrast this with the Netherlands, which had detected Omicron earlier than South Africa and did not report it. Excessive reaction and why It is true that Omicron has many mutations and some of those in the spike protein may have an impact on transmissibility, immune escape and sub-optimal response to the treatments. Clearly, this is enough to designate it as VOC, as it was. However, the response which followed should have been measured, evidence-based, derived from the experience earned in previous months and commensurate with the knowledge and understanding. However, it definitely has been excessive, in most cases if not all. The problem is not solely with governments. A few researchers and scientists, bereft of the ground reality in South Africa and often not in touch with anyone at ground zero, must also take some of the blame for the superlatives and hyperbole, which have been used to describe the variant. It will not be an exaggeration to say that some of the so-called ‘experts’ on social media and prime time television behave on what can be called the ‘borderline of public health malpractice’; with most of their information from sources on the Internet, yet always speaking as if they have the definitive and final words; and as if that is the only true science — which might be an unfortunate reality of the social media era. Then, there are the television debates where invited guests — often the influential voices though not necessarily experts on the subject — conveniently take a position which echoes popular sentiment, and where the sense of rationality is drowned out. The impact of such misinformation is widely known to the people of India, where unsubstantiated claims that ‘children would be affected in the third wave of COVID-19’ could not be dispelled for long, and continue to affect learning of children where parents are still wary of sending children for in-person schooling. From the ground Both countries from where we writers belong, have responded to the emergence of Omicron largely with balanced, evidence-informed and measured responses, with occasional exceptions such as a demand from a few Chief Ministers in Indian States to ban all international flights. The last part raises serious doubts about their advisers on the COVID-19 pandemic as well as how there is a continuous need for science, and not merely political wisdom, to guide the pandemic response. With the emergence of new variants, the next natural step has to be that countries should become more alert about the need for tackling vaccine inequities; in reality, a few high income countries have rather started looking inwards and focusing on administering boosters. Another reality is that many ‘experts’ seem to have taken a rigid stand on how the new variant is more transmissible, has immune escape, and has a high probability of re-infections. Thereafter, as an example, even when the ground report from South Africa indicates that most cases are mild, some experts seem to be unwilling to budge from their position. Similarly, the point that a majority of cases were detected in the travelling vaccinated individual is being argued as evidence of immune escape or re-infections, while missing the point of confounding or the ascertain bias, as international travellers are required to be mandatorily vaccinated and tested. Therefore, it is not enough to argue that these cases are being reported more commonly amongst the vaccinated individuals, thus having higher vaccine breakthrough infections than the previous variants. Most importantly, the role of current COVID-19 vaccines in preventing infections is limited. Therefore, as the global pool of vaccinated individuals is increasing, the absolute number of infections in this subgroup is likely to rise proportionately, especially when the practice of mask wearing is anything but universal and is going down. The ‘experts’ The world seems to be divided into two groups of ‘experts’. One which is in a feverish rush and in competition to arrive at a certain conclusion before anyone else. Here there is a sub-tribe which argues that even though it may take many weeks or months before anything can be conclusively known, ‘let us assume that everything is worse with the variant’. This is not the right approach. However, this gets the first group more public attention than the second group which is talking about rationality and evidence-guided response. The approach of this group (the second group) is to look at the entire set of cumulative evidence and not the isolated one which best suits the argument one wishes to make. One needs to remember that the impact of the Omicron variant, no matter what new characteristics it has, will be dependent upon the context and the settings. A highly transmissible variant in a well-vaccinated population is unlikely to change scenarios, while it might pose a real threat to populations with low vaccination uptake. An immune escape alone may have limited relevance if not accompanied by high transmission and severity. Re-infection or breakthrough infections are common with all vaccines and all variants. Therefore, the solution is not a booster dose (which in the case of most vaccines is not helpful in reducing the transmission); the approach must be to increase coverage with the first two shots of vaccines and focus on improving adherence to COVID-19 appropriate behaviours. Lost voices However, political leaders may resort to doing the easiest thing which echoes the sentiments of the people. The flight restrictions and the booster shots are reflections of that challenge. It is here where the voice of technical advisers, independent experts providing data on COVID-19 and the epidemiologists who are trained to make inferences based on limited information should be heard more frequently. The rich countries have mostly disappointed the rest of the world in terms of global solidarity in the pandemic response, which includes vaccine inequity. There seems to be no end in sight to this tragic tale. Now, the onus is on countries such as India, South Africa and many others in the global south to show leadership, and let rationality and science determine the course of the pandemic response. Along with this, it is time for a dynamic pandemic response and not that of a worst case scenario. All of this is very much doable. Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya is a physician with advanced training in epidemiology and public health, based in New Delhi, India. Dr. Angelique Coetzee is a physician in general practice and the Chair of the South African Medical Association, based in Pretoria, South Africa||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-omicron-response-is-not-making-sense/article37859802.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The remarkable progress of Emirati women||In the national capital’s diplomatic enclave of Chanakyapuri, a stiff competition has been under way not only to be politically most correct, but also to be ‘cool.’ In the golden jubilee year of its founding, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has done exceptionally well among the diplomatic missions in New Delhi in this notional contest. On the occasion of this 50th anniversary, the UAE Ambassador to India, Dr. Ahmed Al Banna, revealed last week that 50% of his embassy staff is now women. Not just that. Women comprise 30% of UAE ambassadors worldwide. Thirty per cent of members of the country’s Federal National Council, its part-elected, part-nominated Parliament, are women. And 30% of the UAE Cabinet too is women. Driving force On January 1, 2022, when the UAE begins its two-year, elected term as a member of the United Nations Security Council, its seat will be taken by a woman Permanent Representative, Lana Nusseibeh. The Managing Director of Expo 2020 Dubai, the biggest business and entertainment event in the world since the disruptions caused by the coronavirus pandemic, is Reem Al Hashimy, the country’s woman Minister of State for International Cooperation. In Scandinavia, no one would take a second look at such facts or figures. They would be taken for granted. But the UAE is a young country, it is also an Islamic country, which turned out its first woman graduate only four decades ago. A remarkable aspect of such advancement by women in the Trucial States, which were clusters of nomadic Bedouin hamlets when they coalesced into a state in 1971, is that the driving force behind putting qualified Emirati women in positions of responsibility is an elderly Sheikha who had no formal education in the modern sense. Sheikha Fatima bint Mubarak is known as “Mother of the Nation.” As India’s relations with the UAE were catapulted into one of its most important foreign policy priorities in the last five years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, impressed by women’s advancement in the UAE, invited Sheikha Fatima for a state visit although she holds no official government post in the conventional sense. Unfortunately, the pandemic interfered with those plans. In Chanakyapuri, diplomatic missions have been doing a lot for gender equality. Canada recently put an Indian girl in its High Commissioner’s shoes for a day. Other embassies or high commissions have been funding programmes or offering training for women and girls on occasions like the International Day of the Girl Child. But there are only a few missions like the UAE, which can boast that half their staff is women. Turning point A visit by Pope Francis in 2019 was a turning point for the UAE. It was the first ever visit by any Pope to the Arabian peninsula. About a million Catholics live and work in the UAE. Next in number to Filipino expatriates, Indians account for the bulk of them. In Abu Dhabi, Pope Francis met Sheikh Ahmed Al Tayeb, the Grand Imam of Cairo’s Al Azhar Mosque, the fountainhead of theological learning for Sunni Muslims. Together, they signed “A Document on Human Fraternity for World Peace and Living Together.” The document inspired the construction of an Abrahamic Family House, which will have a Muslim mosque, a Jewish synagogue and a Christian church within a single complex on Abu Dhabi’s Saadiyat Island. The House is due to welcome worshippers of all three faiths next year. There will be no temple in the complex because Hinduism is not an Abrahamic religion, native to West Asia. Elsewhere in Abu Dhabi, though, the foundation stone of a Hindu temple was laid in Mr. Modi’s presence during his visit to the UAE in 2018. There were murmurs of reservation in the run-up to that ceremony about the publicity, official patronage and the high profile accorded to the construction of a non-Abrahamic place of worship in the federal capital. The Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, who is the driving force behind resurgent relations with India, is said to have countered those reservations with the rationale that allowing a Hindu temple strengthened the UAE’s claim that it is the most tolerant nation in the entire Arabian peninsula. Soon thereafter, the country’s leadership declared that 2019 would be observed as the “Year of Tolerance” with the aim of making the UAE the “the global capital for tolerance, co-existence and cooperation.” It has become de rigueur nowadays to recall that India’s links with the Trucial States go back more than 4,000 years. Between extolling the distant past and praising the new strides in India-UAE relations, precious nuggets in high-level engagements, which serve as milestones in preserving the very special bond between the two peoples are apt to be forgotten. Gift of langra mangoes For instance, India’s “mango diplomacy,” which hits headlines periodically, owes its beginning to a visit to New Delhi by the UAE’s founding father, Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, in 1975. At the state banquet hosted by then President Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed, the dessert was made up of varieties of mangoes. The UAE’s first President became openly curious about one item in the cluster of mangoes. He was told by the Rashtrapati Bhavan chef that it was the langra strain of the fruit. Sheikh Zayed asked for a second helping. Prime Minister Indira Gandhi did not miss this. Six years later, on her visit to Abu Dhabi, she took several cartons of langra mangoes as a gift to Sheikh Zayed. When A.P.J. Abdul Kalam became the President of India in 2002, he travelled to the UAE on his first foreign visit. In a speech at the Abu Dhabi Men’s College, he spoke about tele-education, which later became his favourite initiative. The response to that speech helped concretise what has become one of Africa’s most successful humanitarian missions: the Pan African E-Network which has saved lives and spread vocational instruction. It is an Indian mission which deserves the Nobel Peace Prize someday. As the UAE celebrates its golden jubilee, India’s relations with this Gulf state now encompass virtually every sphere. K.P. Nayar is a journalist, who has written about the United Arab Emirates since 1978, when he and seven others launched Dubai’s first newspaper, the Khaleej Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-remarkable-progress-of-emirati-women/article37859807.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Cooperation awaits its ‘finding Raiffeisen’ moment||‘Cooperation has failed, but cooperation must succeed,’ wrote the All India Rural Credit Survey Committee in 1954. These were the words of Venkatappiah, first Executive Director of Reserve Bank of India and member of the Committee. He later became Deputy Governor, and Chairman of State Bank of India, before chairing the Agricultural Credit Review Committee in 1969. This verdict came five decades after the first cooperative legislation of 1904. The Governor of the Madras Presidency, Lord Wenlock, was the first to seriously attempt replicating European cooperatives in India. Madras was ideal for this experimentation as it had similar institutions in its Nidhis. Nicholson, appointed by Wenlock in 1892 to report on the possibility of their implementation, summed up his 1895 report in two words: ‘Find Raiffeisen’. Pioneers in Europe Nicholson was referring to Friedrich Raiffeisen, who along with compatriot Schulze-Delitzsch in Germany, and Luzzatti of Italy, pioneered cooperatives in Europe. Raiffeisen based them on the principles of self-help, self-governance, and self-responsibility. Known for their trustworthiness and resilience against financial crises, most were known as Raiffeisenbanks, spreading to other parts of Europe and America. Rabobank, the Dutch cooperative whose first two letters come from Raiffeisen, was the last triple A-rated bank. Nicholson wrote that the ‘future of rural credit lies with those who being of the people, live among the people, and yet by their intelligence, prescience and energy, are above the people’. He used Raiffeisen ‘not as indicative of a particular person or system, but of the zeal, energy, patience and continuous devotion so thoroughly exemplified in that great reformer, and of the spirit of co-operation, thrift, self and mutual help so thoroughly developed in the above and similar systems...’ The story in India Gilbert Slater, after joining Madras University in 1915 as its first Professor of Economics, went looking for the Raiffeisen that Nicholson’s province had. At the office of the Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RCS), he found the clerks sleeping, turbans placed next to inkpots, and no clue about the whereabouts of their boss, whose expertise was in the Tamil almanac. Better days came with his successor, F.R. Hemingway, ICS, who brought in Dr. John Matthai as Officer on Special Duty. The first Indian with a doctorate in Economics from the London School of Economics, Matthai worked for a year in Ireland with Sir Horace Plunkett, an expert in cooperation. He later became Slater’s colleague, and India’s Finance Minister. Sir Denzil Ibbetson, moving the Cooperative Societies Bill on October 23, 1903, had said that the Bill sought to create ‘small and simple credit societies for small and simple folk with simple needs and requiring small sums only’. He added that ‘co-operation must be built up from the bottom, and not from the top’. Plunkett, in his foreword to Eleanor Hough’s The Cooperative Movement in India (1932), commented that what India had was not a movement, but a policy. It was ‘created by ‘resolutions of the Central Government’ unlike Europe. Matthai wrote in 1925 that the challenge was to loosen government grip on cooperation over the years. But, government control has only increased, violating a core cooperative principle of political neutrality. This reflects a collective failure of the political class. After Independence, cooperative institutions became an instrument of planning and state action. Not surprisingly, the most successful Indian cooperatives such as the Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd (GCMMF)/Amul, where Matthai’s nephew, Verghese Kurien, became a Raiffeisen, Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) and Krishak Bharati Cooperative Limited (KRIBHCO), are outside government control. Globally, seven of the top 10 cooperatives by asset size are from the financial sector. The Indian financial sector is nowhere in the picture going by asset size. A few make it in the top 300 by turnover/GDP per capita, aided by a low denominator. When a cooperative bank scales up, maintaining its cooperativeness is a challenge. Cooperatives have also become avenues for regulatory arbitrage, circumventing lending and anti-money laundering regulations. The committees which examined cooperative banking suffered from the top-down quality that Plunkett and others frowned upon. Recent initiatives such as an umbrella organisation for urban cooperatives and a new Ministry of Cooperation at the Centre threaten to further this approach in the absence of safeguards. A check on RCS First, the powers of the RCS need to be scaled back. A British Indian innovation, it failed to stick to its original role of a facilitator: a friend, philosopher, and guide to cooperative societies. In almost all States, the RCS has become an instrument of inspection and domination, one which imposes uniform by-laws, and amends them when individual societies do not fall in line. Early pieces of legislation gave wide powers to the RCS as the laws were in an experimental stage. Moreover, the laws were simple and elastic so that they could cater to a region extending from present-day Pakistan to Myanmar. The RCS was empowered to grant exemptions considering local conditions. But, the position continued even after the Montagu-Chelmsford Reforms placed cooperation under the provinces in 1919. The RCS continued to hold sway after Independence. Some States even provide for across-the-board takeover of cooperative boards. There is a need to transfer work from the RCS to cooperative federations — as in Singapore. Second, the rural-urban dichotomy in the regulatory treatment of cooperatives is specious and outdated. It perpetuates age-old divisions based on the nature of operations and population size. Such differences are immaterial when regulation is to be based on the cooperative nature of organisations. Third, the regulation and the supervision of cooperative banks should move to a new body from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for urban banks and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) for rural banks. The arguments for combining supervisory powers with the RBI do not hold good for cooperative institutions. Moreover, it will ensure a fresh look at the regulation of these institutions to which stringent regulations like that of the Basel Committee are not designed to apply. As for NABARD, the burden of inspecting rural cooperatives (and regional rural banks) is a distraction from its core mandate, apart from being a drain on resources. The Netherlands experience Fourth, lessons from the Netherlands, where cooperative banks owe their success to a segmented market, are pertinent. In India, adopting a multi-agency approach, especially after bank nationalisation, has affected the efficiency of both commercial and cooperative banks. Commercial bank-cooperative sector linkages at various levels could alternatively provide better synergies. Venkatappaiah’s words still ring true. So do the words of Nicholson, nearly 13 decades after his report: “Find Raiffeisen.” G. Sreekumar is a former central banker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cooperation-awaits-its-finding-raiffeisen-moment/article37859804.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The need to reopen anganwadis||Being closed since the April 2020-lockdown, anganwadis are slowly reopening. Those in Karnataka, Bihar and Tamil Nadu are opening or considering opening shortly. As part of the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), anganwadis play a crucial role in supporting households, particularly from low-income families, by providing childcare, health and nutrition, education, supplementary nutrition, immunisation, health check-up and referral services. The largest in the world, ICDS covers about 88 million children aged 0-6 years in India. Their closure significantly impacted service delivery and weakened an important social safety net. Source of crucial support Surveys by IDinsight across five States in November 2018 and November 2019 found that anganwadi workers were a primary source of nutrition information for families. Even as anganwadis resumed services, the closure has impacted their ability to serve as childcare centres. According to National Family Health Service (NFHS)-5 data, in 2019-20, less than 15% of five-year-olds attended any pre-primary school at all. A recent study estimates that the time women spend on unpaid work may have increased by 30% during the pandemic. In our COVID-19 rural household surveys across eight States, 58% of women cited home-schooling as the biggest contributor to increase in unpaid work. Sending younger children to anganwadis will free up women’s time, including for economic activities. Early childhood, the period from birth to five years of age, is a crucial developmental window. As platforms for early childhood education and nutrition support, anganwadis can play an important role for children to achieve their potential. The National Education Policy, 2020, places anganwadis at the centre of the push to universalise access to early childhood care and education (ECCE). Last week, the government proposed a phased rollout of ECCE programme across all anganwadis, covering one-fifth each year, starting from 2021-22.  Even as we acknowledge their heroic work and push for urgent reopening, we need to offer solutions to their myriad challenges. Despite being the primary information-source on nutrition, anganwadi workers can lack key knowledge – as found by studies from Delhi and Bihar. Surveys we conducted in 2018-19 found that among mothers listed with anganwadi workers, knowledge about key health behaviour such as complementary feeding and handwashing was low, at 54% and 49%. Anganwadi workers often do not have the support or training to provide ECCE. Administrative responsibilities take up significant time, and core services like pre-school education are deprioritised. A typical worker spends an estimated 10% of their time — 28 minutes per day — on pre-school education, compared to the recommended daily 120 minutes. Anganwadis often lack adequate infrastructure. NITI Aayog found that only 59% of anganwadis had adequate seating for children and workers, and more than half were unhygienic. These issues worsen in an urban context, with the utilisation of early childcare services at anganwadis at only 28%, compared to 42% for rural areas, according to NFHS-4 data. Deepening impact As anganwadis reopen, we must prioritise interventions with a demonstrated history of success, and evaluate new ones. Studies in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh (and globally) have found that home visits, where volunteers work with children and caregivers, significantly improved cognition, language, motor development and nutritional intake while also reducing stunting. Recent initiatives around home-based newborn and young child care are promising, but they need to extend beyond the first few months of a child’s life, with seamless coordination with anganwadi workers. Many States will have to improve career incentives and remuneration for anganwadi workers. One way to ensure they have more time is to hire additional workers at anganwadis. A recent study in Tamil Nadu found that an additional worker devoted to pre-school education led to cost effective gains in both learning and nutrition. Policymakers have tried linking anganwadis and primary schools to strengthen convergence, as well as expanding the duration of daycare at anganwadis. Reaching out to women during pregnancy can increase the likelihood that their children use ICDS services – as tried in Tamil Nadu. In order to boost coverage as they reopen, large scale enrolment drives, that worked in Gujarat, may help mobilise eligible children. As the world’s largest provider of early childhood services, anganwadis perform a crucial role in contributing to life outcomes of children across India. To improve these outcomes, we need to invest more significantly in anganwadis, and roll out proven innovative interventions. Divya Nair is Director at IDinsight. Nina Badgaiyan is a former senior consultant at NITI Aayog. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-need-to-reopen-anganwadis/article37859810.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Distanced from political reality||When a political party loses power after a long innings, internal churning is inevitable. But, in the case of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), the process began exactly five years ago even when it was in power, following the death of the then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Since then, there have been many dramatic turns, including former Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam’s revolt against former interim General Secretary of the party, V.K. Sasikala, in February 2017, the subsequent split in the party, and the merger of the groups, led by Mr. Panneerselvam and the then Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in August 2017. The merger, coupled with the support of the BJP-led government at the Centre, ensured that the AIADMK government led by Mr. Palaniswami completed its term. But whether the party has remained a cohesive force post-Jayalalithaa is anybody’s guess. Lack of cohesion The party’s alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and the 2021 Assembly polls also aggravated the problem of lack of cohesion in the light of the BJP’s adherence to Hindutva, a line of thinking not compatible with the political reality of Tamil Nadu. It was for this reason that Jayalalithaa had consciously avoided the BJP for seat sharing during the 2014 Lok Sabha and 2016 Assembly polls after drawing a blank in the 2004 Lok Sabha elections. In contrast, the party’s principal adversary, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), which also witnessed the transition of power from M. Karunanidhi to his son and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin more or less around the same time, has managed to remain a well-knit organisation. So much so that the DMK and its allies such as the Congress and the Left, won a landslide victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha election and bagged two-thirds (159) of the seats in the 2021 Assembly election. The AIADMK’s electoral debacle brought to the fore the tenuous relationship between Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami. It took two meetings to elect the latter as leader of the legislature party and more than a month to nominate other office-bearers. What has become a norm in the party is the practice of the two leaders issuing statements separately on issues of public importance. Sasikala’s return Defections by middle-level leaders to the ruling DMK and Ms. Sasikala’s return to active politics seem to have precipitated matters in the AIADMK. The BJP, the only remaining partner of the AIADMK with a modest presence, has been projecting itself as a principal political force with its State unit president K. Annamalai launching sharp attacks on the ruling party. Besides, the national party does not mind admitting leaders of its own ally, AIADMK, into its fold. Notwithstanding its shortcomings, the AIADMK has several strengths such as the presence of an extensive grassroots-level network and the absence of the image of a chauvinistic entity. In the Assembly election, the party got 33.29% of the total votes polled which was short by 4.41% compared to the DMK. Moreover, Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami seem to have patched up for the time being as they are contesting together for the party posts of coordinator and co-coordinator, the positions being held by them respectively. When a seasoned leader like three-time Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh N. Chandrababu Naidu is struggling to stay relevant in the Opposition, one can understand the plight of the two AIADMK leaders, but what they and others in the party have to realise that it is in their own interest that they remain united and keep the party a force to reckon with in Tamil Nadu politics. ramakrishnan.t@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/distanced-from-political-reality/article37859812.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Boosters short||On November 22, the Director-General, ICMR, said that there was no scientific evidence thus far to administer a booster vaccine dose to fully vaccinated people. The priority instead was to increase the percentage of people who are vaccinated with two doses. The Health Minister too said the priority was on fully vaccinating all adults than on booster shot immunisation though adequate vaccines were available. Even when there was growing clamour from a few States for booster doses once the new variant with higher transmissibility causing a huge surge in cases in South Africa became known, the Government has reiterated that any decision on booster doses will be based solely on scientific recommendations. Although over 65 million people in the U.S. are unvaccinated, on October 21, a booster shot was approved for all above 65 years and certain categories of young adults. It was later expanded to include all adults. Many countries in Europe too have approved booster shots, having based their decision at least partially on vaccine effectiveness data. Such evidence has become available in India only very recently. One study found Covishield to be 85% protective against moderate or severe disease and 63% protective against symptomatic infection, while another found Covaxin to be 50% effective against symptomatic infection. Both studies were undertaken during the peak of the Delta variant-driven second wave. The effectiveness of both vaccines against the Omicron variant is unknown. While this variant appears to be far more transmissible than the Delta variant, disease severity and the age groups most vulnerable to disease are not fully known. Despite these uncertainties, it might still be prudent to approve booster doses for people older than 60 years and young adults who are immunocompromised or have comorbidities. But administering booster doses cannot be at the cost of increased coverage of the first dose and full vaccination. Also, the need to begin immunising adolescents cannot be ignored. Over 1.26 billion doses have been administered as on December 4, with nearly 85% receiving one dose but only over 50% being fully vaccinated. Though the door-to-door vaccination campaign held last month witnessed 11.7% increase in second dose coverage, there is still a sizeable percentage of the population in the priority groups who are not fully vaccinated. Over 8% of health-care workers, 30% of those above 60 years and over 33% of people aged 45-59 years are yet to be fully vaccinated. The rapid global spread of the Omicron variant might also lead to increased vaccine uptake. While a sufficient supply of Covishield, which accounts for nearly 90% of vaccines administered, might be able to meet the demand, the priority should be to increase vaccine coverage and not boosters, particularly so as India will be under pressure to supply vaccines to the global South.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/boosters-short/article37859796.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Party and power||The ruling CPI(M) finds itself entangled in two murder cases in Kerala. In one, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a charge sheet against 24 persons, including former CPI(M) MLA K.V. Kunhiraman, who is also a district secretariat member, in the Periye double murder case. Congress workers Kripesh, 19, and Sarath Lal P.K, 24, were hacked to death at Periye in Kasaragod district on February 17, 2019. The case was handed over to the CBI on September 30, 2019, after the Kerala High Court found the probe by the State Police as ‘not trustworthy’. In an indefensible move, the Kerala government fought fiercely against a CBI inquiry, all the way to the Supreme Court, yet unsuccessfully after spending vast sums of public money. In the second, Sandeep Kumar, a local committee secretary of the party, was killed by a gang of five people led by a neighbour, who is associated with the BJP youth wing, last week, in Pathanamthitta district. The local police that had ruled out political rivalry initially, changed the script after being publicly chided by the CPI(M) State Secretary. In both cases, the ruling party allegedly attempted to influence the investigations by the State police — in the first to shield its workers, and in the second to add a political hue, which may or may not survive, to the gruesome murder of its activist. The CPI(M)’s responsibility is twofold — as a cadre party that exercises immense control over its workers, and as the ruling party which is responsible for law and order. The party claims authority over the conduct of its cadres, including in their personal lives in many instances. The party must make it clear that it would not tolerate violence by its members; it must also allow the police to function independently and professionally. But the trend seems to be the opposite. Even convicted criminals linked to the party have been recipients of state favour when they serve prison terms. Mr. Kunhiraman and three others are charged by the CBI under the section of obstruction to lawful apprehension of accused persons. They forcefully released some of the accused who were taken into custody by the State police in the Periye case, according to the CBI. The district unit of the party has questioned the CBI findings in the case and called it politically motivated. It is a specious argument. The origins of the CBI inquiry were due to a judicial process, that went through three stages. Irrespective of the merits of the CPI(M)’s claim of being a victim of violence by political opponents, it is the duty of the State government to protect the lives and liberty of citizens, and ensure speedy justice through due process in incidents of violence, whether or not these have political motivations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/party-and-power/article37859797.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Crushing blow on Pakistan Navy||From Our Correspondent Bombay, Dec. 5. An Indian Navy task force, in a surprise and daring attack on the Pakistan Navy in the early hours of to-day, sank two Pakistani destroyers and another vessel, believed to be a merchant ship and inflicted damage on a merchant vessel. One Pakistani vessel ran away in the confusion which ensued, following the well-timed attack by the Indian Navy. The historic battle took place near the Karachi harbour. A spokesman of the Indian Navy said that besides inflicting a crushing blow on the Pakistan’s Navy in their own waters, the fighter aircraft of the Indian Navy bombed successfully strategic naval establishments in Karachi. The spokesperson said that the attack was carried out in perfect timing and it took the enemy vessels by surprise. There was so much panic and confusion among the Pakistani sailors that the Indian sailors could hear their cries of panic when they shouted in Urdu “Save Khaibar” and “Save Shah Jehan”. The Karachi harbour was a well defended and protected one. It has the latest sophisticated weapons in defence, besides, radar, missiles, etc. A number of vessels patrol the harbour constantly. Amidst this “backdrop” of solid defence, the Indian naval task force intelligently carried out its task.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/crushing-blow-on-pakistan-navy/article37859813.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Investing in collectibles||The pandemic is far from over even as the year draws to a close. Small wonder that our emotional well-being is fragile. It is in this context that you should consider real assets. Early this year, we discussed passion assets, which you can touch and feel, as opposed to financial assets that are intangible. Here, we discuss why you must mull allocating some of your savings to real assets now. We typically strive to improve our emotional well-being through retail therapy, whether it is spending on wellness or home-improvement products. Such spending has a temporary improvement on our emotional well-being. Given that most of these are consumption products, you can derive satisfaction till the products last. Others such as home-improvement products are mass-produced. Therefore, these may stop stimulating your emotional well-being after a while as you get used to owning them. You need products that carry a story; for it is the story that contributes continually to your emotional well-being. For instance, owning a high-value mahogany sideboard may feel good but may not continually contribute to your emotional well-being. But if it comes from a 19th century Georgian country house, you have a story to share with your friends. And each time you dwell on the uniqueness of the product, you improve your emotional well-being. It is in this context that you should consider investing in collectible assets. We define collectible assets as artefacts, paintings, vintage, and antique items including rare books. These assets are commonly called as passion assets. The popular passion assets are wine, arts and rare artefacts. Risk-return trade off Buying collectible assets is just as difficult as choosing a mutual fund. With the latter, your objective is to choose a fund that can help you achieve your life goal (such as buying a house) with minimal risk of goal failure. With collectible assets, you should buy an artefact that you like, and importantly, one that you believe will increase in value in the future. So, foresight is just as important for ‘investing’ in collectible assets as it is for financial assets. The biggest risk comes from the genuineness of the artefact. With unscrupulous vendors describing all dark-wood furniture as rose wood and any artefact that is rusted and patinated as antique, it is easy to buy fake products. So, ‘security selection’ is just as important for collectible assets as it is for stocks in your trading portfolio. An additional risk is storage. While vintage glass and brass may not have major storage issues, art and coins do. You must ensure that they are not exposed to the elements of nature; for the fading of a painting or oxidisation of a rare coin can affect their value. The return on these assets can be attractive. Traditional assets such as stocks and bonds provide two sources of returns — income and capital appreciation. Collectible assets also provide two sources of returns — emotional returns and tangible returns in the form of capital appreciation when you eventually sell them. Buying collectibles can be fulfilling but be mindful of the associated risks. The biggest advantage is that, unlike financial assets, you do not have to sell your collectibles at distress price to raise cash at short notice. The reason is that you do not typically invest in collectibles to achieve a life goal. So, till your collectibles fetch a good price or till you are ready to part with them, you can share stories about them with friends for emotional returns. ( The writer offers training programmes for individuals to manage their personal investments)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/investing-in-collectibles/article37859787.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Be aware of bitcoin, other cryptocurrencies||Virtual currencies created using blockchain technology have been the subject of great speculation and discussion in recent times. Legendary investors Charlie Munger and Warren Buffet have gone as far as to call Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies ‘rat poison.’ Before debating on whether to ban private cryptocurrency, it is prudent first to understand what cryptocurrencies are. Cryptocurrencies are digital encrypted tokens that can be transferred between two parties without the need for a centralised regulator. The facilitators of the transaction work to verify a transaction individually and maintain a public ledger open for anyone to see. No intrinsic value The elimination of a centralised entity is why we see the word ‘decentralisation’ being thrown around very often. Cryptocurrencies are not ‘untraceable’ as most believe; in fact, it happens to be more traceable than currency notes due to the public ledger leaving a clear trail. In addition, when discussing the merits of cryptocurrencies, one must understand that it possesses no intrinsic value. Stocks provide partial ownership of a firm that produces goods and services, bonds provide a steady source of income, and gold has inherent metal value. Cryptocurrencies are non-productive assets that are merely traded because there is demand for it. Ex-RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan had stated recently in a TV interview that “a lot of cryptos have value only because there is a greater fool out there willing to buy”. Cryptocurrencies are eerily similar to the tulip mania of 1636, when tulips were being traded for the sake of turning a profit. Another essential point to note is that although theoretically there is a scarcity of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, that does not mean anything in terms of economics because there needs to be a particular purpose that will sustain demand for the asset. Some claim that Bitcoin and other private cryptocurrencies are a new revolution in currencies and the monetary system. No central bank or government around the world would be interested in relinquishing power over the money supply. Private cryptocurrencies being adopted as a legitimate currency in the nation will spell the end of regulation and economic intervention by the central bank. This is because central banks require the ability to manipulate the money supply to intervene during a crisis. Private cryptocurrencies strip the central bank of this power, leaving the central bank effectively unable to set interest rates and control the money supply efficiently. In a crisis such as the COVID-19 pandemic, it would become challenging for monetary regulators to step in and aid a wounded economy. Therefore, it is improbable for any notable government to favour and encourage private cryptocurrencies for these reasons. Moreover, due to speculation, cryptocurrencies ensure that they can never act as a measure of the value of goods and services. For a cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin to be accepted as a currency, it has to price goods. Bitcoin, an extremely volatile cryptocurrency (like its counterparts), cannot act as a currency in a stable economy. Ban on cryptos Although a particular country can choose to ban private cryptocurrencies, that this does not mean anything to the asset as a whole is untrue. The significant advantage which cryptocurrencies pose, which is decentralisation, leads to its downfall. Any government with large enough pockets can decide to take down the cryptocurrency by destroying its monetary value. The incentive for miners and other participants to maintain the system is financial. If the price of a cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin were to drop to 0, it would be devastating. The act of a significant government announcing its intention to take down cryptocurrencies would leave a considerable dent in the price. Additionally, cryptocurrency mining takes up a substantial amount of a country’s resources which could be put to more productive uses. It is crucial for governments worldwide to decide on a course of action regarding this growing technology and equip themselves accordingly. The longer it takes for regulators to implement a plan, the greater there is to lose as the amount of money being channeled into the asset grows further. Unfortunately, all bubbles come to an abrupt end leaving many financially distraught. Those who invest in cryptocurrencies need to understand that they are speculating rather than investing. It follows that while speculating, one takes comprehensive care to know what they are getting into. Therefore, it is vital that an individual does not stake their financial security upon this novel asset.  (Anand Srinivasan is a consultant and Sashwath Swaminathan is a research associate at Aionion Investment Services)   Those who invest in cryptocurrencies need to understand that they are speculating rather than investing. It follows that while speculating, one takes comprehensive care to know what they are getting into||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/be-aware-of-bitcoin-other-cryptocurrencies/article37859791.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Gold, silver lose lustre||Precious metals remained range bound and volatile in November. After a rise in the early part of the month, gold and silver receded sharply in the second half to close marginally lower at the end of November. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar and the firming up of U.S. bond yields played a key role in pulling down the prices. Comex gold closed 0.4% lower at $1,776.5 an ounce at end-November. Comex silver fell 4.7% to settle at $22.85 an once. In the domestic market, MCX gold futures gained 0.3% to close at Rs. 47,805 per 10 gm. MCX silver futures too closed on a weak note, falling 4.6% to settle at Rs. 62,287 per kilogram. Over a longer time frame, the Comex gold price is coiling in a tight range indicating a contraction in volatility. Typically, such a trend is a precursor to a sharp move in price. A move past $1,900 or a slide below $1,720 would set the tone for the next big move. Until either of these levels is breached, expect wild swings based on the news flow on the U.S. Federal Reserve’s bond purchase and the spread of the COVID-19 virus. Comex silver dropped below the support level of $22.8 mentioned last month. This is a sign of weakness and could push the price lower to the next support at $20.5-21. A fall below $20.5 could impart further weakness. The short-term outlook negative unless the price moves above $25.50. The MCX gold price has been consolidating in a range and the price has to move either above Rs. 48,650 or drop below Rs. 47,000 to trigger a significant directional move. Until either of these levels is breached, expect volatile and range-bound action to persist. Above Rs. 48,650, expect a rise to Rs. 50,500-51,000. Below Rs. 47,000, MCX gold could slide to Rs. 46,000-46,500. The short-term outlook for MCX silver is not positive; a fall below Rs. Rs. 58,300 could trigger a sharp fall in price. Unless the price moves above Rs. 65,000, expect silver price to remain weak. Below Rs. 58,300, the price could drop further to the Rs. 54,300-55,100 range.  (The author is a Chennai-based analyst and trader. This is not meant to be trading or investment advice)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gold-silver-lose-lustre/article37859793.ece
06 December 2021||MUMBAI,||India on the cusp of another home series win||Batters are expected to make merry on the third day of a Test match, especially in the subcontinent. While Sunday saw the highest daily tally of the game, spinners continued to make inroads as India ended on the cusp of a facile win versus New Zealand. Spinners on a roll A whopping 347 runs were scored at the Wankhede Stadium to entertain a vocal Sunday crowd. But tweakers snared 11 of the 12 wickets as India was five wickets short of extending its eight-year unbeaten series run at home.  After setting New Zealand a gargantuan target of 540 runs, India’s spinners continued to pile on New Zealand’s misery as the visiting side finished day three at 140 for five. New Zealand will be hoping for Henry Nicholls, who survived almost two hours, and Rachin Ravindra, whose blockathon was instrumental in the Black Caps pulling off a draw in the series-opener, to stretch the game deep on the penultimate day. But their task will be easier said than done as R. Ashwin and Axar Patel continued their dominance against a largely clueless batting unit against spin. It didn’t come as a surprise that Ashwin was handed the new ball with India declaring its second essay at 276 for seven with half an hour remaining for tea. While a spidercam malfunction resulted in the umpires being forced to call tea earlier than scheduled, the ball prior to it from Ashwin saw Tom Latham, the stand-in skipper, fail to read the line of one that came in with the angle to be trapped in front. Soon after the break, with Shubman Gill and Mayank Agarwal not taking the field as precautionary measure due to minor injuries, one of the two substitute fielders was in action. Will Young couldn’t negotiate the turn and bounce extracted by Ashwin and offered a bat-pad catch to Suryakumar Yadav at short-leg. Ross Taylor then committed harakiri as his slog-sweep resulted in a top-edge that was latched on to by Cheteshwar Pujara running backward from leg-slip to take Ashwin’s home Test-wicket tally to 299. Taylor’s wasn’t the only brain-fade moment for the Kiwis. Daryl Mitchell, who justified his inclusion as Kane Williamson’s replacement with a sublime fifty, holed out to Jayant Yadav at deep cover off Axar Patel before Tom Blundell ran himself out to put the Kiwis in a deeper hole. Best figures Earlier in the day, the two Patels — Ajaz and Axar — continued to sizzle. Ajaz added four more scalps, including that of half-centurion Mayank Agarwal, to his ‘Perfect-10’ to register the best figures by a bowler against India. Axar then showed his prowess with the willow with a cameo to help India declare at 276 for seven. But one of the main objectives of India’s decision to bat instead of imposing the follow-on wasn’t really achieved. Cheteshwar Pujara and Virat Kohli, in need of a big score ahead of the South Africa tour, couldn’t convert their starts. But their dismissals — Pujara edging Ajaz to slip and Kohli playing left-arm spinner Rachin Ravindra on to the stumps — didn’t hurt India on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-on-the-cusp-of-another-home-series-win/article37860014.ece
06 December 2021||Bali,||Sindhu falls at final hurdle, takes silver||Reigning World champion P.V. Sindhu returns with a silver medal after losing to Korean teen sensation An Se-young in the summit clash of the, BWF World Tour Finals here on Sunday. Sindhu could match neither the pace nor breach the defence of the World No. 6 Korean, losing 16-21, 12-21. It was Sindhu’s third successive loss — all straight games — to the Korean in as many meetings. An Se-young became the first-ever South Korean woman to win the season-ending title. Making her third final appearance in the year-end tournament, World No. 7 Sindhu looked a pale shadow of the player who had claimed the title in 2018 to become the only Indian to achieve the feat. “It was a good game. An Se-young is a good player so I don’t think it was going to be easy. I was prepared for a good match,” Sindhu said.   AFP reports  In the men’s singles, Viktor Axelsen of Denmark beat Thailand’s Kunlavut Vitidsarn 21-12, 21-8 in the final.   The results: Men: Viktor Axelsen (Den) bt Kunlavut Vitidsarn 21-12, 21-8 (Tha). Doubles: Takuro Hoki & Yugo Kobayashi (Jpn) bt Kevin Sanjaya & Marcus Gideon (Ina) 21-16, 13-21, 21-17.   Women: An Se-young (Kor) bt P.V. Sindhu 21-16, 21-12. Doubles: Kim So-yeong & Kong Hee-yong (Kor) bt Nami Matsuyama & Chiharu Shida (Jpn) 21-14, 21-14 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-falls-at-final-hurdle-takes-silver/article37860055.ece
06 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Argentina quells Germany’s challenge||A well-organised Argentina defeated six-time champion Germany 4-2 and won the title after a 16-year gap in the men’s Junior hockey World Cup at the Kalinga Stadium here on Sunday. As Cyclone Jawad weakened, the Argentines — who overcame COVID-related curbs and other issues back home — rode on penalty corner specialist Lautaro Domene’s hat-trick to seal victory in a well-contested final. Coached by Olympic gold medallist Lucas Rey, Argentina smartly controlled the game. It relied on sound basics, strong structure and timely tackles to nip most of the German moves in the bud. Argentina, cashing in on some good moves, took a 2-0 lead. Lautaro Domene flicked high in the opening quarter and scored off a variation in the second. Germany raided through hard hits and quick passes from outside the circle after half-time. One such move reduced the gap as Julius Hayner tapped in a loose ball. Germany got three straight short corners early on in the final quarter before Masi Pfandt converted to restore parity. However, Domene completed a hat-trick and Franco Agostini struck in the final minute to seal the win. Earlier, an error-prone India lost to a better-prepared France 1-3 to finish fourth for the second time. It was the 2016 champion’s second loss to France in this edition. Clement’s hat-trick The host conceded as many as 14 penalty corners and trailed 0-1 after the second quarter as French captain Timothee Clement converted his team’s fifth short corner. Clement went on to complete a hat-trick.  Sudeep Chirmako’s 42nd-minute goal gave some hope but the host could not capitalise on several chances.  The results:   Final: Argentina 4 (Lautaro Domene 10, 25, 50, Franco Agostini 60) bt Germany 2 (Julius Hayner 36, Masi Pfandt 47).   3rd-4th places: France 3 (Timothee Clement 26, 34, 47) bt India 1 (Sudeep Chirmako 42); 5th-6th: Netherlands bt Belgium 6-4; 7th-8th: Spain bt Malaysia 4-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/argentina-quells-germanys-challenge/article37860012.ece
06 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Rovers hog limelight at the TNCA awards function||The 89th annual day function of the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) was held here on Sunday. Siva V. Meyyanathan, Honorable Minister for Environment, Pollution Control, Youth Welfare & Sports Development, Tamil Nadu, gave away the trophies to the winners of the 2019-20 league season. Ms. Rupa Gurunath, president, TNCA, welcomed the gathering while R.S. Raamasamy, secretary, TNCA, presented the annual report chronicling the achievements of the association, including the Syed Mushtaq Ali triumphs in successive years. Minister’s praise In his special address, the minister congratulated the association for promoting the game and taking it to all parts of the State. “T. Natarajan came from a small town near Salem and went on to play for the country in all formats of the game, thanks to the TNCA,” said Meyyanathan. Jolly Rovers received the Rajah of Palayampatti Shield for winning the TNCA first division title for the 2019-20 season which was interrupted due to the COVID-19 pandemic and completed earlier this year.  The award winners:   Rajah of Palayampatti Shield (First division): Winner: Jolly Rovers; Runner-up: Vijay CC.   C.P. Johnstone Shield (Second division, Elite): Winner: UFCC (T. Nagar); Runner-up: IOB; Second division: Plate: Winner: Crombest RC; Runner-up: Southern Railway Institute.   C.R. Pattabhiraman Shield (Third division, overall): Winner: Egmore RC; Runner-up: Sea Hawks; C.R. Rangachari Shield (Third division A zone): Winner: Egmore RC; Runner-up: Jupiter SC; G. Parthasarathy Shield (Third division B zone): Winner: Sea Hawks; Runner-up: Bunts CC.   Bishop Waller Shield (Fourth division, overall): Winner: Park Town RC; Runner-up: Sumangali Homes; N. Kannayiram Shield (Fourth division A zone): Winner: Park Town RC; Runner-up: Prithvi CC; A.G. Kripal Singh Shield (Fourth division B zone): Winner: Sridhar CC; Runner-up: Komaleswarar CC; K.S. Kannan Shield (4th division, C zone): Winner: Sounder CC; Runner-up: Madras Emmanuel; Fourth division D zone: Winner: Sumangali Homes; Runner-up: Venkateswara CC.   Dr. P. Subbarayan Shield (Fifth division, overall): Winner: Kumbhat CC; Runner-up: Venkat CC; P. Ananda Rau Shield (Fifth division A zone): Winner: Kamyuth Club; Runner-up: Vepery CC; V.P. Raghavan Shield (Fifth division B zone): Winner: Young Men’s CC; Runner-up: Tangedco; M.V. Kasturirangan Shield (Fifth division, C zone): Winner: ICI Sports & RC; Runner-up: Eccentrics CC; S. Annadurai Shield (Fifth division D zone): Winner: Kumbhat CC; Runner-up: Lusuraj CC; Fifth division E zone: Winner: Venkat CC; Runner-up: Comrades CC.   P.V.H. Babu Shield (Sixth division, overall): Winner: Madras Indians CC; Runner-up: Universal RC; T.K.N. Babu Shield (Sixth division A zone): Winner: B&C Mills: Runner-up: Madras Indians; P.C. Ramudu Shield (Sixth division B zone): Winner: Amar CC; Runner-up: Universal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rovers-hog-limelight-at-the-tnca-awards-function/article37860117.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||JFC will look to exploit ATKMB’s vulnerability||Jamshedpur FC (JFC) will look to exploit the psychological vulnerability of last year’s runner-up ATK Mohun Bagan when it hosts the latter in the ISL at Bambolim on Monday. ATKMB is still licking its wounds after suffering one of its worst defeats when it went down 1-5 to reigning champion Mumbai City FC in its last outing. JFC head coach Owen Coyle will hope to utilise the opportunity to see his team regain the winning touch. JFC had dropped two points when it squandered its lead and was held 1-1 by Hyderabad FC in the previous outing. Coyle’s team created a lot of chances but failed to capitalise on them. JFC is currently fifth in the table, a rung behind ATKMB, and this will be a big reason for the team to seek a victory. “We have never qualified to the play-offs so we have to work bit-by-bit to get better. We have to concentrate on what we are doing and we are doing well. We have to keep that going,” said Coyle before the match. For ATKMB coach Antonio Lopez Habas, the best way to recover is to forget the result of the previous match. “We have to continue with our philosophy, step by step in every match. We cannot take one match’s result into the next match because in this league you play the next match in three days. So, we have to bounce back,” Habas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jfc-will-look-to-exploit-atkmbs-vulnerability/article37860187.ece
06 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Esha recovers her winning streak||Esha Singh was a pistol prodigy when she won the women’s, junior and youth sections air pistol gold in the National championship in 2018, at a tender age of 13. After slipping in performance the following year in Bhopal, when she failed to make any of the three finals, the 11th standard student from Hyderabad, has been able to recover her golden touch. In the ongoing national championship in Delhi, Esha topped qualification with 582 before winning the junior and youth golds apart from a bronze in the women’s section. Trained by national high performance coach Ved Prakash Pilaniya, Esha — who spends about eight hours every day at her home range — has been able to gain a firm grip on air pistol. It was evident earlier this season when she finished runner-up by 1.3 points to Manu Bhaker in the Junior World Championship in Lima, Peru. “Esha is well guided by coach Ved Prakash with his vast experience and expertise. Olympic Gold Quest (OGQ) is supporting her,” said Sachin Singh, Esha’s father. “She changed her technique a bit in 2019 and it took her time to adapt to it. Now she has been able to come back with a bang,” said Sachin. “As parents, we need to allow time for the kids to settle in their sport. Just keep telling them to give their best, and encourage them all the time with a good atmosphere irrespective of bad or good scores,” he added. Esha is understandably thrilled with her three medals in the national championship. They provide a solid platform for her to excel in the season ahead and march with confidence towards the Paris Olympics. As a junior, Esha has been winning international medals in World Cups and Asian Championships. She is now ready to be a regular in the national women’s team and work her way to win the best of medals around the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/esha-recovers-her-winning-streak/article37860189.ece
06 December 2021||BENGALURU,||Pranjala bests Sowjanya for the title||Pranjala Yadlapalli won her first ITF title in three years by beating Sowjanya Bavisetti 7-5, 6-2 in the singles final of the $15,000 KSLTA World Tour tennis tournament, here on Sunday. It was the 22-year-old’s fourth career ITF trophy and the first since she won back-to-back $25,000 tournaments in Lagos, Nigeria, in 2018. Feels great “I am really happy with the win because it has been three years... with injuries, Covid and everything,” said Pranjala, who trains at the Rohan Bopanna Tennis Academy. “I also played some long matches in the quarterfinals and semifinals. So, winning those and the title, it feels great.” The straight-sets match, though pleasing for Pranjala, wasn’t always easy on the eye. Both players were nervous wrecks at different points. They struggled with their serves in particular, with the first set alone witnessing seven breaks of serve. With a heavily taped serving arm, Pranjala was hesitant, and chose not to dictate with her forehand. The double-fisted backhand, when unleashed, proved adequate but it was mostly used under desperate circumstances. Instead, she hung in there, slicing, caressing and moonballing. She was helped in part by Sowjanya, who despite getting into fine positions could never really summon the point-ending shot. The left-hander’s serves, though coming from a good height, were weak, handing Pranjala a crucial advantage. At times, the 27-year-old also looked spent, the toll of having played three matches on Saturday showing. Pranjala took the first set 7-5 when a shaky forehand from Sowjanya sailed long. In the second, The latter freed up a little, hit a few fine winners and did well to stay with her opponent until 2-2. But from there she lost four straight games, including the seventh where she had three break points, to hand Pranjala the victory.  The result (final):   Pranjala Yadlapalli bt Sowjanya Bavisetti 7-5, 6-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pranjala-bests-sowjanya-for-the-title/article37860067.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Nepo blunders, Carlsen pulls away||An uncharacteristic blunder on the 21st move from Ian Nepomniachtchi was enough for Magnus Carlsen to find a sound winning plan in Game 8 for a 5-3 lead in the World chess championship in Dubai on Sunday. Two victories for Carlsen, with white pieces in the last three games, left Nepo staring at a premature end to his challenge in the best-of-14-game title-match. In the remaining six games, Carlsen needs only 2.5 points to retain his world crown. When the action resumes on Tuesday, Nepo will play white in Game 9. Once Nepo’s error of judgement — with a push of a queenside pawn — occurred in a balanced position following the opening lines of Petroff Defence, he not only lost a pawn but also fell into a streak of passive moves. Carlsen, getting better with every passing move, simplified the position further and had two extra pawns after the 35th move in the queen-and-pawn ending. “I think, this game is going to haunt Nepo for the rest of his life,” said Viswanathan Anand once Nepo reached a completely lost position and Carlsen continued to make his rival suffer. The Norwegian continued to torture Nepo by taking time for the moves while the Russian could do very little to improve his dead-lost position. Eventually, Nepo resigned on the 46th move.  The moves: Game 8: White: Carlsen; Black: Nepomniachtchi   1. e4 e5 2. Nf3 Nf6 3. d4 Nxe4 4. Bd3 d5 5. Nxe5 Nd7 6. Nxd7 Bxd7 7. Nd2 Nxd2 8. Bxd2 Bd6 9. O-O h5 10. Qe1+ Kf8 11. Bb4 Qe7 12. Bxd6 Qxd6 13. Qd2 Re8 14. Rae1 Rh6 15. Qg5 c6 16. Rxe8+ Bxe8 17. Re1 Qf6 18. Qe3 Bd7 19. h3 h4 20. c4 dxc4 21. Bxc4 b5   22. Qa3+ Kg8 23. Qxa7 Qd8 24. Bb3 Rd6 25. Re4 Be6 26. Bxe6 Rxe6 27. Rxe6 fxe6 28. Qc5 Qa5 29. Qxc6 Qe1+ 30. Kh2 Qxf2 31. Qxe6+ Kh7 32. Qe4+ Kg8 33. b3 Qxa2 34. Qe8+ Kh7 35. Qxb5 Qf2 36. Qe5 Qb2 37. Qe4+ Kg8 38. Qd3 Qf2 39. Qc3 Qf4+ 40. Kg1 Kh7 41. Qd3+ g6 42. Qd1 Qe3+ 43. Kh1 g5 44. d5 g4 45. hxg4 h3 46. Qf3. Nepo resigns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nepo-blunders-carlsen-pulls-away/article37860004.ece
06 December 2021||Nassau,||Morikawa leaves field far behind||Collin Morikawa carded a brilliant eight-under 64 third round to grab a five-shot lead in the Hero World Challenge at the Albany Golf Course here on Saturday. Morikawa shot a bogey-free round after having started in grand fashion, chipping in on the par-5 third hole to make eagle.  The 24-year-old American is on the verge of winning his third title of the year, to go with The Open and the World Tour Championship. “I’m just piggybacking off a couple of weeks ago in Dubai (DP championship). I’m dissecting my game and figuring out what I need to do consistently to be a better player, and to be in contention a lot more. Chipping and putting has put me in a good spot. I feel great, and I’ve just got to keep doing that,” Morikawa said. Brooks Koepka returned a three-under 69 to lie second. He was forced to play catch-up after a double bogey on the par-3 eighth hole. Overnight leader Bryson DeChambeau shot a one-over 73 to fall to ninth place. Daniel Berger recovered from a lost ball and double bogey on the par-5 third to sit joint third alongside Sam Burns, Viktor Hovland, Patrick Reed and Tony Finau. Tournament host Tiger Woods hit some balls on the practice range, suggesting he could soon return.  The scores (top three): 198: Collin Morikawa (68, 66, 64); 203: Brooks Koepka (67, 67, 69); 204: Daniel Berger (66, 69, 69), Sam Burns (71, 65, 68), Patrick Reed (68, 69, 67), Viktor Hovland (68, 69, 67), Tony Finau (68, 66, 70).   (The writer is in Nassau at the invitation of Hero MotoCorp).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/morikawa-leaves-field-far-behind/article37860009.ece
06 December 2021||Chennai,||CCFC set to miss I-League this year||The All India Football Federation on Saturday announced that former I-League champion Chennai City FC will not be allowed to play in the upcoming season of the league for failing to comply with Club Licensing Regulations. The new season is set to start on Dec. 26 and CCFC’s place will be taken by Kenkre FC, which finished second in the Hero I-League Qualifiers held in Bengaluru earlier this year. However, CCFC owner Rohit Ramesh said that it had informed the federation that it was not in a position to play in the upcoming season anyway due to the impact of COVID-19 on club revenues and the recent rains in Chennai impacting its preparations as well. In a statement, the federation said, “The AIFF Club Licensing Committee has taken strong exception to Chennai City FC (the “Club”) for failing to comply with most of the mandatory AIFF Club Licensing Regulations for the forthcoming Hero I-League 2021-22 despite giving additional opportunity after assurances from the Club including a detailed conference call.” Explaining the reasons for not wanting to play this year, Rohit said, “Due to the pandemic, all the clubs have taken a big financial hit and we just managed to field a team last year. We were unable to even commence the club licensing process due to a delay in obtaining the affiliation letter from the Tamil Nadu Football Association which put us at a disadvantage. “While it is unfortunate that we can’t play this year, we are hopeful of making a strong comeback next year and continue to promote football in the State and the country,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ccfc-set-to-miss-i-league/article37860050.ece
06 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||13 International Opens proposed||Two round-robin events for women, offering Rs. 10 lakh each, will take place from June 30-July 8 in Tamil Nadu and from August 12-20 in Goa, the All India Chess Federation announced on Saturday. In another welcome step, 13 International Opens have been proposed to be held across the country. Though the minimum prize-money for these is fixed at Rs. 15 lakh each, the aggregate prize-fund is likely to run into a few crore. “Our endeavour to raise the profile of chess continues,” said the AICF secretary Bharat Singh Chauhan. Financial health “We have decided to help the financial health of host associations of the Nationals to keep 75% of the entry-free collection and the rest will come to the AICF. Earlier, it was shared equally.”  The schedule: National championships: Jan. 9-14: Junior (u-20) in Delhi (prize-money Rs. 10 lakh); 17-21: Schools (Bhubaneswar, Rs. 5 lakh); 23-31: Sub-junior (u-16) (Visakhapatnam, Rs. 9 lakh).   Feb. 2-7: Amateur (Rajasthan*, Rs. 3 lakh); 9-17: Women (Bheemavaram, Rs. 25 lakh); 9-21: Senior (Kanpur, Rs. 30 lakh).   April 1-7: U-10 (Jammu, Rs. 5 lakh); 2-5: Rapid and Blitz (Maharashtra*, Rs. 6.50 lakh); 9-16: U-8 (Gurugram, Rs. 5 lakh); 9-16: Team (Open and women) (Maharashtra*, Rs. 10 lakh); 18-25: U-18 (Coimbatore, Rs. 9 lakh).   May 2-9: U-12 (Mandya, Rs. 8 lakh); 11-18: U-14 (Ahmedabad, Rs. 8 lakh).   Proposed International Opens: Feb. 23 to Mar. 2 (Ahmedabad); Mar. 4-11 (Pune); Mar. 13-20 (Guwahati); Mar. 22-29 (Delhi); May 21-29 (Kolkata); May 31-June 18 (Odisha*); June 10-18 (Visakhapatnam); June 20-28 (Bengaluru); Aug. 22-30 (Punjab*); Sept. 1-9 (Bikaner); Sept. 11-19 (Indore); Sept. 21-29 (Chhattisgarh*); Oct. 1-9 (UP*).   *host city to be decided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/13-international-opens-proposed/article37860051.ece
06 December 2021||DOHA,||‘India has become a huge market’||Qatar 2022 CEO Nasser Al-Khater on Thursday said Indian sports aficionados are slowly looking beyond cricket and have developed an interest in football, thanks to the Indian Super League (ISL). “India has become a huge football market with the coming of the [Indian] Super League. They were a lot more interested in cricket but there is a growing liking for football now,” Al-Khater told select media. Al-Khater, also the Assistant Secretary General, Tournament Operations with the Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy, is confident the West Asian nation will see a massive influx from India during the FIFA World Cup next year. “It is hard to put a number on how many people will come to the World Cup from India. But having attended the U-17 World Cup in 2017 and seen the popularity of football among people there, I can assure you the interest will be huge,” he said. Qatar —since it secured hosting rights for the quadrennial showpiece on December 2, 2010 —has drawn flak from multiple media organisations and human rights groups, for the country’s limited football history, expenditure, local climate, criminalisation of homosexuality and labour laws. However, Al-Khater feels the nation has often been treated unfairly. He said, “Yes (I feel Qatar has been an easy target sometimes). Being the first World Cup in the Middle East, it was easy to complain about it being too small a country, lacking football history. But we also see the advantages of holding a WC in a small country like ours. The fact that they say Qatar doesn’t have a footballing history, it is not true. “However, we do need to answer these questions, because it our duty and job to clarify misconceptions. It’s also important for us to admit that there is a lot of work to be done in certain areas and at the same time make sure what is reflected by the media is factually correct.”  (The writer is in Qatar at the invitation of the Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-has-become-a-huge-market/article37860053.ece
06 December 2021||KOCHI,||Kerala qualifies for Santosh Trophy||The performance may not have been very convincing but Kerala drubbed Puducherry 4-1 and achieved its goal of qualifying for the Santosh Trophy’s final phase after topping the South Zone Group ‘B’ qualifiers at the Nehru Stadium here on Sunday evening. For a side which was billed as one of the favourites for the Santosh Trophy, Kerala appeared shaky in the early stages and got its first goal through a controversial penalty. It scored three more through the lively midfielder Arjun Jayaraj and substitutes P.N. Noufal and Bujair Valiyattu but there were a number of mispasses and defensive failings that should worry the host as it gets ready for the National football championship’s main phase which is expected to be held in Kozhikode and Manjeri in early January. Threatening period There was even a period, around the 40th minute, when Puducherry almost threatened to level the score at 2-2 a minute after scoring its opening goal with Anson Anto receiving Maria Vivek’s long cross from the left smartly and running into the box to hit home. Nine points Kerala topped the four-team group with nine points from three wins and bagged the lone qualification spot while Puducherry finished second with four points and Lakshadweep finished third after a 5-1 victory over Andaman and Nicobar.  The results: Kerala 4 (Nijo Gilbert 21-pen., Arjun Jayaraj 24, P.N. Noufal 55, Bujair Valiyattu 57) bt Puducherry 1 (Anson C. Anto 39); Lakshadweep 5 (K.P.P. Abdul Hashim 17, Abdul Hameen 37 & 45+1, Sahil 67, Abul Hassan 83) bt Andaman & Nicobar 1 (Y. Shiju Raj 90+5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-qualifies-for-santosh-trophy/article37860114.ece
06 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Supriya fires Railways in to semis||An old-fashioned hat-trick from Supriya Routray put Railways firmly on track to the semifinals of the National senior women’s football championship at the Govt. Medical College Ground here on Sunday. Riding on Supriya’s splendid effort, the Railway women won 4-2 against Goa. It was, however, the Goans who drew first blood as Sushmita Jadhav put them ahead in the 33rd minute. Before long, though, the Supriya show began. Equaliser She found the equaliser for Railways, the runner-up in the last edition, in first half injury time. Then she scored 11 minutes into the second half to give her side the lead. Two minutes later she completed her hat-trick as Railways went 3-1 up. In the 69th minute, Mamta made it 4-1 before Sushmita reduced the margin for Goa in the dying minutes. Earlier at Koothuparamba, holder Manipur moved into the semifinals with a 2-0 win against Assam, through goals from Yangoijam Kiranbala Chanu and Thingbaijam Babysana Devi. Also through to the last four are Odisha, which defeated Tamil Nadu 2-0, and Mizoram, which beat Maharashtra 4-1. After a day’s rest, the semifinals will be played on Tuesday. Manipur will play Mizoram, while Railways will take on Odisha.  The results (quarterfinals):   Manipur 2 (Yangoijam Kiranbala Chanu 9, Thingbaijam Babysana Devi 65) bt Assam 0.   Railways 4 (Supriya Routray 45+1, 56 & 58, Mamta 69) bt Goa 2 (Sushmita Jadhav 33 & 90+1).   Mizoram 4 (Elizabeth Vanlalmawii 10 & 87, Lalnunsiami 24 & 66) bt Maharashtra 1 (Karen Pais 47).   Odisha 2 (Karishma Oram 27, Satyabati Khadia 37) bt Tamil Nadu 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/supriya-fires-railways-into-semis/article37860057.ece
06 December 2021||Donghae (South Korea),||Indian women thrash Thailand 13-0||Drag-flicker Gurjit Kaur scored five goals as the Indian women thrashed Thailand 13-0 at the Asian Champions Trophy hockey here on Sunday. Gurjit gave India the lead off a penalty stroke in the second minute and Vandana Katariya found the second goal five minutes later. Lilima Minz added another field goal in the 14th minute, while Gurjit and Jyoti scored two more from penalty corners in the 14th and 15th minutes to give India a 5-0 lead by the end of the first quarter. The second quarter started much the same way, Rajwinder Kaur, making her international debut, scoring in the 16th minute. She added another in the 24th minute. Gurjit scored her third goal and Lilima scored another from a penalty corner also in the 24th minute. The Thai defence was in tatters as Gurjit scored her fourth in the 25th minute, giving India a massive 9-0 lead at half-time. Returning from the break, India continued to dominate. Thailand dug in deep and defended well for the first six minutes, but Jyoti broke through, scoring another field goal in the 36th minute. A defensive error four minutes later gave India another penalty corner, but this time Gurjit’sflick was deflected away.    The result:   India 13 (Gurjit 5, Lilima 2, Jyoti 2, Monika, Vandana, Rajwinder, Sonika) bt Thailand 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-women-thrash-thailand-13-0/article37860059.ece
06 December 2021||Coimbatore,||Amir and Arya share the honours||After Arya Singh (Dark Don Racing) dominated on the wet surface on Saturday, it was Amir Sayed’s turn to show why he is rated a class driver. The Ahura Racing star controlled the pace and the pack to win the day’s opening race for Formula LGB4 cars in Round 3 of the JK Tyre National racing championship here on Sunday. Amir got off to a good start and defended his position for the first few laps before breaking free to win way ahead of his mentor Vishnu Prasad (MSport). Stamping his authority It was the Kottayam youngster’s second win this season. But he could not do much in the second race as Arya stamped his authority to win the final race and complete a sweet double. MSport’s Ruhaan Alva’s winning streak came to a halt on Saturday as he was awarded a 10-second penalty for crossing the white line at the pit exit. It proved costly as he slipped to 13th after crossing the finish line first. However, his teammate Jaden R. Pariat prospered with a place on top of the podium. Ruhaan did not allow that to play on his mind and came back strongly to wrest the top spot in the next two races. Meanwhile, Anish D. Shetty completed a sweet double in the JK Tyre Royal Enfield Continental GT Cup.  The results (provisional):   Formula LGB4: Race 2: Amir Sayed (Ahura Racing) 20:15.250; 2. Vishnu Prasad (MSport) 20:22.423; 3. T.S. Diljith (Dark Don Racing) 20:27.850.   Race 3: 1. Arya Singh (Dark Don) 23:09.491; 2. Sandeep Kumar (Dark Don Racing) 23:10.672; 3. T.S. Diljith (Dark Don Racing) 23:10.824.   JK Tyre Novice Cup: Race 1: Jaden R. Pariat (MSport) 24:43.808; 2. Gaurav Kochar (Momentum Motorsport) 24:44.340; 3. Neym Rizvi (MSport) 24:45.218.   Race 2: 1. Ruhaan Alva (MSport) 16:12.199; 2. Jaden Pariat 16:12.578; 3. Neym Rizvi 16:13.001.   Race 3: 1. Ruhaan Alva 14:36.939, 2. Adheet Parashar (Hasten Performance) 14:48.212; 3. Jaden Pariat 1:48.575.   JK Tyre Royal Enfield Continental GT Cup: Race 1: 1. Anish D. Shetty (Hubli) 13:30.381; 2. Anfal Akdhar (Thrissur) 13:33.862; 3. Meka Vidhuraj (Hyderabad) 13:34.171.   Race 2: Anish Shetty 13:51.720; 2. Allwin Xavier (Thrissur) 13:51.749; 3. Anfal Akdhar 13:53.111 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/amir-arya-share-formula-lgb4-honours/article37860065.ece
06 December 2021||KOCHI,||It’s a lesson for my boys, says Bino George||Not satisfied! That was the first comment from head coach Bino George after Kerala’s Santosh Trophy’s South Zone qualifiers that concluded here on Sunday evening. “Our first two matches were easy so they thought Puducherry would be nothing, that was why there were too many mispasses. “They played without discipline, without football attitude,” Bino, Kerala’s only AFC Pro License coach, told The Hindu after his boys’ last match at the Nehru Stadium here. “It’s a lesson for them. I think they can perform well in the Santosh Trophy’s final round. They know the next series of matches will be tough, so they will put up that sort of defence and give the opponents the respect they deserve. Since the Santosh Trophy finals are in Kerala, we have that responsibility to perform well.” Bino feels that he has to work on the team’s defence but pointed out that he has an issue getting quality under-21 players. “I want to work on our defence, I want to make one or two changes. We need to play three under-21 players in the first 11 but our under-21 players have not had many competitions, so it’s tough to get good players in that age group. “That is an issue we are facing. But I think all teams will have this problem.” This time the Santosh Trophy’s 10-team final phase will be without Goa, which lost by a lone goal to Gujarat late last month in Bhavnagar. Services, West Bengal and Punjab are some of the team which have made the cut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-a-lesson-for-my-boys-says-bino-george/article37860375.ece
06 December 2021||MADRID,||Russia on top of the world||Russia’s 15-year wait for a Davis Cup title ended on Sunday after another clutch performance by Daniil Medvedev. Medvedev defeated Marin Cilic 7-6(7), 6-2 in the second singles match to give Russia an insurmountable 2-0 lead over Croatia in the final. It was Russia’s third Davis Cup title and its first since 2006. Andrey Rublev had earlier beaten Borna Gojo in straight sets to put the Russians ahead at the Madrid Arena. Rublev converted his first match point to clinch a 6-4, 7-6(5) win over Gojo, who arrived at the Davis Cup finals as the 279th-ranked player but had won all his three matches. It was the third consecutive victory for the fifth-ranked Rublev after a loss against Spain’s Feliciano López in the group stage. Gojo had no break opportunities throughout the match against Rublev, who converted one of his eight to grab the first set and eventually clinch the win in the second-set tiebreaker. Russia’s other Davis Cup title was in 2002. Croatia also was seeking its third title after triumphs in 2005 and 2018.  The results:   Russia bt Croatia 2-0 [Andrey Rublev bt Borna Gojo 6-4, 7-6(5); Daniil Medvedev bt Marin Cilic 7-6(7), 6-2].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/russia-on-top-of-the-world/article37860030.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Blasters’ day out, record first win of the season||There was joy and relief for Kerala Blasters on Sunday night. Relief because it finally registered a win in the ISL this season. Joy because it was a fine win that brought the high-flying Odisha FC to the ground at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim. Alvaro Vazquez and K. Prasanth were the scorers in Blasters’ 2-1 win, which came after a loss and two draws. Odisha, on the other hand, had come into the contest after winning both its matches and scoring nine goals. On this night, however, the Blasters defence made life difficult for the rival strikers. Threatening moves With Sahal Adul Samad and Adrian Luna taking little time to find their rhythm, the Blasters threatened to take the lead early on. But they were let down by their poor show in the final third, something their coach Ivan Vukomanovic had expressed concerns about on the eve of the match. There were chances for Odisha too. A long-ranger by Javier Hernandez — all the way from the halfway line — nearly gave the side the lead in the 25th minute. It was still the Blasters who played better in what was a lively opening half. They continued to create chances in the second period too when Vazquez converted one of those in the 62nd minute. After receiving a lovely through ball from Luna, he kept his composure and used all his experience to get past the Odisha defenders and slot home. In the 85th minute, another through ball from Luna saw a quick-footed Prasanth making it 2-0. For Odisha, Nikhil’s strike came too late in the night.  The results: Kerala Blasters 2 (Vazquez 62, Prasanth 85) bt Odisha FC 1 (Nikhil Raj 90+4); Bengaluru FC 1 (Silva 20) lost to Mumbai City FC 3 (Angulo 9, Fall 54, Catatau 85).   Today’s match: Jamshedpur FC vs ATK Mohun Bagan, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-day-out-record-first-win-of-the-season/article37860010.ece
06 December 2021||London,||United edges Palace||Ralf Rangnick’s reign at Manchester United got off to a winning start thanks to a stunning strike from the much-maligned Fred to beat Crystal Palace 1-0 in the Premier League on Sunday. United is now up to sixth in the table. Earlier on Saturday, Manchester City ended the day on top of the table after a 3-1 stroll at struggling Watford. City is one point clear of Liverpool and two ahead of Chelsea.  Important results:   Premier League: Leeds 2 (Roberts 27, Bamford 90+5) drew with Brentford 2 (Baptiste 54, Canos 61); Manchester United 1 (Fred 77) bt Crystal Palace 0; Tottenham 3 (Moura 10, Sanchez 67, Son 77) bt Norwich 0; Aston Villa 2 (Konsa 17, 54) bt Leicester 1 (Barnes 14).     Serie A: Bologna 2 (Barrow 42, Hickey 83) lost to Fiorentina 3 (Maleh 33, Biraghi 51, Vlahovic 66-pen); Venezia 3 (Ceccaroni 12, Crnigoj 19, Henry 27) lost to Hellas Verona 4 (Henry 52-og, Caprari 65-pen, Simeone 67, 85); Spezia 2 (Manaj 35, Gyasi 47) drew with Sassuolo 2 (Raspadori 66, 79).   On Saturday: Premier League: Newcastle 1 (Wilson 40) bt Burnley 0; Southampton 1 (Broja 29) drew with Brighton 1 (Maupay 90+8); Watford 1 (Hernandez 74) lost to Manchester City 3 (Sterling 4, Silva 31, 63).   La Liga: Sevilla 1 (Ocampos 16) bt Villarreal 0; Atletico Madrid 1 (Cunha 68) lost to Mallorca 2 (Russo 80, Kubo 90+1); Real Sociedad 0 lost to Real Madrid 2 (Vinicius Junior 47, Jovic 57).   Serie A: Napoli 2 (Zielinski 40, Mertens 47) lost to Atalanta 3 (Malinovskyi 7, Demiral 66, Freuler 71); Roma 0 lost to Inter Milan 3 (Calhanoglu 15, Dzeko 24, Dumfries 39).   Bundesliga: Bayer Leverkusen 7 (Adli 12, Tapsoba 18, Hincapie 45, Schick 49, 69, 74, 76) bt Greuther Fuerth 1 (Dudziak 33); Hoffenheim 3 (Geiger 24, Rutter 30, Samassekou 59) bt Eintracht Frankfurt 2 (Borre Amaury 15, Paciencia 72); Borussia Dortmund 2 (Brandt 5, Haaland 47) lost to Bayern Munich 3 (Lewandowski 9, 78-pen, Coman 44).   Ligue 1: Lens 1 (Fofana 62) drew with PSG 1 (Wijnaldum 90+2) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/united-edges-palace/article37860020.ece
06 December 2021||Hyderabad:,||Stockbridge claims Golconda 2000 Guineas||Trainer Arjun Manglorkar’s Stockbridge, ridden by Antony Raj S, won the Golconda 2000 Guineas (Gr. 2), the main attraction of Sunday’s (Dec. 5) races here. The winner is owned by United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Antony Raj had confidently placed this Speaking Of Which colt in fifth position till the bend, thereafter he manoeuvred his way into the straight to cover almost five lengths and came with quickening strides to beat the long time leader Count Of Savoy by half a length.  1. MICA EMPRESS PLATE (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only (Cat. II): BALLERINA (Antony Raj S) 1, Almas (C.S. Jodha) 2, Wind Sprite (Suraj Narredu) 3 and Lady Di (S.J. Sunil) 4. 2-1/4, 2-1/4 and 3-1/4. 1m 6.93s. Rs. 61 (w), 18, 18 and 10 (p), SHP: 70, THP: 57, SHW: 20 and 39, FP: 717, Q: 297, Tanala: 2,554. Favourite: Wind Sprite. Owner: United Racing and Bloodstock Breeders Limited. Trainer: K.S.V. Prasad Raju.  2. REPUBLICAN PLATE (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): TEAM PLAYER (Gaurav Singh) 1, Sorry Darling (Suraj Narredu) 2, Starwalker (Md. Ismail) 3 and Jo Malone (Aneel) 4. 2-1/4, 3/4 and Nk. 1m 28.41s. Rs. 24 (w), 13, 14 and 37 (p). SHP: 36, THP: 93, SHW: 19 and 21, FP: 97, Q: 53, Tanala: 1,480. Favourite: Team Player. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar Of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: K. Satheesh.  3. SOLITAIRE PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): BUGSY (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Keystone (Akshay Kumar) 2, Sheldon (Rafique Sk.) 3 and Able Love (Gaurav Singh) 4. 4-1/4, 1-1/2 and 1-1/2. 1m 26. 02s. Rs. 19 (w), 12, 10 and 93 (p). SHP: 30, THP: 182, SHW: 22 and 24, FP: 61, Q: 43, Tanala: 1,833. Favourite: Bugsy. Owner: Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey. Trainer: L.V.R. Deshmukh.  4. ZURBARAN PLATE (DIV. II) (1,100m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): RISING QUEEN (Abhay Singh) 1, City Of Blossom (R. Ajinkya) 2, Golden Forza (Kuldeep Singh) 3 and Furious Fun (Santosh Raj) 4. Not run: Indian Glory. 6-1/4, 1-1/4 and 1-1/2. 1m 6.35s. Rs. 24 (w), 10, 40 and 19 (p). SHP: 202, THP: 45, SHW: 11 and 178, FP: 791, Q: 603, Tanala: 10, 695. Favourite: Furious Fun. Owners: M/s. M. Rafeeq Iqbal, G B R Prasad and K S N Murthy. Trainer: Robin Reddy Kondakalla.  5. CRACK REGIMENT PLATE (1,600m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): ICICLE (Ashad Asbar) 1, Kesariya Balam (Akshay Kumar) 2, Lamha (Abhay Singh) 3 and November Rain (Mukesh Kumar) 4. 3/4, 2 and 1/2. 1m 39. 42s. Rs. 34 (w), 11, 12 and 20 (p). SHP: 31, THP: 52, SHW: 15 and 22, FP: 109, Q: 40, Tanala: 636. Favourite: Kesariya Balam. Owner: Mr. B.E. Vasanth Kumar. Trainer: D. Netto.  6. AIR COMMAND CUP (1,200m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II): MARKET KING (C.S. Jodha) 1, Lagos (Akshay Kumar) 2, Xfinity (P.S. Chouhan) 3 and Staridar (B.Nikhil) 4. 3/4, 2-1/2 and 2. 1m 10.96s. Rs. 13 (w), 10, 14 and 13 (p). SHP: 29, THP: 28, SHW: 11 and 21, FP: 39, Q: 29, Tanala: 91. Favourite: Market King. Owners: Mr. Jatin L. Trivedi, Mr. Nitin H. Jain, Mr. Aneil V. Lala & Mrs. K.N. Sunderji. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  7. GOLCONDA 2000 GUINEAS (Gr. 2) (1,600m) (Terms), 3-y-o only: STOCKBRIDGE (Speaking Of Which – Sheryl) (Antony Raj S) 1, Count Of Savoy (Roderic O’ Connor – Lombardia) (A. Imran Khan) 2, Ashwa Raudee (Speaking Of Which – Serrafina) (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Buckley (Phoenix Tower – Athens) (N.S. Parmar) 4. Not run: Southern Dynasty. 1/2, 2 and 1/2. 1m 38.46s. Rs. 52 (w), 15, 18 and 56 (p). SHP: 64, THP: 132, SHW: 50 and 46, FP: 382, Q: 290, Tanala: 16, 377. Favourite: Botero. Owner: United Racing & Bloodstock Breeders Ltd. Trainer: Arjun Manglorkar.  8. ZURBARAN PLATE (DIV. I) (1,100m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): STUNNING FORCE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Angelita (P. Ajeeth Kumar) 2, Sandown Park (Santosh Raj) 3 and Appenzelle (G. Naresh) 4. 3-1/2, 3/4 and Hd. 1m 6.02s. Rs. 17 (w), 10, 16 and 47 (p). SHP: 38, THP: 96, SHW: 10 and 18, FP: 59, Q: 41, Tanala: 930. Favourite: Stunning Force. Owners: Mr. Venkata Krishna Reddy Challuri, Mr. Mirza Ayub Baig & Mr. M. Sudheer Reddy. Trainer: S.S.F. Hassan. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 3,267 (175 tkts.), 30%: 494 (496 tkts.). Treble: (i) 760 (65 tkts.), (ii) 266 (159 tkts.), (iii) 275 (328 tkts.). Mini Jackpot: (i) 821 (71 tkts.), (ii) 1,287 (74 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stockbridge-claims-golconda-2000-guineas/article37860070.ece
06 December 2021||MUMBAI,||The idea was to bat as long as possible: Axar||Ever since he earned his Test debut versus England earlier this year, thanks to Ravindra Jadeja’s injury, Axar Patel has hardly put a foot wrong. Be it with his accurate bowling or lusty blows with the bat lower down the order, Axar has been one of the stars of India’s Test success at home in 2021. Dream year “Actually, this has been my dream year. The way I bowled in England series and now how the New Zealand series has panned out, in between there was IPL, so I can say that this has really been a good year for me personally,” Axar said. India stretched its second innings to well and truly shut New Zealand out of the game. According to him, India was trying out options in the second essay rather than delaying the declaration. “I won’t call it delay as there is so much time left in the game. The idea was to bat as long as possible as you don’t get such a situation every day, so the plan was to make the most of it,” he said. “We were trying to explore variation options...” Mixed feeling When Shubman Gill offered short extra-cover a regulation catch off Rachin Ravindra on Sunday afternoon, it was a mixed feeling in the New Zealand camp. “It (the huddle after the wicket) was pretty funny because we thought he was going to take all 20. They congratulated me for taking my first wicket. That first wicket was very special,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-idea-was-to-bat-as-long-as-possible-axar/article37860016.ece
06 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA:,||Meghana on song||S. Meghana scored a century (102, 86b, 13x4, 2x6) to help India-D record a 46-run win over India-B in the second round of the BCCI senior women’s Challenger Trophy one-day cricket championship at Mulapadu Cricket Complex here on Sunday. In another match, India-A recorded a five-wicket win, successfully chasing a target of 206 set by India-C with Disha Kasat (53, 73b, 4x6) and Sneha Rana (59, 75b, 7x4) being the main scorers. Monday is a rest day.  The scores: India-C 205 in 47.1 overs (Radha P. Yadav 82, C. Pratyusha 64, Sneha Rana 3/32, Simran Dil Bahadur 3/37) lost to India-A 206/5 in 46.1 overs (Disha Kasat 53, Sneha Rana 59).   India-D 230 in 48.5 overs (S. Meghana 102, Ayush Soni 48) bt India-B 184 in 50 overs (Harleen Deol 73, Pooja Vastrakar 3/37).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/meghana-on-song/article37860006.ece
06 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India to host Denmark||India has been seeded and will play at home against Denmark in the World Group-1 playoff Davis Cup tie on March 4 and 5. The winner of the tie will compete in World Group-1 while the loser will be relegated to Group-2. Denmark has the 18-year-old Holger Rune, ranked 104, as the leading player. Mikael Torpegaard is the second best, ranked 227. The best doubles player for Denmark is the 38-year-old Frederik Nielsen, ranked 94 in doubles. Ramkumar Ramanathan (186), Prajnesh Gunneswaran (215) and Sumit Nagal (218) are the three leading Indian players. Rohan Bopanna is the best-ranked Indian in doubles at 43, while Divij Sharan (120) is the second-best doubles player, followed by Ramkumar (146) and Purav Raja (150).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-to-host-denmark/article37860018.ece
06 December 2021||Brisbane,||Head gets the nod for first Ashes Test||Australia confirmed its line-up for the first Ashes Test on Sunday, recalling Travis Head for the No. 5 spot while retaining Mitchell Starc in bowling attack. Head was dropped after the Boxing Day Test against India last year, and captain Pat Cummins said the way he has responded gave him a narrow edge over veteran Usman Khawaja.   The team:   Marcus Harris, David Warner, Marnus Labuschagne, Steve Smith, Travis Head, Cameron Green, Alex Carey, Pat Cummins (Capt.), Mitchell Starc, Nathan Lyon and Josh Hazlewood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/head-gets-the-nod-for-first-ashes-test/article37860056.ece
06 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Cavaliers in semifinals||Cavaliers Cricket Club entered the semifinals with a 135-run win over East Coast Railway Sports Association (ECoRSA) in the 24th The Hindu Trophy one-day cricket championship quarterfinal at HZL ground on Sunday. Batting first, Cavaliers scored 258 in 38 overs. In reply, ECoRSA folded up for 123 in 24.4 overs with B. Munish Varma and U.A.V. Varma taking three wickets apiece. In the first semifinal on Monday, Gajuwaka Greens will take on Vizianagaram District Cricket Association at Port Stadium and on Tuesday, Cavaliers meets East Godavari District Cricket Association.  The scores: Quarterfinals: Cavaliers 258 in 38 overs (Anshul Gupta 75, K.V. Kashyap Prakash 44, Nakul Sharma 40, P. Madhusudhan Rao 3/59) bt ECoRSA 123 in 24.4 overs (B. Munish Varma 3/6, U.A.V. Varma 3/37) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cavaliers-in-semifinals/article37860486.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Hard-hearted Putana||Putana reduced her size to that of a normal woman and came neatly dressed to give poisoned milk to Krishna. As she entered Gokula she was seen talking to herself. The Tamil word used to describe her is “alavalai,” which means a talkative person. In this respect she was like Krishna, whose life she wanted to take. Krishna too spoke a lot, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan, in a discourse. On the battlefield, all that Arjuna wanted to know was why he had to fight. Krishna could just have told him that it was his duty to fight, no matter who the opponent was. But instead He gave him elaborate advice, detailing three paths to reach Him. Putana had donned the garb of a loving mother and picked up Krishna to feed Him. Usually, when one dresses up like a person, it is likely that one begins to behave like that person. This is what happened in the case of Ravana. Ravana had been cursed that if he tried to touch any woman without her permission, he would die. So he tried to reason with Sita, who paid no heed to him. So Ravana asked Mareecha for advice. Mareecha said Sita would not look at anyone but her husband Rama. So Ravana disguised himself as Rama and approached Sita. But his plan failed, because the moment he took on the role of Rama, his characteristics changed. He no longer lusted after Sita. His heart was full of thoughts of his wife Mandodari. So even if we change our garb for the sake of playacting, we become a little like the person we try to impersonate. But this did not happen in the case of Putana. She was dressed like a loving mother, but there was no love in her heart. Even her attire did not soften her heart. And she went ahead with the task entrusted to her by Kamsa. She fed Krishna her milk and lost her life in the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/hard-hearted-putana/article37859860.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 07:24 IST,||Sudoku — December 6, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-6-2021/article37860643.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Raveena Tandon: the reluctant actor||About three decades ago, Raveena Tandon stepped in front of a film camera for the first time. The film, starring Salman Khan, was G.P. Sippy’s Pathar Ke Phool . This month, she makes another debut with Netflix’s Aranyak and it comes from the Sippy stable again, this time produced by Rohan Sippy. “I fell for Kasturi Dogra,” she says about her character — a cop in a small town in the hills of north India. Directed by Vinay Waikul, the show that also stars Parambrata Chatterjee and Ashutosh Rana revolves around a dead tourist, a harried local cop desperately trying to balance work and personal life, and a town full of mysteries. Becoming Kasturi Dogra In the early years of her career, Tandon often spoke about her childhood ambition of joining the IPS, so playing a cop was an added bonus. “It’s always a matter of pride for me when I don the uniform, even if it’s for reel.” But the actor found it challenging to slip into character. “We’re lucky to come from privileged families, with emotional support and the backing to be able to do and achieve what we want in our jobs. But there are so many women out there who don’t get the kind of emotional backing or even just a helping hand with running their households,” she says. 100% or nothing Coming from a school of thought that her career wasn’t her whole life, Tandon, 47, has always managed to carve out time for things that are important to her. In 1995, she adopted two girls — Pooja and Chhaya — and a decade later when her children Rasha and Ranbirvardhan were born she was a hands-on mother. “I am often asked why I take on so little work. I don’t want it to become so hectic that I can’t enjoy what I’m doing. When I do take up work, I want to give it 100%,” she concludes.  Aranyakdrops on   Netflix on December 10.   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/raveena-tandon-the-reluctant-actor/article37860410.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||C for ‘civil’, not ‘criminal’||Remember the 2015 floods in Chennai? And how groups of citizen volunteers set up info banks, organised food packets, rescued stranded people and so on? Ordinarily too, citizen groups ensure waste segregation in households, organise beach clean-ups, or beautify pavements. Perhaps you give toys to an NGO that works with orphans. Or you know someone who teaches the Constitution in local schools. Such volunteers and social groups are not exactly dangerous or deranged people out to wreck society, but I would forgive you if you thought so. After all, Ajit Doval, the country’s National Security Adviser, made an extraordinary statement recently claiming that civil society is “the new frontier of war”. According to Doval, civil society is being subverted to destabilise the country. But ‘civil society’ is not a creature with horns. It is simply concerned citizens getting together to create or demand change — they could be community self-help groups or NGOs, labour unions or charities, temple, wakf or church organisations, a bunch of CAs or teachers. When nurses go on strike to demand fair wages, it’s as much ‘civil society’ in action as farmers protesting or citizens demanding that CAA be withdrawn. Popularised in the ’80s, the term basically refers to citizens who are outside the Government, non-state players, those who don’t have formal administrative power but wield the most important power in a democracy — people power. If a democracy is by, of and for the people, it’s civil society that gives a face and voice to that amorphous entity called “the people”. This voice can influence elected Governments to enact good laws or change bad ones. Take Section 377, a colonial-era law that classified gay sex as an “unnatural offence”. The Government didn’t magically sit up one morning and decide to remove the outdated law. It took decades of concerted action by civil society groups to force the Government to decriminalise gay sex. As it did for the RTI Act or the Vishaka Guidelines to be passed. To pretend that civil society has suddenly become a fifth column out to destabilise the nation takes quite a leap of imagination. But Doval took that leap, stretching sinew and credulity. As did Chetan Bhagat in a column he wrote after the farm laws were repealed. Showing the consistency of a chameleon, Bhagat first claimed that those who opposed the laws “never applied logic”, went on to classify them as “left-wing, elite-woke-whatever”, and ended by conceding that “as far as protests are concerned, perhaps most of them were genuine as well”. Meaning what exactly? The protests are genuine, but the protesters are “elite-woke-whatever”? I wonder how Chetan & Co would describe the massive anti-corruption protests of 2011 that ultimately brought down the Congress-led Government. That too, incidentally, was led by the same ‘civil society’ that’s causing Doval such alarm today. Human rights activists, lawyers, students, NGOs, the intelligentsia — they all participated. It even led to the emergence of the Aam Aadmi Party, which went on to later win elections. Nobody was termed ‘anti-national’ or ‘seditious’ for demanding the Government’s ouster then. Urban Naxals, anti-nationals, Khalistanis, tool-kit conspirators, jihadists — an amusing lexicon has emerged in recent years to describe civil society members, with trolls and TV channels amplifying the slurs. What’s less amusing is that such words essentially delegitimise vast swathes of citizens and criminalise voices critical of the ruling regime. It’s a piquant situation. On the one hand, mobs that carry out the most ‘uncivil’ actions like disrupting prayers, forcibly shutting down meat shops, or engineering riots, get away scot-free. But let people assemble and stage a peaceful protest, and everything in the rulebook, from traffic laws to accusations of child neglect, is thrown at them. Gandhi said non-violent protest can be “mightier than the mightiest weapon of destruction devised by the ingenuity of man”. It’s a deep fear of this that makes Governments so inimical to the idea of civil society. There’s much the NSA could have told the graduating police officers — such as upholding the Constitution or steering clear of communalism and casteism. Instead, he warned them against the dangers of fellow citizens. Real criminals are so terribly passé these days.  Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/c-for-civil-not-criminal/article37860409.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Still Goan Crazy||Twenty-seven years ago, ‘ Ek Ho Gaye Hum Aur Tum ’, from the soundtrack of Bombay , composed by A.R. Rahman, was one of the biggest hits of the time. By then, Rahman was known for his atypical choice of singers to break the playback mould, which seemed to include a select list. Of course, there was also an element of surprise for listeners when they looked up the song credits to see who had sung the latest hit. ‘ Ek Ho Gaye Hum Aur Tum ’, better known as ‘ Hamma Hamma ’, was sung by Remo Fernandes, a detail that the singer forgot to mention to the TV crew that met him in Goa to work on a documentary on his life and music back in the 90s. As he writes in his autobiography, Remo, published by HarperCollins, “Well... you walk into a studio, hear a song for the very first time in your life, record it, walk out and never hear it again for months, so obviously you totally forget it. Until suddenly, without warning, it is released.” As Remo talks to us from his home in Siolim, he looks back on his short stint in Hindi cinema with the sort of quiet affection one feels for a favourite relative one meets occasionally — not too distant and yet not too close. “After the success of Jalwa , if I really wanted to stay in films; I would have at least attended its premiere and rubbed shoulders with all the producers and directors. I would have tried to get more and more assignments,” says the 69-year-old Padmashree awardee, who was approached by film producer Gul Anand to co-compose the music for the Hindi film Jalwa , which was released in 1987 and featured Naseeruddin Shah and Archana Puran Singh in lead roles. Laying it bare An icon of the 1980s, known for songs such as ‘ The Flute Song ’ and ‘ O Meri Munni ’, Remo says he has never been the sort to chase fame and film projects. “Here I was, sitting quietly in Goa doing my thing when suddenly Gul Anand approached me and, in the same year, Shyam Benegal [to make music for films]. I was writing my songs in English and I’d just released an album of old Goan and Portuguese songs. The film world suddenly happened to come to me. I didn’t go to Bombay or approach any filmmaker. It was not at all my scene because I didn’t even know well enough to think of it,” says Remo, who also composed the brilliant soundtrack for the Benegal film Trikal , released in 1985. Writing an autobiography was not on his list of priorities — creating music took up most of his time. “There were different phases [in making music]. In the beginning, they were all romantic songs. They were all about different girls,” he says of tracks such as ‘ Don’t Let Her Get Away ’. He writes about his many relationships with a candour that is rare amongst Indian artistes. Of his companion Zenia, to whom he has dedicated the autobiography, he writes: “She made me discover a third new thing about me: that I could turn voluntarily, willingly, and happily monogamous after all.” He engages the reader with humour, wit, and an incredibly visual writing style, which makes Remo a compelling read. Encouraged by friends, he wrote two chapters in 2009; they were enthralled by his many anecdotes, including those from his hitch-hiking days across Europe and college days studying architecture at the JJ School of Arts in Mumbai. But it was during the lockdown, in 2020, that he returned to complete the autobiography.  Remo is as much about his life as it is an evocative ode to Goa. Whether he is tracing his family tree, where he talks about his “strict” grandfather Dr. Bailon Fernandes, who forbade his sons to play music, or growing up in Panjim, which he describes as a “doll town” with houses built of plastered laterite stone, or about why he wrote ‘ Down w ith Brown ’, Goa is at the centre of it all. Porto to Panjim The opening sentence of the first chapter conveys his deep love for the idyllic beach paradise that is a world unto its own: “I knew the cracks on our old footpath by heart.” It is this bond that draws him back during the winter months from Porto in Portugal, which has been a second home to him since the mid-2000s. “I like to come back to Goa and do some shows during Christmas,” he says. The reason he moved to Porto is also undeniably linked to Goa. The small coastal city in northwestern Portugal reminded him of his childhood in Goa, well before it was liberated from Portuguese rule. Goa is where he learnt Portuguese and sang ‘ Herois do Mar ’ (Heroes of the Sea), Portugal’s national anthem as part of Mocidade Portuguesa (Portuguese Youth), the Portuguese equivalent of the National Cadet Corps. But most importantly, without Goa, there would be no music in Remo’s life. The two are inextricably bound together and you hear them in the Mando, Konkani folk songs that are as integral to his journey as a musician as say, a film song such as ‘ Jalwa ’, which as he says, “brought him recognition across the streets of India”. He recalls listening to students who lived in the hostel from across his house sing Portuguese songs such as ‘ Surumbai ’, ‘ Barra de Damao ’ and ‘ Maria Pita Che ’ when they felt homesick. The students were originally from Daman and Diu, which were also Portuguese colonies at that point. In the late 90s, Remo would go on to reinterpret ‘ Maria Pita Che ’. So impressed was Ian Anderson, the legendary flautist and bandleader of British rock band Jethro Tull, with the song that he backed Remo on the track during a concert in Dubai in 2005. Remo recalls that he was nervous ahead of the concert, an unfamiliar feeling for someone who first took to stage when he was only six. But things turned around as soon as he stepped on stage, he writes in his autobiography. “As soon as I announced that I was from Goa, there was a roar of approval from the multinational audience, and that set the ball rolling. They were soon singing ‘ Maya Ya ’, clapping their hands, dancing in the aisles; the ice was melted, the party had started. I was home.” The magic lay in a three-letter word: Goa.  Published by HarperCollins,Remo(Rs. 799) is available at leading bookstores.   The writer is an independent journalist and a faculty of journalism at FLAME University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/still-goan-crazy/article37860408.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Re-imagine t he classroom||While the nation lamented the ‘brain drain’ decades ago, I recall a professor saying, “It’s better to have a brain drain rather than brains going down the drain.” Learners reach educational institutions every morning for cognitive adventures, excitement, and surprises. But, as the day progresses, they feel their energy ebb. How many educators have come across students celebrating their Eureka moments? Among the several factors for this are teachers. While it is not possible to have neat categorisations for a community of over 12 million, students tend to have their own labels for their teachers. Unfortunately, the uninspiring classroom practices are responsible for draining the learner’s energy, frittering away class time, offering no scope for learner-centric approaches or inquiry-based experiential learning. As a result, the classroom space is just a hollow talk shop. Innovation hub Now that students have returned to schools and colleges, the classroom space needs to be reimagined. Teachers must veer away from their stereotypical style of explicating the textbook and look at using the space for multiple purposes and — as a forum for a clash of ideas, a laboratory for exploration, an incubation hub for innovation, a home theatre, clubs for debating, reading, and other activities, and a centre for mental gymnastics. Whatever is celebrated at home is stonewalled in classes — no more cajoling to speak, itching fingers to scribble on walls and floors are slapped; singing and dancing to their own rhythms is banned; the choice of what to wear is snatched away and students are tethered to their seats and commanded to maintain silence. As one first-grader once observed: “I know the mother of my father is my grandmother and his father is my grandfather. I know ‘a’ for apple, ‘b’ for ball, ‘c’ for cat. I also know that 1+1 is 2 and 2 multiplied by 2 is 4. But why does the teacher want me to repeat them in every class?” This mindless practice exposes how innate qualities, such as curiosity, inquisitiveness, playfulness, and imagination, are proscribed instead of being nurtured. Higher levels It is no different at higher levels of education. The same practices are perpetuated, but the operative terms are ‘tuition’ and ‘coaching’. These terms, which once applied to “weak learners” and elicited jeers from fellow students, have now gained iconic status, thanks to professional courses and branded coaching centres. Students pride themselves on learning from specific tuition masters and coaching centres capitalise on the entrance exam mania. The curricular focus has shifted towards preparing learners for JEE and NEET and true deeper learning has been unceremoniously buried. As the Chief Justice, N.V. Ramana, recently remarked, “Any change in the nation’s trajectory always stems from its youth”. This can be done by redefining the class space to channelise the youth power. Efforts must be made to ensure that students’ time and energies are not being depleted in class. Otherwise, the rhetoric of creating future leaders will continue to remain a hollow slogan. The writer is K. Elango, National Secretary, ELTAI, Prof and Head, Department of English (Formerly) Anna University  Students pride themselves on learning from specific tuition masters and coaching centres capitalise on the entrance exam mania.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/re-imagine-t-he-classroom/article37859990.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Reach out for help||I am passionate about Fine Arts but afraid to make it my career since I believe that there is very little scope in India and also about societal pressure. I am in my second year of my B.Tech. I feel lifeless and depressed. Please help. – Anamika Dear Anamika, Please meet a good counselling therapist first and then a career guidance specialist. No point in finishing your B.Tech with brilliant grades and a fantastic CGPA and barely living. Also, you seem to be misinformed about the scope of Fine Arts in India. Professionals with a Fine Arts degree have career opportunities across designing, animation, art studios, ad agencies, educational institutions, cinema, television, product design across different companies, manufacturing, entertainment, publishing houses and so on. Help is available, reach out! I am in the second year of Bachelor's degree in Physics. I did a diploma course in Data Science. What are options after my degree? What do I need to do to become a data scientist? – Prasanth Hi Prasanth, Your current course will prove to be helpful in you becoming a Data Scientist. Try and do some research work in experimental physics. Learn programming and enhance your problem solving and research skills. The diploma is an added advantage. Post this course, opt for a Master’s program or a certificate course. Alternatively, a MBA in Data Science or IT will also be very useful. I am 23 years and completed B.Tech. Biotechnology last year. I want to do a diploma course that will fetch me a decent job. I am confused about what to do and the job possibilities in biotechnology. – Prachi Dear Prachi, Depends on where your interests lie. The possible job opportunities are: Food processing, Bio-processing industries, Drug and Pharma research, Environment control, Lab chemicals, Waste management, Energy, Public funded projects. The best would be to short list some internship options across different fields and try them out before you narrow down your future study option. I am 25 and finished B Pharm in 2018. I have quit two jobs. I am frustrated. I don’t have the money to do a Master’s. Please help. – KM Dear KM, Are finances the only problem or is there something else brewing underneath? For higher education, you can apply for a student loan. There are also self-employment business prospects, but I want to know why you left both jobs? Self-introspection and some external help may lead you to understand what is blocking you from tapping into your best. Speak to a counsellor first to get clarity.     Disclaimer:  This column provides advice and suggestions and is not a substitute for long-term therapy. Some issues may need medical intervention.        The writer is a practising counsellor and a trainer. Send your questions to eduplus.thehindu@gmail.com with the subject line ‘Off the edge’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/reach-out-for-help/article37859993.ece
06 December 2021||Thane (Maharashtra),||Three arrested for killing friend over petty dispute||Police have arrested three persons for allegedly killing their friend over a dispute while consuming liquor here in Maharashtra, an official said on Sunday. The incident took place on the intervening night of Thursday-Friday in Indira Nagar locality of Kalwa area here, Assistant Commissioner of Police Venkat Andale said. The body of the 22-year-old victim, Gulab Salamat Sheikh, was found with multiple injuries on Friday morning. The police sent the body for postmortem and registered a case against the then unidentified persons. The police later got to know that the victim was allegedly killed by his friends following a dispute over liquor consumption and payment for the drinks, the officer said. The three accused were arrested on Friday night, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/three-arrested-for-killing-friend-over-petty-dispute/article37860471.ece
06 December 2021||Panaji,||Cong. for law to protect land of locals||The Congress will enact a law providing protection to the land rights of locals, if the party is voted to power in Goa, senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram has said. The Congress will also restart the iron ore mining industry in Goa by legal methods, Mr. Chidambaram said addressing the party workers on Saturday in Valpoi Assembly constituency, currently represented by State Health Minister and BJP leader Vishwajit Rane. Mr. Chidamdaram is the Congress' senior election observer for the Goa Assembly polls due early next year. “I know the land laws across the country. There is a scope for making a law in Goa,” he said, referring to various protests by locals, specially the tribals, to safeguard their land rights. He said the “Congress will make a law” conferring tenancy rights and protecting the tenants in respect of the land in their possession. “It is called the Protection of Tenancy Rights Act. The tenant can cultivate the land and after him, his family can continue cultivating it. Such a law is existing in India...such a law would be implemented in Goa,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-for-law-to-protect-land-of-locals/article37860473.ece
06 December 2021||Muzaffarnagar (U.P.),||Prohibitory orders in Muzaffarnagar till Jan. 30||The Muzaffarnagar administration has imposed prohibitory orders in the district till January 30 under Section 144 of the CrPC to maintain law and order, officials said on Sunday. Additional District Magistrate Narender Bahadur Singh said the step has been taken to maintain law and order in the district in view of important upcoming events such as Christmas Day, Republic Day, the birth anniversaries of Guru Gobind Singh (December 22) and former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh (December 23). Demonstrations The ADM said the administration also wants to ensure there is no law and order situation due to dharna and demonstrations that different political and social organisations may organise in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/prohibitory-orders-in-muzaffarnagar-till-jan-30/article37860472.ece
06 December 2021||December 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Yesterday once more||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/yesterday-once-more/article37860476.ece
06 December 2021||Varanasi,||MLA headbutts policeman during protest||A Samajwadi Party MLA on Sunday allegedly headbutted a police personnel during a protest in Chandauli district against the State government, police said. A video of the incident also circulated later on social media in which the leader was seen holding the officer by his neck and butting his head with his. According to the police, the SP workers were staging a protest ahead of the arrival of U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, demanding that they should be allowed to go to the venue of programme. Reportedly, the police tried to deter the protesters through peaceful means, but when the SP workers did not relent they resorted to lathicharge. It was alleged that Sakaldiha MLA Prabhu Narayan Singh Yadav hit Circle Officer Aniruddh Singh with his head when the police were trying to control the protesters. The incident took place when Mr. Yadavand other party workers were going to hand over a memorandum to the CM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mla-headbutts-policeman-during-protest/article37860470.ece
