07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. expresses regret over Nagaland killings||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday expressed regret over the deaths of 14 civilians in Nagaland in a botched Army operation, and assured both Houses of Parliament that a special investigation team (SIT) will complete its probe within a month. Mr. Shah said all agencies must ensure that such incidents do not recur while undertaking operations against insurgents. The Home Minister offered condolences to the families of the civilians who were killed on December 4 in mistaken firing by the Army and the violence that followed. Security forces opened fire on civilians, killing 14 and injuring 11 more in Mon district of Nagaland in three consecutive episodes, the police said on Sunday. One soldier was killed in the rioting that followed. “The Government of India sincerely regrets this unfortunate incident in Nagaland and offers its deepest condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives,” Mr. Shah said. Making a statement first in the Lok Sabha and then in the Rajya Sabha, Mr. Shah said the Government was taking steps to ensure peace in the region and was closely monitoring the evolving situation that “continues to be tense but under control”. As a precautionary measure, the State Government had imposed prohibitory orders in the affected areas, he told the Lok Sabha. He said a first information report (FIR) had been registered at the local police station after a visit by the Director-General of Police of Nagaland. The case was transferred to the State Crime Branch and an SIT was formed. Sequence of events Narrating the sequence of events, Mr. Shah said after the Army received information about the movement of insurgents in Mon district, the 21 Para Commando unit laid an ambush. Seeing a vehicle approaching, the security forces signalled it to stop, but it tried to speed away. Suspecting the presence of insurgents, the security personnel opened fire, killing six of the eight occupants of the vehicle. “However, it turned out to be a case of mistaken identity. The two persons who suffered injuries were evacuated to the medical facilities by the Army personnel,” Mr. Shah said. Local people surrounded and attacked the troops. One soldier was killed in the violence and several were injured. The troops then fired in self-defence and to disperse the crowd, and this resulted in the killing of seven more civilians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-regrets-nagaland-killings-says-sit-probe-within-a-month/article37876633.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Russia renew military pact||The world has undergone many geopolitical changes but India-Russia friendship has remained unchanged, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday at the 21st annual India-Russia summit with President Vladimir Putin. “The two sides not only cooperated with each other unhesitatingly but also paid special attention to the sensitivities of each other,” Mr. Modi said. The two sides held the first ever “2+2” ministerial meeting where Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said India had faced “unprovoked aggression” on its northern borders for more than a year. At the summit, referring to the common fight against organised crime, drug trafficking and terrorism, Mr. Putin said, “It is natural we are concerned at the developments in Afghanistan.” Both sides renewed the military-technical cooperation agreement for another 10 years till 2031 and also signed the deal for the manufacture of Ak-203 assault rifles, a defence official said. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, in a media interaction, noted that this was Mr. Putin’s second visit abroad since the pandemic began two years ago. In all, both sides concluded 28 agreements, he said, adding several hydrocarbon projects were on the anvil. 2+2 ministerial meet “I had the opportunity to discuss in detail the emerging challenges India is confronted with and the enhanced requirement of India for closer military-to-military technical collaboration with Russia. The pandemic, the extraordinary militarisation and expansion of armament in our neighbourhood and unprovoked aggression on our northern border since early summer of 2020 has thrown in several challenges,” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said, addressing the “2+2” dialogue. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu also participated in the meeting. Mr. Singh sought “greater engagements in Central Asia and the Indian Ocean Region” during the talks. In his address, General Shoigu said the agencies from both sides will collaborate with each other to increase “regional trust and global security”. Russia has also begun deliveries of the S-400 long range air defence systems, the shipments of which are enroute. They should arrive in the next 10 days, a senior defence official said. Two teams of Indian Air Force personnel have already been trained to operate the system and the first unit to be deployed in North West India is expected to be operational within the next two-three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-russia-renew-military-technical-pact/article37876631.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,||GST collections surge in State||With the economic activities picking up, Gross Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue collections in Karnataka rose by 51% in the first eight months of the current financial year (April to November) when compared with the same period during the previous year (2020–21). The State’s GST collection recorded at Rs. 54,517.94 crore for April–November period of this financial year as against Rs. 35,991.61 crore during the same period in 2020–21, registering a growth of 51%. Administrative reforms The Union Finance Ministry noted that the recent trend of high GST revenues has been a result of implementation of many policy and administrative reforms in the past to improve compliance. Experts in the field said that revival of economic activity along with multiple compliance measures, blocking of e-way bills and pausing (stopping) of input tax credit for non-filers taken by tax authorities for curbing evasion contributed to higher collection of GST in Karnataka and other States. In Karnataka, GST revenue stood at Rs. 33,793.74 crore and Rs. 40,295.29 crore in the first eight months of the 2018-19 and 2019-20 financial years, respectively. Sources in the State Government said GST revenue in the current financial year crossed five figures in two months — Rs. 12,338.21 crore in July and Rs. 13,915.86 crore in October. GST collection slipped below Rs. 5,000 crore only in the months of May, June and August, largely owing to COVID-19-induced economic restrictions in the State. With four more months to go in the current financial year, the State is expected to record the highest collection of GST in 2021–22, since the launch of the new tax regime in July 2017 by the NDA Government. In the current year, the State’s commercial taxes are expected to cross the figure of Rs. 82461.71 crore of 2020–21. Commercial tax collection in the first eight months stood at Rs. 68,618.27 crore. Commercial taxes also include Karnataka sales tax on petrol and diesel and other commodities and professional tax. While collection of sales tax recorded at Rs. 13,386.69 crore in the first eight months of 2021–22, revenue from professional tax stood at Rs. 713.64 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gst-collections-surge-in-karnataka/article37876686.ece
07 December 2021||Patna,||Modi, Amitabh, Aishwarya on Bihar’s list of fully vaccinated||Days after the Bihar Government claimed to have vaccinated more than eight crore people in the State, the names of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and actors Amitabh Bachchan, Priyanka Chopra, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and others have cropped up on the list of those either fully vaccinated or have undergone RT-PCR tests in Arwal district. “The fake entries are on the list from an additional primary health centre under the Karpi police station. A probe was ordered, and two data operators were sacked,” a senior State Health Department official told The Hindu . In Arwal, the district administration sacked data operators Pravin Kumar and Vinay Kumar for the irregularities. Apart from the Prime Minister and Bollywood actors, sources in the Health Department said names of more than a dozen politicians from both the State and the Centre were found in the list. However, Mr. Pravin Kumar told a local news channel that they had been working under tremendous pressure to enter the names that they were provided with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-amitabh-on-bihars-list-of-vaccinated/article37876626.ece
07 December 2021||VILLUPURAM,||Kazhuveli notified as bird sanctuary||The ecologically important Kazhuveli wetlands in Villupuram district is the 16th bird sanctuary in Tamil Nadu. In a government order, Environment and Forests Secretary Supriya Sahu has declared the creation of Kazhuveli bird sanctuary on Monday. An area of 5,151.60 hectares in Vanur and Marakkanam taluks have been combined to create the sanctuary. According to the government notification, the area of Kazhuveli brackish water lake wetlands in Nadukuppam, Seyyankuppam, Chettikuppam, Anumandai, Urani, Keelputhupattu, Koonimedu, Thiruakkanur villages in Marakkanam taluk and Kilapakkam, Kozhuvari, Kazhuperumbakkam, Karattai and Devanandal villages of Vanur taluk will together form the sanctuary. An area of 3,027.25 hectares comprising eight villages in Marakkanam taluk and 2,124.35 hectares in five villages in Vanur form part of the sanctuary. The area has adequate ecological, faunal, floral and geomorphological significance for the purpose of protecting, propagating and developing wildlife and its environment. The tank lies adjacent to the the Bay of Bengal along the East Coast, the notification said. “As many as 13 villages fall under the sanctuary. Kazhuveli is a wetland of international importance on the East Coast and the declaration has come as a shot in the arm for the Forest Department’s initiatives to protect and develop its surrounding environment,” said a Forest Department official. S. Vimalraj, a naturalist of Puducherry-based Indigenous Biodiversity Foundation (IBF), said, “With the creation of Kazhuveli bird sanctuary, a long-pending demand has finally attained fruition. The place is home to a diverse species of flora and fauna and is a feeding ground for long-distance migrants from the cold subarctic regions of Central Asia and Siberia including Black-tailed Godwits, Eurasian Curlew, White Stork and Ruff.” Spread over 670 sq. km of catchment areas, the Kazhuveli wetlands is said to be the second largest brackish water lake in South India after Pulicat lake. “The creation of the sanctuary will now ensure better protection of the wetlands,” he added.  As many as 13 villages fall under the sanctuary. Kazhuveli is a wetland of international importance on the East Coast and the declaration has come as a shot in the arm for the Forest Department’s initiatives to protect and develop its surrounding environment Forest Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kazhuveli-notified-as-16th-bird-sanctuary-in-tamil-nadu/article37876712.ece
07 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Neverending highway work causing miseries||The woes of road users travelling on a 48-km stretch of National Highway 75 appear to be neverending as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has failed to maintain the existing carriageway in motorable condition while executing the four-lane work between Hassan and Maranahalli, beyond Sakleshpur, in Hassan district. Commenced four years ago, four-laning of the stretch between Hassan and Maranahalli (before Shiradi Ghat) at an initial estimated cost of Rs. 574 crore under engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) mode, has not even reached 50% of the target. With the initial contractor declaring insolvency, NHAI asked the sub-contractor to continue the work to speed up the process. Yet, the work has not gained momentum. While laying two-lane concrete is being done patch by patch to build one side of the carriageway, bitumen cover on the existing carriageway left for vehicular movement has almost worn out leaving potholes and craters for negotiation all along the 48-km stretch. The crucial highway connecting New Mangalore Port with the hinterland thus has been posing a challenge to every kind of driver, from private cars to buses, from normal trucks to multi-axle trucks as well as LPG-transporting bullet tankers. The travel time has got extended by at least one hour for passenger vehicles, say drivers of private cars as well as buses while it is more than two hours for goods vehicles, particularly multi-axle trucks. A KSRTC driver, Sudhakar, said that apart from enduring the treacherous road stretch, vehicle components, including shock absorbers and tyres, get severely damaged thereby enhancing the maintenance cost by several times. While buses and goods vehicles have no other way but to use the National Highway 75, many driving private vehicles take a detour via Charmadi Ghat to avoid the Hassan-Maranahalli stretch. Lolaksha Kotian, who regularly drives between Bengaluru and Mangaluru, said that he takes the Belur-Mudigere-Charmadi Ghat stretch after driving on the four-lane between Nelamangala and Hassan. Though he ends up spending about an hour or so extra, he need not worry about any operational damage to his vehicle, Mr. Kotian said. Now, work is going on in bits and pieces only at a few places, even as it appeared that the execution has not gathered any pace even after four years of launch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/neverending-highway-work-causing-miseries/article37877084.ece
07 December 2021||Yangon,||Suu Kyi sentenced to four years in prison||The junta in Myanmar jailed ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi on Monday for four years for incitement against the military and breaching COVID-19 rules, the first of a series of possible sentences that could see the Nobel laureate imprisoned for decades. Ms. Suu Kyi, 76, has been detained since the Generals staged a coup and ousted her Government on February 1, ending the Southeast Asian country’s brief period of democracy. She has since been hit with a series of charges, including violating the official secrets act, illegally importing walkie talkies and electoral fraud. On Monday, Ms. Suu Kyi was sentenced to two years for incitement against the military and another two years for breaching a natural disaster law relating to COVID-19, junta spokesman Zaw Min Tun said. Former President Win Myint was also initially jailed for four years on the same charges Later in the day, junta chief Min Aung Hlaing “pardoned” the sentences of both to “two years imprisonment”, according to a statement read out on state TV. The incitement conviction related to statements Ms. Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party published shortly after the coup condemning the takeover. The COVID charge is linked to last year’s election, which the NLD won in a landslide, but the details are not clear with the government imposing a gag order on the court proceedings. Journalists have been barred from attending the special court hearings in Naypyidaw and Ms. Suu Kyi’s lawyers were recently banned from speaking to the media. UN slams jail term U.N. human rights chief Michelle Bachelet on Monday denounced a four-year jail term handed down to Myanmar’s ousted leader Suu Kyi after a “sham trial” and called for her immediate release. The conviction of Ms. Suu Kyi “closes yet another door to political dialogue” in Myanmar, where the military took power on February 1, and “will only deepen rejection of the coup”, Ms. Bachelet said in a statement in Geneva. A court jailed Ms. Suu Kyi for four years on Monday on charges of incitement and breaching coronavirus restrictions, said a source in a case that critics described as “farcical”. Dr. Sasa, a spokesperson for Myanmar’s shadow civilian government set up following the coup, called on the international community to step up sanctions against Myanmar’s military rulers. Western countries have demanded Ms. Suu Kyi’s release and condemned the violence since the coup in which some 1,300 people have been killed, according to rights groups. The EU’s top diplomat condemned the verdict as “politically motivated”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/suu-kyi-sentenced-to-four-years-in-prison/article37876606.ece
07 December 2021||Dharmapuri,||Dharmapuri medical college ‘hushes up’ ragging incident||Four pre-final year medical college students of the Dharmapuri Government Medical College Hospital were suspended and two wardens, including the chief warden of the hostel, resigned after a second-year student attempted to end his life on Sunday, a week after he sustained injuries allegedly caused by ragging at the medical college hostel. The student, Saravanan of second year MBBS was found unconscious in his room by fellow students, who were checking in on him after they were alerted by his WhatsApp status. While his condition was stable, medical college administration has been accused of hushing up the victim’s abuse last week, leading to the victim taking the extreme step. On December 23, Saravanan, a native of Namakkal and hostel resident was admitted to the hospital with injuries. Saravanan was allegedly stripped and beaten up by four senior students Rajkumar, Charan, Gokul and Dhanajayan inside the hostel. Saravanan was discharged a day later on December 24. However, no police complaint was lodged by the hospital authorities. A week later, Saravanan had attempted to end his life in his room. Speaking to The Hindu , Dean of Medical college hospital K. Amuthavalli said the hospital inquiry was under way after the incident and a committee was inquiring the students. “The committee submitted its report only on Saturday and over 100 students of Saravanan’s batch were questioned and they said the four students were known to commit such an offence. We had to verify before taking action,” said Ms. Amuthavalli, refuting allegations of delay. “We asked his mother to take him home till the inquiry was completed, but the family refused saying, why should he leave the hostel, while the offenders continued to stay there.” said the Dean. All the four accused students were natives of Dharmapuri. But asked about the absence of police complaint given that ragging was a serious offence, the Dean said, an AR entry (accident register) was made at the time of admission, and it was for the police to check the entry. The hospital need not alert them, said the Dean. However, in medico-legal cases, the doctor is required to intimate the police. Superintendent of Police C. Kalaichelvan denied ‘inaction’ by the police. “ I don’t want to indulge in a blame game. The first time (last week), no direct intimation was given by the hospital to the police. It’s standard procedure that upon admission of any person with injuries [in suspicious circumstances], the police should be intimated.” After rumours of a possible ragging incident surfaced, but no formal complaint was lodged, the police inspector concerned sent out a communication to the hospital authorities underlining that the police should be informed of these incidents, said Mr. Kalaichelvan. It was projected as a scuffle between students in a hostel and that medical careers were at stake and that the hospital wanted it to be handled as an internal matter to safeguard the reputation of the institution, says the Superintendent of Police. Saravanan had in the interim sent out a mail to the Medical Commission, feeling let down by the perceived delay in the inquiry by the medical college. He felt isolated and targeted, according to his accounts to the inquiry officer, prior to registering the CSR on Sunday, said a police source. The deputy warden, and the chief warden of the hostel, both associate professors at the hospital resigned from their wardenship on Monday.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.   It’s standard procedure that upon admission of any person with injuries, the police should be intimated. C. Kalaichelvan Superintendent of Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dharmapuri-medical-college-caught-in-a-row-over-hushing-up-ragging-incident/article37876875.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||All 13 fliers from at-risk countries test negative||There is no Omicron variant in Telangana yet! All of the13 international fliers to the State have tested negative for Omicron. Their genome sequencing results were received on Monday. The 13 passengers have come from ‘at risk’ countries to Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), Shamshabad, on different dates starting from December 1. RT-PCR tests are conducted on all passengers who come from the at-risk countries. From December 1 to 6, a total of 1,805 fliers have come from the countries to the airport on the outskirts of Hyderabad, including 535 people on Monday. Of them, 13 were detected with COVID-19. The first to test positive for COVID was a 35-year-old woman who had come from United Kingdom on December 1. Samples collected from all of them were sent for full genome sequencing to know if they have Omicron or Delta variant. In the meanwhile, they were isolated at Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS), Gachibowli. The genome sequencing is conducted at Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), and Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD). Till Monday night, results of no more of the international passengers were awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-omicron-case-in-ts-yet/article37876911.ece
07 December 2021||Coimbatore,||Delhi man arrested at Coimbatore airport||The Peelamedu police on Sunday arrested a 31-year-old man from Delhi who was found carrying a powdered substance, that had suspected traces of an explosive category substance, at the Coimbatore International Airport on Saturday. Varun Arora, who hails from Chattarpur in South Delhi, was arrested for offences under Section 5 (punishment for making or possessing explosives under suspicious circumstances) of the Explosive Substances Act, 1908. The police said that Arora was stopped by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel at the Coimbatore airport where he came to board a flight to Mumbai at 1.25 p.m. on Saturday. His luggage was passed through the X-Ray Baggage Inspection System (XBIS) which showed the presence of a heavy density material. When checked, the luggage had seven packets of a powder-like material in black, grey and brown colours. One of the dogs that sniffed the substance gave a negative indication. Though the passenger claimed that he was carrying semi-processed raw materials, he did not have proper documents for them. The CISF said, in its complaint, that there seemed to be a high probability that the powder in question, 2.5 kg in total, may belong to some kind of explosive category substance, the police said. The CISF stopped the man from boarding the flight and reported the incident to the Peelamedu police. Arora was taken to the Peelamedu station where senior officials questioned him and examined the substance he was carrying. “The man told us that he runs an industry in Himachal Pradesh which deals with metals, and the powder-like substance in the luggage was a type of ore which he imported from Cambodia. He claimed that he had come to Coimbatore to subject the ore to certain tests to ascertain the amount of metals like lead, copper and gold in it,” said a police officer. The bomb detection and disposal squad of the police also checked the substance with a vapour detector and a sniffer dog was pressed into service. According to the police, suspected presence of an explosive category substance was detected in the powder and he was arrested on Sunday. He was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody. The police will seek the court’s permission to send samples from the seven packets for an examination to a government-run laboratory. The investigation by the police found that Arora flew from Delhi to Kochi in November and his luggage was screened at both airports. But no prohibited item was detected in his luggage. After halting in Kochi for a few days, he travelled to Tiruchi and then to Coimbatore. “He claimed that he took the ore to a testing facility at Thiyagi Kumaran Street in the city. He was stopped by the CISF at the airport when he was about to board a flight to Mumbai on Saturday afternoon,” said the police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-man-arrested-at-coimbatore-airport-for-carrying-suspected-explosive-substance/article37876776.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Reaching for the stars||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reaching-for-the-stars/article37876807.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Fake entries mar T.N. data||Several fake entries have crept into the COVID-19 vaccination data in Tamil Nadu. The reason, according to a number of healthcare professionals and workers, is “unrealistic vaccination targets” that resulted in “undue pressure”, forcing them to make fake entries. Reliable sources in the Health Department said in some instances, multiple identity cards of individuals, readily available line-list with mobile numbers that include even deceased individuals, were utilised to make entries on the CoWIN portal. In some cases, database of mobile numbers not in use for a long time were obtained and made use of. Complaints of wrong entries have been surfacing in many parts of the State of late. In one instance, the mobile number of an unvaccinated senior citizen in Chennai received two text messages in October, months after he had died, stating that two different individuals were vaccinated with the first dose of Covishield. More recently, a government employee, who was fully vaccinated many months ago, received three SMS notifying that three persons had been vaccinated — one of receiving the first dose, while two others were fully vaccinated — using his phone number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fake-entries-mar-tn-vaccine-data/article37876627.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Repeal AFSPA now, says Rio||Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio on Monday demanded the repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act. After laying a wreath on the mortal remains of the 14 civilians in Mon, Mr. Rio reminded the Union Government of the criticism India had earned globally for the “draconian Act”. He criticised the Government for extending the “distur- bed area” tag for Nagaland every year.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/repeal-afspa-now-says-rio/article37876628.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||LS members flay killings||Cutting across party lines, Lok Sabha members on Monday condemned the death of 14 civilians in Nagaland, with some Opposition MPs calling for the repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act. Speaking during Zero Hour, the MPs called for compensation for those affected, and raised concern that the Army had mistaken unarmed civi- lians for terrorists.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ls-members-flay-killings/article37876629.ece
07 December 2021||GUNTUR,||CM lays stress on alternative crops||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that focus should be on cultivation of alternative crops, including millets and asked officials to provide necessary incentives. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, during a review meeting on agriculture and allied sectors on Monday, instructed the officials to constitute a millet board and set up processing units in places where they are cultivated more. He wanted incentives to be provided for natural farming. He said awareness should be created among farmers on organic and nature farming and added that organic methods should be promoted as an alternative to chemical fertilizers and pesticides. “Farmers should be told about the risks involved in cultivation of crops like paddy under borewells. Organic farming should be given priority by taking RBKs as a unit. The necessary equipment for organic farming should also be kept in Custom Hiring Centres (CHCs) being set up under RBKs,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Equipment Equipment, pesticides and organic fertilizer manufacturing industries required for organic farming should be encouraged and organic farming certification should be given through RBKs, he said. The officials informed the Chief Minister that 45,35,102 farmers have registered 1.12 crore acres of crop through e-cropping. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that strict action would be taken against sale of fake or adulterated seeds, pesticides and fertilizers and two years imprisonment would be imposed on those responsible. He said amendments will be made in the Act in this regard and an Ordinance would be released, if needed. He said RBKs were set up with the good intention to provide quality seeds, fertilizers and pesticides to farmers and any violations would not be tolerated. If employees were involved in it, they would be dismissed immediately and legal action would be taken. He instructed the officials to ensure adequate supply of seeds. The Chief Minister said the equipment to be provided to farmers should be made available in CHCs rationally based on the number of farmers and the land being cultivated and the crops, and mapping should be done on it. Organic feed should be made available for livestock. He directed the officials to focus on marketing of organic milk and processing of organic products and to take measures to set up one processing unit in each district. The officials informed the Chief Minister that so far 1,77,364 women benefited through Palavelluva programme. The average daily milk production was 71,911 litres in November 2021 as against 2,812 in November 2020. About 1.32 crore litres of milk was procured till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spurious-seed-sellers-will-be-jailed-says-jagan/article37876576.ece
07 December 2021||Virudhunagar,||Rain claims three lives in Virudhunagar||Rain had claimed three lives in the district since Sunday night. While S. Kaliappan, 75, was killed after a wall of his old house collapsed following rain in Sengottai near here on Sunday night, K. Mutheeswari, 3, died in a similar accident at her house in Kadaneri near Watrap. According to police, C. Marimuthu, 75, who went missing from his house in Keelavaragunaramapuram near Dhalavaipuram, was found dead in Deviyaar on Monday. Srivilliputtur recorded 73 mm of rainfall and Watrap reported 69.40 mm. According to official sources, nine huts have been partially damaged and one fully damaged in the district. Meanwhile, water stagnation was reported in a few places, including Sivakasi Taluk Office and Mullai Nagar in Srivilliputtur. After motor pumps used by Revenue Department officials could not help speedy draining of rainwater, Fire and Rescue Services personnel were deployed to use their high-speed motor. Meanwhile, after a day’s break, more water has been received in Vaippar. While Vembakottai dam received 9,275 cusecs of water, Public Works Department released 11,000 cusecs on Monday morning. Consequently, Irukkangudi dam, which is located downstream of Vembakottai dam, was receiving 5,650 cusecs of water of which 2,500 cusecs was being released towards Thoothukudi district. With the sudden flow of rainwater, surplus water was being discharged from seven dams and the eighth dam – Kullur Sandhai dam – had water to its full capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rain-claims-three-lives-in-virudhunagar-district/article37876870.ece
07 December 2021||Salem/Erode,||Water release from Mettur stepped up||The outflow from Mettur dam was increased on Monday and water was released through surplus gates after inflow to the dam increased. According to officials at Public Works Department, at 8 a.m, the water level at the dam was 120ft and stored capacity was 93,470 mcft. The dam received an inflow of 20,400 cusecs and 20,000 cusecs was released into River Cauvery. At 9 a.m, the inflow to the dam increased to 25,400 cusecs. 25,000 cusecs of was released from the dam into River Cauvery. Water level at Bhavanisagar dam The water level in Bhavanisagar dam continues to be maintained at 104.50 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 105 feet on Monday. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the reservoir was 2,832 cusecs while the discharge was 1,800 cusecs into the River Bhavani and 1,800 cusecs into the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal. The storage was 32.37 tmc ft against the total capacity of 32.80 tmc ft. Rainfall recorded in the area was 3.2 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/outflow-from-mettur-dam-increased/article37876888.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Inundated||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inundated/article37876680.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Grievance redressal meet at zonal level every week||Perhaps in a first for the city, the civic administration will hold public grievance redressal meets at the zonal level every week. “The details — the place, date and time — have to be publicised widely to ensure that the public are aware of this,” Chief Civic Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said. The BBMP, in a press release on Monday, quoted Mr. Gupta directing zonal commissioners to make the weekly meetings “evolve as the go-to destination for residents of the city to get their grievances on all civic issues resolved.” Complaints and issues flagged at these meetings need to be acted upon earnestly, he said. Zonal commissioners have been directed to make officials from other parastatals, NGOs and RWAs from the zone a part of the meetings along with officials from all departments of the civic body. Officials from Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB), Bengaluru Electricity Supply Company (BESCOM), Police, Traffic Police, Slum Development Board, Housing Board will also be part of these weekly meetings, sources said. The city police have already been conducting similar grievance redressal meetings every month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/grievance-redressal-meet-at-zonal-level-every-week/article37876681.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Acquiring of lands for defence parks begins in T.N.’||Land acquisition for the development of defence industrial parks and aerospace parks in Tamil Nadu has started and Memoranda of Understanding have been signed with 39 private and public industries, Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt informed the Rajya Sabha. Investments Replying to questions by DMK MP P. Wilson, the Minister said against the projected investments worth Rs. 12,226 crore as per MoUs with various private/public industries in the Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial Corridor (TNDIC), investments of more than Rs. 2,200 crore have already been made in the last three years. Further, the State government had also spent Rs. 30 crore for development of aerospace park, he said. Technology hub On the status of the projects, he said the State government had been directed to participate in the tender process and follow the procedures and scheme guidelines for the establishment of testing facilities under Defence Testing Infrastructure Scheme, and leasing of about 160 acres of defence land in Ulundurpet, Villupuram district, for creation of an aviation technology hub. Aircraft MRO complex “This proposal is outside the identified nodes of TNDIC. Also, a proposal has been submitted to Airport Authority of India for establishing Aircraft MRO complex in 50 acres of land at Chennai airport,” the Minister informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/acquiring-of-lands-for-defence-parks-begins-in-tn/article37876772.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||First conviction in 2020 Delhi riots cases||In the first conviction in cases related to the February 2020 north-east Delhi riots, a city court has convicted a man of vandalising and setting on fire a house in Bhagirathi Vihar before looting it. The arguments for sentencing will take place on December 22. The judgment convicting Dinesh Yadav alias Michael was pronounced by Additional Sessions Judge Virendra Bhat on Monday. According to the case records, the FIR was lodged on March 4 at Gokalpuri police station on a written complaint from a 73-year-old woman named Manori. In her complaint, she stated that on February 25, 2020 around 11.30 p.m., a riotous mob consisting of 150-200 people had trespassed into her house and committed vandalism, robbery and thereafter put it on fire. Yadav was arrested on June 8, 2020. The court framed charges against him on August 3, 2021. The first judgment in a riots-related case had come in July this year, when a man was acquitted of rioting and dacoity charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-conviction-in-2020-delhi-riots-cases/article37876808.ece
07 December 2021||KALABURAGI,||Four sentenced to seven years in jail||The third Additional District and Sessions Court in Kalaburagi has sentenced to seven years rigorous imprisonment four accused, Prasad Alandkar, Vinod Shankarwadi, Rajesh Gudur and Tausif Sheikh, on the charge of assault and robbery and imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 on each one of them. As per information provided by Public Prosecutor in the case Gurulingappa Srimanth Teli, the accused assaulted two people, Sangamesh and Shiva, and robbed them of their valuables worth Rs. 39,000 at a deserted hostel in Kalaburagi on May 10, 2013. Later, a case was registered at Brahmapur Police Station. The victims had been named as witnesses. After investigating the case, Police Inspector Sharanabasaveshwar B. filed the charge-sheet confirming the commission of the offence by the accused. Hearing both sides, Third Additional District and Sessions Judge Jagadish V.N. found the accused guilty of the offence and pronounced the judgment under Section 395 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-sentenced-to-seven-years-in-jail/article37876893.ece
07 December 2021||Hyderabad,||Grim milestone of 4,000 deaths||The number of COVID-19 deaths in Telangana touched 4,000 with one more patient succumbing to the infection on Monday. Officially reported number of COVID deaths in the State has been a contentious issue since first wave of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/grim-milestone-of-4000-deaths/article37876913.ece
07 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Over a 1,000 student volunteers clean beach||More than a 1,000 student volunteers from institutions run by Alva’s Education Foundation, Moodbidri, participated in a beach cleaning programme jointly organised with Surfing Swamy Foundation, Mulki, at Hejmadikodi in Udupi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-a-1000-student-volunteers-clean-beach/article37877088.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Suspense over proposed JD(S)-BJP alliance||Suspense continues over the proposed poll alliance between the regional outfit Janata Dal (Secular) and the ruling BJP for the Legislative Council polls to 25 seats on December 10 with former CM H.D. Kumaraswamy putting off the announcement by another day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/suspense-over-proposed-jds-bjp-alliance/article37877109.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,||State saw over 40 clusters in last one month||With over 40 clusters reported in the last one month, Karnataka has added a total of 8,610 COVID cases to its tally till December 5. Of these, over 800 cases are from the clusters alone. In fact, there has been over a 25% rise in the number of cases reported week on week in at least 16 districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-saw-over-40-clusters-in-last-one-month/article37877110.ece
07 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam editor facing sedition charge released||Anirban Roy Choudhury, editor and co-owner of a news portal in southern Assam who was slapped with sedition, was released on a personal recognisance bond on Monday. He was charged him with sedition on the basis of an FIR filed by a local businessman on December 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-editor-facing-sedition-charge-released/article37876802.ece
07 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Sugarcane dues: more mills face action in U.P.||After booking the management of a sugar mill in Lakhimpur Kheri on charges of “financial exploitation” of sugar cane farmers, FIRs have been lodged against at least five other mills in U.P. for not paying farmers their dues despite directions by the Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sugarcane-dues-more-mills-face-action-in-up/article37877032.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Revoke bail granted to Sudha Bharadwaj: NIA||The NIA sought in the Supreme Court on Monday an urgent listing of its appeal against the bail granted to lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj in the Bhima-Koregaon case. The agency said the default bail order came into effect from December 8, and the appeal needed to be heard quickly to prevent it from becoming infructuous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/revoke-bail-granted-to-sudha-bharadwaj-nia/article37877034.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,||130 students have||As many as 130 students from class I to class X have tested positive for COVID-19, data collated from all 34 educational districts as on Monday by the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) has revealed. The highest number — 92 — has been reported in Chikkamagaluru district. All are students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/130-students-have/article37876683.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI ought to probe cases against Param Bir: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday indicated its prima facie view that the CBI, and not the Maharashtra Police, ought to investigate the allegations of corruption and misconduct against former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-ought-to-probe-cases-against-param-bir-sc/article37876803.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||No possibility of a lockdown in Delhi: Jain||There is no possibility of a lockdown in Delhi due to COVID-19 and a ‘Graded Response Action Plan’ will be followed if cases rise, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said there was no need to panic and his Government was prepared to protect the people against Omicron.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-possibility-of-a-lockdown-in-delhi-jain/article37876805.ece
07 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||Protest by KSLU students continues into the night||Seeking the withdrawal of the decision of KSLU to hold offline examinations, scores of law students from different law colleges of the State continued their protest in Hubballi into the night on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protest-by-kslu-students-continues-into-the-night/article37876708.ece
07 December 2021||Patna,||JD(U) to call all-party meeting to discuss caste census in Bihar||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said the Janata Dal(U) wanted to have a caste census in the State and he would soon call an all-party meeting to discuss its modalities. He said all political parties were ready for this and the Deputy Chief Minister, who is from the BJP, had been asked to talk to his party leaders on it and then “everything will be discussed at the all-party meeting to announce the final date”. “We want to do this and have spoken to all. The Deputy Chief Minister too has been asked to talk to his party [BJP] leaders on it. When they will be done and let us know, an all-party meeting will be called so everyone should be clear on this. There should be one view of all on how census will be done in the State and when all will have their own opinion, a decision will be taken by the Government to finalise a date and announce it,” Mr. Kumar told presspersons after his weekly programme of public interaction to hear and address people’s grievances. He said the JD(U) “wants to hold it in a proper and transparent manner so that no one will be missed”. Earlier in 2014-15, the census under the title “Social and economic survey” was done in Karnataka. “If the census gets done here, Bihar will be the second State to do so,” a senior Rashtriya Janata Dal leader said. However, the State BJP leaders declined to make any comment. “Whatever decision our party leadership will take, we will follow that,” a BJP leader said. Centre disagrees Earlier, during the recently concluded five-day winter session of the legislature, Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav, along with the leaders of other Opposition parties, had met Mr. Kumar and urged him to hold the State-specific census as announced by him earlier. Mr. Kumar assured Mr. Yadav of calling an all-party meeting very soon. In August, leaders of 10 political parties, including Mr. Kumar and Mr. Yadav, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to hold the caste census in the country. However, the Union Government had already made it clear that it would not as “it will create social disharmony in society”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jdu-to-call-all-party-meeting-to-discuss-caste-census-in-bihar/article37876525.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||MPs in LS condemn Nagaland killings||Cutting across party lines, Lok Sabha members on Monday condemned the death of 14 civilians in Nagaland following a botched Army operation, with some Opposition MPs calling for the repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA). Speaking during Zero Hour, the MPs called for compensation for those affected, and raised concern that the Army had mistaken unarmed civilians for terrorists. Nagaland MP Tokheho Yepthomi of the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party, an ally of the BJP, told the House that a group of daily wage workers who were returning to their village were killed by 21 Para Commando unit, reportedly after information that some NSCN(K) terrorists were travelling in the area. “They got the information that the undergrounds were moving in two-three vehicles, whereas those eight people were moving in a pick-up mini truck. When the 21 Paratroopers approached them, they indiscriminately fired upon them and killed six of them on the spot in the mini truck. The other two were seriously injured,” Mr Yepthomi said. He said the bodies of the six workers were shifted to another mini-truck and covered with tarpaulin. When the villagers protested and tried to take back the bodies, there was a scuffle and the villagers set fire to three vehicles of the security forces, the MP said. The forces then fired and killed seven more people, he said. “I think, there is the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act in the State. But this Act has not given powers to the armed forces to indiscriminately kill the public,” Mr. Yepthomi said. He said while the State Government had announced a Rs. 5 lakh ex gratia, the Centre should give compensation as the 21 Paratroopers were under its control. Gaurav Gogoi, Congress MP from Assam, said December 4 and 5 would be considered black days in the history of Nagaland. “The death of Indian civilians on the basis of inaccurate intelligence inputs is highly condemnable. The question on everyone’s mind is how come a group of unarmed civilians, unarmed labourers could not be distinguished from hardcore militants,” Mr. Gogoi said. DMK MP T.R. Baalu called for an inquiry and compensation for the victims’ kin. Trinamool MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay said the killings of labourers and one solider was “painful”. NCP MP Supriya Sule said Rs. 25 lakh compensation was not enough and that it should be Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 1 crore, including for the solider who lost his life. While Congress MP Pradyut Bordoloi called for an “amendment” to the AFSPA, AIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi said the Act should be repealed. Congress MP Manish Tewari called for an impartial judicial inquiry by a High Court judge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mps-in-ls-condemn-nagaland-killings/article37876547.ece
07 December 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra Omicron tally goes up to 10||Maharashtra on Monday reported two more patients with the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, taking its total tally in the State to 10. One of them is a 37-year-old man who came from Johannesburg, South Africa, on November 25. His 36-year-old friend, who came from the U.S. the same day, has also tested positive for the new variant, the State Public Health Department said. Both patients have no symptoms and have been admitted to Seven Hills Hospital in Mumbai. They have taken Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine. Five high-risk and 315 low-risk contacts of both these patients have been traced. Further tracing is currently under way. All 6,263 international passengers from at-risk countries and 635 of the 28,437 who arrived from other countries at three international airports in the State — Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur — have undergone RT-PCR test. Only 11 from at-risk countries tested positive for COVID-19. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra Government on Monday reduced the rates for RT-PCR tests. A sum of Rs. 350 will be charged for the pick up of sample from collection sites, transport and reporting of sample. And Rs. 500 will be charged for collection from kiosks, COVID-19 care centres, hospitals and clinics and quarantine centres. A sum of Rs. 700 will be charged for collection of sample from the patient’s residence. Labs cannot charge more than the prescribed limit from patients, said Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-omicron-tally-goes-up-to-10/article37876561.ece
07 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland CM calls for scrapping of AFSPA||Two days after a botched ambush by 21 Para Commando unit in Nagaland’s Mon district, Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio has called for scrapping of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act. He reminded the Centre of the criticism India had earned globally for the “draconian Act” after laying a wreath on the mortal remains of 14 civilians in the district headquarters of Mon on Monday. The funeral was conducted amid a six-hour shutdown across the Naga-inhabited areas, called by the Naga Students’ Federation in protest against the killings. He criticised the Union Government for extending the “disturbed area” tag on Nagaland every year to prolong the AFSPA despite a ceasefire agreement for almost 25 years. His Meghalaya counterpart Conrad K. Sangma demanded the repeal of the AFSPA as did Raijor Dal president and MLA Akhil Gogoi and the Asom Jatiya Parishad. Mr. Rio said the Centre and the State Government had announced a total ex-gratia of Rs. 16 lakh for each of the deceased and Rs. 1.5 lakh for each injured. Wangno Konyak, the secretary of Konyak Union, said Mon would shut down on Tuesday in protest against the killings and the district would observe seven days of mourning. “There may not be any shutdown beyond Tuesday,” he told The Hindu . The rest of Nagaland continued to simmer. The Nagaland Government suspended all cultural performances of the popular Hornbill Festival on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagaland-cm-calls-for-scrapping-of-afspa/article37876537.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Revoke Sudha Bharadwaj bail: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) sought in the Supreme Court on Monday an urgent listing of its appeal against the bail granted to lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj in the Bhima-Koregaon case. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the agency, said the default bail order of the Bombay High Court came into effect from December 8, and the appeal needed to be heard quickly to prevent it from becoming infructuous. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana agreed to consider it, and asked Mr. Mehta to share the number of the petition. Ms. Bharadwaj was arrested and has been in jail for over two years in the Bhima Koregaon case. The High Court had upheld Ms. Bhardwaj’s indefeasible right to personal liberty. It said the guarantee of personal liberty under Article 21 (right to life) of the Constitution could not be thwarted on technical ground that her plea for default bail was premature. That would be a “too technical and formalistic view of the matter”. The NIA court did not have the jurisdiction to extend the period of detention beyond the stipulated 90 days, the High Court had said in its bail order on December 1. The High Court had, however, denied bail to Rona Wilson, Varavara Rao, Sudhir Dhawale, Surendra Gadling, Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira in the case. They are lodged in the Taloja Central Jail. Ms. Bhardwaj was taken into custody by the Pune Police in 2018. The chargesheet was filed in February 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/revoke-sudha-bharadwaj-bail-nia/article37876566.ece
07 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Naga killings point to AFSPA pitfalls||The killing of civilians in a botched ambush by the armed forces in Nagaland’s Mon district on Saturday and its violent fallout have put the spotlight on the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act of 1958. Viewed as a draconian law in Northeast India, a region troubled by extremism, the AFSPA gives the armed forces the power to maintain public order in “disturbed areas”. It gives the armed forces the authority to use force or even open fire after warning a person found to be in contravention of the law. The AFSPA also lets the armed forces arrest a person and enter or search premises without a warrant and ban the possession of firearms if “reasonable suspicion exists”. In the northeast, the AFSPA is in force in Assam, Nagaland, Manipur, the Tirap, Changlang and Longding districts of Arunachal Pradesh and areas falling within the jurisdiction of eight police stations of the State bordering Assam. For Jammu and Kashmir, the Armed Forces (Jammu and Kashmir) Special Powers Act, 1990, is in force. The Union Home Ministry extended the AFSPA for the umpteenth time through a notification on June 30 by declaring Nagaland a “disturbed area” and citing “dangerous condition”. Binalakshmi Nepram, activist and founder of Manipur Gun Survivors’ Network, said the massacre was a reminder of how the AFSPA was a blot on India’s pride as the world’s largest democracy. “The call for repealing AFSPA is not anti-national. The British left India in 1947 and colonial laws such as AFSPA must also go,” she said. Unprecedented scale Monalisa Changkija, author and founder-editor of Dimapur-based Nagaland Page agreed. She said the Mon massacre, the kind Nagaland did not witness even during the days of conflict, would have a bearing on the peace process. Chuba Ozukum, adviser to Naga Hoho, the apex body of all Naga tribes, said, “The AFSPA gives the armed forces the licence to kill. And when they carry out such shameful operations without keeping the local police in the loop, as has been the practice for long, it gives the message that the Centre just does not care about the peace process,” he said. Mr. Ozukum said one least expected such an operation in the eastern part of Nagaland that has been friendlier with the Centre than the other parts of the Naga-inhabited areas. “The mindless killings have only indicated that the political negotiations [peace process] have no future. The Government of India is not conveying that it is going to accept or recognise our rights,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/naga-killings-point-to-afspa-pitfalls/article37876539.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath highlights border challenges||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday highlighted the challenges faced by India due to what he termed ‘unprovoked aggression” on the northern border. Addressing the first India-Russia 2+2 ministerial meeting, Mr. Singh said: “I had the opportunity to discuss in detail the emerging challenges India is confronted with and the enhanced requirement of India for closer military-to-military technical collaboration with Russia. The pandemic, the extraordinary militarisation and expansion of armament in our neighbourhood and unprovoked aggression on our northern border since early summer of 2020 has thrown in several challenges.” Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu also participated in the meeting held ahead of the summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Valdimir Putin. Mr. Singh sought “greater engagements in Central Asia and the Indian Ocean Region” during the talks. In his address, General Shoigu said the agencies from both sides will collaborate with each other to increase “regional trust and global security”. Mr. Lavrov pointed out the commonalities between Indian and Russian positions on international issues. In all, at the 20th meeting of India-Russia Inter-Govt Commission on Military & Military Technical Technical Cooperation (IRIGC-M&MTC) four agreements, contracts and protocols were signed. Bilateral deal A bilateral logistics support deal Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), as well as a Navy-to-Navy cooperation MoU were also on the agenda. Russia has also begun deliveries of the S-400 long range air defence systems, the shipments of which are enroute. They should arrive in the next 10 days, a senior defence official said. “We are meeting at a critical juncture in the geopolitical environment which is in great flux especially after the COVID-19 pandemic. Our ties have been close and time tested. We have had an active dialogue at a political level and a strong defence partnership over many years,” said Mr. Jaishankar who pointed out that globalisation is “over centralised” and sought multipolarity in world affairs. The deal for 6.1 lakh Ak-203 assault rifles is estimated at over Rs. 5,000 crore and will be manufactured by a joint venture, Indo-Russian Rifles Private Ltd (IRRPL) at Korwa, Amethi in Uttar Pradesh. IRRPL was set up jointly between the erstwhile OFB [now Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Ltd.] and Munitions India Ltd. of India and Rosoboronexport (RoE) and Kalashnikov of Russia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-russia-renew-military-technical-pact/article37876528.ece
07 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Sugar cane dues: more mills face action in U.P.||After booking the management of a sugar mill in Lakhimpur Kheri on charges of “financial exploitation” of sugar cane farmers, FIRs have been lodged against at least five other mills in Uttar Pradesh for not paying farmers their dues despite directions by the Government. While three cases were lodged against mills in Shamli, another was lodged in neighbouring Baghpat district in west U.P., where farmers and farm outfits have been staging a dharna against the three farm laws and for a guaranteed minimum support price law as well as pending cane payments. A second FIR was lodged in Lakhimpur Kheri, the district in the Terai often dubbed the “sugar bowl”. Financial exploitation The district cane officer of Baghpat said an FIR was lodged against the Malakpur Sugar Mill for dues of Rs. 248 crore. The managers of the Bajaj Hindusthan Sugar mill in Palia in Lakhimpur Kheri district were booked for criminal conspiracy, cheating and criminal breach of trust for not paying dues of over Rs. 266 crore to the farmers. The mill was accused of “financial exploitation” of farmers, fraud and fuelling “discontent” among them by not paying them their dues for a year. A second FIR was lodged against a sugar mill in Gola in the same district on the complaint of a BJP MLA Arvind Giri. The FIRs lodged against the Oon, Thana Bhawan and Shamli sugar mills in Shamli district were under IPC Section 420 and Sections 3 and 7 of The Essential Commodities Act, district cane officer Vijay Bahadur Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sugar-cane-dues-more-mills-face-action-in-up/article37876531.ece
07 December 2021||Bhopal,||School in M.P. attacked over ‘conversion’ case||The Vidisha district police in Madhya Pradesh will investigate into an alleged incident of religious conversion in a school after members of a pro-Hindutva organisation held a protest in front of the school seeking action against the accused. The alleged incident took place at St. Joseph School in Ganjbasoda. Videos and news reports of the incident reportedly show members of the pro-Hindutva organisation protesting.  It was found that the members of the Shree Maharana Rajput Samiti, the Ahirwar Samaj and the Kayasth Samaj of Ganjbasoda, Vidisha, submitted a memorandum to the Vidisha Collector alleging an incident of religious conversion in the school. In the memorandum dated December 4, 2021, the three organisations have alleged that on October 31 this year, eight schoolchildren of other faith were allegedly converted. The organisations have demanded an investigation into the incident and action in a week’s time. “On the basis of the memorandum, we will conduct an investigation,” Basoda Sub-Divisional Magistrate R. Rai told media persons. ‘Children safe’ Tension gripped the area as the members of the pro-Hindutva organisation and other organisations gathered at St. Joseph School which was open. The protesters raised slogans and allegedly threw stones on the glass windows at the entrance. All school children are safe, said Basoda Sub-Divisional Police Officer B.B. Sharma. He added that all other staff members of the school are also safe. The protest was withdrawn after an assurance by the district officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/school-in-mp-attacked-over-conversion-case/article37876611.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition to intensify stir in Rajya Sabha||Opposition parties have decided to intensify protests inside the Rajya Sabha on the suspension of 12 House members, overruling a view that House disruption should be calibrated to allow them to have their say but to stop the Government from having its way. Opposition leaders have decided that the protests in the Upper House should not spill over to the Lower House. It has been a week since the 12 MPs have been on a sit-in at the Gandhi statue in Parliament during its working hours. The first adjournment on Monday came within 10 minutes after the House sat down for the day in the morning. At noon, when the House reconvened, it worked for 18 minutes amid cacophonous protests from the Opposition. Later in the day, the House saw two more adjournments. The Opposition did not participate in a debate on price rise that was listed for the day. The Opposition parties had two rounds of meetings before the session and another one during the lunch break. According to sources, a section of Congress leaders, including Mallikarjun Kharge, Anand Sharma and Jairam Ramesh, wanted the House to run to allow the Opposition to seek clarifications on Home Minister Amit Shah’s statement on Nagaland. But the other Opposition parties and a section of Congress leaders vehemently opposed the idea. ‘A cheap stunt’ The Trinamool Congress’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien said the House functioning could not return to normal till the return of the 12 MPs. He questioned the Government’s sincerity in organising the debate on price rise, dismissing it as a cheap stunt. The DMK’s Tiruchi Siva said it was wrong to say that the Opposition is shrugging off its responsibility. “The Lok Sabha is functioning and each party in the Rajya Sabha is present there. They are raising these issues and asking the necessary questions to the Government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-to-intensify-stir-in-rajya-sabha/article37876543.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC’s 1997 verdict laid down guidelines for use of AFSPA||The investigation into the Army’s botched operation in Nagaland may have to provide answers to whether a 1997 Supreme Court judgment advocating “caution and use of minimum force against our own people” in AFSPA regions was followed or not. The November 1997 judgment of a Constitution Bench in Naga People’s Movement for Human Rights vs Union of India held that the power under Section 4(a) of the AFSPA to use deadly force should be employed only under “certain circumstances”. The court noted that the “power to cause death is relatable to maintenance of public order in a disturbed area and is to be exercised under definite circumstances”. These preconditions include a declaration by a high-level authority that an area is “disturbed”. The officer concerned decides to use deadly force on the opinion that it is “necessary” to maintain public order. But he has to give “due warning” first. The persons against whom the action was taken by the armed forces should have been “acting in contravention of any law or order for the time being in force in the disturbed area”. A July 2016 judgment authored by Justice Madan B. Lokur in Extra Judicial Execution Victim Families Association quoted the “Ten Commandments” issued by the Chief of the Army Staff for operations in disturbed areas. “Remember that the people you are dealing with are your own countrymen. All your conduct must be dictated by this one significant consideration,” the court had quoted from the Commandments. One of the Commandments exhorted personnel to “be compassionate, help the people and win their hearts and minds. Employ all resources under your command to improve their living conditions”. The judgment ended with the final Commandment to “uphold Dharma and take pride in your country and the Army”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scs-1997-verdict-laid-down-guidelines-for-use-of-afspa/article37876551.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI ought to probe cases against Param Bir, says SC||The Supreme Court on Monday indicated its prima facie view that the CBI, and not the Maharashtra Police, ought to investigate the allegations of corruption and misconduct against former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. A Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul did not stop the police from continuing with their probe but restrained it from filing chargesheets against him. The court then sought the CBI’s response to taking over the case. The CBI has to respond through an affidavit to be filed in a week. The court said the primary question that needed to be answered was that of bias raised by Mr. Singh against the police. The Bench was hearing an appeal filed by Mr. Singh against a Bombay High Court order dismissing his plea challenging the enquiry ordered against him for corruption and alleged violation of service rules. Senior advocate Darius Kambatta, for Maharashtra, said the cases should be with the police. The issues raised by Mr. Singh concerned departmental enquiries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-ought-to-probe-cases-against-param-bir-says-sc/article37876556.ece
07 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam editor facing sedition charge released on PR bond||Anirban Roy Choudhury, editor and co-owner of a news portal in southern Assam who was slapped with sedition charge, was released on a personal recognisance (PR) bond on Monday. The police in Silchar town had charged him with sedition on the basis of a first information report (FIR) filed by Santanu Sutradhar, a local businessman and member of the All Assam Bengali Hindu Association on December 2. Mr. Choudhury was also charged with other Sctions of the Indian Penal Code for a November 28 editorial that was allegedly aimed at igniting enmity between the Assamese and Bengali-speaking people of the State. The Barak Valley is dominated by Bengalis and the Brahmaputra Valley by Assamese speakers. “About 150 journalists from across Cachar district converged on Sunday and resolved to write to Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma requesting him not to take any action against Mr. Choudhury, editor of the local news portal Barak Bulletin ,” said Silchar-based journalist Aniruddha Laskar. The journalists pointed out that the FIR was an infringement upon the right to the freedom of expression of media houses. Several journalists accompanied Mr. Choudhury to the Silchar Sadar police station where he was summoned at 11 a.m. “The police questioned him for an hour and let him go on a PR bond,” Mr. Laskar said. The case against Mr. Choudhury, however, will run its legal course. He said he would move the court for bail on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-editor-facing-sedition-charge-released-on-pr-bond/article37876530.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Afforestation funds released to States||The Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) has so far disbursed Rs. 48,606 crore to 32 States, according to a response by the Environment Ministry in the Lok Sabha on Monday. In August 2019, the Ministry said it had transferred Rs. 47,436 crore to 27 States for afforestation. CAMPA funds are part of long-pending dues of the Compensatory Afforestation Fund (CAF), a Rs. 54,000-crore tranche collected for nearly a decade as environmental compensation from industry, which has razed forest land for its business plans. By comparison, the Centre had collected Rs. 9,656 crore from the States from Jan 2019 to March 2020, the Monday statement from Lok Sabha noted. States have their own established monitoring mechanism to check if the funds are being used for their intended purpose. The Centre also has its own monitoring scheme and approves funds for use by States. “Independent concurrent monitoring and evaluation and third party monitoring of works undertaken from State Fund is included in the Annual Plan of Operations of the respective State CAMPA and States are required to carry out internal and third party monitoring of the Compensatory Afforestation (CA) and other activities,” the Environment Ministry said in its reply. In addition, “measurable output” of all physical activities and targets of each permissible activity along with checking if deadlines are met is monitored by the State Executive Committee and State Steering Committee of the respective State CAMPA. Chhattisgarh and Odisha have had the maximum amount transferred to them, or close to Rs. 5,700 crore each followed by Jharkhand and Maharashtra at around Rs. 3,000 crore. Independent authority The CAF Act 2016, which came into being more than a decade since it was devised, established an independent authority — the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority — to execute the fund. However, it was not until last August that the rules governing the management of the fund were finalised. The rules specify that the funds are to be used for catchment area treatment, wildlife management, forest fire prevention, soil and moisture conservation work in the forest. It cannot be used for payment of salary, travelling allowances, making buildings and buying office equipment for forest officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/afforestation-funds-released-to-states/article37876554.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will deepen ties with Bangladesh: Modi||India would further “expand and deepen” ties with Bangladesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, marking Maitri Divas that commemorates the day when India recognised Bangladesh as an independent country in 1971. Addressing an event organised jointly at the Indian Council of World Affairs, former Information Minister of Bangladesh Hasanul Haq Inu recollected the struggle to liberate Bangladesh from Pakistan and urged both countries to remain vigilant against the “communal bomb”. Mr. Modi said in his public message, “Today India and Bangladesh commemorate Maitri Diwas. We jointly recall and celebrate the foundations of our 50 years of friendship. I look forward to continue working with H.E. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to further expand and deepen our ties.” The war to liberate Bangladesh began on December 3, 1971 and ended with the signing of the Instrument of Surrender by Pakistani General A.A.K. Niazi on December 16. Three days after the beginning of the war, the Government of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi recognised Bangladesh as an independent nation. The message of Maitri Divas set the stage for several bilateral engagements, including the visit of President Ram Nath Kovind on December 16 to celebrate the Victory Day. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will visit Dhaka on Tuesday. “I remember with great gratitude the sacrifices of the members of the Indian armed forces and its people in our liberation war. Today our great partnership has matured, taking dynamic, comprehensive and strategic shape,” Ms. Hasina said. Mr. Inu said both sides should ensure that the border was policed without the use of firearms. “We need to fix our priorities. We need to remove irritants. I do humbly say that the border is an irritation for both of us,” he stated, hinting at the frequent killing of Bangladesh civilians at the border. He asked both countries to harness natural resources to defeat poverty and communal forces.  I remember with great gratitude the sacrifices of the members of the Indian armed forces and its people in our liberation war Sheikh Hasina Bangladesh PM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-deepen-ties-with-bangladesh-modi/article37876563.ece
07 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Jagdish Thakor takes over as Gujarat Congress president||Jagdish Thakor on Monday took over as the Gujarat Congress president while exhorting party workers to work for the Assembly polls to be held in December 2022 to bring the party back to power after 25 years. Mr. Thakor said that the party would work unitedly to achieve victory by dislodging the ruling BJP, which has been in power since 1998, winning five Assembly polls in a row. “I ask every Congress worker to forget everything and work for the party for 12 months from now. We have got adequate time and favourable circumstances to ensure our victory at the Assembly polls,” he said. OBC face Mr. Thakor ruled out differences among its top leaders and stressed that the party’s state unit was united against the ruling party. Former Parliamentarian and legislator Jagdish Thakor, a prominent OBC face, was appointed the Gujarat Congress chief by the party president in place of Amit Chavda, who had resigned from the post following debacle in the local municipal and panchayats elections earlier this year. Mr. Thakor belongs to the numerically significant Thakor community, which wields considerable influence in north and central Gujarat regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jagdish-thakor-takes-over-as-gujarat-congress-president/article37877036.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Pay up or wind up, HC tells SpiceJet||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the airline SpiceJet to wind up the company for non-payment of over $24 million to a Swiss company which maintains, repairs and overhauls aircraft engines, and components. Justice R. Subramanian passed the order while allowing a company petition filed by Credit Suisse AG, which had been assigned the right to receive the payments due to SR Technics. He directed an Official Liquidator to take over the assets of SpiceJet. However, after pronouncing the judgment, the judge stayed the operation of his verdict for a period of three weeks to enable SpiceJet to go on appeal. The stay was granted on condition that the company should deposit $4 million to the credit of SR Technics within a fortnight. While allowing the petition moved by Credit Suisse, the judge agreed with its counsel Rahul Balaji that SpiceJet had clearly accepted its liabilities, in terms of an agreement entered between the two companies for a period of 10 years in 2011, by executing certificates of acceptance. Counsel said that despite executing the certificates of acceptance to avail the benefit of deferring the payment by six months, SpiceJet had failed to honour its commitments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pay-up-or-wind-up-hc-tells-spicejet/article37876610.ece
07 December 2021||Kolkata,||A song goes out of tune for Babul Supriyo||During the campaign for the municipal polls in Tripura, a group of Trinamool Congress leaders assembled at a street corner when a vehicle with a few BJP leaders drove past. The BJP supporters on the vehicle were playing at a high volume a song that had become a major hit during election campaigns in West Bengal. “ Phutbe Ebar Padma Phool… Ei Trinamool arr na (The lotus will bloom this time, Trinamool should not be here any more),” went the catchy number. Among the Trinamool leaders at the street corner was former Union Minister Babul Supriyo. The song directed at the party was sung by Mr. Supriyo, then a BJP leader, in 2019 before the Lok Sabha election. It was routinely played at almost every public gathering of the BJP in West Bengal in 2019 and ahead of the 2021 Assembly election. Not only does it have a catchy tune, the scathing lyrics target the Trinamool Congress leadership, with lines such as “ Didi pa-e Hawai choti, Bhai-ra sob kotipati ([Though] Didi wears flip-flops, brothers are all crorepatis). A feather in his cap when he was with the BJP, the song is turning out to be an embarrassment for the singer-turned-politician after he has switched sides and joined the Trinamool. In Tripura, a red-faced Mr. Supriyo insisted that whatever he takes up, he completes it with all sincerity. “The BJP is playing my song…I promise I will come up with a song for Trinamool,” he said. However, after that incident in November, Mr. Supriyo was not seen campaigning much in the civic polls of Tripura and has been missing from the Trinamool’s campaign for the Kolkata Municipal Corporation polls. After he switched sides, the West Bengal BJP leadership had promised to greet Mr. Supriyo with the song whenever he campaigned for the Trinamool. “What a better way to welcome him than playing his song,” BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh had said. The former two-time MP had quit the BJP after he was dropped from the Union Ministry in July this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-song-goes-out-of-tune-for-babul-supriyo/article37876521.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Modi, Amitabh on Bihar’s list of vaccinated||In Arwal, the district administration sacked data operators Pravin Kumar and Vinay Kumar for the irregularities. Apart from the Prime Minister and Bollywood actors, sources in the Health Department said names of more than a dozen politicians from both the State and the Centre were found in the list. However, Mr. Pravin Kumar told a local news channel that they had been working under tremendous pressure to enter the names that they were provided with. “We were told to enter names of those in the list provided to us by our manager. We were supposed to make entries into the computer but when the irregularity surfaced, only the two of us are sacked,” he said. His colleague at Sahar Telpa APHC, Vinay Kumar, said the two were made scapegoats. “Such things happen when the Government announces to have administered over 33 lakh vaccine doses on a single day on September 17, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday. Such glaring irregularities are bound to happen,” said Shakeel, who heads the Bihar-based Centre for Health and Resource Management, a civil society organisation for providing medical assistance to those in need. Dr. Shakeel had earlier raised doubts over the number of doses claimed to have been administered by the Government under its mega Tikaa Abhiyan (vaccination programme) on September 17, saying it could be a “case of data manipulation, misuse of resources and mismanagement to beat drums of achievement”. Earlier this year, hundreds of fake entries had cropped up in the list of those allegedly tested for COVID-19 at primary health centres in Bihar, causing major embarrassment for the Health Department. Then, too, some data operators were sacked for entering fake names and details. Several people have also complained that they have received incorrect vaccination messages. In some cases, the messages were issued in the names of even deceased persons. Several others, who have received only the first dose, said their names have been uploaded on the list of fully vaccinated people on CoWIN.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-amitabh-on-bihars-list-of-vaccinated/article37876516.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Fake entries mar T.N. data on vaccination||Complaints of wrong entries have been surfacing in many parts of the State of late. In one instance, the mobile number of an unvaccinated senior citizen in Chennai received two text messages in October, months after he had died. It stated that two different individuals were vaccinated with the first dose of Covishield. More recently, a Government employee, who was fully vaccinated many months ago, was surprised when he received three SMS in a span of two or three minutes notifying that three persons had been vaccinated — one of receiving the first dose, while two others were fully vaccinated — using his phone number. In another instance, a nurse found a man, who claimed to have not received the first dose, already registered on the CoWIN portal as received the first dose of Covishield. A section of medical officers said most of these complaints were of fake entries. Unrealistic targets “Fake entries are a real problem. The pressure to achieve unrealistic daily targets has left many in a pathetic situation. For instance, a primary health centre is given a daily target of 250 doses. But they are able to convince only 75 to 80 persons to get vaccinated. So, they get identity cards from individuals or the line list of persons and make fake entries. What is needed is not unrealistic targets but a scientific approach to encourage people to get vaccinated,” an official source in the Health Department said. A Government doctor said some of her colleagues had obtained a database of mobile numbers not in use for a long time to make fake entries. “They had no choice as the pressure to achieve these targets was building up. If these unrealistic targets were not met, they were called to attend late evening meetings to give an explanation,” she said. Workers under stress A medical officer, on condition of anonymity, said, “Do not fix targets. Instead, the department should motivate public to get vaccinated by different means. The department is pushing us to complete the target. So, healthcare workers themselves are making fake entries to achieve the target.” Earlier, memos were issued to staff for not achieving these targets. “The field-level staff are being humiliated during door-to-door vaccination drives. The remaining unvaccinated are a highly reluctant population and we need different kinds of measures to reach out to them,” he said. In the light of complaints on fake/false certificates for COVID-19 vaccination, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine T.S. Selvavinayagam issued a circular to all Deputy Directors Of Health Services (DDHS). It said that any violations or lapses on the part of DDHS would be viewed seriously. He called the incidents “highly regrettable, punishable and not an ethical practice” after working hard since February 2020. They were told to issue necessary instructions to all field health staff/outsourced staff not to indulge in such practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fake-entries-mar-tn-data-on-vaccination/article37876523.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC stays polls for OBC seats in Maharashtra||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed the local body election in seats reserved for Other Backward Classes (OBC) in Maharashtra. “The election programme (notifications) in respect of all the local bodies across the State in respect of reserved seats for category ‘Other Backward Class’ shall remain stayed until further orders. Rest of the election programme(s) can proceed for other reserved seats (viz., other than OBC), including general seats,” a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar directed in the order. The order came in a petition challenging a Maharashtra ordinance which introduced 27% reservation for OBC category in local elections. The State Election Commission had subsequently issued notifications to give effect to the ordinance. However, the Supreme Court ordered the State Election Commission to “desist from proceeding with the election programme already notified in respect of reserved seats for ‘OBC category only’ in the local bodies concerned”. It said even in other future elections to Maharashtra’s local bodies, be it mid-term or general elections, the State Election Commission has to “desist from notifying reserved seats for OBC category” until further orders of the Supreme Court. The seemingly indefinite stay was ordered after the court came to know that the 27% reservation was introduced through the ordinance without any empirical data to substantiate the claim for or extent of reservation. The court said a “triple test” has to be followed before deciding on the extent of quota to a category. Though a Commission was set up in June 2021 to collect empirical data, the court noticed that the State did not wait for the panel to come up with a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-stays-polls-for-obc-seats-in-maharashtra/article37876527.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. expresses regret over Nagaland killings||Narrating the sequence of events, Mr. Shah said after the Army received information about the movement of insurgents in Mon district, the 21 Para Commando unit laid an ambush. Seeing a vehicle approaching, the security forces signalled it to stop, but it tried to speed away. Suspecting the presence of insurgents, the security personnel opened fire, killing six of the eight occupants of the vehicle. “However, it turned out to be a case of mistaken identity. The two persons who suffered injuries were evacuated to the medical facilities by the Army personnel,” Mr. Shah said. Local people surrounded and attacked the troops. One soldier was killed in the violence and several were injured. The troops then fired in self-defence and to disperse the crowd, and this resulted in the killing of seven more civilians. On Sunday evening, an agitated crowd of about 250 people targeted the Assam Rifles company operating base, forcing the security forces to open fire, in which one civilian was killed. The Home Minister informed the Lok Sabha that he immediately got in touch with the Nagaland Chief Minister, the Governor and rushed a senior Home Ministry official in charge of the northeast to review the security situation. “The situation was reviewed in detail to ensure that normalcy is restored at the earliest. It was decided that all agencies should ensure that no such unfortunate incident recurs while undertaking operations against insurgents.” Quoting from a statement issued by the 3 Corps Headquarters of the Indian Army, Mr. Shah said “the cause of the unfortunate loss of lives is being investigated at the highest level and appropriate action will be taken as per law”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/government-regrets-nagaland-killings/article37876532.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bill to amend NDPS Act introduced in Lok Sabha||A Bill to replace an ordinance amending the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Monday, with some MPs opposing it on technical grounds. The NDPS (Amendment) Bill, 2021 would replace an ordinance promulgated in September to correct an error in a 2014 amendment to the Act. Before the 2014 amendment, clause (viii-a) of Section 2 contained sub-clauses (i) to (v), which defined the term “illicit traffic”, according to the statement by Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. “This clause was re-lettered as clause (viii-b) by the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Act, 2014, as a new clause (viii-a) in section 2 defining ‘essential narcotic drugs’ was inserted. However, inadvertently consequential change was not carried out in Section 27A of the NDPS Act… In a recent judgment, Hon’ble High Court of Tripura...has held that ‘until the appropriate legislative change occurs by amending Section 27A of the NDPS Act appropriately, sub-clauses (i) to (v) of clause (viii-a) of Section 2 of the NDPS Act shall suffer effect of deletion,” it read. RSP MP N.K. Premachandran “challenged the legislative competence of the Bill”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bill-to-amend-ndps-act-introduced-in-lok-sabha/article37876533.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||JD(U) to call all-party meet on caste census||Earlier, during the recently concluded five-day winter session of the legislature, Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav along with the leaders of other Opposition parties had met Mr. Kumar and urged him to hold the State-specific census as announced by him earlier. Mr. Kumar assured Mr. Yadav to call an all-party meeting soon. In August, leaders of 10 political parties, including Mr. Kumar and Mr. Yadav, met PM Narendra Modi and urged him to hold the caste census in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jdu-to-call-all-party-meet-on-caste-census/article37876812.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||LS nod for Bill on pharma institutes||The Lok Sabha on Monday passed a Bill seeking to accord special status to six more institutes of pharmaceutical education and research and set up a council for these institutes. The current Bill, which will amend the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research Act, 1998, that established the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), at Mohali in Punjab, will encourage high quality research as it accords the status of Institutions of National Importance to six more institutes at Ahmedabad, Guwahati, Hajipur, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Rae Bareli. Replying to the debate on the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021, the Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya countered the Opposition on ‘vaccine hesitancy’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ls-nod-for-bill-on-pharma-institutes/article37876549.ece
07 December 2021||Srinagar,||Warning for bashing power supply in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has served a notice on a Forest Department employee for criticising the Power Development Department over poor electricity supply during the winter season and its impact on the online education of students in the Valley. In the missive, accessed by The Hindu , the employee, who holds the rank of a head assistant, was asked to explain his position within three days for uploading the video on Facebook.  According to the office of the Principal Chief Conservator of Forest & Head of Forest Force, the employee had shared a video criticising the administration for enhancing electricity charges. “Besides, you also criticise the administration for school children not attending the online classes due to shortage of electricity,” the notice read, adding that the act of the employee amounted to “misconduct and violation of Section 18 of J&K Government Employees (Conduct Rules) 1971”. With temperatures plummeting below sub-zero levels, the power shortage in the Union Territory has added to the woes of the people. The fresh notice is seen as part of the growing tough measures initiated by the administration of Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha. Earlier this year, the administration toughened the process of issuance of passports by making clearance by the Vigilance Department mandatory, besides other police verifications. It also constituted a Special Task Force for identifying and scrutinising Government employees who are involved in any cases related “to posing threat to the country’s security or anti-national activities”. More than two dozen Government employees, including senior officials, have been dismissed this year under Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution. Six teachers were also dismissed in November for “prolonged absence from duties”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-employee-served-notice-for-criticising-electricity-supply/article37876519.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||Punjab polls: Cong. picks selection panel||Ahead of the Punjab Assembly elections early next year, the Congress appointed a three-member screening committee. It will be headed by senior Congress leader Ajay Maken, in picture, and will include Chandan Yadav, secretary in-charge of Chhattisgarh and Krishna Allavaru, in-charge of Indian Youth Congress. The committee has its work cut out in a deeply faction ridden state. The members will have to maintain a delicate balance between the caste equations and regional representations. Exit of Captain Amarinder Singh, unpredictability of Navjot Singh Sidhu and presence of a new CM Charanjeet Singh Channi further complicates the situation. As of now it is a Congress versus all scenario that is emerging from the State. In a election such as this where in all likelihood it will be a close contest, the ticket selection becomes an all important task.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-polls-cong-picks-selection-panel/article37876522.ece
07 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘Change Govt. to save the Constitution’||The Constitution can be safeguarded only through attaining power and not by agitating on the streets, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati said on Monday, explaining her aversion to agitational politics. “Coming out on the streets will not work, changing the Government will. When those in power change, the Constitution can be saved,” Ms. Mayawati said. Speaking at a press conference on the death anniversary of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, Ms. Mayawati said that those in power at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh were against Ambedkar and did not work as per the Constitution. The former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister also targetted the BJP Government for its handling of law and order, saying that not a day passes without injustice being meted out to the weaker sections, but is being under-reported in media. In contrast, the rule of law prevailed under the BSP Government, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/change-govt-to-save-the-constitution/article37876518.ece
07 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Shutdown in Naga areas in Manipur||Much of the Naga-inhabited areas in Northeast India shut down for six hours on Monday in protest against the botched ‘ambush’ by a special unit of the Army, leading to the death of at least 14 civilians and a soldier in Nagaland’s Mon district over 24 hours since Saturday evening. Apart from Nagaland, the Naga-inhabited areas are largely in Manipur. The Naga Students’ Federation (NSF), which gave the total shutdown call, also asked all armed forces not to make any movement during the bandh. The NSF asked the Centre to set up a court-monitored committee. Expressing solidarity with the bereaved families, the Nagaland Baptist Church Council has called upon its constituent member churches in the State to conduct special prayers on Tuesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shutdown-in-naga-areas-in-manipur/article37876548.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||14 antiquities stolen from monuments since 2015: Minister||Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy informed the Lok Sabha on Monday that 14 antiquities had been stolen from Centrally-protected monuments from 2015 to 2021. “Private security guards, CCTV cameras and also MTS are deployed in monuments to ensure protection,” he said in a written response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/14-antiquities-stolen-from-monuments-since-2015-minister/article37876535.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||4-member Cong. team to visit Nagaland||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday constituted a four-member team to visit Nagaland and submit a report within a week on the civilian killings in Mon district. The delegation comprises All-India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Jitendra Singh, AICC’s Nagaland in-charge Ajoy Kumar, Lok Sabha members Gaurav Gogoi and Anto Antony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-member-cong-team-to-visit-nagaland/article37876540.ece
07 December 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal Governor, Speaker spar over legislative issues||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee sparred on the passage of a Bill that awaits the former’s assent. The Assembly passed The Howrah Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The Governor has sought certain clarifications on the Bill. Mr. Banerjee raised questions on the delay of the Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-governor-speaker-spar-over-legislative-issues/article37876541.ece
07 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Declare ‘Paika Bidroh’ as first war of independence: BJD||The Biju Janata Dal Parliamentary Party on Monday demanded that Centre must immediately declare ‘Paika rebellion’ as the first war of Indian independence struggle. The BJD Parliamentary party members met Union Minister of State for Culture Arjun Ram Meghwal in New Delhi and told him as to why the demand for recognising ‘Pakia Bidroh’ as first war of independence is justified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/declare-paika-bidroh-as-first-war-of-independence-bjd/article37876545.ece
07 December 2021||Mumbai,||No doubts on Savarkar’s contribution: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar on Sunday praised Savarkar saying no doubts can be raised over his contribution to India’s freedom struggle and the Marathi literary world. “Swatantryaveer Savarkar’s contribution in the freedom struggle is above all discussion. His writing in Marathi is immortal which no one can afford to bypass. Swatantryaveer’s personality was versatile,” Mr. Pawar said in his speech on Sunday at the All India Marathi Literary meet at Nasik in north Maharashtra. Bhagur in Nasik is the birthplace of Savarkar. The NCP chief’s remarks come on the background of objection raised by the BJP which claimed that Savarkar’s name was omitted by the organisers of the literary meet. There were demands that the pandal where the meet was held should be named after Savarkar, but instead the name of Jnanpith award winner Marathi poet V.V. Shirwadkar’s was chosen. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday reiterated its demand to award Bharat Ratna to Savarkar saying the BJP had forgotten it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-doubts-on-savarkars-contribution-pawar/article37876562.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||RBI export ban on PPE kits was legitimate: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday held that a Reserve Bank of India (RBI) ban on exporting PPE kits during the second wave of the pandemic was a “legitimate aim”, which was of sufficient importance to override the constitutional right of freedom to conduct business. “The RBI elaborated on the state of the pandemic in the country and the necessity of ensuring adequate stock of PPE products. The executive’s aim to ensure sufficient availability of PPE products, considering the ongoing pandemic, is legitimate. Accordingly, we hold that the impugned measure was enacted in furtherance of a legitimate aim that was of sufficient importance to override a constitutional right of freedom to conduct business,” a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said. Petitioner Akshay N. Patel argued that the banwas in violation of his right to equality and arbitrary. The court said that the “democratic interests that secure the well-being of the masses cannot be judicially aborted to preserve the unfettered freedom to conduct business of the few”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rbi-export-ban-on-ppe-kits-was-legitimate-sc/article37876564.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||ED issues fresh summons to actor Jacqueline Fernandez to appear before it on Dec 8||A day after she was stopped from flying abroad, the Enforcement Directorate summoned actor Jacqueline Fernandez to appear before it for questioning in a money laundering investigation against alleged con man Sukesh Chandrashekhar and others, officials said on Monday. She has been asked to depose on December 8.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-issues-fresh-summons-to-actor-jacqueline-fernandez-to-appear-before-it-on-dec-8/article37876615.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||Tharoor to quit show on Sansad TV||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor will not host the talk show “To The Point” on Sansad TV in protest against the prolonged suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members. Mr. Tharoor is the second MP to take this step. On Sunday, Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi pulled out of her commitment. She is one of the 12 MPs to be suspended for the entire session. Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV were recently merged to form Sansad TV. As part of the revamp, many MPs were roped in to host shows. The prolonged suspension of the MPs in an arbitrary manner for the actions committed during the previous session, Mr. Tharoor said, had called into question the very assumption of a bipartisan spirit animating the work of Parliament. “I am concerned that my continued involvement in hosting a show on Sansad TV would be seen as making complicit in the undemocratic manner in which parliamentary institutions are being run,” he stated. Mr. Tharoor said he was suspending hosting the programme to the point until the suspension was revoked and a semblance of bipartisanship was restored to the conduct of Parliament and the functioning of the Sansad TV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tharoor-to-quit-show-on-sansad-tv/article37876568.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘ECI should not approve AIADMK organisational polls’||A writ petition has been filed in the Madras High Court to restrain the Election Commission of India (ECI) from approving the election of former Chief Ministers O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami as the coordinator and co-coordinator of AIADMK. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu accepted a request made by the petitioner’s counsel, N.G.R. Prasad, to hear the case on Tuesday. J. Jayachandran of Arasanatti in Hosur had filed the writ petition in his capacity as a member of the party for more than 30 years. Initially, the counsel had requested the court to hear the matter on Monday afternoon itself, after stating that there was every possibility of the election results being declared on Tuesday. He also pointed out that there was an urgent need for an interim injunction restraining the election officers from declaring the results. The judges agreed to hear the matter on Monday afternoon if the petition got numbered by the High Court Registry by then. However, it was reported later in the day that the petition couldn’t be listed immediately. Mr. Prasad told the court that the election officers had rushed through the process and declared the results. After asking him to file an additional affidavit listing the latest developments, the judges decided to hear the matter on Tuesday. In his affidavit, the petitioner had accused the two former Chief Ministers of bringing the party into disrepute by acting in an unjust and whimsical manner to hold on to their positions. Bylaws amended He said that the bylaws were recently amended just to pave the way for them to remain coordinator and co-coordinator of the party, and that they got themselves declared elected unopposed to the posts without giving scope for any other aspirant to even file their nomination. Claiming to have lodged a complaint in this regard with the ECI on December 1, the petitioner said the Commission had failed to take any action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eci-should-not-approve-aiadmk-organisational-polls/article37876743.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||719 people test positive for COVID-19||Tamil Nadu reported 719 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday. Two districts — Perambalur and Virudhunagar — saw no new case while 20 districts reported fewer than 10 cases each. There was a small decline in fresh infections in Chennai and Coimbatore. Chennai reported 128 cases and Coimbatore 120. Chengalpattu and Tiruppur recorded 59 cases each, Erode 58, Namakkal 40 and Salem 39. Five districts — Pudukottai, Ramanathapuram, Tenkasi, Theni and Villupuram — reported only one case each. With this, the State’s case tally reached 27,31,235. Ten deaths were recorded on Monday. While Chengalpattu and Coimbatore recorded two deaths each, Chennai reported one fatality. There was no fatality in 30 districts. The toll stood at 36,539. As many as 737 patients were discharged after treatment, taking the total number of recoveries so far to 26,86,683. A total of 8,013 patients are undergoing treatment. Coimbatore accounts for 1,272 active cases, followed by Chennai (1,189). A total of 22 districts have fewer than 100 active cases each. Another 1,01,255 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 5,48,85,228. A private laboratory — Microtech Laboratories, Salem — was approved for COVID-19 testing. There are a total of 315 testing facilities in the State. A total of 3,58,197 people were vaccinated, taking the coverage at government vaccination centres to 7,16,78,691. Among them were 2,03,065 people aged 18 to 44 and 99,733 people aged 45 to 59, according to the daily vaccination report issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/719-people-test-positive-for-covid-19/article37876736.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC restrains I-T Dept. from recovering Rs. 12.98 crore from DMK MP||The Madras High Court on Monday restrained the Income-Tax Department from recovering a tax liability of Rs. 12.98 crore from Vellore Member of Parliament D.M. Kathir Anand of the DMK, after he contended that Rs. 11.48 crore in cash, seized from the residence of a couple at Katpadi in Vellore district during the 2019 Lok Sabha election, did not belong to him. Justice C. Saravanan passed the interim order on two writ petitions filed by the MP, who is also the son of DMK general secretary and Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan. The first writ petition challenged an Additional Commissioner’s order under Section 144A of the Income Tax Act, and the second petition challenged the subsequent assessment order. The judge adjourned the petitions for final hearing to January 3, 2022 and directed A.P. Srinivas and A.N.R. Jaya Prathap, standing counsel for the Income Tax Department, to ensure that counter-affidavits were filed by then. In his affidavit, the MP asserted that the cash did not belong to him. The petitioner’s counsel, R. Sivaraman, brought to the notice of the court that the Income Tax officials raided several places in Vellore in April 2019 and seized Rs. 11.48 crore from the premises of Damodaran and Vimala. Subsequently, Ms. Vimala’s brother P. Srinivasan deposed to the officials that the cash belonged to him. However, the I-T officials did not believe his version on the grounds that the money could not belong to a person who did not even have a car, and had pledged jewellery to take a loan from the Katpadi Cooperative Bank. They stated that though he claimed to have got the cash through a real estate business, there was no material to prove it. On the other hand, referring to the documents related to the Duraimurugan Educational Trust, which runs Kingston College of Engineering, having been seized along with cash packed in plastic bags with labels containing the details of the wards and the number of voters in these wards, the officials concluded that the cash belonged to the MP. Officials’ statements They also referred to the statements made by the officials of a nationalised bank regarding Mr. Srinivasan having converted Rs. 12.49 crore into Rs. 200 denomination notes, and inferred that Rs. 1.01 crore was expended and the remaining Rs. 11.48 crore was seized by the department. They included the entire amount in the MP’s income for 2019-20 and demanded tax with interest. Assailing such a demand, Mr. Sivaraman said an Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax issued a show cause notice to the MP on September 8 this year. The petitioner replied to the show cause notice on September 17. Thereafter, he filed an application before the Additional Commissioner under Section 144A on September 21 to review the action taken by the Assistant Commissioner. “However, the Additional Commissioner rejected the 144A application on September 25 by simply reproducing the contents of the show cause notice issued by the Assistant Commissioner verbatim, and had failed to apply his mind by conducting an independent inquiry to find out whether the assessing officer was proceeding in the right direction,” the counsel said. The first writ petition was filed challenging the Additional Commissioner’s order. Subsequently, the assessment order itself was passed on September 27, and hence, the second writ petition. Mr. Sivaraman said that if the court allowed the first writ petition and sets aside the Additional Commissioner’s order, it would consequentially lead to the setting aside of the assessment order, too. Mr. Prathap told the court that the Additional Commissioner had only relied upon the materials available in the files, and the official had no other option as he could not traverse beyond the materials available on record. “The Additional Commissioner cannot deviate from the search and seizures conducted by the investigation wing of the department. The official had simply relied upon the materials available,” he said, and stated that the entire process would be explained by way of a counter-affidavit. When the judge sought to know what the relationship was between the MP and the people from whom the cash was seized, Mr. Sivaraman said there was none.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-restrains-i-t-dept-from-recovering-rs-1298-crore-from-dmk-mp/article37876741.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Supply crunch pushes up prices of vegetables||The prices of tomatoes have started to escalate again in wholesale and retail markets of the city. One kg of tomato was sold at Rs. 90 a kg in Koyambedu wholesale market on Monday. The native variety was sold at Rs. 120 a kg in retail stores. Similarly, hybrid variety cost Rs. 110 a kg in the wholesale market. Wholesale traders said the dip in arrivals of tomatoes from major producing States had led to increase in prices. Members of the Federation of All Associations of KWMC Periyar Market said many other locally grown vegetables such as brinjal and okra have remained expensive for several days. While drumsticks were sold for Rs. 200 a kg, broad beans and capsicum were among those priced above Rs. 100 a kg in wholesale market. Persistent rain across Tamil Nadu and in the neighbouring States had damaged the crops and affected the harvest. The cost of tomatoes had dropped to Rs. 70-Rs. 80/kg in the wholesale market and the State government too had initiated sales in its farm fresh outlets at subsidised rates. Koyambedu wholesale traders had then brought stock from States such as Maharashtra. However, it failed to bring down the price, said P. Sukumar, Koyambedu Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers Merchants’ Association. The market received only half of the normal daily supply of 90 truckloads of tomato. “Earlier, we used to source from different places within the State, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, if there was a shortfall in supply. But, rain damaged the crops in all the places, making it difficult to source tomatoes,” he said. Traders expect the tomato prices to dip after December 20 and stabilise after mid-January after fresh harvest.  Traders expect the tomato prices to dip after December 20 and stabilise after mid-January after fresh harvest||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/supply-crunch-pushes-up-prices-of-most-vegetables/article37876752.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. will improve suo motu publication of data under the RTI Act, says Minister||The Tamil Nadu Government will improve suo motu publication of data under the Right to Information Act on the websites of government departments, said Minister for Finance and Human Resources Management Palanivel Thiaga Rajan here on Monday. To a question raised during the discussion following the launch of the book Whole Numbers and Half Truths , authored by journalist S. Rukmini, he said the non-publication was partly because of non-availability of data. He said a big problem was that the structure of government was not designed to collate data and make it available in a timely manner even for those who were governing, let alone making it available for the public. “A lot of times, it is not intentional obfuscation, but the data simply does not exist or does not exist in a way that is publishable,” he said. Mr. Thiaga Rajan added that the government was planning to streamline and develop certain minimum standards that will significantly improve such availability of data in the next couple of years. He said the State Government also had scope for conducting its own sample surveys similar to those done by the National Sample Survey Office to improve availability of data for decision making. Ms. Rukmini said the culture of suo motu publication did not exist in many government departments across the country, and added that the culture of seeing data as the right of citizens was yet to be built. The discussion was moderated by journalist M. Gunasekaran. Responding a question on the reliability of government data, Ms. Rukmini said it was important to engage with the data. She said while skepticism with strong reasons was fine, there need not be a blanket suspicion of government data. Mr. Thiaga Rajan said while government data could be systematically biased, as in the case of under-reporting of COVID-19 deaths or unemployment, it was possible to check for inconsistencies by comparing it, for example, with previous years’ data or information available from other sources. Ms. Rukmini stressed on the need for combining field reporting with data journalism to provide a nuanced understanding of issues. She said that explaining the data in detail could be a way to make numbers accessible to more people. Mr. Thiaga Rajan said humanising data by providing case studies or individual examples could make data more easily accessible. To a question on how Gujarat was projected as a model State during the 2014 general elections even though States like Tamil Nadu had achieved more equitable development, the Minister said such false narratives through suppression of data was not infinitely sustainable.  Explaining the data in detail may be a way to make numbers accessible to more people S. Rukmini Journalist and author||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-will-improve-suo-motu-publication-of-data-under-the-rti-act-says-minister/article37876760.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||KMC adopts single-use dialysis policy||The Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital has introduced single-use dialysis policy. In this, disposable dialyser and AV tubings for each dialysis would be put in place under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS). According to a press release, the first centre for maintenance haemodialysis, an alternative for patients with end stage kidney diseases who do not have a suitable kidney donor for renal transplantation, was established at Madras Medical College in 2010. The facility was made available at KMC since 2019. However, all dialysis units followed reuse policy in which the dialyser and AV tubings were reused for eight to 10 times for each patient. This led to heavy chemical exposure for patients as well as for doctors, nurses and technicians. To reduce the chemical exposure and improve the quality of dialysis, KMC has, for the first time in the State, introduced single-use dialysis policy, the release said. The hospital performs 1,000 dialysis per month. T. Balasubramaniyan, professor and head, Department of Nephrology, KMC, said all consumables used in the dialysis would be disposable. “The dialyser, which is known as artificial kidney, and tubings will be used once. Earlier, these consumables were used after being washed using chemicals. We are launching this on a pilot basis at KMC. Based on its success and cost-effectiveness, it may be expanded to other parts of the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kmc-adopts-single-use-dialysis-policy/article37876754.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai police adopt SOP to expedite probe in POCSO cases||The Greater Chennai Police have devised a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for expeditious investigation of cases reported under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. To ensure a thorough investigation and facilitate speedy disposal of cases, the police roped in the Tamil Nadu Judicial Academy for preparing the SOP that covers all aspects right from the registration of case to the completion of investigation. Acting on the instructions of Director-General of Police/Chennai Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal, a special team headed by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Prevention of Crime against Women and Children) culled out various provisions of the law under the POCSO Act that deals with the role of police in the investigation. At the time of registering the First Information Report (FIR), the police should verify the possibility of the application of even laws apart from the POCSO Act such as the Indian Penal Code, SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, Information Technology Act and so on. While the POCSO Act provided for medical examination of the victims by taking them to the hospital within 24 hours of the information, no medical practitioner or hospital shall demand legal/magisterial requisition or any other documentation to provide emergency medical care to the survivor/child. Crucial points Among the crucial points that investigators have been told to keep in view during investigation were to ensure that the child did not come in contact with the accused during the medical examination, provide full protection and confidentiality to the survivor and their parents/guardian, collect CCTV footage from cameras installed in the vicinity of the scene of crime or places frequented by the the child or the accused, look for evidence online or in social media and collect the same with certification under the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act etc. A checklist of 122 points has been prepared for the Investigation Officer to cover in the process of “reporting the offence”, “recording information given by a child with disability”, “collection of samples,” “sharing information” and “monitoring the case”. “The objective is to make sure that there is no scope for any gaps in the investigation that may benefit the accused. The probe should take a 360-degree view of the case by covering all angles of investigation,” Mr. Jiwal told The Hindu on Monday. As regards installation of CCTV in the city, he said about 1.07 lakh cameras were functioning in Chennai. An additional 5,250 would soon be installed with GIS mapping and hotspot analysis features under the Nirbhaya Fund. Another 13,500 cameras would be added to the surveillance system based on gap analysis, Mr. Jiwal said. Orders ignored In a related development, a 2018 order of the Tamil Nadu Information Commission is yet to be implemented by schools in the State. State Information Commissioner S. Muthuraj had directed all private schools to host, on their websites, the names of those in the management, the administration, the teaching and non-teaching faculty along with details of criminal antecedents, if any. While the Public Information Officers were told to coordinate with the State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB) to access crime records of the employees, no perceptible action has been taken yet on the order, sources in the TNIC said. The orders were passed on a petition filed under the Right to Information Act by J. Mohammed Ali Siddiq, who challenged the denial of information from a private school. The State Information Commissioner had ruled that all schools that had benefited by way of funds, grants or subsidies of the government, either directly or indirectly, should be construed as public authorities under the provisions of Section 2(h) of the Right To Information Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-adopt-sop-to-expedite-probe-in-pocso-cases/article37876763.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Preliminary analysis found samples were of Delta variant, says Minister||A preliminary analysis has found that the samples of six travellers from abroad, who had tested positive for COVID-19 on arrival in Tamil Nadu, were of the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2. These samples have been sent to InStem, Bengaluru for confirmation, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. “No case of the new COVID-19 variant Omicron has been detected so far in Tamil Nadu,” he told the media after inaugurating a special ward at the Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital on Monday. Of the six persons, four were in isolation at the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy, in Chennai. The remaining two were admitted to hospitals in Nagercoil. A seventh traveller, who had initially tested positive for COVID-19 on arrival, was advised to stay in home isolation in Kumbakonam after the sample returned negative for the infection. “Our initial finding is that the six samples were of the Delta variant. We have sent the samples to InStem, Bengaluru for confirmation. The results will be available in two days,” the Minister said. In the wake of the emergence of the Omicron variant, all government hospitals and government medical college hospitals in the State were setting up special wards with 50 to 150 beds each. Currently, travellers from 11 ‘at-risk’ countries were being strictly monitored at the international airports in the State. In the last one week, 28 flights from ‘at-risk’ countries and 142 flights from ‘non-risk’ countries had arrived in the State. So far, 5,249 people from ‘at-risk’ countries had been subjected to RT-PCR tests, while 609 from ‘non-risk’ countries had been randomly screened. “In total, 5,858 people have been tested in the State. Of them, seven tested positive for COVID-19 on arrival,” the Minister said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu and dean of the Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital R. Jayanthi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/preliminary-analysis-found-samples-were-of-delta-variant-says-minister/article37876734.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||I-T Dept. gets HC nod to bring Jaya’s legal heirs on record in tax cases||The Madras High Court on Monday granted two weeks’ time to the Income Tax Department to file applications for bringing on record the legal heirs of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa in connection with a few wealth tax cases pending against her since 2008 and 2009, so that the dues could be demanded from them. Justices R. Mahadevan and Mohammed Shaffiq accepted a request made by Karthik Ranganathan, standing counsel for the Income Tax Department, for a couple of weeks’ time to file appropriate applications since the High Court had declared Jayalalithaa’s niece J. Deepa and nephew J. Deepak as the legal heirs only in May 2020. He said though Jayalalithaa died in December 2016, the department could not immediately take out applications for bringing the legal heirs on record since there was no clarity as to who the legal heir was. Then, the Tahsildar concerned had not issued legal heirship certificates to Ms. Deepa and Mr. Deepak. “However, now that the court had declared the siblings to be the legal heirs, appropriate applications would be taken out,” he said, and urged the court to condone the delay in making such applications. Accepting his request for time, the judges asked him to ascertain whether any other proceeding regarding legal heirship was pending elsewhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-t-dept-gets-hc-nod-to-bring-jayas-legal-heirs-on-record-in-tax-cases/article37876739.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM flags off high-end police vehicles||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin flagged off two police vehicles fitted with audio-visual equipment to create awareness on the prevention of sexual harassment of children. The vehicles have been fitted with CCTV cameras on all four sides to monitor activities and, if necessary, take action. Besides creating awareness, the vehicles can also be used for law and order work based on requirements, an official release said. They have been modernised at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh each. Schemes launched Mr. Stalin also launched a scheme of the Agriculture Department to provide vegetable seeds at a subsidised price of Rs. 225 for rooftop gardening, and 12 types of vegetable seeds for Rs. 15 in rural areas to encourage the setting up of vegetable gardens. He also inaugurated a scheme for providing 8 plants to boost immunity for Rs. 25. Mr. Stalin urged the people to contribute as much as possible for the Flag Day celebrations in support of the Armed Forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-flags-off-high-end-police-vehicles/article37876745.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMDK seeks transparent, fair local body elections||The DMDK on Monday sought a fair and transparent urban local body polls. A resolution passed at the party’s district secretaries’ meeting alleged widespread cash distribution during the recent civic polls and urged the State Election Commission to ensure this doesn’t recur. The meeting, chaired by DMDK treasurer Premalatha Vijayakant, also discussed the party’s growth plan and passed a slew of other resolutions. One resolution urged the State Government to provide Rs. 3,000 to family cardholders as a Pongal gift, while another sought compensation for farmers in the delta region for crops destroyed in heavy rain. Stating that there had been an increase in cases of sexual harassment, the party sought stricter punishment for the offence. It also urged the Centre and the State Government to take adequate measures to control the spread of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 and reduce the prices of fuel and essential commodities. Another resolution called for the implementation of robust flood control measures. The party also sought firm action from the State Government on the Mullaperiyar dam issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmdk-seeks-transparent-fair-local-body-elections/article37876737.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Short films on nutrition awareness released||Short films on the ‘1000 Golden Days of a Child Campaign’, which stresses on the importance of access to proper nutrition for women and children and the importance of nutrition for adolescent girls, were released by the Minister for Social welfare and Women Empowerment Geetha Jeevan on Monday. Speaking on the sidelines of a media advocacy workshop on malnutrition and anaemia among children and women, she said the government was creating awareness on how to access proper nutrition for children aged six and below, pregnant women and breastfeeding women through the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) centres. “The focus of the campaign is how important it is for women to have access to the right nutrition when pregnant, and raising awareness regarding breastfeeding as well as how they can ensure their children get nutritious food as they grow. Women can visit the centres closest to them, speak to the staff there about nutrition, what they can consume and what can be given to their children,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/short-films-on-nutrition-awareness-released/article37876764.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Making large campuses resilient to heavy rain||With the intense spell of rain like the one witnessed in November likely to become a frequent phenomenon owing to climate change, experts stressed on the need to make large open spaces more resilient to floods. Shilesh Hariharan, principal architect at Madras Terrace, who is associated with the City of Thousand Tanks initiative, said installation and strengthening of rainwater harvesting and recharge wells must be done based on soil profile on campuses. He said it was important to identify the region of clay, the region of sand and so on to make the percolation of water efficient. Regular maintenance of rainwater harvesting structures prior to monsoons was important. Mr. Hariharan stressed on the need to ensure that sewage did not mix in rainwater allowed to percolate. Balaji Narasimhan, a faculty at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras, however, struck a note of caution on using rainwater harvesting as the panacea. “The water table is already very high and hence is unable to absorb at the same rate as the rain is falling,” he said. Chennai’s flat topography with only sandy and hard rock aquifers added to the problem, he said. “RWH is not a magic bullet. RWH is ok for slightly below or above average rainfall, and can only help in avoiding nuisance letting,” he said. Sekar Raghavan, director of Rain Centre, said the rainwater harvesting was ironically a contributing factor to flooding this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/making-large-campuses-resilient-to-heavy-rain/article37877160.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Labour Court sets aside ESI’s demand notice to CPCL||The Employees Insurance Court (Principal Labour Court), Chennai, has set aside a recovery order of about Rs. 2.71 crore issued against the Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (CPCL). In its petition, CPCL said the recovery order issued in 2007 pertained to third party contractors who had rendered services to the company. It said there were two categories — coded contractors, who were already registered under the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), and non-coded contractors, who were not registered under ESIC. On March 13, 2006, ESIC issued a show cause notice to pay the contribution in respect of labour charges paid to non-coded contractors from 2000 to 2005. The company said there was a dispute over the kind of services classified as non-coded, and ESIC declined its request to issue summons to the contractors, it added. The Court said the ESIC had to issue summons to the contractors for better adjudication of the issue involved in the payment of contribution. It directed the ESIC to determine the contribution afresh after giving reasonable opportunity and dispose of the case within six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/labour-court-sets-aside-esis-demand-notice-to-cpcl/article37877159.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘CM’s silence on vegetable price rise is shocking’||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvm on Monday expressed shock over the silence of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin over the rising prices of vegetables. Recalling that Mr. Stalin, while in Opposition, had called for controlling the prices of vegetables, Mr. Panneerselvam said the increase now was higher than it was even at the peak of COVID-19. He called upon the Chief Minister to ensure that vegetables are sold through fair price shops so that the prices would reduce by half. Referring to recent reports quoting an official of the Civil Supplies Department that hereafter, vegetables would not be sold through fair price shops as the prices of tomato and other vegetables had fallen in the wake of the State government’s measures, the AIADMK coordinator contended that this had come within 10 days of the announcement of Cooperation Minster I. Periyasamy that the prices had come down considerably as the vegetables were being sold through farm fresh vegetable outlets, both stationary and mobile, and select fair price shops in and around cities. Unsold stocks Mr. Panneerselvam doubted whether fair price shops would have sold the vegetables at nominal rates. Employees at the shops had wanted an assurance from officials that they would not be forced to shell out for unsold stocks of vegetables. On a previous instance, the officers had collected the amount from the employees for the unsold stock of onion, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cms-silence-on-price-rise-is-shocking-says-panneerselvam/article37876761.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK plans State-wide agitation||The AIADMK on Monday announced that it would hold State-wide demonstrations on December 9, condemning the DMK Government “for not paying attention to people's problems”. Party leaders O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the agitation had been called to demand a cut in the State VAT on petrol and diesel, assistance to people affected by floods, adequate compensation to flood-hit farmers and the Pongal gift hamper for all, besides condemning the DMK regime for seeking to close Amma Clinics. Rising prices of essentials and incentive for conservancy workers are the other issues to be raised. The demonstrations will be held at the headquarters of all revenue districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-plans-state-wide-agitation/article37876738.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin mourns Sarada Menon’s death||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday expressed his condolences over the death of India’s first woman psychiatrist and founder of SCARF, Sarada Menon. In a statement, Mr. Stalin said Sarada Menon had stamped her identity in treating people’s mental health issues and providing them a fresh lease of life. He recalled that she was awarded the Padma Bhushan and Tamil Nadu Government’s Avvaiyar Award. Her death is a big loss to the medical fraternity, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-mourns-sarada-menons-death/article37876756.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six wanted in 2015 murder case nabbed||Six persons who were reported to be absconding and against whom arrest warrants were issued in the case of the murder of their room-mate Syed Saddam in Aminjikarai in 2015, have been arrested. Saddam was from Vellore district. Syed Saddam, who was living in a rented house on Sadasivam Mehta Street along with his friends, was murdered by his room-mates after he failed to repay money given to him by them for buying mobile phones. The six allegedly tied the victim in the bathroom and murdered him. The police had arrested six persons, including Sakthivel and Steve of Vellore, Vinoth of Tiruchi and Prakash, Bharath and Satish of Chennai. The six accused, after jumping bail, were reported to be absconding and did not attend court proceedings since 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-wanted-in-2015-murder-case-nabbed/article37876765.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Passport office gets integrated grievance redress centre||External Affairs Secretary (CPV and OIA) Sanjay Bhattacharyya on Monday inaugurated the integrated public grievance centre at the Regional Passport Office, Chennai. RPO Chennai addresses all passport related grievances through letters, email, phone calls, Skype calls and more recently through WhatsApp videocall. It was felt that an integrated and co-ordinated approach could be more effective to address the grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passport-office-gets-integrated-grievance-redress-centre/article37876755.ece
07 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for harassing woman||A 56-year-old man was arrested by the Korukkupet police when he tried to molest his neighbour on Monday. The accused was identified as T. Srinivasulu, a resident of Old Washermenpet. The police said Srinivasulu entered his neighbour’s house and attempted to molest a 21-year-old woman who was alone at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-harassing-woman/article37876767.ece
07 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Improve basic amenities in Valparai tribal settlements’||The Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI(M)) has urged the Coimbatore district administration to improve basic amenities in the tribal settlements in Valparai. In a petition submitted at the weekly grievances redress meeting on Monday, the Valparai unit’s secretary P. Paramasivam wanted the administration to ask the local officials to recognise the need for roads connecting the estates where the tribal people worked and their settlements. The administration should upgrade their skill in using materials as alternatives to plastics and provide them a place to sell their goods and implement the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Generation Scheme. ‘Prevent encroachment’ Hindu Munnani has urged the district administration to stop encroachment of a government land in Perur taluk. In its petition, the outfit alleged that the patrons of a religious facility in Postal Colony in Chettipalayam village were attempting to grab the government land spread over four hectare. ICC at workplaces All India Democratic Women’s Association has urged the Coimbatore district administration to ensure that internal complaints committee (ICC) was present in workplaces with women. In a petition, AIDWA said the recent incident in a Saravanampatti mill, where a floor supervisor assaulted a woman migrant worker, had turned the spotlight on safety of women at workplaces. This called for constitution of internal complaints committee for women to air their grievances, the AIDWA said. In a related petition, the Coimbatore District Mill Labour Union urged the administration to inspect the 300-odd mills in the district for women’s safety. Help sought to secure government jobs Persons with disabilities, affiliated to the Inaintha Karangal organisation, have sought the district administration’s help in getting government jobs. In a petition, they said there were 150 differently abled persons in and around Mettupalayam who found it difficult to fulfil their basic needs. The administration should help them get government jobs and increase their monthly assistance, the petition said. Move to shift liquor shop opposed A joint committee of people opposed to liquor shop, has urged the district administration to stop the efforts to shift a liquor shop to the Pappampatti Main Road in Peedampalli panchayat. Students seek probe Students of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and its affiliated colleges petitioned the district administration seeking a probe into the examination result the University declared on December 2 this year. The students said they were from 2018-19 and 2019-20 batches and had failed to clear their second and third year semester examinations. After failing to conduct arrears examinations as per rules, the University conducted arrears examination in two parts this year. Without declaring the marks, the University had said that 90% students had failed after alleging that they had indulged in malpractices. The students denied having indulged in malpractices. They wanted the district administration to probe the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/improve-basic-amenities-in-valparai-tribal-settlements/article37876783.ece
07 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Car goes up in flames near Coimbatore Collectorate||A car caught fire on the road between the Collectorate and City Police Commissioner’s office on Monday. The incident happened when people in large numbers were present on the collectorate premises and on the road in view of the District Collector’s weekly grievances redress meeting held every Monday. The police said that the car belonging to Nanjappan (75), a retired government employee from New Siddhapudur, caught fire around noon. He had come to the treasury on the collectorate premises with his relatives. They noticed smoke emanating from the front portion of the car when they were about to leave the place. All of them got out of the car immediately and the vehicle went up in flames. Fire brigades from the Coimbatore south fire station rushed to the spot and extinguished the fire. Tense moments prevailed at the place as the city had police deployment in sensitive locations in view of the Babri Masjid demolition anniversary. The police immediately verified the whereabouts of the car passengers and found that it was an accident, possibly due to a short circuit in the car’s electrical system as per the observations of the Fire and Rescue Services. The Race Course police have registered a case in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/car-goes-up-in-flames-near-coimbatore-collectorate/article37876790.ece
07 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to form panel to end flooding of underpasses||Coimbatore Corporation will soon constitute a committee that will suggest a permanent solution to prevent inundation of underpasses in the city. A release from the Corporation said a preliminary meeting among Corporation officials and various stakeholders was held on Monday to identify members for the committee. The release said public health experts, industrialists, experts in engineering from colleges and volunteers were among those who attended the meeting to discuss various issues in the light of Saturday’s inundation of Lanka Corner, Avinashi Road, Kaleeswara Mill, Kikani School and North Coimbatore underpasses. The Commissioner said the expert committee would have to submit within a month a report suggesting permanent solutions to the problem. It should also suggest ways to prepare the city for the South West and North East monsoons, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-to-form-panel-to-end-flooding-of-underpasses/article37876785.ece
07 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Officials submit report on assault on woman mill worker||A team of officials from the Departments of Revenue, Labour, Industrial Safety and Health, and Social Welfare submitted a report to District Collector G.S. Sameeran on Monday on the alleged assault on a woman worker in a private textile mill here recently. Viral on social media Following a video of the assault going viral on social media platforms, the Saravanampatti police on Sunday arrested the HR manager of the mill and the warden of its ladies hostel on charges of assaulting a woman employee, who is from Jharkhand The Collector said that as immediate measures the HR manager and the hostel warden were arrested and the unit and hostel were inspected. “The victim has returned to her home in Jharkhand and the steps were taken based on a complaint lodged by the Deputy Director of the Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health. The official team interviewed other workers in the mill and there are no complaints. We will look into other issues in detail. A large number of guest workers, especially women, are employed in industries in the district . Hence, it is also decided that officials from the Revenue, Labour and Social Welfare departments will conduct surprise inspection of hostels where guest workers stay,” he said. Official sources said that steps would be taken so that the hostel of the private mill, which has about 20,000 spindles and nearly 150 workers, is run with permission and according to norms. The Department of Industrial Safety and Health is also expected to issue showcause notice to the mill for “other minor lapses”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-submit-report-on-assault-on-woman-mill-worker/article37876781.ece
07 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Search continues for man washed away in River Bhavani||The Fire and Rescue Services on Monday continued search for a 25-year-old man who was washed away in River Bhavani near Mettupalayam in Coimbatore district on Sunday. M. Ibrahim Basha, a resident of Kattoor near Mettupalayam, was washed away in the river at Oomapalayam near Mettupalayam on Sunday evening. The police said that Basha, who was allegedly under the influence of alcohol, attempted to cross the river. However, he was washed away and his friends could not rescue him. Basha went to Oomapalayam along with five friends -- Abudhakir, Riyas, Kaja Moideen, Jayasuryan and Sivakumar -- on Sunday evening. They bathed in the river, allegedly after consuming alcohol. The friends told the police that Basha challenged them to swim across the river. Though they advised him against doing it, he did not heed to them. Basha was reportedly carried away by strong under currents. The Fire and Rescue Services team from Mettupalayam station rushed to the spot after being alerted by the friends. Though fire brigades conducted searches for Basha upto 9 p.m. on Sunday, they could not trace him. The search resumed on Monday morning and the fire brigades could not trace the man till 4.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/search-continues-for-man-washed-away-in-river-bhavani/article37876778.ece
07 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Babri Masjid demolition anniversary||Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam on Monday held a protest to mark the Babri Masjid demolition anniversary. A release from the organisation said leaders and members of Manithaneya Makkal Katchi, Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam and a few other organisations joined the protest. The release said the protest was to emphasise that there should be no attack on any religious establishment. It also said that though the Liberhan Commission had identified the persons responsible for the demolition of the mosque in 1992, not one person who was identified was punished. The Social Democratic Party of India staged a protest at Athupalam demanding that the Central Government hand over to Muslims the land where Babri Masjid stood, by invoking the Religious Places Worship Act, 1991, and punish those responsible for the demolition of the mosque.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tmmk-observes-babri-masjid-demolition-anniversary/article37876775.ece
07 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Water supply to improve in Ward 8||Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara said the civic body would start supplying water once in five days to residents in and around K.R. Garden in Ward 8. During an inspection in the area, he said the Corporation was on the verge of completing the Kavundampalayam-Vadavalli drinking water project. Once the work was completed, water would be supplied once in five days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-supply-to-improve-in-ward-8/article37876784.ece
07 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||2 deaths, 120 new COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Monday reported 120 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 127 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,272 active cases on Monday. The district’s toll increased to 2,473 after two more persons died of COVID-19. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.6 % on Sunday. Tiruppur district reported 59 new cases on Monday. The district had 643 active cases and saw the recovery of 48 persons. The Health Department did not report any new deaths on Monday and the toll remained at 1,001. In the Nilgiris, 12 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 34,165. The number of deaths from COVID-19 in the district stood at 216, while 162 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-deaths-120-new-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore/article37876792.ece
07 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||National Model Senior Secondary School organised health education and AIDS awareness campaign to mark the World AIDS Day. A release said that around 350 students participated in the event. Paediatricians Jeyashree Ashwat and Usha Elango addressed the students.   Doordarshan Low Power Transmitter (LPT) at Attapadi in Palakkad district, Kerala, will cease to operate from December 31, according to a release from Doordarshan Kendra, Coimbatore. The LPT was operating on Channel No. 6 providing Malayalam programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37876777.ece
07 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK leaders booked||The Race Course police have registered a case against 20 functionaries of the AIADMK on charges of taking out a procession in the city in connection with the death anniversary of former Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa on Sunday. The case was registered against Coimbatore north MLA Amman K. Arjunan and 19 others who took out a procession from the AIADMK office on Huzur Road to Jayalalithaa’s statue at Anna Statue junction around 10.40 a.m. on Sunday. The police said that the AIADMK functionaries had not obtained permission for the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-leaders-booked/article37876791.ece
07 December 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore logs eight new infections, nil deaths||Cuddalore district recorded nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Monday. Eight persons tested positive, taking the tally of active cases to 64,436. The district saw 63,486 recoveries, and the active case count stood at 78. In Villupuram district, one tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 46,035. Kallakurichi reported two cases. The total number of cases is 31,572.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-logs-eight-new-infections-nil-deaths/article37877167.ece
07 December 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Courts should be tough with accused in POCSO cases’||Opposing the bail granted to the nursing college correspondent in Dindigul district, who was arrested under the POCSO Act and also various IPC provisions, former CPI (M) MLA Balabharathi has appealed to courts to be tough with such accused. Speaking to reporters on Monday, she said crimes against children, especially at private educational institutions, were on the rise in Tamil Nadu. Those running such institutions had contacts with highly influential people and indulged in silencing authorities. The child victims were undergoing a silent trauma. The children were unable to express openly due to compulsions from managements which threatened parents. Sometimes, when students and parents boldly exposed the offenders, the police arrested the accused, but the courts granted them bail, Ms. Balabharathi said. Granting bail to such accused within a short time would disappoint the petitioners. Jothi Murugan, who ran many educational institutions in Dindigul district, was exposed by the students a fortnight ago. After a series of protests and complaints, the police registered cases against him. The accused surrendered before a Tiruvannamalai court. He was brought to Dindigul just a few days ago, and the court granted him bail now, she said and hoped the accused would be punished. High Court advocate Ajeetha said when the parents of child victims obtained the first information reports registered against the accused under the POCSO Act despite several odds, they expected the court to monitor the counselling offered to the victims and medical examination conducted on them. Welcoming the policy note on child protection released by the Tamil Nadu government on November 20, she suggested certain amendments which would be more favourable to the victims. The SFI is conducting a conference here on rising crimes against children / women in Dindigul district where speakers from the AIDWA and other women’s organisations are expected to address. The SFI condemned the bail granted to Jothi Murugan and expected the police to be fair and impartial in their inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/courts-should-be-tough-with-accused-in-pocso-cases/article37876869.ece
07 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Hamlets in hill areas get mobile connectivity||The district administration’s effort in fulfilling the long-demand of people in hilly areas for having access to mobile connectivity has finally been fulfilled after a private telecom company installed two mobile towers at Bargur Hill and one at Talavadi. A tower installed at Thamaraikarai in Bargur hill would provide connectivity to people in Eratti, Devarmalai, Vellimalai, Bejalatti, Sundapur, Thalakarai, Thamaretti, Osur, Tholli, Aalanai and Maniyachi, while the tower installed at Thurusanampalayam in Bargur would provide connectivity to people in Bechilipalayam, Thurusanampalayam, Oosimalai, Solagani, Thattakarai and Elachipalayam. TN – Karnataka border The tower installed at Gumtapuram in Talavadi will provide coverage to people in the village that is located in the Tamil Nadu – Karnataka border. Online classes In the absence of connectivity, people were unable to contact ambulance services or others during emergencies while students were not able to attend online classes. Collector H. Krishnanunni visited hamlets in the hill areas during which people submitted petitions demanding steps to provide connectivity. The Collector approached the private company who agreed to install towers in hilly areas and permission was granted to them. Kadambur hills Mr. Krishnanunni told The Hindu that mobile phone towers were established at three places while works for installing towers will commence shortly at Thingalur in Talavadi and Gundri in Kadambur hills. “The move will reduce their problems to a great extent and measures for ensuring connectivity for other hill areas is also underway”, he added. BSNL tower P. Veerabadran of Bargur said that a BSNL tower at Bargur hill, that provides only voice call facility, is not functioning properly for many years and the new towers help them immensely in communicating among people in hill areas and in plains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hamlets-in-hill-areas-get-mobile-connectivity/article37876882.ece
07 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for posts in Juvenile Justice Board||Applications are invited by the Department of Social Defence for appointment to the posts of social worker members of the Juvenile Justice Board in the district. A release from Collector H. Krishnanunni said that the posts of social worker members of the Board are on an honorarium basis of which one shall be a woman and the appointments are made to the Board constituted under the provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, 2015. The applicant shall not be less than 35 years of age and not more than 65 years. The application form may be obtained from the District Child Protection Unit, Erode District. The Filled-in application should be sent to the address within 15 days of the publication. Two application sets should be sent to The District Child Protection Officer, District Child Protection Unit, 69, Gandhiji Road, Ex Servicemen Building, 2nd Floor, Erode 638 001. Contact number 0424-2225010. The release said that appointment will be purely based on merit and experience and the decision of the government will be final in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-posts-in-juvenile-justice-board/article37876877.ece
07 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac workers oppose revised timings||Members of the Erode District Tasmac Workers Association, affiliated to CITU, staged a demonstration on Surampatti Four Road on Monday opposing the State government’s decision to revise the timings. Members said that due to COVID-19, the shops were functioning from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. for over a year and the time was convenient for the customers. However, the new timings that came into effect from December 2 are inconvenient to the customers as they are subject to rigorous vehicle checks after they leave the shops. They said that Tasmac shop workers also face hardship due to increase in working hours and also difficulty in reaching their home after work. They said that carrying cash after 10 p.m. is a risk for the supervisors. The members said that many shops are located in unsafe places and wanted it to be closed. They said that due to protests against functioning of those shops, workers face the irk from the public and wanted shops to be located at places that are safe for all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-workers-oppose-revised-timings/article37876880.ece
07 December 2021||Erode/Salem,TAMIL NADU||Terrace garden scheme launched in Erode, Salem||To enable women to produce fresh vegetables in their households, the Chief Minister’s Vegetable Garden Scheme was launched in the district on Monday. Collector H. Krishnanunni released the kit for setting up a terrace garden with six types of vegetable seeds. Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops officials said that 2,000 kits worth Rs. 13.5 lakh were sanctioned for the district that will be given to the beneficiaries. The cost of the kit is Rs. 900 and it will be given at a subsidised price of Rs. 225, they added. Likewise, 3,800 kits worth Rs. 1.71 lakh containing 12 types of vegetable seed would be sold to the people in rural areas, farmers and workers in farm lands who can cultivate it in their terrace. The price of the kit is Rs. 60 and is sold at a subsidised price of Rs. 15 to the beneficiaries. In Salem, District Collector S. Karmegham launched the distribution of kits and also distributed saplings to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/terrace-garden-scheme-launched-in-erode-salem/article37876884.ece
07 December 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||School heads in Karur asked to form panels||Heads of government, government aided and private schools in the district have been asked to address the grievances of students in their institutions by forming committees. The call came at a programme organised jointly by Karur District Police and the School Education Department on Monday. At the meeting, which saw the participation of around 210 headmasters, headmistress and principals, the role and responsibility of schools in checking offences against students were driven home. The main objective of the programme was to create awareness of crimes against women and children. Superintendent of Police, Karur, P. Sundaravadivel underlined the need to ensure that children did not fall prey to drugs and tobacco products and take steps to check their sale near the school premises. He also called upon the school heads to install complaint boxes at their institutions to enable students convey their grievances in order to be able to attend to them speedily. Teachers had a great responsibility in societal development and their role was pivotal to creating a healthy society, he said. Amid growing cyber crimes, teachers and heads of schools should create awareness among the young minds of the issues and on the safe use of the internet. During the course of the programme, effort was also made to create awareness of the POCSO Act among the participants. Chief Educational Officer, Karur, Madhan Kumar and senior police officers participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-heads-asked-to-form-panels-to-address-grievances-of-students/article37876843.ece
07 December 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Beneficiaries get houses under PMAY, but no water supply||Residents of housing units built under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) are awaiting water supply a month after many families shifted into the new building here at Billanakuppam panchayat in Kundarapalli, some 10 km from Krishnagiri town. The housing complex built with 525 houses targeted to cover BPL households was completed this October. Many families had applied for houses under the scheme four years ago. “By January 2021, we were asked to pay Rs.Rs. 1.45 lakh for a single room houses,” says Rathna, an allottee While Rathna is relieved that she finally has a house of her own, after living in rented tenements all her life, she is aggrieved by the lack of water connection. The houses were allotted through a lot system and the families were asked to take possession as early as possible even without the water supply. “We were told the supply would be fixed soon, “ says Rathna. But a month into moving in, the residents walk a distance to fetch water for all purposes. The housing complex is equipped with three motors for pumping up water to the tanks. However, the delay in the payment to Tangedco had stalled water connection so far. “Many families moved in to avoid one more month’s of rent. We all moved in after Deepavali. I used to pay Rs. 3,000 as rent,” says Sathyavani, who used to work as a food supplier in a small eatery in Krishnagiri town. Ever since she moved in with her family to Kundarapalli, far removed from employment prospects of Krishnagiri municipal town, Sathyavani has lost her source of income. The family is now dependent on Sathyavani’s husband, who sells fruits. “We borrowed Rs. 1 lakh at an interest of Rs. 10 to pay up for this house,” says Sathyavani. “The water supply officer informed us today that water will be released from Tuesday,” says Mahendran, another resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beneficiaries-get-houses-under-pmay-but-no-water-supply/article37876876.ece
07 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Court frowns upon frivolous petitions||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court slapped a cost of Rs. 1.5 lakh on a petitioner for filing frivolous petitions seeking to declare the orders issued by the government pertaining to COVID-19 restrictions unconstitutional, null and void. The petitioner, M. Thavamani, also sought monetary compensation of Rs. 5 lakh. He said the lockdown had not only crippled his fundamental right, but also crippled his income. The petitions were dismissed as not maintainable. The petitioner had claimed that COVID-19 virus and its variants were not deadly diseases, but curable in ordinary course, if the Health Department was vigilant and gave proper health care to the public. Instead, the government passed the orders, he said. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran observed that the court firmly believed that the attitude of persons like the petitioner was detrimental to the selfless service rendered by doctors, health workers and other COVID-19 warriors who lost their lives while treating the patients. “Unless busybody like the petitioners were punished for their senseless activity and approaching the court with frivolous petitions, this court fears that the sacrifice of the selfless people will go in vain,” the judges said. The court took note of the fact that the Registry had rightly found the petitions were not maintainable and returned them thrice. However, the petitioner who appeared party-in-person was not convinced and insisted on the hearing. The judges after being satisfied that he was a busybody who came to the court only for the sake of publicity warned him that he cannot waste the court’s time by filing such frivolous petitions. Despite that, repeatedly he made submissions which were opposed to common sense. Mocking the sincere efforts taken by the State to curb the pandemic, he was condemning the preventive measures taken by the Centre and the State to curtail the spread of the pandemic, the judges observed. The court directed the petitioner to pay the cost of Rs. 1.5 lakh to the credit of the COVID-19 ward at Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, within 15 days. If he failed to pay the cost within the given time, Madurai Collector is authorised to recover the same under the Revenue Recovery Act, 1890, the judges said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-frowns-upon-frivolous-petitions/article37877071.ece
07 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks progress report on Vallanadu bridge||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday observed that it would monitor the progress of repair works undertaken on Vallanadu bridge that connects Thoothukudi with Tirunelveli. The court sought a progress report in the case. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan were told that the approval for the repair works, pending before the competent authority, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI)-Delhi, was expected to be given by December 25. Further, the court was told that the expected date to complete the bidding process in order to carry out the repair works was January 25, 2022. Taking note of the submission, the judges sought the progress report and adjourned the hearing till January 27, 2022. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by G. Chidambaram of Thoothukudi district. He sought a direction to the authorities to repair the bridge across the Tamirabarani river. The petitioner complained that the Vallanadu bridge was riddled with potholes. In 2017, there was a huge pothole in the middle of the bridge and it was repaired in a hasty manner. The patchwork had come off and there were more potholes on the road now, the petitioner said. He said that a reply to an RTI application revealed that 11 accidents occurred due to the potholes on the bridge from 2012-2021. It resulted in four casualties. Vehicle users were finding it difficult to use the bridge. The authorities should take immediate steps to repair the road so that accidents were prevented, he said. Earlier, NHAI, in its status report, submitted that the repair works on the entire bridge would be taken up. The court sought a report on the time schedule with regard to the repair works.  There was a huge pothole in the middle of the bridge and it was repaired in a hasty manner in 2017 Petitioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-to-monitor-repair-works-on-vallanadu-bridge/article37877072.ece
07 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||We will strive for reconstruction of Babri Masjid, says SDPI||Social Democratic Party of India will unite the democratic forces of the country and ensure that the demolished Babri Masjid was constructed at the same place, said its State general secretary Ahmed Navvi here on Monday. Addressing a demonstration staged on the anniversary of Babri masjid demolition, he said that Bharatiya Janata Party was doing power politics in the name of God. “Even Lord Ram would not have wanted to build a temple for him after demolishing the masjid,” he said. Hindutva forces had dented the sovereignty of the nation by demolishing the masjid, he said. The BJP was trying to implement ‘one nation, one culture’ in the country and had started it from Ayodhya, said its north Madurai district president Bilal Dheen. SDPI, along with like-minded forces, would not allow Hindutva forces to get political mileage by dividing people on the lines of religion and language, he said. Popular Front of India district secretary Ishaq said that the Rashtriya Swayam Sevak (RSS) brought shame to the country for the second time by demolishing the masjid after the assassination of the Father of the Nation. He charged that the Supreme Court was misled in the case. Stating that the true facts about the 450-year-old Babri masjid, that was demolished, would be presented before the Apex Court to get the masjid constructed again. High Court advocate John Vincent, National Women’s Front district president Narqis and district secretary of SDPI Kamal Batcha were among those who addressed the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-will-strive-for-reconstruction-of-babri-masjid-says-sdpi/article37877079.ece
07 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to issue DNT certificate||Members of Viduthalai Kalam Katchi staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate here on Monday seeking denotified tribe certificate for their community members. Speaking at the agitation, district coordinator T. Muthu said that from the pre-independence struggle, the members of Thottiya Naicker community had fought for the country’s independence. The community required the support of the government and issuance of the certificates to the people living in Madurai, Theni and a few more districts would help them to come up in their lives. As a recognition to the sacrifices made during the independence struggle, the government should give them the certificates as it would help them and their wards to join the mainstream in the society. They later submitted a petition to the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-issue-dnt-certificate/article37877077.ece
07 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Compensation proposal sent to State government’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday hoped that a positive step would be taken with regard to providing compensation to family members of the employees of Rajammal Fireworks in Virudhunagar district who lost their lives in the 2020-fire on the unit premises. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan was told that the Virudhunagar Collector had already sent a proposal to the State government with regard to the quantum of the compensation to be paid to the kin of victims. Taking note of the submission, the judge adjourned the hearing in the case till January 2022. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by family members of the employees. In their separate petitions, they said that the State government had announced an interim compensation of Rs. 1 lakh for each victim and the Collector had also assured that the State government would provide a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh and employment to one family member. But no relief had been granted to the family members yet. ‘Liable to pay’ They said that since the State had allowed the unit to function without a proper licence and permission, the authorities were vicariously liable to pay adequate compensation. The authorities had failed to properly monitor the cracker units in the region, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/compensation-proposal-sent-to-state-government/article37877068.ece
07 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SFI calls for incentive to bring back girl students who dropped out of schools||The Students’ Federation of India has demanded an incentive package to bring girl students who had dropped out during COVID-19 pandemic back to schools. The federation is organising an all-India Girls Convention in Rajasthan from December 17 to 19 to stress the demand for the incentive package for encouraging girls’ education. Talking to reporters here on Monday, its all-India joint secretary Dipsita Dhar said surveys had showed that 60% of school dropouts were girls from marginalised communities, minorities and Dalits. “The girls say they had to drop out to support the families as their parents had lost their jobs,” she said. To bring back every girl student who had lost one year of schooling to school, the government should come out with an incentive package, she said. Stating that sexual harassment and gang rapes were on the rise in the country due to the regressive mindset that women do not have the right to decision-making, Ms. Dhar said that every university should have a Gender Sensitisation Committee against Sexual Harassment. She said such a committee was required not only to punish wrongdoers, but also to make the men conscious about such bodies and act as a deterrent. “Girls do not know where to lodge a complaint about sexual harassment when the perpetrator is someone high in heirarchy, like a teaching faculty," Ms. Dhar said. The New Education Policy could be against providing access to education as it recommends for closure of neighbourhood schools. “Girls are going to drop out of schools if they have to travel long distances, because of increased travel expense and increased threat," she said. SFI State secretary Mariappan was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sfi-calls-for-incentive-to-bring-back-girl-students-who-dropped-out-of-schools/article37877074.ece
07 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Chain-snatching leads to couple falling off bike||A couple suffered injuries after falling down from a moped when an unidentified person attempted to snatch gold chain from the wife, the pillion rider, at Therkkutheru bridge near Melur on Sunday night. Police said that Kumar of Therkkutheru was bringing his wife Pandeeswari, 34, back from work on his moped when a man who followed them on a two-wheeler yanked her gold chain. While the woman attempted to hold her chain, both of them fell down. The accused fled with a part of the two-sovereign gold chain. Melur police are investigating. In another incident, three robbers attacked one V. Sundaram, 58, at Peraiyur when he tried to catch the accused who were fleeing after snatching his wife’s one sovereign gold chain around 2 a.m. on Sunday. The police said that the robbers hurled stones on him and fled from the scene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chain-snatching-leads-to-couple-falling-off-bike/article37877069.ece
07 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||GRH radiologist suspended on sexual harassment charge||The Director of Medical Education, Chennai, on Monday, has suspended a radiologist of Government Rajaji Hospital on a charge of sexual harassment. A woman had come for scan to the hospital on November 27. The radiologist, it is alleged, misbehaved with the patient on the pretext of examining her. The patient narrated the incident to Dean A. Rathinavel, who asked the patient to lodge a complaint. Dr. Rathinavel placed the patient’s written complaint before an internal committee. After inquiry, the committee sent the observations to the DME for further action. Based on the committee’s observations, the DME ordered the suspension of the radiologist. The radiologist claimed before the committee that he was being targeted by some of his seniors since he questioned their action during COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/radiologist-suspended-on-sexual-abuse-charge/article37876773.ece
07 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held with ration rice||Madurai unit of Civil Supplies - Criminal Investigation Department sleuths seized 1,750 kg of rice meant for public distribution system (PDS) from a cargo vehicle at Sammattipuram on Monday night. Acting on a tipoff, the sleuths conducted a check near Kalavasal and intercepted the vehicle. They found that rice in 50 bags, each weighing 35 kg, totalling 1,750 kg of ration rice, were being smuggled by M. Rajkumar, 40, of New Meenakshi Nagar and a loadman U. Manikandan, 22, of Santhaipettai. They had collected ration rice from many people in Kalavasal and Kochadai to be sold as cattle feed and to restaurants. The two were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-with-1750-kg-of-ration-rice/article37877075.ece
07 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Approach trial court for interim bail’||Disposing of a petition filed by one of the accused in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case, S. Murugan, who sought interim bail in order to attend a family event, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed him to approach the trial court. Justice G. Ilangovan observed that the trial in the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks was in progress. Therefore, the accused could approach the trial court for relief. In his petition, the suspended Head Constable sought interim bail from December 8 to 12 to attend his nephew’s wedding scheduled for December 10 in Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/approach-trial-court-for-interim-bail/article37876866.ece
07 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Mullaperiyar dam stood at its maximum permissible level of 142 ft with an inflow of 3,579 cusecs and a discharge of 1,200 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 70.11 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 6,294 cusecs and a discharge of 8,681 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 11,110 mcft.  Rainfall Rainfall recorded in various places in the 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Monday was (in mm): Veerapandi 128, Uthamapalayam 93, Mettupatti 83.8, Shanmuganadhi dam 77.4, Gudalur 61.7, Andipatti 56.4, Kallandiri 38.4, Mullaperiyar dam and Vaigai dam 28.8 each, Sathiyar dam 25, Thekkadi 21.6, Kuppanampatti 15.4, Sothupparai dam 14, Maruthanadhi dam 12, Pulipatti 9, Kodaikanal 2.2, Manjalar dam, Peranai and Melur 1 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37876867.ece
07 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Physical classes resume for students of Classes I to VIII||After a long break, physical classes for Classes I-VIII resumed on Monday in Puducherry and Karaikal region. School staff and members of Parent Teachers Association welcomed the students with flowers. Several government schools greeted the students by distributing pens, pencils, erasers and pencil sharpeners. Girls were given flowers along with hairpins. The students were screened using thermal scanners at the entrance and masks were given to those who were not wearing it. Hand sanitisers were also given to the students. The classes are held in a staggered manner. Similar to the higher classes, the primary classes will also function from 9. 30 a.m. to 1. 30 p.m. Classes for students of Standards I, III, V and VIII will be held on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while Classes II, IV, VI and VIII will be held on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Director of School, Education, P. T. Rudra Goud told The Hindu that preparatory works to provide free lunch for students in government schools have commenced. Lunch would be provided for all students, starting Wednesday. The government has also initiated the process to re-launch ‘student-only buses’, he said. More than 90% of the school staff have been vaccinated and efforts are on to cover the entire workforce. Special squads would be visiting the schools on a regular basis to ascertain whether COVID-19 norms are being followed, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/physical-classes-resume-for-students-of-classes-i-to-viii/article37876982.ece
07 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||PWD initiates work to repair roads in Puducherry||Vehicle users can heave a sigh of relief as the Public Works Department (PWD) has initiated the process to repair battered roads in Puducherry. “The repair works, which were long overdue, commenced on Monday, on a small stretch near Mudaliarpet. We started the preliminary works to repair the stretch from the Mudaliarpet police station to Marappalam. The PWD has already floated tenders for several works and is in the process of sourcing funds from various agencies to repair all the damaged roads in the Union Territory,” Public Works Minister K. Lakshminarayanan told reporters. The government has decided to adopt the National Highways Authority of India’s (NHAI)’ policy of entrusting the maintenance task of the roads for five years to the same contractor who laid the road. The earnest money deposited by the contractor before initiating the work would be retained by the PWD for five years to ensure proper maintenance. Various options are being considered to find money to repair 40 km of road in the Boulevard area. The PWD would need Rs. 13 crore to repair the damaged stretch. One option was to use funds available for Smart City projects, Mr. Lakshminarayanan said. The government has decided to obtain Rs. 8 crore from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development to re-lay eight roads in Bahour area. The government has also approached the Centre to utilise the Union Territory’s contribution of Rs. 33 crore to the Central Road Fund as cess collected for diesel and petrol to repair 42 km of the road in Puducherry and Karaikal. The government has also tendered the work to repair the stretch from Odhianpet-Arumparthapuram and Indira Gandhi Stadium to Cuddalore Road, the Minister also said. Also, the Union Ministry of Rural Development has sanctioned a sum of Rs. 70 crore for taking up road works in rural areas. “We are hopeful of commencing all the works by the beginning of next year. We have fast-tracked our efforts to repair all the roads,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pwd-initiates-work-to-repair-damaged-roads-in-puducherry/article37877164.ece
07 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Muthialpet residents stage road roko||Traffic was disrupted on the busy Mahatma Gandhi (MG)Road near Manikoondu (clock tower) at Muthialpet on Monday following a road ‘roko’, demanding proper drainage facility. Residents, mostly from Angalamman Nagar, resorted to the protest on the MG Road after their repeated pleas to officials and the local legislator yielded no result to the problem of overflowing of sewage. They complained that the streets in their locality are filled with sewage especially during heavy rain. Muthialpet police said the crowd dispersed after officials from the Public Health Wing of the Public Works Department gave assurance to find an early solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/muthialpet-residents-stage-road-roko/article37877166.ece
07 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||8 new COVID-19 cases in U.T.||The Union Territory on Monday recorded eight fresh COVID-19 cases from tests conducted on 1322 persons. No death related to COVID-19 has been reported in the last 24 hours, ending 10 a.m. on Monday. Of the new cases reported, six are from Puducherry and one each from Karaikal and Mahe regions. Currently, there are 250 active cases, of which 197 are under home isolation. The test positivity rate now stood at 0.61% and case fatality rate at 1.45%. Cuddalore district recorded nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Monday. Eight persons tested positive, taking the tally of active cases to 64,436. The district saw 63,486 recoveries, and the active case count stood at 78. In Villupuram district, one tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 46,035. Kallakurichi reported two cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8-new-covid-19-cases-in-ut/article37876848.ece
07 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Family members of college student refuse to accept body||Family members and relatives of college student Manikandan, 21, who died on Sunday under mysterious circumstances, refused to accept the body from Mudukalathur Government Hospital on Monday. Manikandan was taken to Keezhathooval police station for interrogation after he did not stop his bike at a check post on Saturday. His mother claimed that the police called her and sent her son, who looked weak and tired, with her. “The police had beaten my son, which led to his death,” she charged and demanded that the police should be booked for murder. Until the authorities initiated action, the family members said, they would not accept the body. Though senior officials, including Superintendent of Police E. Karthik and DRO Kamatchi Ganesan, held talks with the family members, the issue was not resolved. Meanwhile, Forward Bloc members and some BJP functionaries staged a demonstration near Mudukulathur bus stand demanding action against the police and termed the death of Manikandan a murder by the police. The family members demanded registration of murder case against the police personnel, Rs. 1 crore from the government as compensation and a government job to one of the family members. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Karthik said the police had conducted the probe with Manikandan in a professional and fair manner. There were records available in this connection. His mother was called to the police station and informed of the reasons for questioning him. Since he was a student, the police had not registered a case, but told them to produce the documents for the two-wheeler and take the vehicle the next day. His death was not due to torture or physical assault as claimed by the family members. Even the preliminary post mortem report had not given any such indicators, he said, adding, “We will wait for the final report to come.” The police had done their duty as per norms, the SP added. The body of the youth is now kept at Ramanathapuram Government Headquarters Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-members-of-college-student-refuse-to-accept-body/article37876862.ece
07 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Muslims stage demo||A large number of volunteers from various Muslim outfits, including TMMK, SDPI and others, staged a demonstration in Paramakudi, Ramanathapuram and other places, condemning the demolition of the Babri masjid on Monday. “The masjid was a historic monument. Razing it down was a historic blunder. In a democratic fabric, when the Constitution was clear about secular identity, such razing down of a masjid, which was close to millions of people around the globe, was unfair and shocked the minorities.” The speakers took a pledge at the demonstration site that they would not rest unless and until the Masjid was reconstructed. The functionaries who led included Mohamed Yusuf, Ansari, Sheriff and Salimullah Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/muslims-stage-demo/article37876865.ece
07 December 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Ranipet police return missing mobile phones to owners||The district police in Ranipet handed over 54 lost and found mobile phones to the owners here on Monday. Superintendent of Police Deepa Satyan distributed the phones worth Rs. 8.12 lakh to the owners. In 2020, the district police handed over 50 mobile phones, mostly high-end smartphones, worth Rs. 6,47,500 to the owners. As per norms, missing phones are traced and returned to the owners once in six months in the district. However, due to the pandemic, the exercise got delayed. "People who had lost their mobile phones were very happy to get their phones back. Not just because of the price tag but such mobiles also contain a lot of data including family photographs," said Ms. Satyan. A two-member team, comprising constables Raj Kumar and Aishwariya, of the district cyber crime cell, traced the missing phones for which complaints had been filed in all 18 police stations in the district. The cyber crime team, led by Muthukaruppan, Additional SP (Ranipet), keeps monitoring missing mobile phone handsets through their IMEI number at periodical intervals. Lost phones were tracked using IMEI numbers. In Ranipet, most of the missing phones that were handed over to the owners on Monday belonged to travellers, mainly from Chennai and Tiruvannamalai. Meanwhile, the district police in Tiruvannamalai auctioned 365 seized vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, in the parade ground at the SP office on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ranipet-police-return-missing-mobile-phones-to-owners/article37877193.ece
07 December 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||DVAC seizes Rs. 23 lakh, jewellery||In a day-long joint operation on Monday, sleuths from the Vellore Detatchment of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) and the Inspection Cell Officers (IOC), Vellore, searched the residence of the Municipal Engineer (ME) of the Ranipet municipality in Lalapet. Property documents The search ended with the DVAC seizing Rs. 23,32,717 cash, 1,456 grams of gold jewellery, 12 property documents, and bank passbooks. Selvakumar, ME, Ranipet Municipalityis in-charge of several infrastructure, civic projects in the district headquarters and also for sanctioning bills for works undertaken by the private contractors with the local body limits. It was said that he was in possession of a huge amount of money which he allegedly collected as bribe from the contractors for sanctioning bills for works undertaken by them over the years. Special DVAC teams, led by its inspectors, S. Vijay, K. Vijayalakshmi, and V. Rajinikanth with four officials in each team, searched Selvakumar’s house in Lalapet, near Ranipet. The operation was conducted under the orders of Mathiazhagan, DSP in-charge, DVAC (Tiruvannamalai). A case has been filed against Mr. Selvakumar and his wife. “Apart from cash, property documents were also seized during the searches. The disproportionate assets that was accumulated by the said officer was for the period between 2013-17," said a DVAC official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-seizes-rs-23-lakh-jewellery/article37877197.ece
07 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘Teaching methodologies to be modified according to this century’||Minister for Higher Education and Pro Chancellor of Periyar University K. Ponmudi said that based on changing scenario, textbooks, teaching methodologies has to be modified according to this century and State government is working in this connection. Addressing at the convocation ceremony of Periyar University on Monday, Mr. Ponmudi said that Higher Education Council was formed to train teachers in this connection. The Minister said that the State government has prioritised regional language and hence Chief Minister M.K. Stalin passed an order making Tamil mandatory for all government jobs in the State. Director of Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, G. Rangarajan said that students must be encouraged to adopt the trans-disciplinary approach and efforts must be taken to teach using regional language as well as in English to increase enrolment at higher education level. He suggested that Periyar University can introduce basic data science course for all disciplines. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic he said that Universities must promote healthcare research so that country is prepared to meet future healthcare crisis head on. Vice-Chanvellor R. Jagannathan said that six new programmes has been introduced in the University. As many as 777 graduates for the academic years 2019-20 and 2020-21 received their graduation certificates in-person at the ceremony, while 196 were gold medallists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teaching-methodologies-to-be-modified-according-to-this-century/article37876891.ece
07 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Egmore-Salem Express to be operated daily||The Chennai Egmore – Salem Jn. – Chennai Egmore Super Fast Express would be operated on a daily basis from December 13, a release said. According to a release from Salem Railway Division, the service resumed on December 3 as a tri-weekly. According to a release, the frequency of the trains would be increased and would be operated as daily superfast express trains. Train no.22153 Chennai Egmore – Salem Jn. Super Fast Express will be operated as a daily train service from December 13. Train no.22154 Salem Jn. – Chennai Egmore Super Fast Express will be operated as a daily train service from December 14, the release said. The trains would be operated as fully reserved trains. The trains would be composed of one AC 2-tier, four AC 3-tier, eight sleeper class, two general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/egmore-salem-express-to-be-operated-daily/article37876779.ece
07 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem dist. reports 39 new COVID-19 cases||Salem district on Monday reported 39 COVID-19 positive cases. According to health officials, 39 cases were indigenous and 12 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 40 cases and one death were reported. Erode district reported 58 new cases taking the total cases to 1,06,650. While 65 persons were discharged, 739 persons continue to be under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-dist-reports-39-new-covid-19-cases/article37876886.ece
07 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man gets 10 years jail for murder attempt||The District Mahila Court on Monday sentenced a man to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment on charges of attempt to murder. According to police, in November 2016, Kannan from Izhupandham stabbed his grandfather Kaliyan and set fire to his house demanding Kaliyan to arrange for his wedding. The court also imposed fine of Rs. .2,500 on the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-10-years-jail-for-murder-attempt/article37876887.ece
07 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Flag pole injures student||A Class VI student suffered injuries on her nose near Thadampatti here on Monday after being hit by a flagpole erected by DMK to welcome Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru. The incident occurred while she was travelling on a two-wheeler along with her mother. The student Priyadarshini was rushed to a private hospital for treatment where doctors advised that a plastic surgery should be done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flag-pole-injures-student/article37876889.ece
07 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Couple and son found dead||The Kallaperambur police are investigating the cause of death of three persons -- a couple and their son, found at their house on Sunday. According to police, the Kallaperambur police had received a call from Vinoth of Pudukottai stating that Vinoth’s brother, Raja (38) in Melaveli village panchayat had sent a voice message in which Raja had declared that he and his wife, Kanagadurga (32) and son, Srivatsan (11) were going to end their lives. Kallaperambur police rushed to the residence of Raja only to find all three dead. Raja, who was engaged in the real estate business, also owned a tea shop at Thiruvaiyaru. Problem of debt? He used to claim that he was not able to clear his debts and hence was unable to maintain his family, Vinoth told the police. The Kallaperambur police have taken the bodies to a government hospital for postmortem examinations and have registered a case of death under suspicious circumstances.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available at State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-and-son-found-dead/article37876844.ece
07 December 2021||THENI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||11,000 cusecs released in Vaigai dam||The sudden and widespread rain in many parts of Theni district on Sunday resulted in water flowing on roads in many low-lying areas. When the continuous rains stopped a few days ago, the dry spell came as a big relief to the people. But, the respite was brief as rains lashed the district on Sunday, leaving many rivers in spate and many areas in Uthamapalayam, Veerapandi and Upparpatti inundated. Rainwater entered Kaneeswaramudayar Temple in Veerapandi, and many coconut trees were either uprooted or washed away in Upparpatti. Moolavaigai, Suruliaru, Varaganadhi and Manjalar rivers swelled. Revenue Department officials, along with Disaster Management team and first responders, alerted the people residing close to the rivers to move to relief centres. PWD officials said they released 9,839 cusecs of water from Vaigai dam at 3 a.m. on Monday after the storage level reached 70.2 feet against the maximum level of 71 ft. As the inflow into the reservoir steadily rose, the officials discharged 11,035 cusecs at 5 a.m., 9 a.m. and at 10 a.m. Veerapandi recorded a rainfall of 128 mm, followed by Bodinayakkanur (98 mm), Uthamapalayam (93 mm), Andipatti (64 mm) and Gudalur (61.7) during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday. Meanwhile, Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar inspected the Vaigai at forenoon on Monday along with officials from the Public Works and Revenue departments to take stock of preparedness. He appealed to the people to stay away from the river and stressed the need to ensure that cattle were in the custody of owners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11000-cusecs-released-from-vaigai-dam/article37876863.ece
07 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Call to vaccinate cattle against foot-and-mouth disease||Milk producers of the district have appealed to Collector K. Senthil Raj to initiate immediate steps to administer vaccine to cattle to save them from foot-and-mouth-disease. In a petition submitted to the Collector during the weekly grievances redress meet held at the Collectorate on Monday, the milk producers, led by M. Balamurugan, district treasurer of Tamil Nadu Milk Producers’ Association, said the disease was spreading in the district as the cattle had not been vaccinated for the past two years. Since cattle rearers had lost a lot of milch animals to this viral infection, the Collector should instruct Animal Husbandry Department officials to organise vaccination camps to save the cattle, the petitioners said. Dharna A group of people from Arunthathiyar Community, led by Athi Thamizhar Peravai office-bearers, organised a dharna in front of the Collectorate seeking basic amenities in Selvanayagapuram. They said the 300-odd families had been denied of basic facilities for the past 40 years. Besides creating basic infrastructure at Selvanayagapuram, free houses should be built for Arunthathiyar community people, all hailing from below poverty line families, of this locality, they said. After the police held talks with the protesters, they left the spot and submitted a petition to Dr. Senthil Raj. ‘Remove blocks’ A group of farmers from Athikulam village near Kayathar submitted a petition seeking removal of blocks allegedly made by the stone quarry owners across wild streams to divert them away from roads. The petitioners said the stone quarry owners, in a bid to ensure hassle-free movement of stone-laden lorries, had blocked the wild streams. Consequently, the diverted water had entered the nearby ranches to damage paddy, black gram, green gram and maize crops. The Collector should initiate action against those caused extensive damage to the standing crops by diverting the wild streams, they said. Free house sites Functionaries of Ambedkar Makkal Iyakkam submitted a petition seeking free house sites for the below poverty line families of Ettaiyapuram, expansion of Ettaiyapuram bus stand and renovation of the primary school on RC Street, besides setting up of a library. ‘Take action’ Seeking action against her husband and his family members, L. Mariammal, 32, of West Azhagunatchiyarpuram near Kovilpatti, staged a dharna on the Collectorate premises. She said she had filed a complaint against her husband Lakshmanan and his family members as they were torturing her, demanding more dowry. “Though I had filed complaint with Kovilpatti All Women Police Station, no action has been taken against my husband and his family members,” said Ms. Mariammal, who gave up her agitation after the police pacified her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-vaccinate-cattle-against-foot-and-mouth-disease/article37877182.ece
07 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Road roko||Agitated over the delay in draining rainwater stagnating around their houses for the 12th day, the city residents staged road roko at five places on Monday. Led by the members of All India Democratic Women’s Association, the residents of Dhanasekaran Nagar blocked the busy Ettaiypuram Road near District Central Cooperative Bank. Similar agitations were held at Arockiyapuram, Madha Nagar, A. Shanmugapuram and Poopandiapuram. After police pacified the protesters, they dispersed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-roko/article37877180.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUCHENDUR,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery stolen from devotee||Police are on the lookout for a person who has stolen Rs. 14 lakh-worth gold ornaments from a devotee when he was offering prayers at Subramaniaswami Temple here on Monday. The police said Ganesan, 76, of Periyar Nagar in Karaikudi and his family had come to the temple to offer special prayers. When they were offering prayers, Mr. Ganesan found that someone had stolen 39 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs. 40,000 from his bag after cutting it with a sharp object. On a complaint by Mr. Ganesan, Tiruchendur Temple policehave registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-stolen-from-devotee/article37876858.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain pounds Manapparai||Normal life was disrupted in Manapparai as a sudden and heavy downpour pounded the town, situated about 40 km away from here, on Monday morning. The heavy rain flooded several parts of the town, including bus stand, taking residents by complete surprise. Many students were caught in the rain and beat a hasty retreat to their homes after a holiday was declared for schools. Buses were forced to halt and operate away from the bus stand. Flood alert With rainfall of 274.6 mm for three hours in the morning from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. recorded, Collector S. Sivarasu issued a flood warning for residential areas along the Ariyar and the Koraiyar rivers. The bus stand was among the worst affected, with knee-deep water, forcing school children to wade through it to go to school. Many slipped and fell, onlookers said. According to sources, Manapparai Kulam and Karikalan Kulam overflowed inundating residential areas, including Indira Nagar, MGR Nagar, Manapparai-Viralimalai Road. Rajiv Nagar, located near Appu Ayyar Kulam, was the worst affected. The tank bund gave away close to the spot where a breach occurred some days ago following an earlier wet spell. Residents of MGR Nagar and shopkeepers near the bus stand staged a road roko demanding immediate action as there were no proper drainage channels for the water to drain out. Fire and Rescue Services personnel used coracles to ferry the public for a few hours. Police officials pacified the crowd as officials of the civic body began work to pump out the water. Buses that usually stopped at the bus stand were forced to halt on Tiruchi road, Madurai road, Dindigul road and Kovilpatti road, from where passengers boarded and alighted them through the day. Mr. Sivarasu visited the affected areas in Manapparai and instructed officials to make arrangements for relief swiftly. Meanwhile, the rainwater from Manapparai, which flowed through the Ariyar and into the Koraiyar in Tiruchi, inundated residential areas in the city before joining the Cauvery through the Kudamuritti canal. Speaking to The Hindu , Ramesh Kumar, a teacher at Panchayat Union Middle School, Pirattiyur, where water inundated many homes, said they had decided to throw the gates of the school open to the public to take shelter. “With the water level continuing to rise, many of the homes of our students may become inundated by night. They can take shelter at the school,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-pounds-manapparai/article37876854.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BDU to hold convocation on December 9||The 37th convocation of Bharathidasan University will take place on December 9. Chancellor and Governor R.N. Ravi will preside over the ceremony. Candidates who completed Ph.D. between October 2, 2019, and November 20, 2021, are to be awarded their doctorate degrees in person. Minister for Higher Education K. Ponmudi will offer felicitations and P. Kanagasabapathi, Chairman (in-charge), Indian Council of Social Science Research, New Delhi, will deliver the convocation address. The university has issued instructions to candidates to wear masks and adhere to all other COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedures of the government at the convocation and rehearsal a day earlier. The Principals of 27 affiliated colleges have been invited for an interaction with Governor at Bharathidasan University on December 8, a day before the convocation. The Governor, according to university sources, has not specified any agenda for the discussion, but the authorities term the meeting a “simple interaction” for 15 minutes. Mr. Ravi has also scheduled meetings with Syndicate members, students and NCC cadets, as he had been doing during his visits to the State universities for convocation in recent weeks. According to a senior professor, there is less likelihood of the Principals or others discussing contentious issues due to fear of earning the displeasure of the Higher Education Department. MoU signed Bharathidasan University has signed a memorandum of understanding with NSE Academy to launch the Centre for Financial Markeon its campus. The Centre paves way for offering joint UG and PG programmes, conducting faculty training programmes, promoting finance clubs for students, Industry-Academy Interface and guidance for NCFM exam to students. NSE SMART Trading Simulator, NSE Knowledge Hub, and NSE Fin Talent will prepare the future financial services industry ready talents, Vinodh James, Manager, NSE Academy, said. According to M. Selvam, Professor and Head, Department of Commerce and Financial Studies, the centre will offer programmes in the area of capital market, facilitating pricing and evaluation of risk of various products and services of capital markets. Earlier this week, Vice-Chancellor M. Selvam and Abhilash Mishra, Chief Executive Officer, NSE Academy, exchanged the MoU. The MOU will help faculty members and students to understand the dynamic nature of market through resource and knowledge-sharing by NSE Academy, the Vice-Chancellor said. Financial literacy is one of the survival skills of the 21st century, Mr. Abhilash Mishra said. G. Gopinath, Registrar, BDU, took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bdu-to-hold-convocation-on-december-9/article37876845.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A sleepless night for residents||The bunds of the Ariyar suffered a breach near the Punganur-Alithurai bridge on the river on the outskirts of Tiruchi on Monday afternoon as heavy flow of rainwater from Manapparai streamed towards the city, inundating low-lying residential colonies. The breach occurred close to the spot where the bund gave away about a week ago near Punganur. The Public Works Department had taken up repairs at the spot, but the bund has breached again now. “There was sudden flood due to the heavy rain in Manapparai. We have currently taken up temporary restoration work at the spot to plug the breach using sand bags,” said a PWD official from the Ariyar Division. According to rough estimates, about 8,000 cusecs of water was flowing in the river by Monday evening. PWD officials hoped that the flow would come down late in the night. “Since there is not much flow in the Koraiyar now, we hope the situation can be managed,” the official added. Meanwhile, the water from the river started inundating low-lying residential areas near Pirattiyur by evening and water was flowing along a carriageway on Tiruchi-Dindigul Highway, requiring traffic regulations and diversions. This is the third time that the low-lying areas in the city are being inundated since November due to heavy discharge in the Kudamuritti due to rain flows from Manapparai and Viralimalai/Keeranur in Pudukottai district as both the Koraiyar and the Ariyar drain into the Cauvery through the Kudamuritti canal near Tiruchi. As the flow began to rise in the Kudamuritti canal beyond the Puthur Aqueduct, residents of Fathima Nagar kept their fingers crossed. “The water level in the canal is rising rapidly. We do not know what is in store for us later in the night,” a representative of the Fathima Nagar Welfare Association said. The River Conservation Division of the PWD began frantically reinforcing the temporary bund put up around the drainage sluice near Karalamman Temple through which water from the Kudamuritti headed up into Fathima Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-sleepless-night-for-residents/article37876851.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi artist brings cityscape alive||Art adorns not just the walls, but also the doors and floors of P. Manickavachagam’s home-cum-studio in the suburb of Kattur. A former Associate Professor of Fine Arts at the Department of Architecture in NIT-T, he keeps himself busy during retirement with multiple assignments. Topping the list is a series of cityscapes featuring marketplaces and landmark buildings of Tiruchi that Mr. Manickavachagam hopes to publish as a book one day. “In my sketches, I make pen and ink outlines and fill them in with watercolours, for a touch of realism,” the 70-year-old told The Hindu . Featuring iconic spaces in the city such as Big Bazaar Street, Rockfort, Gandhi Market and Tiruchi railway junction, the finely detailed drawings are available on the artist’s Instagram handle. “I rely on photographs to make these cityscapes, and they seem to have a nostalgic appeal for those who visit my Instagram page,” he said. “It is also possible to see how Tiruchi has grown and changed gradually down the years through these paintings.” Originally from Poolavadi village in Tiruppur district, he has spent the lockdown engaged in a philanthropic project for his birthplace. He has been doing the illustrations for a Tamil book being written by his friend Salai Kumaran to raise funds for their alma mater in Poolavadi, the Government Higher Secondary School. “My friend has written about significant events and people from our early years in Poolavadi. I have tried to recreate some of these scenes to accompany the text,” said Mr. Manickvachagam, who has done nearly a hundred illustrations pertaining to the sandhai (weekly shandy), ‘record dance’ performers, ‘goli soda’ makers and cattle sellers, among others, for the book. There are pictures of festivals and famous sons of the soil such as poet-lyricist Udumalai Narayana Kavi. “Many of the professions that the pictures portray have slowly vanished, so this book, which we hope to publish in time for the school’s 60th anniversary celebrations next year, will be like an archival document too,” said Mr. Manickavachagam. After being trained by his goldsmith father and later by the sthapathi (temple architect and sculptor) Rajagopal, a 1950s alumnus of the Kumbakonam School of Fine Art, he worked as telephone operator and veered towards commercial graphics and book wrapper designing before finding his forte as a Fine Arts academic. He has kept up with the times by teaching art online. “Every day is a new and surprising experience for the artist,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-artist-brings-cityscape-alive/article37877285.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Vaccination compulsory’||Tiruchi Corporation has issued guidelines to commercial establishments to permit entry only to those vaccinated against COVID-19. The owners must also make efforts to ensure that the staff have been fully vaccinated. Speaking to The Hindu , an official of the civic body said instructions had been given following a decision to encourage the public to take the jab. “While we were insisting on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour earlier, vaccination certificates too will be required.” According to the notice, all commercial establishments in the city, which includes shopping complexes, stand alone shops, hotels, supermarkets, must ensure that 100% of their staff had taken both doses of the vaccine. They must also allow only those who have taken both doses of the vaccine. They must also continue to ensure that mask-wearing, regular temperature checks and personal distance are maintained at all times. The notification has been issued under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act. Sanitary inspectors and sanitation officers will conduct surprise checks and those who flout the norms will be fined, and the shops will be sealed, the official said. The Corporation has vaccinated a total of 78% of its population and aimed to complete 100% by the end of 2021, the official said, adding that it will help to keep a check on further spread of the infection. “Evidence shows that the vaccine helps reduce the effect of the infection. By taking it, we can avoid adverse health complications," they added.  66 new cases The central region reported 66 fresh cases and zero death on Monday. Tiruchi district reported 19 positive cases, while the remaining eight districts continued to report less than 20 cases. In Karur, 16 cases were reported, and in Thanjavur 10. Nine patients reported COVID-19 positive in Tiruvarur and five in Nagapattinam. Mayiladuthurai registered four fresh cases, while Ariyalur reported two. In Pudukottai, one patient contracted the infection, while in Perambalur district no new case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-compulsory/article37876857.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Air passenger tests positive for infection||A 63-year-old man who landed at the Tiruchi International Airport on Sunday night tested positive for COVID-19. The patient was admitted to the special ward for international travellers at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Monday. His test samples have been sent for genome sequencing to identify the variant of virus. The man hails from Mayiladuthurai. Health officials said he had mild symptoms. “We are treating him for the symptoms and will continue to monitor him,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-passenger-tests-positive-for-infection/article37876749.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||World Soil Day observed||Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sirugamani, in collaboration with the Department of Agriculture and Reliance Foundation celebrated World Soil Day at Manapparai on Sunday. The theme for this year was “Halt soil salinization, enhance soil production”. More than 75 farmers participated in the programme that was inaugurated by V. Lakshmanasamy, Deputy Director, Agriculture (State Scheme), Tiruchi. He highlighted soil health development and importance of soil test-based fertilizer application. Lectures on various technologies were given by scientists of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. Programme coordinator N. Tamilselvan spoke on the importance of green manure and green leaf manure in maintaining soil physical properties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-soil-day-observed/article37877283.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Muslim outfits stage demonstrations||Functionaries of various Muslim outfits staged demonstrations across the district on Monday to condemn the demolition of Babri Masjid on its 29th anniversary and demanding its reconstruction at the same place where the 16th century mosque was standing. Social Democratic Party of India cadre staged a demonstration near Melapalayam traffic island with party’s State general secretary A.S. Umar Farook leading the agitation. “The struggle will not cease until demolished Babri masjid is built again,” the protesters said. Terming the judgment given by the Supreme Court in the Babri masjid case as an “injustice”, Mr. Umar Farook said the site where the masjid stood should be given to Muslims for the construction of the razed down structure again and those who demolished the place of worship of Muslims should be brought to justice. National Women’s Front’s State vice-president Fatima Alima, Tirunelveli city district president of the SDPI Shahul Hameed Usmani, advocate Senthil Kumar and others spoke at the demonstration. The SDPI cadre also staged demonstrations at Pettai near Tirunelveli Town, Ervadi and Ambasamudram in Tirunelveli district. Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam and Manithaneya Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam cadres also staged a demonstration at Melapalayam where all the shops remained closed in view of the Babri masjid demolition anniversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/muslim-outfits-stage-demonstrations/article37877184.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||New SP assures of action against contract killers||Superintendent of Police P. Saravanan has vowed to initiate stringent action against contract killers, besides keeping history-sheeters under constant surveillance. During an informal chat with the reporters here on Monday after assuming office, Mr. Saravanan said toughest action would be ensured against anti-social elements, ganja peddlers and contract killers, who were a threat to the maintenance of law and order. History-sheeters across the district would be brought under constant surveillance so that they could not hatch any plan against maintenance of law and order. “Since maintenance of law and order and rule of law are the utmost priority of the police, it will be ensured at any cost,” Mr. Saravanan said, adding that the petitions being received from the public would be resolved in an unbiased manner. After joining the Tamil Nadu Police as Deputy Superintendent of Police in 2001, Mr. Saravanan has served in various districts, including Virudhunagar and Madurai. On getting promoted as Additional Superintendent of Police, he was posted in Dharmapuri and Salem districts. Mr. Saravanan has served as Superintendent of Police in Cuddalore district in 2011 and SP, Intelligence in Chennai and AIG, Administration, Chennai. His predecessor N. Manivannan has been posted as the Principal of Police Training College, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-sp-assures-of-action-against-contract-killers/article37877187.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Movement decides to sell toddy from January 21||Tamil Nadu Toddy Movement has decided to sell toddy across Tamil Nadu from January 21, its field coordinator S. Nallasamy has said. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, Mr. Nallasamy said toddy, which was part of the food of the ancient men and women, had been banned with the ulterior motive of encouraging liquor industry supplying Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) to the shops being run by Tasmac. Moreover, the ban on toddy and liberal sale of liquor had denied the right to food for the people. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who had banned the IMFL sale and allowed the sale of toddy in his State, had admitted that the prohibition of the IMFL had drastically reduced accidents in the State. Hence, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin should also ban the sale of the IMFL and allow the sale of toddy, Mr. Nallasamy said. He said treating toddy and the IMFL as ‘hard drink’ and banning toddy alone was not fair. On the decision to sell palmyrah jaggery through ration shops, he said the Tamil Nadu government had taken several steps to save palmyrah trees and sell palm jaggery through the ration shops in a bid to enliven the livelihood of the palmyrah climbers. To check the adulteration of jaggery, the government had mandated the installation of camera at the places where the unrefined brown sugar made from palm sap is manufactured. “At the same time, Food Safety Department officials should be instructed to check the uncontrolled sale of adulterated palm jaggery in which up to 90% sugar is added. Those who manufacture and sell the adulterated palm jaggery should be booked,” Mr. Nallasamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/movement-decides-to-sell-toddy-from-january-21/article37877188.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Mining licensee fined Rs. 20.11 cr.||The Department of Mines has slapped a fine of Rs. 20.11 crore for violation of mining of stone by a stone quarry licensee in Radhapuram taluk of the district. Sources in the Department of Mines said licence for mining stones from 2.41 hecatare patta land in Irukkanthurai in Radhapuram taluk was given to N. Esakkiappan for a period from February 28, 2018 to February 27, 2023. Since he allegedly mined more quantity of stones in violation of the permission given, a team led by former Cheranmahadevi Sub-Collector Siva Krishnamurthy conducted a surprise check in the quarry of Mr. Esakkiappan and a few more quarries in Radhapuram taluk. “While the permitted quantity was only 4,82,640 cubic meter, additional quantity of 4,03,824 stones had been mined. As this violation was established during the surprise check, Rs. 20.11 crore was slapped as fine on Mr. Esakkiappan,” the sources said. Moreover, he has been asked to appear before Collector V. Vishnu on December 7 to present his case against the decision to cancel the licence. The raid has also led to slapping of fine on a few more stone quarries for violation of norms, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mining-licensee-fined-rs-2011-cr/article37877185.ece
07 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Monday stood at 136.10 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 1,631.42 cusecs and a discharge of 1,389.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 116.70 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 723 cusecs and a discharge of 100 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37877190.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUPATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Surprise raid: 2 countrymade guns, arrack, gutkha seized||In a two-day storming operation that ended on Monday evening, the district police in Tirupattur have seized two countrymade guns, illicit arrack and its ingredients, PDS rice and gutkha in various parts of the district. The surprise raid was conducted on December 5 and 6 in the district. A round-the-clock helpline 9442992526 has been set up at the office of the Superintendent of Police for residents, to pass off information about illegal activities within their limits. Police said that the storming operation, led by Superintendent of Police, Tirupattur, K. Balakrishnan, was carried out ahead of the 29th anniversary of Babri Masjid demolition day observed on December 6. The raid ended in the arrest of 73 suspects. “It (raid) was not a one-time exercise. Instead, such surprise checks will be carried out regularly as the district connects key cities like Coimbatore and Bengaluru,” Mr. Balakrishnan said. The surprise checks were conducted involving a large contingent of police force, including 13 inspectors and 600 sub-inspectors and constables. Remote villages and tribal hamlets in Yelagiri Hills were also covered in the raid. Police seized two countrymade guns from two persons in a hut near Alagayam taluk near Tirupattur. The suspects were said to be using these guns for hunting. Likewise, 146 litres of illicit arrack and 810 kg of jaggery (its key ingredient) were seized at the vehicular checkpoint near Vaniyambadi on Monday. Meanwhile, the Vellore police conducted searches at various places, including Katpadi and Gudiyattam railway stations, lodges, check points, Vellore fort and other places as part of its safety drill on Monday. A team of 700 police personnel led by Vellore SP, S. Rajesh Kannan, took part in the drill.  “The raid was not a one-time exercise. Instead, such checks will be carried out regularly as the district connects key cities like Coimbatore and Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surprise-raid-2-countrymade-guns-arrack-gutkha-seized/article37877195.ece
07 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Woman’s body exhumed for postmortem||The Kunnathur police on Monday exhumed the body of a 65-year-old woman who allegedly died under suspicious circumstances in Velliraveli village in Tiruppur. The police said that Ammaniammal allegedly died by suicide on November 18. However, the family members did not inform the police and Revenue Department and buried the body after a funeral. Based on a complaint from the Velliraveli Village Administrative Officer, the Kunnathur police registered a case. On Monday, the body was exhumed and a team from the Government Medical College Hospital, Tiruppur, carried out the autopsy. Further investigations are on. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/womans-body-exhumed-for-postmortem/article37876786.ece
07 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Revenue Inspector held for graft||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Monday arrested the Revenue Inspector (RI) of Pongalur revenue village in Tiruppur district on charges of accepting a bribe of Rs. 25,000. Sources said that the RI, Senthilkumar, had demanded the bribe from a man involved in gravel transport business. He allegedly demanded the bribe for allowing gravel transport within the village and to not send adverse reports to the Avinashi Tahsildar. The man reported this to the Tiruppur detachment of DVAC, who laid a trap at the RI's office in Pongalur on Monday. DVAC sleuths caught the official red-handed while accepting the bribe and arrested him, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-inspector-held-for-graft/article37876787.ece
07 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tourism sector recovering from COVID-19 pandemic: Minister||Minister for Tourism M. Mathiventhan said the number of tourists and those visiting the lodging facilities run by the Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation (TTDC) were increasing, with the gradual reduction in the number of COVID-19 cases. The State government has earned revenue amounting to Rs. 22 lakh in the last two months through online booking of hotel rooms across the State, Mr. Mathiventhan said in Udhagamandalam on Monday. After inspecting the the Ooty Lake and Boat House along with Forest Minister K. Ramachandran, Mr. Mathiventhan told reporters the COVID-19 pandemic had forced the State Tourism Department to close various tourism spots and hotels. However, with the reduction in the number of cases across the State over the last few months, the tourism spots have gradually been opened to tourists. The Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation (TTDC) runs two hotels and bars in the Nilgiris, while also maintaining the Ooty Lake and Boat House as well as Pykara Lake. At the boat house, Mr. Mathiventhan listened to the grievances of the shopkeepers.  He said the demands made by them would be considered and acted upon by the State government. Visits TTDC hotels On Sunday, the Minister visited the TTDC hotels in Udhagamandalam and took stock of the measures undertaken at the hotels and bars to minimise the risk of spread of COVID-19 among travellers and patrons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourism-sector-recovering-from-covid-19-pandemic-minister/article37876795.ece
07 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Villages along Jawadhu Hills get bus services to Vellore town||Commuters, including students, women and farmers, from key farming villages along the Jawadhu Hills can now travel frequently as bus services for four new routes, connecting these villages with Vellore town and Ambur, were introduced on Monday. Accompanied by S. Nataraj, general manager, Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC), Vellore zone, District Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian flagged off the buses. Of the four new routes, two will connect villages in Anaicut taluk along the hills with the central parts of Vellore Town. “The new bus routes will help students and traders reach Vellore town. Earlier, they had to switch two or three buses to reach the town,” said Mr. Nataraj. The new routes are: Vellore-Guruvarajapalayam (13/A) and Vellore-Odugathur, which will service several hamlets in the Anaicut region; Anaicut-Asanampattu village (8/B), which will run to around 80 villages along the Jawadhu Hills; and Ambur-Odugathur village (12), which will also service some areas in Tirupattur district. ROB nears completion The Rs. 38.74-crore rail over bridge (ROB) that will replace the existing level crossing on Puducherry-Krishnagiri Road, between the Tiruvannamalai and Thandurai railway stations, will be ready by the end of December. Tiruvannamalai District Collector B. Murugesh and Minister for Public Works Department E.V. Velu on Monday inspected the work done by the State Highways Department, which is in the final stages of completion. A long-standing demand of residents in Tiruvannamalai, the under-construction bridge, which will be a short route for pilgrims and travellers from Puducherry, will be 666 m in length, with 15-m approach roads and 7-m wide service roads. Highway officials said the Puducherry-Krishnagiri Road connected Puducherry, Tindivanam, Gingee, Tiruvannamalai, Chengam, Singarapettai, Krishnagiri, Hosur and Bengaluru. Once the bridge opens by January, traffic congestion on the route will be reduced, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villages-along-jawadhu-hills-get-bus-services-to-vellore-town/article37877158.ece
07 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 11 new COVID-19 infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,252 with 11 new cases reported on Monday. While 48,958 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 152. The district's death toll is 1,142. In Ranipet district, three cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,585. In Tirupattur district, three cases were reported on Monday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,399. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 4, taking the total number of cases to 55,215. Out of this, 54,497 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 48.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-11-new-covid-19-infections/article37877196.ece
07 December 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram MP asks Stalin to safeguard peace in Auroville||Villupuram Member of Parliament D. Ravikumar has urged the Tamil Nadu Government to immediately intervene and safeguard peace in Auroville in the district. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Mr. Ravikumar said Auroville was conceived as a universal township with people from different countries living and working together. Auroville’s afforestation project has come to ensure the protection of environment because of the larger area of green cover it has brought up, particularly in Villupuram district, which has a very low green cover in the State. However, developments over the last few days in the township have come to cause concern, he said. Mr. Ravikumar said the Auroville Foundation should not indulge in any unilateral move, taking decisions contrary to the views of Resident Assembly, to clear trees for the road laying project. It is learnt that the Secretary of the Auroville Foundation, Jayanti S. Ravi, had decided to go ahead with the project around the Matrimandir and the Union Government had also allocated funds for the same, he said. “Though the Resident Assembly has protested against the move and suggested an alternative route for laying of road, there has been no breakthrough in talks. Meanwhile, on the directions from the Secretary of the Auroville Foundation, trees were cleared for the road laying. Members of the Youth Centre, who protested against the move were assaulted and intimidated, and threats were made to revoke their passports. This is highly unfortunate,” Mr. Ravikumar said. The MP claimed there have been allegations that Auroville was sought to be grabbed by those championing the cause of the RSS. The Governing Board of Auroville was recently constituted and Ms. Ravi, who had previously served in Gujarat, has been appointed as the Secretary while the Tamil Nadu Governor R.N. Ravi has been nominated as the Chairman. Though Auroville was located in Tamil Nadu, it does not have a single member from the State on its Board, he contended. Aurovillians have complained that the Foundation members have been trying to bulldoze their way with the project, bypassing the Auroville Act and the genuine concerns of the residents. Any such move would bring a bad name to the State Government. The Chief Minister should immediately intervene and ensure peace in Auroville, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villupuram-mp-asks-stalin-to-safeguard-peace-in-auroville/article37877162.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Medical college ‘hushes up’ ragging incident||“The committee submitted its report only on Saturday and over 100 students of Saravanan’s batch were questioned and they said the four students were known to commit such an offence. We had to verify before taking action,” said Ms. Amuthavalli. The accused students were from Dharmapuri. But asked about the absence of police complaint given that ragging was a serious offence, the Dean said an AR entry (accident register) was made at the time of admission and it was for the police to check the entry. SP C. Kalaichelvan, however, said, “The first time no direct intimation was given by the hospital to the police. It is standard procedure that upon admission of any person with injuries [in suspicious circumstances], the police should be intimated.” It was projected as a scuffle between students and the hospital wanted it to be handled as an internal matter, he said. Saravanan, meanwhile, sent a mail to the Medical Commission, feeling let down by the perceived delay in the inquiry. The deputy warden, and the chief warden of the hostel, both associate professors at the hospital, resigned from their wardenship on Monday.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-college-hushes-up-ragging-incident/article37877080.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Delhi man arrested at Coimbatore airport||His luggage was passed through the X-Ray Baggage Inspection System which showed the presence of a heavy density material in seven packets. The powder-like material was in black, grey and brown colours. One of the sniffer dogs gave a negative indication. He claimed that he was carrying semi-processed raw materials, but he did not have documents. The CISF said, in its complaint, that there was a high probability that the powder, weighing 2.5 kg, might belong to some kind of explosive category substance. Arora was taken to Peelamedu police station where senior officials questioned him and examined the substance he was carrying. “He told us that he runs an industry in Himachal Pradesh, and the powder-like substance was a type of ore imported from Cambodia. He claimed that he had come to Coimbatore to subject it to certain tests to ascertain the amount of metals like lead, copper and gold in it,” said a police officer. Later, Arora was remanded in judicial custody. The investigation found that Arora flew from Delhi to Kochi in November and his luggage was screened at both airports. But no prohibited item was detected in his luggage. After a few days, he travelled to Tiruchi and then to Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delhi-man-arrested-at-coimbatore-airport/article37877081.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||OPS, EPS elected unopposed to top posts||A press release issued by Mr. Ponnaiyan and Pollachi V. Jayaraman, another election official, stated that the nomination papers were received only from Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami, and were found to be in order as per the relevant rule of the party’s constitution. Senior office-bearers at the party headquarters, secretaries of district units and former Ministers also submitted the nomination papers on behalf of Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami. On Friday and Saturday, a few prospective applicants for the posts were manhandled by groups of people at the party headquarters. Mr. Ponnaiyan told The Hindu that nomination papers were provided only to those who were “eligible to receive them”. Homage to Jaya After the declaration of the result, Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami, visited the mausoleum of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa on the Marina to pay homage to the late leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-eps-elected-unopposed-to-top-posts/article37876746.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campus Connect||G.T.N. Arts College, Dindigul, and Indian Council of Social Science Research, Southern Regional Centre, Hyderabad, conducted a three-day virtual workshop on ‘Advanced research methodology and statistical analysis for Social Sciences. P. Ravichandran, the workshop director, highlighted the objectives and importance of the workshop. V. K. Malhotra, Member Secretary, ICSSR, president- Indian Economic Association, New Delhi, in his address, stressed on good writing skills, rapport with scholars and publications. P. G. Babu, Director, MIDS, Chennai, in his inaugural address, spoke about ethodological individualism, the role of economics and other social sciences, concept of John Stuart Mill, child labour, child harassments, ineffective law, defects of gambling, etc. D. K. Madaan, Head, Social Sciences, Punjab University, spoke about the importance of social science research. Krishna Raj of Center for Economic Studies and policy, Bengaluru, V. Arulmurugan of Pondicherry University and S. R. Keshava of Bangalore University also spoke.   The Department of International Business, Alagappa University, Karaikudi, in association with Tamil Nadu Food Safety Department, Sivaganga district, organised a lecture on ‘Food safety- scaling up to global standards under ‘EAT RIGHT Sivaganga Challenge’ on November 24. R. Thiyagarajan, Food Safety Officer of Sakkottai and Kannangudi blocks, spoke on the procedure to apply for a licence for food production and sales outlet depending on size of operation. He demonstrated ways to identify adulterated food through simple tests. Muthukumar, Food Safety Officer of Karaikudi region, gave an overview on the importance of food standards.   A five-day short-term programme on ‘Role of sustainable development goals’ was inaugurated at Alagappa University on Devcember 6. It was meant for young faculty members, post-doctoral fellows, and research scholars. KR. Gnanasambandan of Aathma Academy, Madurai, shared his thoughts on the significance of Industry-Institute Interaction for finding pragmatic solutions to environmental hazards and social issues. He asked the educational institutions to establish good relationship with society as institutions cannot function in isolation. He asked for cautious use of plastic and emphasised the need to stick to “reduce-reuse-recycle mantra.” A careful and thoughtful use of nature’s resources would lead to a sustainable and healthy environment that we could leave for our future generations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect/article37876860.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||ERODE   Kongu Arts and Science College: Department of Computer Science (UG), two-day hands on training-cum-workshop on Computer Hardware and Networking for first year students, T. Manikandan, proprietor, Sridharan Infotech, Erode, resource person, K. Palaniswamy, Correspondent, presides, 10 a.m.  SALEM   Knowledge Institute of Technology: AICTE sponsored ATAL- faculty development programme on data analytics in smart healthcare, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37876878.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||KPR College of Arts Science and Research: Skill development programme, 11 a.m.  DJ Academy of Managerial Excellence: Pooled campus drive by Verzeo, 9 a.m.    Apeda, Government of India and Pollachi Chamber of Commerce and Industry: Seminar on ‘Agriculture Produces Production and Export Opportunities’, KKG Marriage Hall, Palladam Road, Pollachi, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37876788.ece
07 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah is not welcome in Badami, says Chimmanakatti||Congress leader and former Minister B.B. Chimmanakatti said in Badami of Bagalkot district on Monday that Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah is not welcome to contest from Badami the next time, “as his importance has reduced in his own hometown”. “I vacated my seat for Mr. Siddaramaiah in the last elections. He promised me that I will be made an MLC. But he has gone back on his word. My importance has been reduced in Badami, which is my home constituency. If Mr. Siddaramaiah wants to contest MLA elections again, let him do so from Varuna,” he said. “I have been a Minister in the past. I was like a lion in the past. I have been reduced to a mouse now. But I will become an MLA and Minister in future. I could even be the Chief Minister,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-not-welcome-in-badami-chimmanakatti/article37876718.ece
07 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Suvarna Soudha Chalo on Dec. 12||Congress leader and MLA Anjali Nimbalkar will lead a Suvarna Soudha Chalo from Khanapur on December 12 in protest against alleged neglect of the backward taluk by the State Government. She will also stage a dharna in front of the Suvarna Soudha on December 13. “The State Government has completely neglected our taluk. We do not get enough funds for development. Despite several requests, we have not received development grants due to us,” she told journalists in Khanapur on Monday. The State Government has released just Rs. 600 crore per year in annual grants. But this is not enough as the constituency is large, she said. She said that the State Government had not given proper compensation to farmers who had lost houses and crops in floods in the last few years. “Public utilities, including roads and bridges, have been damaged. As much as 820 km of roads and 23 bridges have been damaged. As many as 255 schoolrooms have been built. All these need to be repaired. But we have not got money for all this,’’ she said. She added that there were 525 pending road projects that were not taken up for various reasons in the taluk. Crops on 9,000 acres of land were lost to floods in Khanapur. But farmers are getting only Rs. 2,720 per acre. This is insufficient. Farmers spend up to Rs. 15,000 per acre for growing crops, including rice. Compared to this, the compensation is very small. The State Government should pay compensation to farmers, over and above the NDRF norms, she said.  The padayatra will start from Khanapur in the afternoon on December 12. It will reach Suvarna Soudha by the morning of December 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suvarna-soudha-chalo-on-dec-12/article37876898.ece
07 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Centre criticised||Congress leaders have criticised the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre for saying that it has no data about the death of farmers during the year-long farmers protest on the border in Delhi. Congress leaders P.H. Neeralkeri, Danappa Kabbear and Ishwar Shivalli, who addressed a media conference in Dharwad recently, said that the government has failed in its duty of providing vital information to Parliament. “The government should also maintain data on births and deaths of citizens, which it has failed completely,’’ they said. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has said that the government has no information on farmers who died during the year-long movement. This proves that the government has been negligent about the lives of citizens, he said. He criticised the government for not allowing discussions on farm bills before they were passed and when they were being repealed. “This proves that the BJP government does not follow democratic principles,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-criticised/article37876896.ece
07 December 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||BJP troubled by rebel candidates; Congress has no such problem: DKS||The BJP is facing problems from its rebel candidates in the legislative council polls in several districts of Karnataka, but there is no such problem in the Congress, D.K. Shivakumar, KPCC president, said in Belagavi on Monday. “In most districts, Congress leaders and workers have accepted our choice of candidates and are working for them. Only in one place, there were some differences among some leaders. We resolved them. Everywhere else, we are united. But BJP is suffering from internal differences. At many places, there are two stages on a single stage. There is confusion among workers. There are rebel BJP candidates at several places. We don’t have a rebel candidate anywhere. We don’t have leaders who have betrayed the party,” he said in a oblique reference to Ramesh Jarkiholi, BJP MLA who has openly supported his brother Lakhan Jarkiholi, who is contesting as an independent candidate in Belagavi. He alleged that the BJP was unable to end the differences among its leaders. “The national party, which is in power at the Centre and in the State, is unable to manage such differences. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is helpless,” he said. He also claimed that some BJP leaders were trying to destabilise their Government is Karnataka. “We are not doing it. They are doing it,” he said. About fielding one candidate in each of the five double member seats, he said the Congress does not want division of votes among two candidates. “You cannot accuse only the Congress of nepotism. All parties have fielded family members in these polls. This trend is seen across north and south Karnataka. We decided upon Channaraj Hattiholi as we wanted to create opportunities for youngsters. But now he has the support of all Congress leaders and workers across Belagavi district. Frankly, I had not expected this,” he said. He said that the Congress is in support of holding the winter session of the Karnataka legislature in Belagavi. “If it is shifted to Bengaluru, we will organise an intensive agitation across Karnataka. I have told this to the Speaker,” he said. Mr. Shivakumar complained that the BJP Government had failed to provide proper flood relief compensation to the farmers who had lost crops, houses, animals or breadwinners. “A group of around 40 women met me in Ramdurg. They had lost houses and crops two years ago, but had not got proper relief from the Government. They said they will ask the State Government for permission to commit mass suicide. They are upset with the government for its negligent attitude. We will raise this issue during the session.” He demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi order an inquiry into the allegation by contractors that they were forced to cough up 40% of a project cost as bribe in Karnataka. “K.S. Eshwarappa has asked why I went to Tihar jail. They threw me in jail as I refused to join the BJP,” he said. “Mr. Bommai has alleged that Congress is fielding wealthy persons in the legislative council polls, as we do not have deserving candidates. That is not true. We are fighting for social justice and have given tickets to backward classes and minority leaders. BJP has not given tickets to members of such communities. They don’t even have a welfare scheme for the poor and deprived communities. K.G.F. Babu, one of the candidates, has declared a high income as he has a flourishing business. It is wrong to cast aspersions about his income,” he said. He accused the BJP of poaching some wealthy Congress leaders in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-troubled-by-rebel-candidates-congress-has-no-such-problem-dks/article37876901.ece
07 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Welcomed||Social Democratic Party of India has welcomed the government decision to provide eggs to school students in the Kalyan Karnataka region. SDPI demanded that the scheme should be extended to the whole State. SDPI State unit general secretary Afsar Kodlipete said that the government should ignore the opposition to the scheme by some groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/welcomed/article37876897.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||130 students tested positive for COVID-19: DPI||As many as 130 students between classes I and X have tested positive for COVID-19, data collated from all 34 educational districts as on Monday by the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) has revealed. The reports have been submitted by educational institutions where clusters were found. The highest number of COVID-19 cases has been reported in Chikkamagaluru district with 92 cases. All these students belong to the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya. However, sources in the department said while the number of positive cases may be higher, these are the official statistics which have been collated by the department and reported by educational institutions. Inspections With many COVID-19 clusters being reported in educational institutions, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education is likely to send their teams to inspect residential institutions. B.C. Nagesh, Primary and Secondary Education Minister told The Hindu that all Deputy Directors of Public Instruction have been instructed to send teams to conduct surprise checks to ensure that the hostels are complying with COVID-19 norms and following SOPs. The Minister also said that the department was adopting the wait-and-watch approach and would continue with offline classes. “We are worried about the COVID-19 clusters but are keeping a watch on schools. We have told schools that even if one case is detected, all their primary contacts should be tested,” Mr. Nagesh said. He also said that the examination stands as per schedule. “We will not take any decision on our own and will follow the recommendations of the Technical Advisory Committee,” he said. However, sources in the department said that they had been asked to chalk out an alternative plan to assess students if cases rise exponentially. “We have been asked to be prepared for what assessment method needs to be used if the examination has to be cancelled,” the source said. The Department of Pre-University Education has also started a survey to check how many students are vaccinated and how many are not eligible for vaccination. Dip in attendance Meanwhile, on Monday, many private schools reported a dip in attendance as they demanded vaccination certificates from parents of students. Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president, Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Karnataka, said that they had seen a dip in attendance on Monday. “Some schools have reported a 50% drop in attendance as we have started checking vaccination certificates,” he said. However, some school managements said that they had seen no dip in attendance as they had not yet started checking the vaccination certificates of students’ parents. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools said that they would begin checking the vaccination certificates from Wednesday. “We have now spread awareness on the need to produce vaccination certificates. We will begin checking from Wednesday,” he said. Government school teachers have submitted a list of names of students whose parents have not been vaccinated to the closest Primary Health Centre.  We are worried about the COVID-19 clusters but are keeping a watch on schools. We have told schools that even if one case is detected, all their primary contacts should be tested. B.C. Nagesh Primary and Secondary Education Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/130-students-tested-positive-for-covid-19-dpi/article37876695.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New vaccine entry rule leads to drop in footfall in malls, theatres||The emergence of the Omicron variant, and the State Government’s rule that only those who have taken two doses of the vaccine will be allowed in, has caused footfall at malls and theatres to drop substantially. Industry insiders are unhappy that business, which had been slowly picking up only recently, has again taken a hit. Representatives from malls and cinema theatres met civic officials on Monday requesting them to relax norms. However, no decision has been taken in this regard. “Footfall at our malls in the last two days has fallen by a staggering 70% compared to the weekend before that. December is a good season for shopping malls owing to Christmas and New Year’s celebrations. Given that patrons had started coming back, we were hopeful of recovering lost ground of the last year and a half, but all hopes have been dashed,” said Uday Garduachar, who owns the Garuda Malls chain in the state, and BJP MLA from Chikpet. During the weekend and on Monday too, many malls in the city saw several patrons being denied entry and turned away as they failed to produce a certificate to show they had received two doses of the vaccine. “Many of them showed certificates of their first dose of the vaccine. But the rules have stipulated that only those who have got two doses of the vaccine can be allowed in,” said Daniel Selvaraj, a security officer at a mall in the Central Business District. 30% drop in theatres The tale of theatres is no different. K.V. Chandrashekhar, President, Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association, said footfall at the theatres have dropped by an average of 30% over the last two days. “Though online ticketing platforms have now added two doses of vaccination as one of the conditions for entry, many book tickets anyway and turn up and when denied entry, create a scene. Both exhibitors and the film industry have been reeling under losses and these new rules will again make business unviable. We request the government to at least allow those with a single dose of vaccine,” he said. Chief Civic Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said though industry representatives had asked for allowing people with a single dose of vaccine, no decision has been taken in this regard yet. “Through written communication, we have already intimated the mall operators and owners of the new precautions to be in place. If there is any difficulty in implementation, we will assist them.” He also said that the civic body could conduct random checks to ensure that all the regulations are being followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-vaccine-entry-rule-leads-to-drop-in-footfall-in-malls-theatres/article37876691.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro work: Motorists demand proper upkeep of Outer Ring Road||The nearly 17-km stretch on Outer Ring Road between Central Silk Board and K.R. Puram, where metro work is picking up pace, is proving to be a nightmare for motorists. Despite holding meetings on ways to ease traffic disruption, the authorities have yet to fix responsibility on maintenance of the road. The potholes, and mud that has accumulated on the road, especially on flyovers, are posing a risk to motorists and cyclists. The poor maintenance of pavements is a concern for pedestrians. A year ago, ORR was hailed for introducing bus priority lanes, but the bollards, on some stretches, have either been damaged or removed. “I travel on ORR from Hebbal every day. The road is fine till we cross Lowry School; after that there are many craters. With the recent heavy rains, the condition of the road has further deteriorated,” said Pratheek R., a motorist. If that isn’t bad enough, metro work has made matters worse. “The roads have become narrow at many points where work is ongoing. The authorities should take measures to make sure that roads on the entire stretch are maintained on a regular basis,” he added. A few days ago, the Outer Ring Road Companies Association (ORRCA), representing the companies located on the stretch, highlighted their problems in a tweet to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other elected representatives. “As you focus on rebuilding our economy, Bengaluru Outer Ring Road with 8.5 lakh employees that contributes significantly to India’s GDP are looking forward to welcoming our people back to office. However, the state of ORR infrastructure does not reflect the focus of the nation on attracting FX and investment in infrastructure to become a 5 trillion economy,” stated the tweet. The message was posted on social media, in the wake of the Prime Minister's visit to the city which has since been postponed. Comprehensive plan The ORRCA wants the civic authorities to come out with a comprehensive plan to develop ORR and roads that connect it to residential layouts, newly added villages to the BBMP, and others. A BMRCL official said, “We are in touch with the BBMP on maintenance of the road. Metro work is going on the median of the road, we are not touching service roads barring construction of the metro stations. In the coming days, we will decide on what we are supposed to do, and what will be the role of the BBMP.” However, when contacted, Chief Engineer (Road Infrastructure) of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike B.S. Prahlad said: “BMRCL which is implementing the metro project will take up maintenance work, such as fixing potholes, resurfacing, replacing bollards and others. The discussion is on. We will shortly sign an agreement with the BMRCL on the road’s maintenance.” BMRCL is likely to maintain the main carriageway till the completion of the metro work, whereas the civic body will maintain service roads and pedestrian pathways.  As you focus on rebuilding our economy, Bengaluru Outer Ring Road with 8.5 lakh employees that contributes significantly to India’s GDP are looking forward to welcoming our people back to office. Tweet by @Namma_ORRCA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/metro-work-motorists-demand-proper-upkeep-of-outer-ring-road/article37876698.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SEC moves HC over new law that delays polls to ZPs, TPs||The State Election Commission (SEC) on Monday moved the High Court of Karnataka questioning the legality of enacting a law that has derailed the process already initiated by the SEC to hold elections to zilla pancyayats (ZPs) and taluk panchayats (TPs) across the State. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, before whom the petition came up for hearing, ordered issue of notice to the State Government while adjourning further hearing. The SEC questioned the legality of enacting the Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2021, which came into force from September 18, 2021, when SEC was at the last leg of preparations before announcing elections to TPs and ZPs. Making it clear that SEC is not concerned with the State’s decision to withdraw powers but was only concerned about the timing about withdrawal of elections cannot be held as per constitutional mandate as the new law has also nullified the exercises of delimitation of seats and fixing of reservation already carried out and completed by SEC. The State enacted the new law to take away powers earlier conferred on SEC for fixing the number of seats, carrying out the exercise of delimitation, and fixing the reservation of seats for TPs and ZPs. The law empowers the government to carry out these exercises. It was pointed out in the SEC petition that terms of all ZPs expired in April-May 2021 and terms of all TPs expired between May and August, 2021, and elections were overdue. The SEC had notified delimitation of territorial constituencies on March 30, 2021, and determined reservation for seats on April 30, 2021, of all ZPs and TPs. Later the SEC published final voters list for all the seats in these panchayats in June, the petition stated. The SEC said that the draft reservation of seats by rotation was notified for the reserved seats in July and the High Court in August stayed the draft notification before finally dismissing such petitions as being withdrawn on September 6. Pointing out that holding of elections within time was already affected due to COVID-19 pandemic and operation of stay order of the High Court on draft reservation list, the SEC has said that new law enacted by the government defeats the very purpose of timely holding as mandated in the Article 243-E of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sec-moves-hc-over-new-law-that-delays-polls-to-zps-tps/article37876720.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five men booked for taking out loans, cheating people in chain link scam||The Pulakeshinagar police have registered a case of cheating against five men who allegedly lured several people on the pretext of a chain link scheme and purchased vehicles on loan using their documents. The cheating came to light when the investors started getting SMS alerts from the bank demanding they pay the EMI which they had defaulted on. When the shocked investors contacted the bank, they realised that the accused who offered huge sums of returns and taken their personal IDs such as Aadhaar and PAN cards and submitted the same to get vehicles on loan in their name. Nayeema Taj, 32, a tailor from M.S. Palya and one of the victims, said that she was introduced to the prime accused Mohammed Zain by one of her friends in March this year. The accused, who worked in a mobile showroom on MM Road in Pulakeshinagar, explained the chain link scheme and assured huge sums of returns by just introducing other investors into the scheme. The accused took copies of her Aadhaar and PAN cards and after the registration process, gave her Rs. 1,000 cash asking her to get more people and earn more returns. Overwhelmed, she introduced as many as 25 people from her area and the accused took their details and later purchased vehicles in a bike showroom on loan. The cheating came to light when Taj started receiving phone calls and reminders from banks asking to pay the vehicle EMIs. Shocked by this, when she called Zain, he told her that he is in Dubai and would return soon to sort out the issue. Based on the complaint, the police registered a cheating case against Mohammed Zain, Lokesh, Karthik, Mujahid Hafeez and Mansoor on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-men-booked-for-taking-out-loans-cheating-people-in-chain-link-scam/article37876699.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka reports 301 new cases, seven deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 301 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,98,400. Bengaluru Urban reported 162 cases and three deaths. With seven deaths, the toll rose to 38,237. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 359 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 29,53,067. The State now has 7,067 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.34%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.32%. As many as 88,387 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 78,682 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,39,15,645. Omicron-hit doctor not yet discharged Although the 46-year-old government anaesthetist, who was infected with Omicron, has completed 14 days after the onset of symptoms, he is yet to be discharged from the hospital. Sources in Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, where the doctor and his contacts are being treated, said the doctor has developed some secondary infections. “He still has some mild symptoms and needs monitoring,” sources said. While three contacts of the South African national, the first patient to be infected with Omicron in India, have been admitted at the hospital after they developed symptoms, the genome sequencing reports of the five contacts of the government doctor are awaited, sources said. Nodal officers appointed To contain the spread of the new variant and emerging clusters, the State Government has reactivated the State COVID-19 war room and appointed senior IAS officials as nodal officers. According to an order issued on Monday, Munish Moudgil has been entrusted with the charge of State War room. He has also been asked to oversee the supply of liquid medical oxygen from refilling station/point to the intended healthcare facilities/other beneficiaries. Kumar Pushkar will oversee the Central Hospital Bed Management System and M.T. Reju will monitor medicine supply. While Pankaj Kumar Pandey has been appointed nodal officer for home isolation monitoring, M. Shikha will oversee screening of international passengers. Likewise, Pratap Reddy and Gunjan Krishna will be in charge of oxygen supplies and Shilpa Nag will monitor the State Surveillance unit, the Order stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/301-new-cases-seven-deaths/article37876703.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hunt on for cabbie who misbehaved with passenger||High Grounds police are on the lookout for a cab driver who allegedly misbehaved with a journalist in Bengaluru while she was returning home on December 3 night. The woman raised an alarm after noticing unusual behaviour and got down immediately, in the middle of the road. She hired a different cab to return home. She later lodged a complaint with Ola on social media narrating her ordeal and also tagged the city police commissioner seeking action. The cab aggregator apologised for the incident and revoked the cab driver’s access to the platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hunt-on-for-cabbie-who-misbehaved-with-passenger/article37876700.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC declines plea against Suraj’s candidature||Observing that the process of election to the Legislative Council for local bodies has already commenced, the High Court of Karnataka on Monday declined to entertain a petition questioning acceptance of nomination papers of R. Suraj, son of JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna, for polls from Hassan local authority constituency. Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order while dismissing the petition filed by Harish K.L of Channarayapatna in Hassan district. The court observed that the petitioner can question the election process by way of an election petition as contemplated in the provisions of the Representation of People Act, 1950, after completion of the elections. It was contended in the petition that Mr. Suraj has not declared his marital status besides not disclosing the assets and liabilities of his wife and other dependents in the declaration filed along with the nomination papers in violation of the procedure contemplated in the Section 33(A) and 125(A) of Representation of People Act, 1950.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-declines-plea-against-surajs-candidature/article37876721.ece
07 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Manippady criticises govt. over handling of minorities||BJP leader Anwar Manippady came down heavily on the State Government for “failing to take along the minorities in their stride while governing the State, betraying the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Sab Ka Saath Sab Ka Vikas’ motto”. “Muslims of Karnataka are either looked down upon or harassed. There is a sense of insecurity among us,” he said on Monday. He said despite writing several letters, the State Government had not taken any action against those who had encroached Wakf lands. Mr. Manippady had submitted a report to the government on Wakf land encroachments during the earlier regime of the party. On Monday, he also took objection to the government’s choice for the chairman of the Karnataka Wakf Board. He also said the State Government had not taken enough measures to provide the community with adequate representation in all walks of life, in correlation with their population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/manippady-criticises-govt-over-handling-of-minorities/article37876722.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mount Carmel College postpones examinations||Mount Carmel College has postponed its semester-end degree examinations that were scheduled to begin on Monday. College authorities stated that the second and final year degree examinations were postponed following pressure from students. The authorities said that the examination was originally scheduled to be held between December 6 and December 23. “We will now announce the new timetable shortly,” an official said. Sources said the degree college has not reported any COVID-19 case in the past six months and alleged that students were demanding postponement not in the interest of safety, but because they were not prepared for the examination. While a COVID-19 case was detected in the PU college, samples of 21 degree college students were drawn by the BBMP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mount-carmel-college-postpones-examinations/article37876694.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Former jawan held after 11 years||Eleven years after he allegedly attacked a police escort with chilli powder and escaped with handcuffs from Victoria Hospital, a former Air Force jawan accused of killing his wife and children was arrested by the V.V. Puram police on Monday. He had escaped in December 2010. The accused Dharam Singh Yadav, 53, from Haryana, was living with his wife Anu Yadav and children Kirthi, 14, and Shubham, 8, in Singapura Layout in Vidyaranyapura after retiring from service. According to the police, Yadav was a purchasing officer at a private company after working as a jawan for 20 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-jawan-held-after-11-years/article37876693.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||St. Joseph’s PU College switches to online classes||St. Joseph’s Pre-University College has switched to online classes after one of their II PU students tested positive for COVID-19. C.R. Rajendra, principal, said that they learnt that the student was positive on Friday and switched to online classes from Saturday. “Our entire campus has been sanitised and one of the students he was in touch with was tested and found negative,” the principal said. The college will reopen on Thursday for the midterm examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/st-josephs-pu-college-switches-to-online-classes/article37876696.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Student killed in accident||A student riding a bike was killed and the pillion rider injured allegedly after a speeding BMTC crashed into them in Rajajinagar on Monday. The Malleswaram traffic police detained the driver and a case of negligent driving has been filed against him. The deceased, Vishwanath, 21, was a resident of Basaveshwaranagar. He was studying B.Com in a government college. A police officer said that the incident occurred around 10 p.m. when Vishwanath, along with his friend Jagan, were going to Vidhana Soudha to submit a memorandum on behalf of a Kannada organisation demanding priority to Kannadigas in government jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/student-killed-in-accident/article37876692.ece
07 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Health camp for Dalits||Hassan district unit of Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samiti and other progressive organisations, on Sunday, conducted a health camp for the families of Dalits at Ganguru in Arkalgud, who had been fighting for a grant of land since they were freed as bonded labourers in the 1990s. K.M.Sathish Kumar, District Health Officer, who inaugurated the programme, said the role of pro-people organisations in spreading awareness on health was significant. He also lauded the doctors who extended services to the rural people. A. Savithri, honorary president of Hassan unit of BGVS, said it was the responsibility of civil society to respond to the problems faced by socially and economically backward sections. The programme had been organised for the benefit of people who had been struggling for minimum facilities for decades. Hundreds of people benefited from the programme, which included health checkups, tests, and talks on health care. The programme was supported by the Health and Family Welfare Department, Hassan district unit of Indian Medical Association, Association of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, Ganguru Gram Panchayat, and Prerana Vikas Vedike, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/health-camp-for-dalits/article37877116.ece
07 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||92 students of Jawahar Vidyalaya test positive for COVID-19 so far||As many as 103 people, including 92 students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya at Seegodu near Balehonnur, have tested positive for COVID-91 since December 2, said Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner K.N.Ramesh on Monday. At a press conference in Chikkamagaluru, he said 30 samples were collected at the residential school on December 2. Among them eight tested positive. The next day the Health and Family Welfare Department staff collected 418 samples at the school and of them, 95 tested positive. With that, a total of 103 people including 92 students, nine teachers and two family members of the teachers tested positive for the infection. Mr. Ramesh said there was no need to worry and the administration had deployed medical staff at the school. The staff would be there 24 hours a day and they had sufficient stock of medicine. A team of doctors led by the District Health Officer visited the school and took measures to avoid the spread of the infection. “All the infected have been isolated and none of them has symptoms of illness”, he said. Genome sequencing The DC said all 103 samples that tested positive would be sent to NIMHANS in Bengaluru for genome sequencing. “Only after that would we know about the variant of the virus that caused the infection. As of now, there is nothing to worry about as the infected people do not have symptoms.” Two ambulances have been kept ready at the school and measures had been taken to provide healthy food for children. “We are getting calls from parents of children studying in the school. They need not worry. We are taking care of the children. They have been isolated on the campus and teachers have been quarantined at their quarters”, the DC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/92-students-of-jawahar-vidyalaya-test-positive-for-covid-19-so-far/article37876900.ece
07 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Students up in arms over restriction in choosing elective||First-semester students of degree colleges affiliated to some universities in the State are up in arms over the recent circular from varsities restricting their freedom to choose subjects under the “open elective” category as per the New Education Policy. At the time of admission, the students were told that they could choose any subject of their interest as an open elective. However, the latest circular, issued on November 24, by Mysore university has made it compulsory for students to choose an open elective subject from outside their faculty. The circular says “open elective is an elective course, shall be chosen from an unrelated discipline/subject to study multi-disciplinary subjects”. For instance, a BA student has to choose any one of the subjects offered by faculty of either commerce or science and vice-versa. NEP promotes an inter-disciplinary approach at the graduation level. In the first four semesters of a degree course, students study two core subjects and one open elective. In the final two semesters, students study only core subjects. A senior professor in a reputed college of Mysore university told The Hindu: “Students had the freedom to choose subjects as envisaged in the NEP at the time of admission. But, now their options have been restricted, contrary to the very idea of open elective.” Out of interest, a few BSc. and Bcom students had chosen subjects like journalism, public administration, and sociology, which fall under the arts category, as their open elective. Similarly, many had chosen subjects within their faculty as an open elective. “It was purely based on the personal interest of students. But, the latest circular makes it mandatory to choose subjects outside their faculty. A majority of BA students, who have chosen history and economics as their core subjects, want to study either sociology or political science as their open elective, but not physics or accountancy. They have not studied science or commerce since their PU days. How can one expect them to take up those subjects now?” asked another teacher. Hundreds of students of Maharaja’s College in Mysuru took out a protest on this issue last week. M. Purushottam, a BA student in Hassan, said he had taken Kannada literature and history as his core subjects and he would like to study journalism as an open elective. “But as per the circular, I have to study a science or commerce subject. The government told us that NEP is student-centric and students are free to choose their subjects. Where is the freedom to choose subjects?” he sought to know. Presently, students who did science in PU were allowed to take up either arts or commerce at the graduation level. But, those who studied arts are not allowed to take up either commerce or science. When such is the scenario, how can a student be compelled to study science stream, asked a student. “Ideally, students should be allowed to choose subjects of their interest,” he said. B. Thimme Gowda, vice-chairman of Karnataka Higher Education Council, said lecturers have been asked to “counsel” students to pick the third subject from another stream. “However, if the candidate is keen on picking the third subject from the same faculty, they can do so as the objective of NEP is to allow students to make the choice,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-up-in-arms-over-restriction-in-choosing-elective/article37876717.ece
07 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Datta Jayanti: curbs on devotees||Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner K.N. Ramesh has said the devotees taking part in Datta Jayanti to be held from December 17 to 19 should follow the COVID-19 protocol. He chaired a meeting on the preparations for the event in Chikkamagaluru on Monday In view of guidelines issued by the State Government, the DC said, the devotees had to wear facemasks and maintain social distance during the event. Those visiting the Sri Guru Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy dargah should have the certificate of a double dose of vaccination for COVID-19. Tourists would not be allowed to visit the place during the event The DC instructed the PWD officials to fill up potholes on the road to the hill station. A temporary health centre would be established.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/datta-jayanti-curbs-imposed-on-devotees/article37877107.ece
07 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Nalur Kolige GP members in Tirthahalli to boycott election||All the elected members of Nalur Kolige Gram Panchayat in Tirthahalli taluk have decided to boycott the Legislative Council polls, as a mark of protest against delay in releasing the panchayat’s share in the royalty earned from three sand quarries. The seven members, including president Sharada Vasappa and vice-president Sujata Chandru, have written to the Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner conveying their decision. The panchayat has urged the State Government to release its share of Rs. 2.48 crore. The members who signed the memorandum are Mohan, Sandeep B.G., Dvijaraj, Sudha Devaraj, and Anita Sadu. Mr. Sandeep B.G. told The Hindu that three sand extraction points had been active at Baggodu village. The rural local body should get 25% of the total royalty earned by the Mines and Geology Department by selling the sand. “The money is meant for development works in the villages. Heavy trucks that carry sand have damaged roads. However, the government has not released the amount since 2018-19. Every year, we were supposed to get Rs. 84 lakh,” he said. The government is yet to respond to their plea. Similar is the situation with four other panchayats in Thirthahalli, where sand quarries had been active. The members had earlier approached Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, who is also Tirthahalli MLA, regarding the funds. The minister assured the members that he would convey their plea to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nalur-kolige-gp-members-in-tirthahalli-to-boycott-election/article37876726.ece
07 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KSLU students from across State continue protest into the night||Seeking the withdrawal of the decision of Karnataka State Law University (KSLU) to hold offline examinations, scores of law students from different law colleges of the State have begun a protest on the KLSU campus in Hubballi, continuing into the night on Monday. The main grouse of the students is that KSLU is insisting on holding offline examinations of the previous semesters now, after promoting them to the next semester. This was despite the fact that different modes of holding examinations, including the online mode, had been permitted by competent authorities. The protest began on Monday morning with students from different parts of the State gathering in front of the main gate of the university demanding the withdrawal of the decision to conduct offline examinations. The students said that they were not against holding the examinations but only against the university holding offline examinations. The protesting students said that they were unable to understand why the Vice-Chancellor of the university is insisting on holding offline examinations when classes during the previous semester were conducted through online mode. They said that although options such as open book examination, assignment-based examination and online examination are available, the Vice-Chancellor was bent on conducting offline examinations which would further extend the duration of the “already extended duration” of the law course. Moreover, other universities teaching law have already cancelled offline examinations and adopted different methods for assessing students, they said. Students Gaurav Nayak, Rajat Joglekar and others who were part of the protest said that they are unable to understand why the Vice-Chancellor is insisting on the offline mode of examinations. “The academic calendar has already been extended by six months,” the protesting students said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kslu-students-from-across-state-continue-protest-into-the-night/article37876899.ece
07 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘It was Cong. that strengthened Panchayat Raj’||It was Congress that strengthened the Panchayat Raj system through various measures and gave more representation to women in local self government through the 73rd amendment to the Constitution, KPCC media analyst P.H. Neeralakeri said here on Monday. He was addressing presspersons after jointly releasing a booklet on Congress candidate for the Council elections Saleem Ahmed’s political journey and achievement with other leaders of Congress, including Sadanand Danganavar, Anees Ahmed, Altaf Halwoor and Satish Meharwade. Mr. Neeralakeri said that during its rule the Congress had always promulgated pro-people laws which benefitted the public and the nation. However, under the BJP-led NDA government, only those laws that related providing monetary benefits to a section of society were enacted.  Mr. Neeralakeri said that under the BJP rule more undemocratic developments were being seen. “The draconian farm laws were enacted without any debate in the Parliament by the present regime. Subsequently after 750 farmers lost their lives during a yearlong agitation, the government decided to withdraw it, which was done in a most undemocratic way without any debate in the House,” he said. He said that debate was a means to elaborate in detail the reasons for the Government’s decision to repeal the law and it would become a document of the Parliament. But in order to avoid the government’s blunder being documented the bill to repeal farm laws was accepted without any debate in both the houses, he said. Such had been the autocratic ways of the Centre that it failed even to acknowledge the deaths of farmers during the agitation saying that there was no record of it. People of the country would answer them in the next parliamentary election, he said. Mr. Neeralakeri said that Prime Minister Modi had made allegations of the previous Siddaramaiah led Congress government being a ‘10% government’, but now when contractors had themselves had written to him (PM) about demand for 40% commission in the present government, there was no response from him. Referring to the rising prices, he said that the Centre by delaying taking steps to bring down the fuel prices, made the prices of essential commodities to rise and had just shunned its responsibility to check the price rise. On the candidature of Saleem Ahmed, considered as outsider by local Congress leaders, the former State President of KPCC Youth Wing Sadanand Danganavar, Mr. Saleem Ahmed had been working for development of Haveri for long.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-was-cong-that-strengthened-panchayat-raj/article37876904.ece
07 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||CM on Cabinet expansion||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said that any decision on expanding the State Cabinet would be taken after due consultation with the party high command. Speaking to presspersons in Hubballi on Monday, Mr. Bommai said now the focus was on the Council elections and preparations for the legislature session in Belagavi. Any decision on expansion would be based on the advice of the high command, he said. On the possible alliance with JD(S), he said former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy should convey his party’s stand. On KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar’s remark that he was sent to prison for refusing to join the BJP, Mr. Bommai declined to comment. On COVID-19 management, he said any decision on further restrictions on use of cinema and recreation halls would be based on the recommendations of the experts’ committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-cabinet-expansion-after-talks/article37877086.ece
07 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Over a 1,000 student volunteers clean beach||More than a 1,000 student volunteers from institutions run by Alva’s Education Foundation, Moodbidri, participated in a beach cleaning programme jointly organised with Surfing Swamy Foundation, Mulki, at Hejmadikodi in Udupi district on Sunday. Being organised for the sixth week in a row at Hejmadikodi, the weekly beach cleaning drives have yielded over 22 tonnes of non-biodegradable waste. The collected waste was handed over to a recycling unit in the Baikampady industrial area, said a release. About a 4-km-long beach area at Hejmadikodi where the Nandini and the Shambhavi join the Arabian Sea was cleaned of plastic, glass, rubber, foam and other waste that not only pollute the aqua system but also affect marine life, during the drive. Student volunteers from Alva’s Engineering College, Indian Institute of Research, NCC Cadets Foundation institutions and others participated in the drive. Foundation Managing Trustee Vivek Alva said that the foundation has been designing several programmes for the protection of water sources. People should stop behaving irresponsibly, he said and added that it was difficult to remove trash that has got accumulated on beaches and estuaries. After Hejmadikodi, Alva’s plans to focus on Bengre Beach front in Mangaluru, he said. Mr. Alva added that students will also focus on creating awareness among people not to throw trash into the aqua system. Member of Mangaluru Ramakrishna Mission Swatchata Abhiyana Ranjan Bellarpadi said that student volunteers positive action motivates one and all. Their action should educate people not to pollute the environment, he said. Surfing Swamy Director Gaurav Hegde said that the foundation also undertakes beach cleaning programmes besides promoting surfing. It has been promoting water sports among youngsters along the State’s coast and also training them in life saving skills. Hejmadikodi is an eco-sensitive zone sheltering a number of marine life and birds. Students participation in beach cleaning should inspire all, he said.  About a 4-km-long beach area at Hejmadikodi where the Nandini and the Shambhavi join the Arabian Sea was cleaned of plastic, glass, rubber, foam and other waste that not only pollute the aqua system but also affect marine life, during the drive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-a-1000-student-volunteers-clean-beach/article37877094.ece
07 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Higher education is key to success’||Govardhan Wankhede, retired professor from Mumbai Tata Institute of Social Sciences, on Monday said that higher education is the key for the progress of Dalits, women and other backward classes which was stressed upon by B.R. Ambedkar. Speaking at the 65th Mahaparinirvana Day of Ambedkar organised by Centre for Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Studies of Mangalore University here, Prof. Wankhede said that the bureaucracy has failed to effectively implement the reservation policy. Those who benefited from the affirmative policies should follow Ambedkar’s principles in letter and spirit, he said. University Vice- Chancellor P. Subrahmanya Yadapadithaya, Registrar C.K. Kishore Kumar, Centre Director Vishwanatha and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/higher-education-is-key-to-success/article37877092.ece
07 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nine students of a college test positive in three days||As many as nine out of the 173 first year degree students of a city college have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last three days. The hostel where these students live has been declared a containment zone. After the recent directions that all students should undergo test, more so those who have recently returned from Kerala and Maharashtra, the college administration carried out the test. As many as four BPT students tested positive on Saturday, while three DMLT students tested positive on Sunday. And, two first year nursing students tested positive on Monday. The district health officials and personnel from the Mangaluru City Corporation visited the institution in Kavoor and declared the hostel on the institution premises a containment zone. All the nine students are asymptomatic and they have been isolated. Their primary contacts have been quarantined. Officials concerned said that the nine students will undergo another RT-PCR test after a week. Some among the samples of nine students have been sent for genome sequencing, officials said. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that mass test was conducted in view of the corporation’s directions to test all students who had returned from Kerala in the last fortnight. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that resources are being mobilised to test all degree students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-students-of-a-college-test-positive-in-three-days/article37877101.ece
07 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi fishermen demand formation of welfare board||Udupi District Fishermen and Fish Workers Association recently staged a demonstration in support of their various demands, including payment of minimum wages, social security, formation of welfare board and prohibition on foreign vessels engaging in fishing in Indian waters. The association submitted a memorandum after the protest to the district administration. Leaders K. Shankar, Kaviraj, S. Venkatesh, Koni Mahesh Poojari, Umesh Kundar, Nalini, Anwar, Sangamesh, Vasanth and others were present. Demanding an increase in Central allocation of funds for fisheries sector, the association said that foreign fishing vessels should be prohibited from engaging in fishing activities in the exclusive economic zone. It also urged the government not to harass fishermen living on the coast in the name of Coastal Regulation Zone norms. Subsidised kerosene was not being provided on time to traditional fishers, the Association said urging the government to set right the anomalies. The government should expedite distribution of house sites to fishers and fish workers and provide funding to build houses. It also demanded formation of a welfare board for fishermen and fish workers. This should facilitate payment of compensation in cases of accidents, housing facility and scholarship to their wards. Fishermen and fish workers should be paid pension of at least Rs. 6,000 a month once they cross the age of 60, the association said. It also demanded free ration during the monsoon fishing holiday and payment of Rs. 10 lakh compensation for accidental deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-fishermen-demand-formation-of-welfare-board/article37877103.ece
07 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Deputy Commissioner’s doctor skills to the fore||The skills of the doctor in Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra came to the fore while he treated Sarojini, wife of late saxophone maestro Kadri Gopalnath, in Sajipa near Bantwal on Monday. Dr. Rajendra was the chief guest at the birth anniversary programme of Kadri Gopalnath held near the samadhi of the maestro in Sajipa. Artistes Haliyal Mahadevappa and Bheemachar were to be felicitated. Sarojini was among the late maestro’s family members who attended the programme. As the programme was going on, Sarojini experienced some physical discomfort as she was sitting on the chair in the audience. Dr. Rajendra quickly rushed towards Sarojini, checked her pulse. He made her drink a few sips of water after offering her sugar. After her recovery, she was shifted to the maestro’s house nearby where further treatment was given by a team of healthcare professionals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deputy-commissioners-doctor-skills-to-the-fore/article37877097.ece
07 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Keep the motivation to serve people’||While assuring Home Guards of the support of the District Police in resolution of their problems, Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane on Monday called upon Home Guards personnel to keep their motivation to serve people. Speaking during the 58th Home Guards Raising Day celebrations at the District Armed Reserve Grounds here, Mr. Sonawane said that Home Guards were rendering service on par with the police and other government employees. Home Guards personnel are totally committed towards working for the welfare of people and are ably discharging their duty under trying circumstances. Home Guards District Commandant Murali Mohan Chuntaru said that Home Guards from the district were actively involved in COVID-19 containment. Home Guards are also involved in the rescue of people on beaches and several other natural disaster management tasks. As many as 800 Home Guards have been sent to Tamil Nadu for the recent Assembly elections there. Six Home Guards died in 2021, which included Jagadish Hegde, who passed away after he contracted COVID-19 infection in June, he said. Mr. Sonawane and Mr. Chuntaru felicitated Puttur Home Guard Unit head Abhimanyu Rai, Kadaba Unit head (In-charge) Teerthesh, Uppinangady Unit head (In-charge) Dinesh and Home Guard Sunil from Ullal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/keep-the-motivation-to-serve-people/article37877099.ece
07 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘It is unbecoming of Home Minister’||By denigrating the police force and showing police personnel in poor light, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has brought disrepute to the government. Mr. Jnanendra doesn’t deserve to continue as Home Minister, said the former Minister and senior Congress leader B. Ramanath Rai here on Monday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Rai said that Mr. Jnanendra, while criticising the alleged failure of the police in acting against those involved in cow slaughter, has used words that is unbecoming of the post he holds. “This is not criticism. It shows his incapability to hold the post of Home Minister,” he said. With the use of such words against police personnel, Mr. Jnanendra has shown that the present government’s failure to properly govern the State. When pointed to his alleged denigration of the then Superintendent of Police Bhushan Gulabrao Borase in the Circuit House when he [Mr. Rai] was the district in-charge Minister for the former’s alleged failure in acting against RSS leader Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat, Mr. Rai denied that he had denigrated the official. “Let the official concerned say it, then I will take quit politics,” he said and added that a part of the video of his conversation with the official was circulated in the social media in 2017 to malign him. Mr. Rai said that he was also falsely blamed for blocking temple funds for providing mid-day meals for students of Sri Rama School in Kalladka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-is-unbecoming-of-home-minister/article37877105.ece
07 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rama Bhat, veteran BJP leader, passes away||Urimajalu K. Rama Bhat, former MLA, who had laid a strong foundation for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in coastal Karnataka, passed away at his residence in Kombettu near Puttur on Monday. Bhat was 92 and died of age-related illness. A staunch follower of RSS ideology, Bhat was inspired by Bharatiya Jan Sangha leader Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya. He first won Puttur Assembly constituency in 1977 just after the emergency as a Janata Party candidate and in 1983, as a BJP candidate. Bhat had close ties with BJP leaders A.B. Vajpayee and L.K. Advani and strengthened the party in the coastal region. His words used to be the final in selection of candidates until 2008. Following denial of ticket to Shakuntala K. Shetty to contest the Assembly polls from Puttur and choosing Nalin Kumar Kateel as the candidate for Lok Sabha elections, he floated Swabhimani Vedike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rama-bhat-veteran-bjp-leader-passes-away/article37876724.ece
07 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Five injured in group clash in Belthangady||Five persons were injured in a clash between two groups in Ilantila village of Belthangady taluk of Dakshina Kannada district on Sunday night. According to the Uppinangady Police, seven accused persons came in three motorcycles to a grocery shop at around 7.30 p.m. and had a heated exchange with Mohammed Fayaz and Hafeez. The group then assaulted Fayaz and Hafeez. Fayaz suffered an injury in his hands and legs, while his mobile phone was damaged. Hafeez managed to escape with a simple injury. The group then was joined by a few more persons and they assaulted Siddiq, Abdul Zakaria and Ayub. Zakaria and Ayub suffered injuries in their head, while Siddiq suffered an injury on his back. All the injured are stable and are being treated in hospitals. The Uppinangady Police have registered two cases against 30 persons, including Jayaram, Sandeep, Preetam and Latesh, under Sections 143, 147, 148, 324 and 307 of Indian Penal Code. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane said that a search is on for the accused persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-injured-in-group-clash-in-belthangady/article37877100.ece
07 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Omicron scare, new curbs lead to rise in demand for vaccination||The Omicron threat and the circulars from schools for mandatory vaccination of parents for facilitating their children to attend physical classes have led to a sudden rise in vaccination in PHCs with people volunteering to get themselves inoculated with either first or second dose of vaccines. There was a time when the PHCs were struggling to vaccinate at least 50 persons a day. In the last four days, the number in most PHCs in the city has crossed about 200 a day. “If the fear of the new COVID-19 variant is one reason, another reason is about the fear of losing benefits, assuming that the government may bring in new rules making vaccination mandatory. The schools have started asking for vaccination certificates from parents. Such a rule may be expanded to other areas. In view of all these factors, the number of people seeking vaccination has seen a rise,” sources in the Health Department here said. Recently, the Mysuru district administration had urged the people to get vaccinated for staying protected against the deadly virus, after about 2 lakh people skipped their second dose despite completing the 84-day gap. Despite the vaccination sites in Mysuru district having sufficient doses of vaccines, there were not many takers for availing the jabs after the gravity of the pandemic waned and the cases dropped sharply. The vaccine hesitancy became apparent, especially in Mysuru city where over one lakh people have skipped their second dose till recently. This became a big worry for the authorities who used all possible means to persuade 18 years and above to get the jabs. People refused to take vaccines when the health workers went to their doorsteps for expanding the vaccination coverage amidst the threat of a third wave. A government medical officer said, “Certainly, there has been an improvement in vaccination in the last three to four days. People are calling up and making enquiries on the availability of vaccines. Also, the people now have the choice in vaccines which was not the case earlier.” There has been a marginal rise in the administration of the first dose even as those skipping their second doses are coming for the shots. This was not the case until 15 days ago, as those coming for the first dose were very few or almost nil, he said. “The Omicron scare is one of the strong reasons besides the stricter measures on vaccination amidst the fresh threat, for sudden rise in immunisation. The curbs on the entry of unvaccinated people to certain places could further increase coverage, helping the authorities reach their targets,” said the officer heading an urban PHC here. Also, the enquiries for booster doses have also seen a rise with the vaccinated persons visiting the PHCs and seeking details from the healthcare staff on whether the booster doses are available for them. More mobile vaccination camps have been pressed into service across Mysuru to improve coverage. ‘Needs to pick up pace’ District Health Officer K.S. Prasad told The Hindu that 25,000 persons were vaccinated on Monday, a rise by about 5,000, as an average of 20,000 were getting vaccinated daily. “The vaccination still needs to pick up pace as we have the target of reaching 100 per cent by December-end,” he added. Out of a total of 24 lakh people, 17 lakh have so far got their second dose, the DHO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/omicron-scare-new-curbs-lead-to-rise-in-demand-for-vaccination/article37877123.ece
07 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Pro-Congress wave forcing BJP, JD(S) to tie-up with each other’||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) Working President R. Dhruvanarayan has claimed that a “rising pro-Congress wave” in the State had created fear in the minds of the leaders of BJP and JD(S), forcing them to tie-up with each other for the ensuing elections to the Legislative Council from local bodies’ constituencies. Speaking to reporters after participating in a programme organised to mark Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s death anniversary in Mysuru on Monday, he said BJP had sought the support of JD(S). The JD (S), as a party, was ‘sinking’, he said. Several JD(S) MLAs and leaders, who were planning to join the Congress, had extended their support to the party in the elections. Hence, it had become inevitably for the JD(S) to seek the support of BJP, he claimed. It may be mentioned here that BJP leader and former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had sought the support of JD(S) in constituencies where the latter had not fielded its candidates. Acknowledging the BJP’s request, JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy said the party will soon take a decision. Mr. Dhruvanarayan also recalled Mr. Kumaraswamy’s critical remarks against the RSS during the run-up to the recent by-polls to Hanagal and Sindhagi Assembly constituencies and said the same was part of a “hidden understanding” with the BJP. “Mr, Kumaraswamy’s criticism of RSS was part of JD(S) plan to attract Muslim voters as the party had fielded Muslim candidates. But, his efforts went in vain as Muslim voters did not allow themselves to be misled. The JD(S) lost miserably in both the constituencies.” Mr. Dhruvanarayan pointed out that the JD(S) does not field Muslim candidates in constituencies where the party is likely to win and cited the example of the party fielding party supremo H.D. Deve Gowda’s grandson Suraj Revanna in the elections to the Legislative Council from local bodies constituency in Hassan. Though he had a lot of respect for Mr. Gowda, Mr. Dhruvanarayan said the JD(S) supremo had been restricting the party to his family. After giving opportunities to his sons, the party is now fielding Mr. Gowda’s grandsons as candidates instead of giving others such opportunities, he said while ruing his “opportunistic politics”. When asked about the number of seats Congress was likely to win in the ensuing electios, Mr. Dhruvanarayan recalled that the party had won 14 out of the 25 Legislative Council seats last time. The party was expecting to win a similar number of seats this time also, he said while pointing out that the party had fielded good candidates, keeping social justice in mind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pro-congress-wave-forcing-bjp-jds-to-tie-up-with-each-other/article37877119.ece
07 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Council polls: Congress claims to enjoy support of GTD||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) Working President R. Dhruvanarayan has claimed that JD(S) MLA G.T. Deve Gowda and outgoing JD(S) MLC Sandesh Nagaraj had both pledged their support to the Congress candidate in the ensuing elections to the Legislative Council from local bodies’ constituency of Mysuru-Chamarajanagar district. While Mr. Gowda, who has been maintaining a distance from the JD(S) for more than two years now, has also announced his plans to join the Congress before the next Assembly elections in 2023, Mr. Nagaraj, who was denied a ticket by the BJP and JD(S), has recently met former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah in Bengaluru. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Monday, Mr. Dhruvanarayan said Mr. Sandesh Nagaraj has already declared his support to the Congress. “We welcome it”, he said. With regard to Mr. Gowda, he said the MLA had also informed his supporters to vote in favour of the Congress candidate. He said the Congress candidate D. Thimmaiah was sure to win the elections and added that the party’s aim was to ensure his victory by a huge margin. He said the party was strong in both Chamarajanagar and Mysuru districts. While the JD(S) was not a force to reckon with in Chamarajanagar, where the fight was only between Congress and BJP, in Mysuru district, the BJP had not ase in K.R. Nagar, Periyapatna, Hunsur and Chamundeshwari assembly constituencies, he said. “It is only the Congress which has a strong presence in all the constituencies of the two districts”, he said expressing confidence of the party candidate’s victory in the first round of counting itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/council-polls-congress-claims-to-enjoy-support-of-gtd/article37877118.ece
07 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CIIL to collaborate with Koo app to promote fair use of language||Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), Mysuru, has entered into a MoU with Bombinate Technologies Pvt. Ltd., the holding company of micro-blogging platform Koo, to promote fair use of language on the online platform. The collaboration is aimed at safeguarding users from online abuse, bullying, and threats. Established by the Centre to coordinate the development of Indian languages, CIIL will work with Koo app to strengthen its content moderation policies and help users stay safe and secure online, said a statement. “Through the collaboration, CIIL will create a corpus of expressions that are considered offensive or sensitive across 22 languages of VIII schedule of the Constitution. In turn, Koo will share relevant data to create the corpus and provide technological support to build interfaces that will host the corpus for public access. This is a long-term collaboration for developing responsible use of Indian languages on social media and it will be valid for two years by providing users with a secure and immersive networking experience across languages,” the statement said. The exercise between CIIL and Koo aims to develop dictionaries of words and expressions in Indian languages that are considered offensive, disrespectful or derogatory, enabling efficient content moderation in the languages. CIIL Director Shailendra Mohan observed that the MoU is an effort towards ensuring that the use of social media comes with verbal/textual hygiene. Therefore, CIIL will provide language consultancy through the corpus and strengthen the hands of Koo team to achieve responsible and sanitized social media interactions. Co-founder and CEO of Koo Aprameya Radhakrishna said the social media platform was pleased to partner with CIIL and “to make the interconnected world much more safe, trustworthy and reliable for Internet users”. “As a unique social media platform that enables Indians to engage and connect across multiple languages, we seek to empower our users by enhancing the ecosystem such that online misuse and abuse is curbed in an effective manner,” said Mr. Radhakrishna. The statement said that the Koo currently offers features across nine languages and will soon expand to cover all 22 official languages. “Through this collaboration with CIIL, Koo will develop a deep and nuanced understanding of logic, grammar and context of words that are used in native languages,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ciil-to-collaborate-with-koo-to-promote-fair-use-of-language/article37876714.ece
07 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Farmers allege illegal mining in Nanjangud||Members of Mahanayaka Rakshana Vedike and Pragati Para Raithara Sanghatane have complained of land encroachment by a mining company. They alleged that large swathes of agricultural land in and around Chamanamadahalli and Kurihundi villages in Nanjangud taluk of Mysuru district, have been used for bauxite mining and wanted the district administration to crack down on it. The farmers alleged that fake land records have been created to give an impression that the land has been acquired by the Government. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham who received a memorandum from the farmers said he has already seen the documents furnished by the mining company and it was at variance with what the farmers were alleging. Hence a survey will be conducted. involving geologists .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-allege-illegal-mining-in-nanjangud/article37877114.ece
07 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vaccination certificates in demand||The “fully vaccinated certificates” are now in demand with schools asking children to get their parents’ vaccination status to facilitate their presence in physical classes, following the government’s diktat owing to the Omicron variant. This has resulted in vaccinated persons turning up at PHCs and asking help from the staff for downloading the certificates. “Some vaccinated persons were not even aware that such a certificate existed until it was made mandatory in schools, malls, theatres and other places. Those finding difficulty in downloading it come to us for assistance. Our staff guided many such persons and helped them access the certificates,” an officer from the government healthcare facility here said. The staff have been educating them on accessing the CoWIN site and downloading the certificate so that they could help others in copying certificates and accessing other useful information from the gateway, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-certificates-in-demand/article37877122.ece
07 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||GRAAM ties up with Niti Aayog||Mysuru-based Grassroots Research And Advocacy Movement (GRAAM), a research and public engagement organisation, has inked a Statement of Intent (SoI) with the Development Monitoring and Evaluation Office (DMEO), NITI Aayog, for strategic and technical collaboration to strengthen monitoring and evaluation of government policies and programmes. The signing ceremony took place in the presence of Sekhar Bonu, Director General, DMEO, Alok Mishra, Deputy Director General, DMEO, NITI Aayog officials and GRAAM’s Chairman R. Balasubramaniam along with other staff in New Delhi. The memorandum on behalf of GRAAM was signed by the organisation’s Executive Director Basavaraju R. Shreshta. As part of the SoI, GRAAM will provide technical assistance to DMEO in preparation of technical and policy documents, conduct joint studies and facilitate capacity building programmes on monitoring and evaluation of government policies and programmes for public officials at the Centre and States, local researchers, regional institutions and other stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/graam-ties-up-with-niti-aayog/article37877113.ece
07 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Award for UoM faculty||Mohan C.D., a faculty at the University of Mysore, has been chosen for Prof. H.S. Srivastava (PHSS) Foundation-Young Scientist (Life Sciences, Environmental Sciences and Agriculture Sciences) award for the year 2020-21. He is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Studies in Molecular Biology on the Manasagangotri campus. He works under the supervision of K.S. Rangappa, former Vice-Chancellor, University of Mysore, on the discovery of small molecule modulators of cancer cell death.  The national award is given biennially by the PHSS Foundation to scientists under the age of 40 years in recognition of outstanding contribution in the emerging areas of science, technology, health, environment or agriculture. It carries a citation and a cash prize of Rs. 15,000 besides a life membership of the Foundation. The list of awardees of this year can be accessed visiting https://phssfoundation.org/index.php||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/award-for-uom-faculty/article37877117.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Strengthened grids: A case of electric vehicles in Bengaluru||India pledged to reach net zero emissions by 2070 at the 26th Conference of the Parties (COP26) held at Glasgow recently. The two-week conference saw myriad announcements for an era of net zero emissions. One such announcement revolved around the transport sector, whose surge in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is a growing concern globally, given its enormous environmental impact. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), this sector is responsible for approximately one-fourth of global green house gas emissions. India, the world’s third-largest GHGs emitter, has its transport sector contributing 10% of total national GHG emissions, with road transportation contributing about 87% of the sector’s total emissions. The adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) is one way to bring down emissions. While the Indian Government has issued various policy measures, successful EV uptake lies in policy implementation at the State level. The Indian EV market varies significantly by State with factors related to demographics, income levels, policy and regulatory landscapes, and urbanisation. Karnataka raced ahead of all the Indian states in the EV game by becoming the first to introduce the Electric Vehicle and Energy Storage Policy in 2017 to boost EV sales and set up charging infrastructure. The State EV policy aims to convert 50% of its public transport fleet into EVs by 2030. The Government has also given a clear mandate of making Bengaluru the EV capital of India. Subsequently, Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited (BESCOM), the nodal agency to promote EV growth, has set up EV charging stations at 74 locations and has installed 136 EV chargers as of September 2021. However, higher EV penetration may pose destabilisation threats to the grid with its spatial and temporally uncertain nature, by causing significant peaks when coinciding with residential peak demand. EVs may also impact power quality in the electricity distribution network due to significant harmonics and voltage imbalances. These may lead to additional stress on the distribution transformers (DTs) due to overloading and harmonic injection. As per an India Smart Grid Forum study for twelve 11kV feeders in Bengaluru, significant upgradation on the DTs (with 100 kVA or above capacity) and cables are required for smooth integration of the EV load, along with filter installation to mitigate the harmonics issues. With BESCOM already facing frequent power cuts, additional load in the form of EVs may worsen the situation. A flexible and robust distribution infrastructure is, therefore, an imminent step before any planned large-scale EV roll-out. This should also be complemented by introducing a time-of-day tariff for Bengaluru EV owners by incentivising with lower charging tariff during off-peak and disincentivising with higher charging tariffs during peak demand. Thus, along with a strong charging infrastructure comprising accessibility, profitability, and time-of-use-based tariff, BESCOM will have to make significant investments to upgrade its traditional grid for a smooth transition to e-mobility. Considering that Bengaluru is also a preferred destination for the installation of solar rooftop photovoltaic (RTPV), EV integration can be motivated with RTPV uptake and vice-versa. BESCOM can encourage solar-based EV charging as decreasing RTPV costs make it an effective alternative to grid electricity. This could be a win-win situation for both distribution companies and consumers. Leveraging its potential of RTPV uptake along with strong distribution infrastructure investments could help Karnataka achieve its 2030 EV goals. It can be a pioneer in integrating EV with sustainable energy sources and developing a replicable pan-India business model.  (The authors work in the area of Energy and Power at the Center for Study of Science, Technology and Policy (CSTEP), a research-based think tank.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/strengthened-grids-a-case-of-electric-vehicles-in-bengaluru/article37876706.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Car festival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/car-festival/article37877090.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Paying tributes||photo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/paying-tributes/article37877121.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Remembering B.R. Ambedkar||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remembering-br-ambedkar/article37876728.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Doors shut||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doors-shut/article37876688.ece
07 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||High tide a threat to Kuttanad’s paddy||It has been a tough couple of months for paddy farmers in Alappuzha district, especially in Kuttanad. Heavy downpours and floods that hit the region in October and November destroyed paddy (additional crop) in large tracts in Upper Kuttanad and Kuttanad and caused massive losses for farmers. After the devastation caused by natural calamities, seeds provided to farmers in several parts of the region recently for puncha (first) crop season failed to germinate. Govt. intervention That particular problem along with other issues caused by the floods was at least partially solved with the help of government intervention and farmers showing great resilience as the region geared up for another crop season. Finally, when everything seems to have fallen into place for sowing for puncha crop season, which is already behind schedule, a new challenge in the form of rising water level, caused by the intrusion of seawater into Vembanad Lake through the Thanneermukkom barrage due to high tide, is looming large over paddy fields in Kuttanad. The phenomenon, a recurring issue, has adversely affected field preparation activities in several places. Several units of padasekhara samiti in Champakulam, Pulinkunnu, Kavalam, among other places, are yet to complete the dewatering of paddy fields as the process got hampered by higher water levels. Farmers fear the sudden increase in water level in the mornings due to high tide and a fall in the level of water in evenings in low tide would result in bund breaches. Outer bunds of a number of fields are in a weakened state. Salinity  Farmers say the continuing intrusion of seawater will increase salinity in the lake, which will be detrimental to paddy cultivation in Kuttanad. “The rise in water level in Kuttanad caused by the intrusion of seawater began a week ago. Water would rise around one foot in the mornings and it would recede in the evenings. At present, there is no threat of salinity, as there is a smooth flow to the sea. But if the intrusion of water continues unabated, the situation will change,” said a paddy farmer. Apart from threatening rice cultivation, water has entered a number of houses and inundated parts of the Alappuzha-Changanassery road and rural roads in the region. Farmers and leaders of various political parties have urged the district administration to immediately down all shutters of the Thanneermukkom bund to prevent seawater from entering the lake. Meanwhile, farmers in Upper Kuttanad have urged the authorities to immediately close the Thrikunnapuzha cheepu and construct bunds in canals to prevent saltwater intrusion into fields in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-tide-a-threat-to-kuttanads-paddy/article37877063.ece
07 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Aroor: 93 polling booths readied for byelection||All arrangements are in place for the byelection in the Aroor division of the Alappuzha district panchayat on Tuesday. Voting will begin at 7 a.m. and go on till 6 p.m. A total of 67,070 voters including 34,759 females and 32,311 males in 52 wards of Aroor, Kuthiathode, Ezhupunna, Kodamthuruthu and Thuravoor grama panchayats are eligible to exercise their right to franchise. Polling officials collected election materials and reached 93 polling booths set up in the five panchayats. A total of four candidates are in the fray—Anandu Rameshan (CPI (M)/LDF), K. Umeshan (Congress/UDF), K.M. Manilal (BDJS/NDA), and Krishnakumar (Independent). 2020 polls In the 2020 local body polls, Daleema Jojo of the CPI(M) won from Aroor by a margin of 3,498 votes. The seat fell vacant after Ms. Jojo got elected to the State Assembly from the Aroor constituency in the 2021 polls.  The seat fell vacant after Daleema Jojo of the CPI(M) got elected to the State Assembly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aroor-93-polling-booths-readied-for-byelection/article37877056.ece
07 December 2021||Chennai,KERALA||Isai Perarignar Award for Seshampatti Sivalingam||Nagaswaram player Seshampatti T. Sivalingam will receive the Isai Perarignar Award of the Tamil Isai Sangam on the occasion of its 79th music festival. The Pann Isai Perarignar Award will go to Aalavai Pon. M. Muthukumaran. A press release from the Tamil Isai Sangam said Mr. Sivalingam, who learnt nagaswaram from his father Theerthagiri, also came under the tutelage of Tiruvarur Latchappa Pillai between 1975 and 1978. He had already received the TTK Award of the Music Academy, the Sangeetha Nataka Academy Award and the Kalaimamani Award. Mr. Muthukumaran is the disciple of Dharmapuram S. Gnanaprakasam, who is also a recipient of the Pann Isai Perarignar Award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/isai-perarignar-award-for-seshampatti-sivalingam/article37876748.ece
07 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Case against principal, eight others for sexual harassment||The police have registered a case against nine people for reportedly molesting and sexually harassing a temporary employee of a painting school in Thalassery. The case has been registered against nine persons, including the school’s principal A. Raveendran, based on the woman’s complaint. The complainant alleged that she had been facing physical and mental harassment for a year. On several occasions, the principal tried to harass her in his room and also sent her sexually explicit messages, she alleged. Even though the issue was taken up with the management, no action was taken, stated the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-principal-eight-others-for-sexual-harassment/article37876975.ece
07 December 2021||Kannur,KERALA||CPI(M) Kannur meet||The Kannur district conference of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] will be held from December 10 to 12 at Eripuram in the district. Inauguration  Chief Minister and party Polit Bureau member Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the meet. The conference will be attended by 250 elected representatives, 53 party district committee and State committee members from the district. The registration for the conference will take place on December 10 at 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-kannur-meet/article37876978.ece
07 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||K.P. Saju is coop. hospital president||In a thumping victory for the panel nominated by the UDF, K.P. Saju was on Monday elected as president of the Indira Gandhi Cooperative Hospital at Thalassery in Kannur. Kandoth Gopinath was elected vice president. Both panels fielded 12 members each. The polls were held amid tight police security following a complaint by Mr. Divakaran that there was an effort to sabotage the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kp-saju-is-coop-hospital-president/article37877018.ece
07 December 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||Man held on charge of hacking wife to death||A 35-year-old woman was allegedly hacked to death by her husband at their rented house at Bedakam in Kasaragod district on Monday. The police arrested Ashokan, 40, on the charge of murdering his wife Usha of Perladukkam in Bedakam.  According to the police, Ashokan was taken into custody from near the Kasargod railway station. The incident reportedly took place on Monday morning. The incident came to light when friends of Ashokan came looking for him at his house in the morning. They had planned to go on a pilgrimage to Sabarimala. However, when Ashokan failed to attend the prayers, they went to his house and found it locked.  Suspecting something wrong, they decided to open the house only to find the body of his wife wrapped in a banana leaf. Search for accused Soon they informed the police, who reached the spot and shared the information with other police stations and railway police stations in the distric t. He was finally apprehended by the Kasaragod railway police. Top police officials and a forensic team visited the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-hacking-wife-to-death/article37876976.ece
07 December 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||CUK scholar bags fellowship||Ammoose K. Jayan, research scholar at the Department of Geology of the Central University of Kerala (CUK), has been awarded with the prestigious Fulbright-Kalam Climate Fellowship for the year 2022-2023. Ms. Jayan, hailing from Nattakom in Kottayam district, is one of the three students selected from India for the prestigious fellowship. Research work The fellowship will enable her to do research work on ‘monsoon variability in India during the past 11,000 years’ at Arizona University, US. The research work will be for a period for nine months. She is currently working under the supervision of Dr. Sijin Kumar AV for her Ph.D. She will receive Rs. 40 lakh for the research work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cuk-scholar-bags-fellowship/article37876977.ece
07 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Breaking stereotypes in history||Manu S. Pillai, author of The Ivory Throne: Chronicle of the House of Travancore, said here on Monday that stereotypes did not do justice to the former princely states of India. Speaking about his latest book False Allies: India’s Maharajahs in the Age of Ravi Varma , he said histories of Indian princely states are complicated involving local politics, and each state had a different story. He was speaking on the sidelines of a talk on the book at St. Teresa’s College in the city. His latest book speaks of ‘false allies’. He said the British perceived the former princely states as being partners or supporters of colonial rule. However, they often secretly and sometimes openly supported the freedom struggle. These princely states helped the formation of the nationalist movement. He said the rulers supported and funded the Congress party, which was at the forefront of the freedom struggle. The rulers of the princely states are more than the pictures of dancing girls and elephants, he said, emphasising the role they played in the freedom struggle and modernisation of the country. He pointed out that T. Madhava Rao, Diwan of Travancore, took initiatives to rule the state better than the British to make a moral point over the claimed superiority of the rulers. The new book deals, among others, with princely states like Puthukottai, Baroda, Mysore and Udaipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/breaking-stereotypes-in-history/article37876994.ece
07 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||PCB rules out iron contamination as cause of Periyar discolouration||The Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) has ruled out iron contamination as the reason for the frequent discolouration of the Periyar on its Edayar stretch. Greens had pointed out the needle of suspicion on industrial units in the upstream of the river for the water turning red or turbid on six occasions in the past three months. However, board officials in Ernakulam claimed that they could not detect the presence of iron in the water samples collected during the reported incidents. “Without ascertaining the presence of iron, we would not be able to initiate action against companies suspected to be behind the unauthorised discharge,” they said. The Edayar stretch of the river had been hit by the increasing incidents of water discolouration, especially in the time of heavy rain. Local residents had pointed out that illegal effluents were discharged through unauthorised outlets into the river. The latest incident of the discolouration of the river stretch near the Edayar industrial region was on Friday. Board officials admitted that they were not able to confirm the presence of other heavy metals in the samples as it needed to be tested at its central laboratory here. The delay in the renovation of the lab had affected the timely completion of the analysis of the samples collected at the time of discolouration, they said. The surveillance against the illegal discharge of effluents into the river was hit after the CCTVs kept in the region had turned defunct. The board admitted that there was delay in resolving the issue. Officials said that the delay occurred as they can only purchase the cameras from Keltron and not from private vendors. Orders have been placed for buying seven surveillance cameras with night-vision facility. There will be spare cameras too in case any of these units stop working or develop technical snag, they said.  Delay in the renovation of PCB’s lab had affected the timely completion of the analysis of samples||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-rules-out-iron-contamination-as-cause-of-periyar-discolouration/article37877008.ece
07 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||High number of applicants for street vending licence baffles corporation||Kochi is witnessing a steep hike in the number of street vendors, thanks to the economic crisis set off by the pandemic. As many as 2,125 street vendors have submitted their applications for obtaining the street vending licence till Monday, the last date for submitting the applications. The high number of applicants has baffled the civic authorities as it would be a tough task to accommodate them in the vending zones to be identified for the purpose. The applications that were received till Monday will be vetted and genuine applicants identified. Multiple applications submitted from families and the requests from those persons who have other livelihood options will be rejected. The Town Vending Committee of the Kochi Corporation, which has the representatives of various trade unions of street vendors and other stakeholders as its members, will scrutinise the applications. The draft list will also be published for verification shortly, said an official of the civic body. Incidentally, the Kochi Corporation had earlier issued licence and identity cards to 1,274 persons in the first phase. In the second set of 922 applications that were considered by the civic body, only 398 were found to be eligible for the licence. The screening of the applications was carried out by a non-governmental organisation for the Kochi Corporation, an official said. The civic body has started issuing licence and identity cards for eligible street vendors. The process had to be put on hold as the model code of conduct came into force following the bypoll announced in the Gandhi Nagar division of the local body. The identification of street vending zones will also resume once the model code of conduct is lifted, the official said. The licensing scheme for street vendors assumes significance in the wake of a recent directive from the Kerala High Court that only authorised vendors shall be permitted to do the business in the city from December 1. The court had also asked the authorities to consider the application of vendors for licence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-number-of-applicants-for-street-vending-licence-baffles-corporation/article37877002.ece
07 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Smaller vessels for return trip leave islanders a worried lot||There seems to be little respite in sight for over 1,000 people from Lakshadweep islands who were stranded here following the cancellation of trips by m.v. Kavaratti, a passenger vessel that caught fire on Wednesday, even as a pair of smaller vessels have been arranged to ferry them to the isles on Tuesday. Several islanders may still be berthed here for want of a big vessel like m.v. Kavaratti while those who will be able to commute in the the smaller vessels, each of which has capacity for 150 passengers, will have to endure a gruelling ride lasting about 12 hours since they do not have berths to sleep. That the vessels are much smaller, and hence vulnerable to “rolling and pitching” while on the seas, is worrying the islanders. “Passengers tend to develop motion sickness and throw up when commuting by such small vessels which do not have berths,” said Ashraf C.P., a resident of Kavaratti, who arrived in Kochi with seven others. “It is sad that the Lakshadweep Administration has not made alternative arrangements to ferry the 1,000-odd people stranded here. The next big vessel is expected only on December 11. It would have been ideal if a ship to Kalpeni and high-speed 150-seater vessels to reach other islands had been arranged. Officials in charge of the vessels do not seem to understand our plight, especially so since we have to pay for accommodation at hotels in Kochi,” he added. Official sources said they were still waiting for “recovery assistance” in order to tow m.v. Kavaratti to Kochi, where it would undergo repair of equipments damaged by the fire. A tug available in Kochi ought to be readied since a tug based in the isles was not powerful enough to tow the vessel to Kochi, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/smaller-vessels-for-return-trip-leave-islanders-a-worried-lot/article37876991.ece
07 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Brakes on impersonation in learner’s test||The spate of complaints about impersonation becoming commonplace after the learner’s licence test shifted to online mode following the pandemic, and unscrupulous driving schools making undue gain by exploiting the new system has prompted the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) to probe alternatives, to usher in the much-needed accountability in the conduct of the test. “It has come to our notice that many driving schools are making undue monetary advantage, including by helping arrange people who are well-versed in traffic rules, to impersonate on behalf of candidates who have applied for learner’s licence. The process has been set in motion to overcome this, considering the implications on road safety when applicants who have little or no knowledge of traffic rules and vehicles take to the road,” said a senior official of the department. He refused to confirm whether the issuance of learner’s licence will return to the pre-pandemic offline mode, when candidates had to attend the test at RTO and Sub-RTO offices under the direct supervision of Motor Vehicles Department personnel. Traffic rules Alarm bells in the department set ringing as candidates, many of whom knew little of traffic rules, began to score over 60 % marks, the cut off percentage to pass the learner’s test. “Sadly, the State government seemed least interested, when the road safety implications of candidates hoodwinking the department by deputing others to attend the test by sharing their OTP, was repeatedly brought to its notice. This in turn led to unscrupulous driving schools unduly reaping a harvest, from Rs. 500 to Rs. 5,000 per candidate, including by arranging impersonators,” official sources said. Fortunately, candidates ought to appear in person for obtaining the formal licence. “It is mandatory that candidates take ‘8’ or ‘H’ depending on the type of vehicle,” said P.M. Shabeer, the Ernakulam RTO. They must also successfully complete the practical road test, which includes reversing and parking, to get their licence. Confidence level The road test is crucial to test their confidence level and how they manage everyday situations on the road, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/transport-dept-to-put-brakes-on-impersonation-in-licence-test/article37876964.ece
07 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cusat team on a green mission in Maldives||A four-member team from the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) is in Maldives to understand and reverse the loss of mangrove forests in the region. The delegation is led by Dr. Bijoy Nandan, Head of the Department of Marine Biology, Microbiology and Biochemistry, Cusat. The project’s objective is to study the reasons behind the loss of mangrove forests and restore them back in wetlands, according to a communication. The delegation met Aminath Shauna, Minister of Environment, Climate Change & Technology, Maldives; and Dr. Hussain Rasheed Hassan, Minister of Fisheries, Marine Resources and Agriculture, as part of the visit. Their discussions focussed on academic collaboration between Cusat and Maldives institutions in various areas including fisheries technology. The team will undertake field visits to eight islands in Northern Maldives to collect plant, insects and sediment samples for measuring environmental parameters in-situ. Dr. Nandan will give a public lecture on ‘Role of Mangroves and Wetlands in Ecosystem Conservation and the present Mangrove Die-Off in the North of Maldives and presentation of results of preliminary analysis and future plans’ on December 10. The varsity team and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Maldives, will conduct basic analysis of samples collected from field (isolation of fungal species and extraction of DNA, etc.) at the National Lab of Maldives Food and Drug Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cusat-team-on-a-green-mission-in-maldives/article37877006.ece
07 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi Metro sees a surge in ridership||A total of 50,233 people commuted in Kochi metro on Saturday, the first time since the pandemic. The average daily ridership during pre-COVID days was 65,000. This could be due to fare concessions and readying feeder services from metro stations, Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) sources said. AFD officials’ visit Two officials of French lending agency AFD, which had extended a soft loan for Kochi metro, visited the metro’s coach depot at Muttom and the office of Kochi Metro Rail Limited on Monday. They included Jyoti Vijayan Nair, Sector Portfolio Manager – Urban Development, AFD India, and Rajnish Ahuja, Sector Portfolio Manager - Urban Transport, AFD India. At the KMRL office, they had a detailed discussion on the status of the non-motorised transport (NMT) projects of the metro agency with Loknath Behera, its MD, and other senior officials. Green initiatives The AFD officials appreciated the green initiatives taken by KMRL where in 40% of the energy needed for the metro’s operations is sourced from solar power. With the completion of the ongoing works, energy neutrality to the tune of 60% is aimed to be achieved by KMRL. They also took stock of various fare box and non-fare box initiatives taken up by KMRL to improve the metro’s ridership, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-metro-sees-a-surge-in-ridership/article37877000.ece
07 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||DRI seizes 9.75 kg of gold||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Kochi unit, busted a Malappuram-based gold smuggling syndicate and arrested nine persons, while also seizing 9.75 kg of 24 carat gold, which included gold paste, valued at a total of Rs. 4.75 crore. They also seized Rs. 62.5 lakh in cash during the raid. The raids were conducted on Sunday and Monday, in Malappuram and also in Kochi and Calicut airports. The arrested persons include the alleged mastermind Fasalu Rahman, Mohammed Musthafa, Mohammed Shihabudheen, melting unit operators Mohammed Ashraf, Ashique Ali and Veerankutty, gold dealer Alavi and carriers Ismail Faisal and Pothan Unaise. Five of them were remanded to judicial custody for 14 days while the others were released on bail. The gang was active in gold smuggling for the past couple of years. They procured gold from abroad and converted it into various forms for being smuggled into the country. This gold was yet again processed at melting units in Kerala, to be turned into gold bars, before being sold to customers, including jewellery shops, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dri-seizes-975-kg-of-gold/article37876998.ece
07 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||ICT urgently needed: MP||There was urgent need to establish an integrated coaching terminal (ICT) in 110 acres of underutilised Railway land in the Ponnurunni-Kathrikadavu area to decongest Ernakulam Junction and Town railway stations, Hibi Eden, MP, demanded in the Lok Sabha on Monday. He expressed concern over there being little follow-up action for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ict-urgently-needed-mp/article37876992.ece
07 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Plea to revoke suspension of Bennichan Thomas||The Indian Forest Association (Central Unit) has appealed to the Chief Minister to revoke the suspension of Bennichan Thomas from the post of Chief Wildlife Warden (Kerala). It was on November 11 that the State government placed him under suspension for issuing permission to Tamil Nadu to cut 15 trees located near the baby dam of the Mullaperiyar reservoir. The decision had triggered a series of political debates in the State with the Opposition criticising the government of compromising the interests of the State in the issue. Earlier, the State units of the associations of the officers of the Indian Forest Service, the Indian Administrative Service and the Indian Police Service had appealed to the Chief Minister to revoke the suspension of the official. ‘Officer of repute’ In its representation, the Indian Forest Association noted that Mr. Thomas, an officer of ‘repute and seniority,’ was treated unjustifiably by the State government, “even when his actions were in fulfilment of various decisions and instructions” issued by the Supreme Court and the various high-level committees constituted by the State government itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-revoke-suspension-of-bennichan/article37876965.ece
07 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Hunt on for 2 in Kakkanad gang rape case||The police team probing the incident in which a woman from Malappuram who came to Kochi for a photoshoot was allegedly gang raped by three people at a lodge in Kakkanad, after lacing her drinks with sedatives. has intensified the search for two suspects, Ajmal and Shameer. Alappuzha native Salim Kumar, 33, who arranged the accommodation and was among those who raped her, was arrested on Sunday by the Infopark police. The rooms of the lodge, where the crime is said to have been committed from December 1 to 3, have been sealed. A special team headed by the Thrikkakara Assistant Commissioner of Police is investigating the case. The accused had recorded the visuals of the assault and abused her again by blackmailing her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hunt-on-for-2-in-kakkanad-gang-rape-case/article37876981.ece
07 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Search conducted in hotel||The investigation team probing the narcotic drug cases against Saiju Thankachan, who had been arrested in connection with a car accident at Chakkaraparambu that led to two models and a youth losing their life, conducted a search at No. 18 Hotel in Fort Kochi on Monday where they had attended a late-night party just before their ill-fated trip on Nov 1. The police dog squad assisted in the raids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/search-conducted-in-hotel/article37877003.ece
07 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||568 new COVID cases recorded||A total of 568 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Monday. The test positivity rate stood at 7.6%. The source of infection in seven cases has not been ascertained. The number of active cases in the district is 6,342.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/568-new-covid-cases-recorded/article37877009.ece
07 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Held on suicide abetment charge||The Njarakkal police have arrested a middle-aged man on the charge of abetment to suicide, following the death of a woman and her 18-year-old son from Njarakkal on Sunday. Both had been rushed to the hospital with severe burn injuries. Persons having suicidal tendencies may call Maitri at 0484-2540530 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/held-on-suicide-abetment-charge/article37876999.ece
07 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bishop Joseph Mor Gregorios to assist Catholicos Baselios Thomas I||The Metropolitan Trustee of the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church Joseph Mar Gregorios has been appointed by Patriarch Ignatius Aphrem II to assist Catholicos Baselios Thomas I in the administrative affairs of the Church. Mar Gregorios was serving as trustee of the episcopal synod.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bishop-joseph-mor-gregorios-to-assist-catholicos-baselios-thomas-i/article37877016.ece
07 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC directive to State on bus operators’ plea||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the State government to consider and pass appropriate orders on a representation filed by some private bus operators seeking to increase bus fares. The court passed the directive while disposing of a writ petition filed by the operators seeking a directive to consider their plea for hike in bus fares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directive-to-state-on-bus-operators-plea/article37877017.ece
07 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Rain triggers panic in Kottayam high ranges||The eastern high ranges of Kottayam came under a heavy spell of showers on Sunday, raising the spectre of yet another flood situation in the region. The rain, which began by 7 p.m. on Sunday, caused a heavy gush of water through the Pullakayar, a tributary of the Manimalayar, which had changed course and swept away several houses in October. The floodwater entered several houses in the Elamkadu, Enthayar and Koottickal region, besides submerging the causeway. At least three families near the Mukkulam masjid were stranded in the floodwater, while the temporary bridge constructed near Thazhathangadi sustained damage. Safe locations The stranded families were shifted to safe locations once the waters receded. Revenue, Fire and Rescue Services and police personnel coordinated the rescue and relief operations. The sudden rise in water level was attributed to minor landslips at Urumbikkara and Kokkayar. Meanwhile, water level in the Manimalayar also rose marginally, though it receded soon with the rain subsiding. The high ranges of Kottayam had witnessed widespread damage with a series of landslip-induced floods during the unseasonal rains two months ago. Pilgrimage hit Meanwhile, the heavy rain that lashed the Sabarimala forests forced a temporary stoppage of the pilgrimage to the hill shrine. The Pampa river breached its banks at Pampa Triveni and the floodwater entered the path to the Ganapathi temple. Following this, pilgrims were directed to wait at Charalmedu and later permitted to trek up up the hillock once the floodwater began to recede by night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-triggers-panic-in-kottayam-high-ranges/article37877061.ece
07 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Students in rural schools urge KSRTC to operate more trips||With classes resuming as per the pre-pandemic schedule, students and parent-teacher associations from various rural schools in Kozhikode have approached the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) authorities with a request to consider the launch of more services connecting interior areas in the district. The stoppage of services or unexpected cancellation of schedules by some private bus operators continue to be a challenge for many rural students who are forced to depend on taxi services to reach schools. The majority of those who approached the KSRTC’s zonal office in Kozhikode with the request are from Kodiyathur and Karassery panchayats. Students from two schools at Thottumukkam in Kodiyathur panchayat are reportedly the worst-hit by the limited services. According to school authorities, students eligible for travel concession have to set apart a huge sum for their commute in hired vehicles. Representatives of some parent-teacher associations said the heavy fare was an additional financial burden on many lower income families. Malappuram students Students from Malappuram district who depend on rural schools in Kozhikode have also called for a favourable response from the KSRTC authorities. In the absence of KSRTC services, many students from Kizhuparamba and Oorngattiri panchayats in Malappuram now depend on taxi services to reach schools. Meanwhile, the KSRTC authorities are yet to look into the request. According to official sources, such trips could be launched only after conducting a proper field study about the scope of generating a fair revenue. They said the KSRTC’s bus-on-demand (BOND) service would be a better option for such locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-in-rural-schools-urge-ksrtc-to-operate-more-trips/article37876960.ece
07 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||As Omicron threat looms, more people queue up for jabs||Vaccination has gained momentum in Kozhikode district in the past one week after a global alert was issued against the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2. According to the data uploaded on the CoWIN portal, only 1,447 had taken the vaccination on November 28, of whom 119 took the first dose and 1,328 the second dose. The number went up to 12,273 the next day (first dose 1,464, second dose 10,809). The figures for November 30 and December 1 were 10,962 (first dose 1,465, second dose 9,497) and 9,205 (first dose 1,337, second dose 7,868), respectively. But, the number surged on December 2 with 19,500 people taking the jab (first dose 2,707, second dose 16,793). It rose again on December 3 when 21,863 people were vaccinated (first dose 3,229, second dose 18,634). As many as 33,116 people took the vaccine (first dose 4,363, second dose 28,753) on December 4. A total of 1,122 people got vaccinated (first dose 203 and second dose 919) on December 5. As per the data available at 6 p.m. on December 6, a total of 12,514 people have taken the jab on Monday. People were found thronging free vaccination centres such as the one set up at Tagore Centenary Hall, Kozhikode, in recent days. Meanwhile, the Health department is awaiting the results of the genome sequencing analysis done on the samples collected from a health worker who returned from the United Kingdom and one of his relatives who tested positive for the virus. They are quarantined at the Government General Hospital, Kozhikode. The health worker had returned to India on November 21 and was found infected on November 26. He had travelled to many places after his return. In schools Kozhikode district has the second highest number of teaching and non-teaching staff in schools who are reluctant to take the vaccine. As many as 136 teachers and 15 non-teaching staff have opted against vaccination, according to the data released by the Education department. Malappuram district is ahead of Kozhikode in this regard, with 184 teachers and 17 non-teaching staff not getting vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-omicron-threat-looms-more-people-queue-up-for-jabs/article37876974.ece
07 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Growing demand to open S.M. Street for traffic||The Small Scale Building Owners’ Association has said that opening S.M. Street for vehicular traffic is the only viable solution to the problem of traffic congestion at G.H. Road, Palayam, Moideen Pally Road and Court Road. In a memorandum submitted to District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) A.V. George on Monday, the association pointed out that irregular parking of vehicles around S.M. Street was the main cause for congestion and sought the reintroduction of traffic to the street as the arrangement had been before its renovation a few years ago. Parking woes Association patron C.E. Chakkunni said parking plazas at Kidson Corner and Link Road were yet to be a reality, forcing people to park their vehicles on the roadside, leading to traffic congestion in the heart of the city. He said that if S.M. Street was opened, parking arrangements could be made inside Land World, Koyenco Bazaar, Grand Bazaar, Chettiar Compound and Radha Compound, considerably reducing congestion on other roads. The Association said the ban on traffic needed to be lifted to reclaim the commercial legacy of the region and ensure the survival of traders there. “Sabarimala pilgrims used to buy sweets from S.M. Street in large quantities earlier. The street used to be known as the ‘sleepless street’ at the time. But this has changed after the traffic ban,” said Mr. Chakkunni. The Association had earlier submitted a memorandum in this regard to the Kozhikode Corporation. Mr. Chakkunni urged all authorities to join hands to resolve the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/growing-demand-to-open-sm-street-for-traffic/article37876971.ece
07 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kodiyeri has his work cut out||Back at the helm of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) in Kerala, State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s utmost priority will be to quell the emerging factionalism within the official group at district levels ahead of the State conference in Ernakulam next February. When he returns after a one-year hiatus, many things have changed politically, including the historic second term of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government led by Pinarayi Vijayan defying the four-decade-long trend of voting out incumbents in the State. With Mr. Balakrishnan appearing hale and hearty and his confidence level high, party sources said the State leadership would want him to keep an eye on the 14 district conferences beginning this month. These conferences would elect around 40-60 members, including the district secretary and delegates to the State conference. Stiff competition The meeting of areas committees in many regions, especially in Kozhikode, Palakkad, and Malappuram districts, saw stiff competition between the official panel and rebel panels. Tussle between factions saw the defeat of Kongad legislator K. Shantakumari in the Kuzhalmannam area committee. A show of strength was witnessed between the combine of Kozhikode district secretary P. Mohanan and Central committee member Elamaram Karim and a panel led by Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas in Kozhikode city area committees. Party sources said Mr. Balakrishnan would ensure that the State conference would be a smooth affair unlike during the turbulent times of the party when a faction led by veteran leader V.S. Acuthanandan was on one side and Mr. Vijayan on the other. Good rapport With a good rapport between them, many believe that Mr. Vijayan, 76, and Mr. Balakrishnan, 68, to be the yin and yang in the party structure. Both Polit Bureau members are hardcore party loyalists, but Mr. Balakrishnan possesses a characteristic blend of rigidity and flexibility. For the time being, the State leadership would not have to bother much about the dynamics taking place at the district levels. Nevertheless it would have to deal with former legislators who were benched on the eve of the Assembly election and those potential senior leaders who could possibly pose any threat to the Pinarayi-Kodiyeri combine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kodiyeri-has-his-work-cut-out/article37877014.ece
07 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Free vaccination camp for pet dogs in Kozhikode on Dec. 10||The Department of Animal Husbandry and the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) will jointly organise a free vaccination camp named ‘Saphalyam’ for pet dogs at the District Veterinary Hospital compound in Kozhikode on December 10. An adoption camp for rehabilitating street dogs will be one of the highlights of the event, expected to draw the participation of pet lovers and rescuers from various parts of the district. “This is the third such camp we are organising in the city mainly to support the free vaccination and adoption of street puppies. Timely anti-rabies vaccination is the first step to complying with the updated pet licensing norms,” said E.K. Rajeev, one of the coordinators of the event. According to the organisers, many pet owners do not pay attention to the vaccination process due to ignorance or the reluctance to pay the vaccination fee. Some owners overlook booster doses and other core vaccines meant to protect puppies from serious viral diseases. Optional vaccines will not be distributed at the camp. Free anti-rabies vaccination would be made available for de-wormed puppies,they added. Volunteers of People for Animals and Petlife Charitable Trust will also team up with the Animal Husbandry department to host the free adoption camp. Arrangements are in place to bring healthy puppies from various shelters to the spot for adoption. To make pet shop owners and dealers aware of updated policies in the sector, an interactive session may also be organised. Experts representing the Animal Husbandry department and the SPCA are expected to handle the sessions and clarify doubts of participants.  Timely anti-rabies vaccination is the first step to complying with the updated pet licensing norms E.K. Rajeev Coordinator of camp||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/free-vaccination-camp-for-pet-dogs-in-kozhikode-on-dec-10/article37876980.ece
07 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corporation asks State govt. to return funds||The Kozhikode Corporation has demanded that the State government release more than Rs. 17.73 crore withdrawn from the civic body’s treasury account in March 2021 without notice. In a memorandum submitted to Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal on Monday, the Mayor pointed out that the money withdrawn was part of the Corporation’s pension fund, contingent pension account and special fund. It was to be distributed among employees and contractors, failing which several projects of the civic body were at a standstill, said the Mayor. A sum of Rs. 15.64 crore had been deposited by the Corporation in the treasury for constructing apartment complexes for Scheduled Castes. The State had approved the project before the funds were withdrawn, leaving the Corporation in the lurch. The Corporation has also requested the Minister to convert the PWD fund of Rs. 4.6 crore for the Mankavu-Methottuthazham Road into the Corporation fund as the civic body was unable to use it at present. Other demands The other demands include the allotment of pension arrears to employees who retired from the Corporation, creation of additional posts in the health wing to cater to wards added in 2010, and the setting up of separate mechanical engineering and electrical wings in the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-asks-state-govt-to-return-funds/article37876972.ece
07 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Treasury offices will be modernised: Balagopal||Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said here on Monday that the treasury offices in the State will be modernised to make them people-friendly. The Minister said treasuries now have many banking facilities as well. He directed Goods and Services Tax (GST) officials to improve tax collection at a meeting of GST officials from Kozhikode, Malappuram, and Wayanad districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/treasury-offices-will-be-modernised-balagopal/article37877015.ece
07 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Tribal hospital chief blames govt. for ignoring fund plea||Attappady’s Government Tribal Specialty Hospital superintendent R. Prabhudas on Monday came out against the hospital management committee for allegedly misguiding the government against him. Dr. Prabhudas alleged that the committee members turned against him after he thwarted a bribery deal they had demanded. The committee members had asked for bribes for passing various Bills, he said. Those who accompanied Minister for Health, Women and Child Veena George during her recent visit to Attappady hamlets had sought the bribes, said Dr. Prabhudas, adding that he would never permit anyone to take bribes or kickbacks. Inquiry  Dr. Prabhudas said he was ready to face any inquiry, and would prefer an investigation by the Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau. The Health authorities had ignored his repeated requests to make the ward for women and children functional at the hospital. He had written to the government twice demanding funds for the ward, he said. Dr. Prabhudas had also asked for funds for a lift to be constructed for the ward on the hospital’s fourth floor in March this year. In September, he wrote to his higher-ups for other accessories, demanding that they release Rs. 32 lakh sanctioned by the National Health Mission. Letters ignored He has blamed the State government for ignoring his letters. The ward could not be made functional as the government failed to release the funds, he added. Meanwhile, a UDF team visited several tribal hamlets, including Veetiyur and Padavayal, at Attappady. They visited the Government Tribal Specialty Hospital at Kottathara. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan inaugurated a UDF dharna at Agali in protest against the deaths of infants. UDF convener M.M. Hassan, Indian Union Muslim League State general secretary P.M.A. Salam, Communist Marxist Party leader C.P. John, Forward Bloc general secretary G. Devarajan, Nationalist Congress Party leader Sulfikar Mayoori, and N. Shamsuddin, MLA, accompanied Mr. Satheesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-hospital-chief-blames-govt-for-ignoring-fund-plea/article37876962.ece
07 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Walayar case: CBI conducts dummy experiment||A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team investigating the death of two minor sisters of Walayar recreated their hanging scenes with the help of dummies at their house at Attappallam, near here, on Monday. The CBI team conducted the dummy experiment at a shed in which both the sisters were found hanging on different dates in 2017. The tests continued for over three hours. When the 13-year-old girl was found hanging from the rafter of the shed on January 7, 2017, her nine-year-old sister was found hanging from the same rafter on March 4, 2017. The CBI team had approached the POCSO court here asking for the victims’ dress for the dummy experiment. However, the court rejected the request, and directed the CBI to conduct the dummy experiment with similar dress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walayar-case-cbi-conducts-dummy-test/article37876966.ece
07 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Probe into use of kids to observe Babri day||The Pathanamthitta district police have launched a probe into an alleged attempt by a group of men to observe the Babri Masjid demolition day using schoolstudents. According to a complaint lodged by the Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) of St George High School, Kottangal, with the Perumpetty police station, some unidentified men distributed ‘I am Babri’ badges to a few students of the school on Monday morning. Besides the PTA, BJP district unit president V.A. Sooraj too had a lodged a complaint. As per the complaint, the badges were distributed to the students at a location outside the school campus. “The incident came to light after the teachers spotted a few students wearing the badges in the classroom. The kids were immediately asked to remove it and the incident was reported to the school management,” said a school official. The BJP accused the Social Democratic Party of India of distributing the badges with an intention to create trouble. Probe on The Perumpetty police said a probe was on. “The identity and political affiliation of those who distributed the badges were yet to be ascertained,” said a police officer. The police have registered a case against Muneer Ibnu Nazeer, Kottangal, and two others under IPC 153 A (promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, race, etc and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-into-use-of-kids-to-observe-babri-day/article37877060.ece
07 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Handloom set to get a ‘designer’ touch||New York-based fashion designer and influencer Sanjana Jon will extend her fashion designing skills to handloom weavers in Balaramapuram. The ace designer is associating with the Centre for Innovation in Science and Social Action (CISSA) in a bid to increase the profile of Balaramapuram handlooms. “Balaramapuram handlooms — sarees and other fabric materials — need radiant reshaping that will catch the attention of the international fashion world,” she said. Ms. Jon said Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan had asked her to do something for the uplift of the weavers of Balaramapuram. “Traditional weaving of handloom materials should regain its status as a cultural activity rather than remain a barely sustainable activity,” she said. Decent earnings “The centuries-old legacy of weavers of Balaramapuram handloom should be preserved,” Mr. Muraleedharan, who has initiated a revival plan for the handloom weaving industry by involving artisans, NABARD, and CISSA, said. Balaramapuram handlooms was part of the State’s culture, and should be preserved for future generations by ensuring decent earnings and intellectual inputs in tune with present trends, he said. Ms. Jon, who was in Kochi in connection with the Miss Kerala competitions, held detailed discussions with C. Suresh Kumar, general secretary, CISSA, and volunteered to extend her creative inputs and networks around the world for the revival of the industry, thus ensuring a respectable income for the traditional weavers. Producer company She will visit Balaramapuram in a month with her innovations to be incorporated on handloom fabrics to make it a sought-after craft. Her involvement in Balaramapuram handlooms is expected to give a fillip to hundreds of small-time weavers. CISSA, in association with NABARD, has chalked out a plan for the revival of the handloom industry by forming a producer company with around 500 backyard handloom weavers.  Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan has initiated a revival plan for handloom industry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/handloom-set-to-get-a-designer-touch/article37877229.ece
07 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tourist resorts under scanner||With the Christmas-New Year festive season round the corner, tourist destinations have come under a tight scanner in the wake of the crackdown on a rave party at a resort at Poovar, near here. The Excise department is gearing up for inspections in resorts and hotels across the State in anticipation of an inflow of narcotic substances. Excise Commissioner S. Aananthakrishnan said here on Monday that the event at Poovar could not have been the first instance of drug-fuelled programmes in the region. “We can no longer overlook the possibility of drug trade under the cover of dance and DJ parties and fashion shows. Such nefarious activities are likely to peak during the festive season when visitors make a beeline for these destinations,” Mr. Aananthakrishnan said. Raids to be intensified The top official added that raids will be intensified in the days to come to prevent similar events. The inspections are bound to act as a deterrent to such attempts in the future, he felt. A day after the arrest of three youths in connection with the ‘Nirvana music and fashion festival’ organised at Karaikkattu Backwater and Resorts, the department has decided to constitute a special investigation team for the ongoing probe that could extend well beyond the State. The synthetic drugs, including MDMA, seized at the resort are suspected to have been smuggled from Bengaluru by prime accused Akshay Mohan, who is believed to have organised similar events in places including Kullu-Manali and Goa, State Excise Enforcement Squad circle inspector T. Anikumar, who led the raid, said. Besides Akshay, the other accused Peter Shine and Asher were remanded in judicial custody after being produced in a court in Neyyattinkara on Monday. While the excise team detained 19 attendees at the resort, they were let off late Sunday after collecting their details and recording their statements. Official sources claimed most of the nearly 100 participants who registered for the event came to witness the music and fashion show. The event was originally planned for Sunday and Monday with a rehearsal held on Saturday. Following the rehearsal of the ramp walk, several models were accommodated in another facility near Poovar. They were apparently ‘evacuated’ after news of the raid began to trickle in. Model questioned Meanwhile, a model based in Thiruvananthapuram was placed under surveillance following allegations that she was involved in the drug racket. However, she was let off after questioning in a hotel in Kazhakuttam, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourist-resorts-under-scanner/article37877021.ece
07 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Thrissur, Nilambur in line for UNESCO honour||The Thrissur Corporation and the Nilambur municipality have been recommended for inclusion among the UNESCO Global Network of Learning Cities (GNLC). The recommendation, which has been made by the Central government, would pave the way for the local bodies to become the first entrants from the country into the coveted group of global cities, including Beijing, Shanghai, Hamburg, Athens, Incheon, Bristol and Dublin. Hailing the decision, Local Self-Governments Minister M.V. Govindan said the development would provide impetus for the State’s efforts to position itself as a knowledge society. UNESCO GNLC plays a vital role in forging links between cities, fostering partnerships and capacity development in improving learning facilities. Knowledge hub Mr. Govindan said the project in Thrissur will be implemented by the Corporation, the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA) and the School of Architecture and Planning that functions under the Government Engineering College, Thrissur. The city will be made a knowledge hub through the 10-year-long project. The government has initiated efforts in association with the KILA to fetch similar recognitions from UNESCO and other agencies for other cities in the State. It has been envisaged to associate with the UN agency to elevate Kochi, Kozhikode and Kannur Corporations as cities of design, literature and craft respectively. The United Nations Sustainable Group (UNSDG) will be approached to designate the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation as a city of peace, while efforts are being made to make the Kollam Corporation a ‘biodiverse city’ in association with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), said Mr. Govindan.  Development will provide impetus for State’s efforts to position itself as a knowledge society M.V. Govindan Local Self-Governments Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-nilambur-in-line-for-unesco-recognition/article37876967.ece
07 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Seagrass washes up at Kovalam||It’s grass and it’s green, but you are not likely to find cattle grazing on it. Look for fish instead. Seagrass ‘wracks’ that have washed up on the Kovalam beach have piqued the interest of the local people and marine scientists alike, as the phenomenon is rather unfamiliar to the Kerala coast. Seagrass grows entirely underwater and these marine plants are different from seaweeds. Wracks are loose seagrass patches that accumulate on beaches due to wave action. A biodiversity team of the Department of Aquatic Biology and Fisheries, University of Kerala, has identified the wracks as belonging to two species; Oceana serrulata and Syringodium isoetifolium , the latter commonly called the ‘noodle seagrass.’ Detailed study sought As both seagrass species have not been reported so far from the Kerala coast, the finding calls for a detailed underwater study, especially along its southern sections of the coast, said A. Biju Kumar, head, Department of Aquatic Biology and Fisheries. Dugong’s haven Seagrass beds or meadows along the continental shelf play a vital role in marine biodiversity and the overall productivity and health of coastal ecosystems. These submerged flowering plants, found in shallow marine waters usually, enhance water quality, absorb carbon dioxide and liberate oxygen. They also act as ‘nurseries’ and havens for a large number of fish species. “In the Indian coast they are the feeding grounds of the critically endangered sea cow (Dugong dugon),” Dr. Biju Kumar said. Both the species found at Kovalam, categorised as of ‘Least Concern’ in the Red Data List, are reported from the Lakshadweep islands, Gulf of Mannar, and the Andaman and Nicobar islands. The suggested possible biogeographic distribution of Oceana serrulata and Syringodium isoetifolium include the southern east and west coasts of India, and part of eastern and western Indian Ocean. Extreme currents, tides, and wave action may have carried them to Kovalam from the east coast of India. The possibility of separated patches from the seagrass afforestation areas in the Gulf of Mannar also cannot be ruled out, Dr. Biju Kumar said. Recording seagrass beds “Artificial reefs and geotubes deployed along the Kerala coast recently support the growth of seagrass. It would be interesting to record the possible seagrass beds along the Indian coast, as there are no records of seagrass beds in the region and they offer nature-based solutions for coastal protection,” he said.  Artificial reefs and geotubes deployed along the Kerala coast recently support the growth of seagrass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seagrass-washes-up-at-kovalam/article37877224.ece
07 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chronicling history of Travancore digitally||For history buffs, the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple is where the past rests. For scientists, the temple is an engineering marvel while for tourists, it is a storehouse of riches and for the natives, the temple is a place that gives their city its identity. These were probably the reasons why Aswin Suresh chose the temple as his documentary subject for his Visual Communication course assignment from SRM University. Till then, he had not even visited the temple though a city native. But as he embarked on his project, he found his work growing into much more than mere frames that could win him grades. It spearheaded a parallel project that brought together those who shared a passion for Travancore. They knew of the tales handed down generations. Some had records and anecdotes or information on the manuscripts waiting to be deciphered in the archives. But over time, they had tucked all the information away as history better left unsaid. It was then that Aswin opened up the FB page Oru Nagarathinte Katha in January 2020. “It was to be a promo page for my documentary but it slowly became a forum where Travancore’s history began to be chronicled digitally. It seemed like there were people waiting for such a forum. In just three months, the membership of the group surged to 30,000,” he says. The group now has 50,000 members. Posts of one such member, Mohan Nair, on the group has now been compiled into a book titled Ente Mohana Nagaram , which has such history and folklore listings. “This apart, we also have a YouTube channel and a regularly updated series called Syanandoora Kathakal (Syanandooram was a yesteryear name of Thiruvananthapuram), where people with links to Travancore narrate its history. This is done after much research for which we get help from the palace and State archives and from resource persons like Prof. Nalin Ganesh,” says Aswin. He also has a team working behind the camera to help with the shoots. “We are planning to allow media students to join this team,” he says. Awards instituted The forum has also spread its wings venturing into acknowledging talents in the field of history. “We have instituted an award, ‘Shankhumudra Puraskaram’, for good literary works on Travancore history. Yhose contributing informative posts on our group will be given the ‘Vyakthimudra Puraskaram,” Aswin says. The 23-year-old displays a resolve to keep the commune going. “For those who love the history of the region, the real treasure is the legacy of the region and those who love that legacy,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chronicling-history-of-travancore-digitally/article37877226.ece
07 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) to fight ‘RSS attack on minorities’||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State secretariat will launch a grassroots-level political campaign to mobilise public opinion against the Sangh Parivar’s ‘organised attacks’ on minorities. As a precursor of mustering common opinion against the ‘anti-minority’ politics of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the CPI(M) would observe Tuesday as a protest day in Kerala, a statement issued by the party said. The CPI(M) said Hindu majoritarian nationalism also targeted Christians. In the past nine months, Sangh Parivar organisations had vandalised 300 churches. Political protection The perpetrators enjoyed the political protection of the ruling BJP at the Centre. Dalits and tribespeople bore the brunt of such hate crimes. The BJP was ideologically committed to incubating a Hindu nationalist ecosystem where minorities had no political space. In Assam, the BJP government has evicted Muslim citizens by falsely branding them as illegal immigrants from Bangladesh. Most of those dispossessed of their land were legal residents. They were subsistence level farmers trying to eke a living from riverside public land. On CAA The BJP-ruled States used the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) to disenfranchise Muslim citizens incrementally. It was part of a broader campaign to rally the Sangh Parivar’s Hindu nationalist base ahead of the Assembly elections in crucial north Indian States. In Tripura, Muslims were the target of a State-sponsored terror campaign. The Tripura government slapped UAPA charges on journalists who attempted to report the ground situation. In Madhya Pradesh, local authorities cleared the streets of Muslim traders. RSS activists targetted several Muslim businesses in New Delhi. The CPI(M) would also use the protest to highlight the murder of party worker S. Sandeep in Thiruvalla by ‘RSS activists’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-to-highlight-rss-attack-on-minorities/article37877057.ece
07 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||PFI stirs up enmity: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has accused the Popular Front of India (PFI) of laying the ground for a communal conflagration in Kerala. BJP State secretary P. Sudhir alleged on Monday that PFI activists had attempted to create enmity between two sets of people in Pathanamthitta by forcibly making students of St. George High School, Kottangal, wear ‘I am Babri’ badges. He accused Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of giving a free rein to ‘Islamist’ forces in Kerala. The CPI(M) was playing vote bank politics. Mr. Vijayan’s endorsement of the plot to impose a ‘halal’ culture in Kerala had emboldened radical Islamists. The fear of such forces, he said, had prevented General Education Minister V. Sivankutty from publishing the names of government and aided school teachers who had resisted COVID-19 vaccination for religious reasons. Mr. Sudhir alleged that Islamist forces had encouraged vaccine resistance in society. CPI(M) warning At a local party conference, CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan warned the public against falling to the divisive propaganda unleashed by extreme fringe elements on either side of the religious spectrum. Both groups were seeking to stoke communal passion for political dividend. Mr. Balakrishnan said the IUML was speaking in the tone of the Jamaat-e-Islami. It infused politics into religion by urging believers to organise protest meetings in mosques to oppose the Left Democratic Front government’s move to bring accountability and transparency in appointments to the Waqf Board. He said the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) sought to demonise the Muslim community by attacking ‘halal’ food habits. The CPI(M) would limit their influence in society through grassroots-level political work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pfi-stirs-up-enmity-bjp/article37877020.ece
07 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rape of minor: man arrested||The Thiruvallam police have arrested a history-sheeter on charges of abducting and sexually harassing a minor girl. The police identified the accused as Prakash, alias Pachan, of Kolliyoor. He allegedly picked the 17-year-old girl from her home town under the Thiruvallam police station limits on November 12. The duo visited places in Tamil Nadu including Theni, Thirunelveli, and Nagercoil, where Prakash allegedly raped the girl in various lodges. The police apprehended the accused and rescued the girl from Kalingarajapuram in Kanyakumari. The police said Prakash had been involved in 16 criminal cases in Kovalam, Vizhinjam, Poojappura, and Valiathura police stations. He had also been placed under preventive detection under the Kerala Anti-social Activities (Prevention) Act. He was remanded in judicial custody. Following a court directive, the girl went with her parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rape-of-minor-man-arrested/article37877227.ece
07 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Upgrade Kottathara tribal hospital, demands KGMOA||The Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) has written to the government that the Kottathara Government Tribal Specialty Hospital (GTSH) be upgraded as a taluk hospital with 100 beds and sufficient posts created so that its functioning can be improved. In a detailed letter to the government, the KGMOA has pointed out that since the maximum referral from the Kottathara GTSH was for ultrasound/CT scans for pregnant women, the posting of three radiology PG doctors can provide radio diagnostic services round the clock. Early diagnosis of any anomalies through scanning can reduce neonatal and maternal deaths. It said that there is only a single junior consultant post each in many key departments at the hospital, including gynaecology, paediatrics, surgery and medicine and that these doctors were working overtime. All specialities should have additional posts created. All doctors working on deputation/special arrangement or as part of redeployment should be given special allowance. The government should enter into a tie-up with the nearest tertiary care hospital and engage tribal promoters there so that referral patients can be managed here during emergencies Experts’ panel It suggested that the government set up a panel of experts and representatives from the tribes to probe into the actual issues plaguing them. Unless the socio-economic situation in Attappady improves and special attention is paid to de-addiction services for the tribespeople, a generation of healthy mothers and children would be a distant dream for Attappady. Ambulances with ventilator facility are essential for transporting patients in critical condition. Improving lab facilities and creating proper living quarters for doctors are essential. Bonded service Another important suggestion given by the KGMOA is that the government insist on compulsory bonded service for PG doctors and nurses at Attappady. PG/DNB State service quota should have special reservation for doctors who are willing to serve in Attappady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/upgrade-kottathara-tribal-hospital-demands-kgmoa/article37877010.ece
07 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala, T.N. to cooperate on transport issues: Minister||Kerala and Tamil Nadu will cooperate on a host of issues related to public transportation affecting the two States, Minister for Transport Antony Raju said on Monday after discussions in Chennai with Tamil Nadu Transport Minister Raja Kannappan and Finance Minister Palanivel Thiagarajan. Both States will take up their grievances related to the BH series registration of vehicles with the Centre. The introduction of the BH series will result in sharp revenue falls for the States. Many States including Kerala and Tamil Nadu are yet to implement it, Mr. Raju pointed out. Kerala and Tamil Nadu also plan to seek exemption for their public transport utilities from paying toll on national highways. Kerala spends Rs. 2 crore and Tamil Nadu, Rs. 14 crore monthly on toll payments alone, he said. Again, the public transport utilities stand to face heavy financial losses when replacing existing vehicles with LNG, CNG and electric-powered ones. For instance, while a diesel-fuelled bus costs Rs. 35 lakh, an electric bus costs Rs. 1.25 crore. States will not be able to shoulder such a heavy financial burden. The Centre will be asked to address this issue. Kerala has also agreed to allow Tamil Nadu buses up to Pampa bowing to a request made by that State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-tn-to-cooperate-on-transport-issues-minister/article37877012.ece
07 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tighter security outside Cliff House||Security arrangements are set to be bolstered at the Cliff House, the official residence of Chief Minister. The move comes over a year after the high security zone had witnessed a major breach after a group of Youth Congress workers forced their way to reach the gates of the Cliff House during an agitation. The Home Department’s decision to strengthen security has now come on the basis of a letter submitted by the State Police Chief in the wake of the security lapse, following which many police personnel were issued transfer orders. The government has accepted a proposal to constitute an inter-departmental committee of officials led by the Deputy Inspector General of Police (Security) for overseeing and implementing the recommendations to strengthen security. The department also approved a proposal to allocating a post of Deputy Commissioner of Police (Security) in the Thiruvananthapuram City police to coordinate the security. The proposal will be taken up with the General Administration department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tighter-security-outside-cliff-house/article37877231.ece
07 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Three from ‘high-risk’ nations test positive||Three samples of international travellers to Kerala from ‘high-risk’ nations, as designated by the Centre, have tested positive for COVID-19 since December 1, Health Minister Veena George said here on Monday. All COVID-19-positive samples from travellers from high-risk nations are being sent for genomic analysis. In the first phase, Russia had not figured on the list of high risk nations designated by the Centre, which is why some travellers from that nation were left out of testing initially. Now that Russia also figures on the said list, all travellers from Russia are being tested, she added. Row over visit Ms. George refused to be drawn into a controversy over her Attappady visit and said she had visited Attappady to understand for herself, field-level activities and Anganwadi-centered activities in various tribal colonies. She said that the Health as well as the Women and Child Development departments had equal responsibilities at Attappady. Special plan The functioning of each department will be reviewed in detail, she added. The government is in the process of formulating a special intervention plan for Attappady. There are 426 pregnant women at present in the colonies, of whom 218 are tribespeople. About 191 of these tribal mothers-to-be are deemed high-risk antenatal cases and would require individual care, she said. She claimed that the government has not restricted district medical officers from meeting mediapersons. However, during pandemic times, there should be no pronouncements from them which may trigger panic among people, she added. Active cases fall Thiruvananthapuram district recorded 482 COVID-19 cases and 938 recoveries as the number of active cases fell to 6,683 on Monday. The test positivity rate stood at 8.4%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-from-high-risk-nations-test-positive-for-covid-19/article37877065.ece
07 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Held under POCSO Act||The police have arrested Gopakumar, 55, of Thiruvallam, for allegedly raping a seven-year-old girl last month. He was nabbed from a hideout in Alappuzha a few days ago. He has been booked under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/held-under-pocso-act/article37877233.ece
07 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Novel schemes to learn beyond the textbook||Novel schemes will be implemented to take knowledge beyond the classroom to students, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. Ten new series starting telecast on the KITE Victers educational channel were aimed at this, he said. He was speaking after inaugurating the new series on the KITE Victers and giving away prizes to the winners of the ‘Thirike Schoolilekku’ photography competition here on Sunday. The Minister said the school curriculum revision would focus on promoting secularism, constitutional values, gender equality, and scientific approach. Hence, besides textbooks, the General Education Department was trying to make available the experiences of experts in various fields to students. The contribution of the KITE Victers to continuing education in the State during COVID-19 was huge. A new headquarters with more facilities would be built for the KITE Victers at Valiasala. Schools with best pages on SchoolWiki would be given State-level prizes. The first prize would be Rs. 1.5 lakh, second prize Rs. 1 lakh, and the third prize Rs. 75,000. The top three prize winners at the district level would get Rs. 25,000, Rs. 15,000, an Rs. 10,000. Chief Secretary V.P. Joy said Kerala was able to get recognition for best State in the country to conduct digital education during the pandemic. General Education Principal Secretary A.P.M. Mohammed Hanish, Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K., and KITE chief executive officer Anvar Sadath K., were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schemes-for-learning-beyond-textbook-minister/article37876995.ece
07 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bypolls in 32 wards today||All arrangements are in place for the byelections scheduled in 32 local body wards across the State on Tuesday, the State Election Commission has said. Polling will begin at 7 a.m. in 367 polling booths and conclude at 6 p.m. In all, 2,82,645 voters are eligible to exercise their right to franchise in the December 7 byelections. Electors Of the total electors, 1,48,192 are women, 1,34,451 are men and two electors are transgenders. There are 115 candidates in all, of whom 21 are women. Mock polls will be held at 6 a.m. on Tuesday, one hour before actual polling opens. The counting of votes will begin at 10 a.m. on Wednesday. Bypolls are being held in 20 grama panchayat wards, four block panchayat wards, three district panchayat wards, three municipality wards and two Corporation wards. COVID-19 norms The bypolls will be held strictly in line with the COVID-19 protocol. Voters are expected to follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour such as the use of masks and sanitiser and maintaining physical distance, the commission said. The counting of votes will begin at 10 a.m. on Wednesday. Results will be uploaded on lsgelection.kerala.gov.in and the Trend portal of the commission. For identification Any of the following documents can be used to establish the voter’s identity: the Electors Photo Identity Cards (EPIC) issued by the Election Commission of India, passport, driving licence, PAN card, Aadhaar card, passbooks with photographs issued by nationalised banks within six months of the election, photo-affixed SSLC book, and identity card issued by the State Election Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bypolls-in-32-wards-today/article37876968.ece
07 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tobacco haul: one arrested||The Poonthura police on Monday arrested a Shibu, 39, of Kairali Nagar in Kulathummal for allegedly storing a large cache of banned tobacco products. He was nabbed with the tobacco products from his shop in Muttathara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tobacco-haul-one-arrested/article37877232.ece
07 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF loses power in Poovachal panchayat||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) lost the Poovachal grama panchayat after the United Democratic Front (UDF) successfully moved a no-confidence motion with the support of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday. The Congress-led coalition that has seven members in the 23-member council got the support of six BJP members and an Independent member to pass the motion with 14 votes against the nine votes of the LDF. The motion was introduced after the Opposition blamed the ruling front led by grama panchayat president T. Sanalkumar of failing to prevent an administrative impasse. A new president will have to be elected in 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-loses-power-in-poovachal-panchayat/article37877234.ece
07 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3,277 new COVID cases in State||Kerala reported 3,277 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday when 45,412 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative case burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 51,69,198. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 41,768 as on Monday, with the State adding 168 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on the day. These include 30 deaths that occurred in the past few days and 138 deaths that have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. The number of deaths added to the official COVID fatality list after the death reconciliation exercise as on Monday is 12,161. The State’s active case pool dipped to 40,730 patients on Monday. A total of 5,833 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. Only 8% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals like COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals was 659, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support was 249 on Monday. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases at 568, followed by Kozhikode 503, Thiruvananthapuram 482, Kottayam 286, Kannur 267, Thrissur 262, Kollam 200, Idukki 142, Malappuram 135, Alappuzha 123, Palakkad 99, Pathanamthitta 95, Wayanad 62, and Kasaragod 53 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3277-new-covid-cases-in-state/article37877024.ece
07 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State tops medals tally at IndiaSkills contest||Kerala topped the tally with 32 medals at the IndiaSkills 2021 southern regional competition held at Visakhapatnam. A total of 124 of the 400 young participants, aged between 19 and 24 years, from five States—Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala— were declared winners at the two-day event. Skills displayed The participants showcased their potential in 51 skills such as brick laying, autobody repair, welding, beauty therapy, hotel reception, mobile robotics, health and social care, landscape gardening, carpentry, painting and decorating and Web technologies. 29 medals Karnataka emerged second with 29 medals, followed by Tamil Nadu with 21, Andhra Pradesh 18, and Telangana 2. Of the total winners at the contest, 62 were awarded gold medals with a cash prize of Rs. 21,000 and 62 received silver medals along with Rs. 11,000. The winners of the four regional competitions (East, West, North and South) will get an opportunity to exhibit their skills at IndiaSkills Nationals to be held in January 2022. World skills contest IndiaSkills Nationals gold and silver medalists in each skill will represent the country at the WorldSkills Competition to be held in Shanghai, China (October 2022). K.K. Raju, Chairman, New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (NREDCAP), and Challa Madhusudhan Reddy, Adviser to Government (Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation - Skill Development & Training), were present at the closing ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-tops-medals-tally-at-indiaskills-contest/article37876969.ece
07 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Media’s role in women-related issues crucial, says Veena||The Women and Child Development Department intends to transform Kerala into a women-friendly State, Minister for Women and Child Development Veena George has said. She was inaugurating a two-day conference for mediapersons organised by the department here on Monday. Ms. George said a separate Women and Child Development Department was formed as part of a dedicated effort for women and child welfare. Gender equality Gender equality was ensured in the Constitution, but how much of it was being ensured in our social life needed to be examined, the Minister said. Society had a huge role to play in empowerment of women and girls, rather than pressure them to behave in a certain way. Usually, discussions on issues of women and children arose only after an incident and were later dropped, or actual issues got sidelined. Media was the fourth pillar of democracy and had a huge role to play in issues related to women and their portrayal. Language used by the media was also significant, the Minister said. State Women’s Commission chairperson P. Satheedevi, who presided, said it was a matter of concern that 75 years after Independence, discussions on gender equality and discrimination of marginalised sections, including in the media, were being held. She said it was commendable that the Women and Child Development department was advocating the need for a women policy in media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medias-role-in-women-related-issues-crucial-says-veena/article37877230.ece
07 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Royalty for paddy to be paid annually||The Agriculture Department has said the royalty announced for owners of cultivable paddy lands will be paid once every year. Last year, the government had announced a royalty of Rs. 2,000 per hectare for encouraging owners to retain fields for paddy cultivation. The government had earmarked Rs. 40 crore for this. The Director of Agriculture had sought a clarification as to whether it was meant as a one-time payment or annual in nature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/royalty-for-paddy-to-be-paid-annually/article37877022.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Change has to come from within, says SC||Advocate V.K. Biju, appearing for petitioners from Kerala, said the influence of dowry was so pervasive, even in the most literate State in the country, that young women were killed for gold by the husband’s family. He narrated how thick gold jewellery adorned women at weddings, objectifying them. The petitioners even suggested compulsory “pre-marriage” courses for couples to warn and create awareness against dowry. These courses should be made a mandatory pre-condition for a valid marriage. “India does not just reside in the cities of Kochi, but also in small villages. Where will personnel and facilities for holding such sessions be found... Very serious consequences will follow if they do not take these pre-marriage courses,” Justice Chan,drachud observed. Mr. Biju highlighted how dowry continued to ravage society and the lives of innocent young women despite the existence of strict laws against it. “Change also has to come from within... There has to be an understanding about the basic social value of marriage... How a woman, newly married, should be treated...” Justice Chandrachud observed.The Supreme Court requested the Law Commission of India to take a “fresh look” to bring “more teeth” to the law against dowry. The Bench, also comprising Justice A.S. Bopanna, said the court could not craft legislative reforms. The process of a relook at the law and what measures should be introduced to support the existing anti-dowry laws could be done more speedily if it started with the Law Commission, the court said.  The Supreme Court requested the Law Commission of India to take a “fresh look” to bring “more teeth” to the law against dowry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/change-has-to-come-from-within-says-sc/article37877027.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Power game||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-game/article37877067.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-protest/article37877236.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Descent to safety||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/descent-to-safety/article37877238.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pilgrim’s progress||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pilgrims-progress/article37877026.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fighting to the finish||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fighting-to-the-finish/article37877059.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Season’s flavour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seasons-flavour/article37877005.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A long story||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-long-story/article37877156.ece
07 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four killed as autorickshaw, van collide in Anantapur||Four persons died and four others were injured when the autorickshaw in which they were travelling from Huligi to Kodipalli village collided head on at Pulakunta with a van coming going from Gonabavi to Rayadurg on Monday morning. The dead were identified as Sekhar, 26, Nagamma, 60, Rashmit, 5, and Mahender, 4. The injured were Lakshmi, Roopa, Ramu and Pratap Reddy. They were given first aid at Rayadurg government hospital and then shifted to Anantapur Government General Hospital, said sub-inspector Thippaiah Nayak. All the deceased hailed from Kodipalli in Bhrahmasamudram mandal. A case has been registered and inquiry is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-killed-as-autorickshaw-van-collide/article37876636.ece
07 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID death claims surpass official toll||The total number of deaths registered due to COVID-19 in Anantapur district stood at 1,124 until November-end, but as soon as the government announced a compensation of Rs. 50,000 to next of kin of these victims, the special cell created for the purpose received 2,200 applications till Monday morning. Besides, there is also a discrepancy between the figure being shown by the State COVID-19 control room in the daily bulletin (1,098 deaths) and the Daily Collector Reporting Format of Anantapur that puts the toll at 1,124. Even if the discrepancy is ignored, the claims are nearly double the official death toll. The government had set November 29 as the deadline, but has now instructed the officials to accept all the claims that are being made. Faisal Ahmed, who was at the counter to make a claim, alleged that the death toll due to COVID in the district was more than the official figure, as many COVID deaths were being registered as deaths due to heart failure or multi-organ failure. ‘Long process’ Meanwhile, the claims are acceptable only if made in a specific format, and which require a set of documents including the hospital death summary, details of cause of death, Aadhaar card copy of both the victim and claimant and the claimant’s relationship with the victim (family certificate). Getting all the certificates right has become a Herculean task for people like A. Pothakka, whose husband had died of COVID in the Super Speciality Hospital in Anantapur on May 29 this year. She had gone from pillar to post for 10 days to get all papers. “I do not know where to get the summary of death and its actual cause and now I need to visit the MRO to get a family certificate, which the staff say would take 10 days for procuring,” Pothakka says, between her sobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-death-claims-surpass-official-toll/article37876638.ece
07 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Welfare of home guards our priority, says SP||The Anantapur police will pay special attention to the welfare of the home guards, Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli said on Monday while appreciating their services. At the Home Guards Raising Day celebrations here, Mr. Fakkeerappa said the services rendered by them were important in maintaining law and order and providing other essential services in the society. During the first and second waves of the pandemic, accounts were opened in Axis Bank and families of home guards who succumbed to the coronavirus were paid Rs. 30 lakh each. In addition to this, their kin were appointed as home guards on compassionate grounds, the SP said. SEB Additional SP J. Rammohan and Additional SP Nagendrudu (Admin) were also present at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/welfare-of-home-guards-our-priority-says-sp/article37876640.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||S. African booked for flying out after testing Omicron positive||The city police have registered a case against a South African national who had tested positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus but left the country three days later based on a negative COVID-19 test report that has now come under suspicion. The police have also booked the hotel management where he was under quarantine for letting him go without informing the civic authorities. Though Revenue Minister R. Ashok had said aninvestigation would be carried out against the laboratory that gave the patient a negative report, the FIR does not list the laboratory — S.R.Laboratory — as an accused. “We had mentioned the laboratory in our complaint. I will ask our officials to look into the issue,” said Gaurav Gupta, Chief Civic Commissioner of Bengaluru. Meanwhile, sources said Indian authorities were in touch with authorities in Dubai, to where the patient left from the city. They are also in touch with South African authorities, sources said. Based on the complaint filed by Dr. Naveen Kumar M., Medical Officer, Shivajinagar, the High Grounds police booked the South African national, Mahendra Chibabhai, 66, and the management of Shangrila hotel, situated on Palace Road, charging them under Karnataka Epidemic Disease Act and under section 269 (negligent act to spread infection) section 271 (disobedience of Quarantine Rule) and section 114 (abettment to offence). Dr. Kumar, in his complaint, said that the man had landed in the city on November 20 and the COVID-19 test conducted at the airport tested positive. Based on the result, he was sent to Shangrila hotel and kept in a separate room for 14 days of quarantine. Despite specific instructions to the staff to alert the BBMP officials at the time of his check-out, the management allowed him to check out on November 27, and failed to comply with the instructions and inform the BBMP, the civic body has alleged. Upon inquiry, the management justified their action stating that the man had submitted a COVID-negative certificate from S.R. Lab at the time of check-out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-african-booked-for-flying-out-on-testing-omicron-positive/article37876574.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspense remains over proposed JD(S)-BJP alliance||Suspense continues over the proposed poll alliance between the regional outfit Janata Dal (Secular) and the ruling BJP for the Legislative Council polls to 25 seats on December 10 with former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy putting off the announcement by another day. “Till now, I have not said we will have poll pact with anyone. The BJP has also not officially sought our support nor has it said it will support us in six constituencies. Only former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has spoken about it a couple of times in his personal capacity. The issue was not discussed when former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda met Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Mr. Kumaraswamy told reporters in Mandya on Monday. “I will make our party stand clear on Tuesday. The Congress is spreading misinformation to grab our votes. For us, both BJP and Congress are political rivals,” he said. Political circles are watching the move curiously after former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa publicly sought the JD(S) support to BJP candidates in constituencies where JD(S) is not contesting. Though Mr. Kumaraswamy has not been committal, the timing of the meeting between Mr. Gowda and Mr. Modi indicated some kind of arrangement between the parties. The JD(S) has substantial votes in some districts in the North Karnataka region, especially in Raichur, Bidar, Yadgir, and Vijayapura where the regional party has not fielded candidates. The JD(S) is contesting in six seats in the South Karnataka region. The BJP is contesting in 20 seats out of 25 seats. While Mr. Kumaraswamy’s announcement is anticipated, senior leaders in both the BJP and the JD(S) are unsure if such a move publicly will happen at all and even if it happens, would it help both parties. “At this juncture, we are expecting the party leadership to ask local leaders to decide depending on local circumstances,” a JD(S) legislator told The Hindu. The legislator also pointed out that even if the party announces the formalisation of the pact, many Muslim voters will prefer not to vote for the BJP. “With money playing an important role, a public announcement may not have much impact.” A senior BJP leader also indicated that there may be an internal understanding which will likely go unacknowledged. “The BJP is not in the mood to offer support in key JD(S) seats in Mandya, Hassan, Mysuru, and Tumakuru where the BJP may not win. However, we see it as an opportunity to expand our presence. Instead, we expect the JD(S) to pay back for our support to make Basararaj Horatti the chairman in the Council.” He said that wooing gram panchayat members now is crucial in the run up to the 2023 Assembly polls. The leader said: “With the Congress already terming the JD(S) as the BJP’s ‘B team’, it may not be wise for both parties to publicly get into an alliance as that will make the contest bi-polar.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suspense-remains-over-proposed-jds-bjp-alliance/article37876622.ece
07 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka saw 40 clusters in one month||With over 40 clusters reported in the last one month, Karnataka has added a total of 8,610 COVID cases to its tally till December 5. Of these, over 800 cases are from the clusters alone. In fact, there has been over a 25% rise in the number of cases reported week on week in at least 16 districts. Nearly 58% of the 8,610 cases reported in the last one month (as of December 5) are from Bengaluru Urban alone. The number of cases in seven days prior to November 5 that stood at 1,795 shot up to 2,499 in seven days prior to December 5. According to data from the Health Department, over 20,500 samples from the 40 clusters reported till December 5 have been tested. The highest number of cluster cases have been reported from Bengaluru Urban, BBMP, Hassan, Dharwad, Mysuru, and Tumakuru districts. While State Health Commissioner D. Randeep attributed the rise in caseload to these clusters and tourists’ movement in a few districts, the Union Health Ministry has taken serious note of this and directed the State to contain the spread on a war-footing. In a letter to T.K. Anil Kumar, Principal Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has directed the State to initiate necessary steps to control the spread of infection and reduce fatality. “Measures should be initiated as per the ongoing strategy of test-track-treat-vaccinate-COVID-19 appropriate behaviour to keep the situation under control,” stated the letter dated December 4. “Karnataka has reported 8,073 cases in the month ending December 3. It is also important to note that Karnataka has reported a slight increase in weekly new cases. From 1,664 new cases in the week ending November 26, the weekly cases shot up to 2,272 cases in the week ending December 3 along with an increase in the weekly new deaths from 22 to 29 over the same period,” the letter pointed out. Districts of concern The Union Health Ministry has identified Tumakuru, Dharwad, Bengaluru Urban, and Mysuru as districts of concern. The week on week cases (in the weeks ending November 25 and December 2) have shot up from 46 to 116; 153 to 185; 1,195 to 1,424 and 188 to 219 respectively in these districts, the letter pointed out. However, the Health Commissioner said the rise is marginal and gradual. “We are quickly containing the clusters. Except for the cluster in SDM College, Dharwad, all are smaller clusters. We are closely watching the situation and regularly reviewing containment measures,” he said. V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said genome sequencing reports have shown that all the cluster cases have been infected with the Delta variant. The second wave in the State was largely driven by Delta. Asserting that clusters and emergence of the new variant are all indications that the situation can blow out of proportion, Dr. Ravi said: “People should realise that these events can lead to a wave. This is what happened before the second wave started in the State. The good thing this time is that a major chunk of the population has been vaccinated with at least one dose of vaccine. However, many are yet to get fully vaccinated. It is important that people come forward and get vaccinated.” “While the State should aggressively test, trace and track (at least 20 contacts for every positive case), people should adopt COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, avoid congregations and never let their guard down,” he added.  After falling for 6 straight months, Covid numbers are seeing an uptick over the last two weeks in Karnataka. Caution is the word! Mask up Karnataka! K. Sudhakar Health Minister (on Twitter)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-saw-40-clusters-in-one-month/article37876575.ece
07 December 2021||Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||AIADMK retains OPS and EPS in top posts||Former Chief Ministers O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami were on Monday declared elected unopposed as AIADMK coordinator and co-coordinator, the positions they currently hold. The announcement was made by C. Ponnaiyan, one of the election officials for the party’s organisational polls. A press release issued by Mr. Ponnaiyan and Pollachi V. Jayaraman, another poll official, stated that the nomination papers were received only from Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami, and were found to be in order as per the relevant rule of the party’s constitution. The two leaders jointly filed their nomination papers on Saturday. Senior office-bearers at the party headquarters, secretaries of district units and former Ministers also presented the nomination papers on behalf of Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami. On Friday and Saturday, a few prospective applicants were manhandled by groups of people at the party headquarters. Mr. Ponnaiyan told The Hindu that nomination papers were provided only to those who were “eligible to receive them”. After the declaration of the result, Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami visited the mausoleum of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa on the Marina to pay homage to the late leader. Writ petition filed Meanwhile, a writ petition has been filed in the Madras High Court to forbear the Election Commission of India (ECI) from approving the election of the former Chief Ministers as the coordinator and co-coordinator of the AIADMK. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu accepted a request made by the petitioner’s counsel, N.G.R. Prasad, to hear the case on Tuesday. J. Jayachandran of Arasanatti in Hosur had filed the writ petition in his capacity as a member of the party for more than 30 years. Initially, the counsel had requested the court to hear the matter on Monday afternoon itself, after stating that there was every possibility of the election results being declared on Tuesday. He also pointed out that there was an urgent need for an interim injunction restraining the election officers from declaring the results. The judges agreed to hear the matter on Monday afternoon if the petition got numbered by the High Court Registry by then. Not listed However, it was reported later in the day that the petition couldn’t be listed immediately. Mr. Prasad told the court that the election officers had rushed through the process and declared the results. After asking him to file an additional affidavit listing the latest developments, the judges decided to hear the matter on Tuesday. In his affidavit, the petitioner had accused the two former Chief Ministers of bringing the party into disrepute by acting in an unjust and whimsical manner to hold on to their positions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aiadmk-keeps-ops-and-eps-in-top-posts/article37876709.ece
07 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambedkar remembered on his 65th death anniversary||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy paid floral tributes to B.R. Ambedkar, the architect of the Indian Constitution, on his 65th death anniversary on Monday. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, along with Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita, Vemuru MLA Meruga Nagarjuna, and MLC Talasila Raghuram garlanded a statue of Ambedkar at the Chief Minister’s camp office. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the ideals of freedom and equality espoused by Ambedkar find pride of place in the socio-economic, political and constitutional aspects of India. “Today is the death anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar, but his ideals live on. For the last 100 years, his imprint on the social, economic, political and constitutional aspects of India have remained intact. His vision of freedom and equality with social justice is now being embodied in our government,” he tweeted. Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy paid rich tributes to Ambedkar at the YSRCP’s central office. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy hailed Ambedkar as a champion of equality and hailed his contribution in building a Constitution which ensured freedom and basic rights to people from all walks of life. Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha, MLAs Merugu Nagarjuna, Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy, MLC Talasila Raghuram and Maiga Corporation chairman K. Kanaka Rao were present on the occasion at the Chief Minister’s camp office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambedkar-remembered-on-his-65th-death-anniversary/article37877149.ece
07 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||GMC gears up for its platinum jubilee celebrations||The historic Guntur Medical College is gearing up to celebrate its Platinum Jubilee this year. Established in 1946 thanks to the efforts of Tanguturi Prakasam Pantulu, the GMC is the second oldest college in the State. Land for the college was donated by Achanta Rukminnamma Lakshmipathi and the foundation stone for the college was laid on December 13, 1953. Then Chief Minister Bejawada Gopala Reddy laid the foundation stone for the administrative block in 1955. The MBBS course in the college was started in 1946 with just two departments, Physiology and Biochemistry, and the students were sent to Andhra University for clinical courses. The present strength of MBBS courses is 250. In addition, there were 123 PG seats and 12 super-speciality seats available. The GGH, which is the teaching hospital for GMC, has a bed strength of 1,170, 402 teaching staff, 27 PG departments and 9 super speciality departments. Proposals have been sent to the National Medical Commission to enhance the PG seats to 217. The college has several remarkable achievements and has produced several outstanding doctors like Bhupathiraju Somaraju, founder of Care Hospitals, and orthopaedic surgeon A.V. Gurava Reddy. Trauma care facility In 1997, to mark the golden jubilee of the college, a pylon was inaugurated by then Prime Minister H.D. Deva Gowada. The GMC is also enriched by its alumni who formed an association called Guntur Medical College Association of North America (GMCANA), and have partnered with the State Government in building the super speciality and trauma care facility adding to the old GGH. A beautiful auditorium was also built with the help of donations from GMCANA. “The pylon is being built with the support of students of the 1975 batch. We hope that the college would be further strengthened by support from the State government,” said GMC principal Ch. Prabhavathi Devi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gmc-gears-up-for-its-platinum-jubilee/article37876650.ece
07 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Manufacture, sale of gutkha banned by govt.||The Government of Andhra Pradesh has banned the manufacture, storage, distribution and transportation of gutkha/pan masala containing tobacco and nicotine as ingredients and chewing tobacco products such as khaini, kharra, and scented or flavoured tobacco. According to an order issued by the Commissioner Food Safety, the notification banning the substances under Section 30, sub-section (2) and Clause (a) of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, would be published in the Extraordinary issue of the AP State Gazette. The Government of Andhra Pradesh, in 2006, had enacted the Food Safety and Standards Act 2006 (FSS Act) to regulate and monitor the manufacturing, processing, packing, storage and transport of any food or food ingredient so as to ensure the availability of safe and wholesome food for human consumption. The various Supreme Court judgments also held that Gutkha/Panmasala containing Tobacco and Nicotine products are food items as defined under section 3 (1) of FSS Act, 2006. Scientific reports of ICMR and NIHFW also have demonstrated the extremely harmful effects of chewing gutkha and pan masala which can cause malignant conditions like oesophagus cancer, stomach cancer, oral cancer and pancreatic cancer among other ailments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/manufacture-sale-of-gutkha-banned-by-govt/article37877146.ece
07 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||OTS voluntary: Botcha||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana has asserted that the One-Time Settlement scheme is voluntary and there is no coercion to avail the scheme. Speaking to reporters at the party’s central office on Monday, the Minister said that the OTS scheme is an unprecedented initiative and the main objective of the scheme is to benefit lakhs of poor people in the State by providing them legal rights on their properties. He said the people can have full rights on their house just by paying a stipulated nominal amount of Rs. 10,000 in villages, Rs. 15,000 in municipalities and Rs. 20,000 in municipal corporations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ots-voluntary-botcha/article37877147.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hyderabad airport||GMR Hyderabad International Airport has set up dedicated COVID-19 testing booths and additional waiting area with necessary facilities at the international arrival hall pre-immigration. Thermal scanners are installed at all arrival gates and passengers have to through the screening process upon arrival. The airport has enabled a pre-booking process for passengers for COVID test post arrival, the link for which is available on the airport website (www.hyderabad.aero) and the designated lab’s website (http://covid.mapmygenome.in). The RT-PCR test costs Rs. 750 and the wait time for results is six hours, while the Rapid PCR test costs Rs. 3,900, with the results expected in two hours. Dedicated counters for those who pre-book their tests will save the time for registration so that they can proceed directly for testing. This is in line with the Central government’s fresh travel advisory following a rise in Omicron cases in some parts of the world, said an official spokesperson. A dedicated waiting area for the arriving passengers with facilities for food and beverages, Forex exchange, payment counters are taken care of, given the waiting time for test results. In order to assist and help with adequate manpower resources, airport authorities have extended support to the Airport Health Officer and the Health department, by deputing passenger service associates to help with documentation check during arrivals. The airport sees 12 flights in a week from high-risk nations. British Airways operates three weekly direct flights while Air India operates two weekly direct flights to London. Singapore Airlines operates thrice a week while Scoot operates four weekly direct flights to Singapore. As on Sunday, a total of 1,443 passengers had arrived from “at-risk” countries, of whom 13 tested positive, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-testing-booths-with-pre-booking-facility-at-rgia/article37876926.ece
07 December 2021||Idukki,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. releases high volume of water from Mullaperiyar||Tamil Nadu has released a high volume of water in phases to the Periyar since from Sunday night, while maintaining the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam just below the upper rule curve of 142 ft in the daytime. Nine spillway shutters were opened by 8.30 p.m., releasing 12,654.09 cusecs of water to the Periyar. This is the highest volume of water released to the Periyar this year. The discharge through the tunnel system to the Vaigai dam was 1, 864 cusecs. There was heavy rainfall in the Periyar village and Thekkady in the afternoon on Monday. At 6 p.m. on Sunday, nine spillway shutters of the dam were opened, releasing 7,341.06 cusecs of water to the Periyar. At 8.30 p.m., four shutters were closed, reducing the water release to 3,967.55 cusecs. At 10 p.m., the release was again reduced to 2,064.45 cusecs, while by 11 p.m., Tamil Nadu closed all spillway shutters except one. However, at 4 a.m. on Monday, five spillway shutters were opened, releasing 3,967.55 cusecs of water, and, at 4.30 a.m., nine shutters were raised, releasing 5,668.16 cusecs of water. Meanwhile, Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine has left for Vandiperiyar to oversea the safety measures taken there. He told The Hindu that he had contacted the Chief Secretary to coordinate the works to shift the people living close to the river. Residents’ plight Residents downstream of the dam said they keep vigil at night, even as some of them moved to safer locations. Some workers and farmers said they prefer to sleep during daytime and keep awake at night, which has been affecting their routine works. Syam Sivan, a resident at Choorakkulam, said his family moves out of the house by evening every day and returns in the morning. “Water suddenly appears to reach the maximum level after a rainfall. The shutters are suddenly opened. If the water level is kept at a safer level, this would have been avoided,” said Mr. Sivan, adding that there is no one to hear their grievances. Vallakadavu resident P.N. Sebastian said several workers are unable to go for work. “This is in addition to the old structure (dam) creating a threat to their life and security,” he said. Cheruthoni to be opened In the wake of the increasing water level in the Idukki dam, one shutter of the Cheruthoni dam will be raised by 40 cm to 150 cm, releasing 40 to 150 cusecs of water, from 6 a.m. on Tuesday. The water level at 9 p.m. was 2,401.12 ft. The district administration, meanwhile, issued an orange alert at the Idukki dam with the water level reaching 2,401 ft. The water level was on the rise with increased inflow in the Periyar from morning, touching the orange alert level by 5 p.m. The upper rule curve is 2,403 ft., which is the full reserve level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tn-releases-high-volume-of-water-from-mullaperiyar/article37876578.ece
07 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. cold to our demands’||Andhra Pradesh Joint Action Committee Amaravati (AP-JAC) has expressed dissatisfaction over the state government’s ‘lukewarm’ response to their call for an agitation. Addressing reporters on Monday, JAC chairman Bopparaju Venkateswarlu said that there had been no positive response from the government over the 71 demands submitted on behalf of the 13 lakh employees. “We are preparing to intensify our agitation as the government is cold to our PRC demand as well as our other demands,” he said, adding that the JAC should not be held responsible for any inconvenience caused to the administration as it had waited for a long time before deciding to go on an agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-cold-to-our-demands/article37877150.ece
07 December 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ONGC pipeline project to affect fisherfolk in eight mandals||More than 22,000 fisherfolk, who are dependant on the sea and the Gowthami river for their livelihood, will be affected by the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation’s (ONGC) proposed pipeline project in East Godavari district. According to an official document of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) accessed by The Hindu , a 20-inch pipe will be laid from the offshore platform to the onshore plant at Mallavaram village, through the mouth of the Gowthami river, to develop the block – KG-DWN-98/2. The pipeline will be laid from the Central Process Platform (CPP) to the Onshore Gas Terminal (OGT) at Mallavaram. Processed at a depth of 30 metres, the gas will further be compressed and transported to the OGT-Mallavaram. The length of the pipeline is 9 km offshore and 13 km along the river Gowthami after entering through the river mouth. It has two major river crossings. “The ONGC has informed us that it will commence the work on the pipeline project in December. The work will be completed in eight to 10 months. The fisherfolk will be affected as no fishing activity can be carried out during the period,” said N. Srinivasa Rao, Joint Director (Fisheries), East Godavari district. Many to be hit “We have identified that 22,177 fisherfolk, including single women / widows, will be affected. They are spread over 69 villages in eight mandals in the Konaseema region. Every affected individual will be given a compensation of Rs. 11,500 per month until the pipeline work is completed,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. As per the socio-economic study done by the revenue and fisheries officials, about 4,300 claimants are ineligible for compensation. The authorities are displaying the list of the affected people at the MRO offices and the village secretariats. The affected people belong to the following eight mandals: Tallarevu, Katrenikona, I. Polavaram, Mummidivaram, Ainavalli, K. Gangavaram, Kothapeta and Kapileswarapuram. The pipeline route also falls in the Coastal Regulatory Zone and is within the 10-km buffer zone of the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary. However, the 1.17-km pipeline that passes through the forest area (part of the Gowthami river) is unlikely to disturb any forest land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ongc-pipeline-project-to-affect-fisherfolk-in-eight-mandals/article37877137.ece
07 December 2021||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wayanad completes e-office project||Wayanad has become the first district in the country to complete the e-office project in all revenue offices. The achievement has been made by the district administration after connecting all revenue offices, including the collectorate, subcollector office, three taluk offices, and 49 village offices through e-office software, says Wayanad District Collector A. Geetha. FTTH technology A sum of Rs. 60 lakh has been spent on the project so far. Internet connectivity was the major hurdle to bringing the village offices functioning in remote areas under the project. However, it has been tackled by using the Fiber to the Home (FTTH) technology provided by BSNL, she says. E-office is a web application that enables the government to automate the entire workflow of government departments. Now the people will get the information on the status and movement of their files relating to the Revenue Department at a single click after entering their file number, Ms. Geetha says adding that people could use the portalhttps://eoffice.kerala.gov.infor the purpose. A similar e-office programme has been set up at the Secretariat and it would help the public to know about the movement of their file easily. The project envisages ensuring the movement of a file transparently and quickly, she added. It would also help to improve the efficiency of the Revenue Department officials, she said. As all the files would be in digital format, loss of file or manipulation will not be possible in the future. The project was launched in the district in 2015 and it was executed successfully at the collectorate and sub-collector office in 2017. Though the District E-Governance Society decided to execute the project in taluk and village offices in 2018, the execution was delayed owing to natural calamities. As many as 1,03,932 files have been transferred through the e-office system so far, including 25,410 files till November 30 this year. The execution of the programme has helped revenue officials to move the files without any delay even during the lockdown period by following the work at home policy. Apart from the Revenue department, office of the district Civil Supplies, Agriculture, Labour, and Industry department offices in district level are also be functioning by using the system, Ms. Geetha says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wayanad-completes-e-office-project/article37876583.ece
07 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Khaki always goes in favour of khaki: judge||The Kerala High Court on Monday slammed the State Police Chief (SPC) for filing a report justifying the conduct of the former Pink police officer who had allegedly humiliated an eight-year-old girl and her father on a public road at Attingal inThiruvananthapuramin August. The police officer, Rajitha, had accused them of stealing her mobile phone, which was later found in the police vehicle itself. Action sought During the hearing on a petition filed by the girl seeking a directive to take stringent action against the former Pink police officer, Justice Devan Ramachandran said the report was exceedingly generalised and made with a subjective tenor. The court observed that “khaki always goes in favour of khaki.” The court said that in the report, the SPC was trying to create an obfuscatory curtain, which was unfortunate. The Kerala High Court said that after noticing the entire incident that happened on August 27, the SPC had stated that no criminal action was required against the police officer even with specific reference to Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act. The report said no case under the Act or any other criminal provision had been made out against the officer. The court said the report was completely silent on whether any other provisions of law, including the Indian Penal Code, would be applicable in the case. SPC’s report The SPC said in the report that the officer had been transferred to Kollam and she was asked to serve in a non-uniformed post. However, the report did not say whether this was done by way of punishment or as to what provision of the law was followed for doing this, except saying that she was also asked to attend behavioural training, the court said.  The court observed that instead of trying to support or justify the conduct of the civil police officer, the SPC must ensure that every officer acted with empathy and responsibility towards the fellow citizen. ‘Restore trust’ The court, therefore, asked the government what it proposed to do to assuage the feelings of the minor girl and restore her trust and belief in humanity and in the police force. In an affidavit, Rajitha, the police officer, had ‘profoundly and profusely’ tendered her apology to the child and her family as well as the court for her actions. Her counsel submitted that his client was now a changed person who would not even dream of doing anything as alleged against her now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/khaki-always-goes-in-favour-of-khaki-judge/article37876579.ece
07 December 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman gangraped in lodge for 3 days, one arrested: Police||The Kerala police arrested a man in connection with the alleged gang rape of a woman, a model, who had arrived here for a photoshoot. According to the police, the woman, a resident of Malappuram, has alleged she was given drinks laced with drugs and gang-raped by three men from December 1 to 3 at the lodge where she was staying. They recorded the assault and used it to allegedly blackmail her to rape her again. Search is on for two more accused.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-gangraped-in-lodge-for-3-days-one-arrested-police/article37876585.ece
07 December 2021||KOYYALAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three students of a school die of illness in 10 days in W. Godavari||Three students of a government school died due to ill-health at Bodigudem village in the last 10 days in West Godavari district and the local people blame food contamination and fevers for the deaths. The victims, students of the Zilla Parishad High School (ZPHS), died in various hospitals. Officials of the Medical and Health Department arranged a medical camp in the village and were monitoring the situation. Collector Kartikeya Misra directed the education officials to declare a two-day holiday for the schools in the village. Joint Collector (Development) Himanshu Shukla visited the colonies and interacted with the local people on Monday. He enquired with the doctors camping there about the situation. “Two deaths were reported on November 25 and 26 and another boy died on December 4. An inquiry has been ordered into the deaths of the children,” Mr. Himanshu Shukla told The Hindu . J. Srinu (13), Class VIII, died of typhoid, K. Prasanth (14), Class IX, died with TB and M. Madhu (12), Class IX, died of Acute Lymphoid Leukaemia, he said. Mr. Kartikeya directed the officials to sanitise the local schools, collect water and food samples and blood samples from patients for analysis. He told the officials to chlorinate water tanks and take up anti-larval operations in the village. District Education Officer C.V. Renuka and other officials met the parents of the students and were monitoring the situation. 14 fall sick Meanwhile, about 14 students of Minority Gurukul Patasala in Machilipatnam fell sick on Monday. They were admitted to a hospital and their condition is said to be stable. Doctors said the students were suffering from fever. Information and Public Relations Minister Perni Venkataramaiah visited the hospital and enquired about their health. He asked Collector J. Nivas to ensure proper treatment for the children. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh, who spoke with the Education, Revenue and Medical and Health Department officials on the two incidents, directed them to take steps to prevent the outbreak of fevers and provide medical care for the sick students..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-students-of-a-school-die-of-illness-in-10-days-in-w-godavari/article37876572.ece
07 December 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe on into gun misfire incident||The Krishna district police are investigating the alleged ‘misfiring’ of a carbine weapon at the Collector’s office on Sunday. The incident occurred when an Armed Reserve (AR) head constable, Y. Srinivas Rao, on guard duty at the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) strong room, was cleaning the weapon. “The bullet pierced the chest of the constable and hit a wall. Luckily, it has not caused any damage to the heart or the major blood vessels,” said Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal. The police, who registered a case on the incident, are investigating how the weapon went off, what was the position of the carbine when the incident occurred, negligence and other aspects. “We have to check the position of the carbine when he took it from the armoury and whether he had emptied the magazine while cleaning it,” Mr. Siddharth said. “Training would be given to the police personnel on handling the weapons. Mr. Srinivas, who underwent a surgery, is recovering,” the SP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-on-into-gun-misfire-incident/article37877297.ece
07 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. infringing on our fundamental rights: farmers||On their 36th day of the walkathon, farmers from Amaravati, led by Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti convenor A.Siva Reddy, paid floral tributes to B.R. Ambedkar on his death anniversary on Monday. Alleging that their fundamental rights were infringed upon by the State Government, Mr. Siva Reddy said that as many as 42 cases had been foisted by the police, who were allegedly not forthcoming in granting permission for their planned meeting in Tirumala on December 17. “We have no other option but to move the Andhra Pradesh High Court seeking relief,” he added maintaining that they had not flouted any of the conditions imposed by the court. On a side note, taking a short break from the march that resumed from Vengamampuram in Nellore district on Monday, Amaravati farmers joined their counterparts here in planting paddy seedlings. “Agriculture is our way of life. We are not paid artistes,” they said, before continuing their march towards Venkatagiri. They demanded a fair deal for paddy growers in the district for whom the remunerative price for their produce remained elusive. The local farmers were all praise for their Amaravati counterparts who had parted with their land for the development of the capital. Meanwhile, a group of Dalit farmers expressed ire over the delay in taking up of the ‘Ambedkar Smriti Vanam’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-infringing-on-our-fundamental-rights-farmers/article37876642.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Change has to come also from within to end evil of dowry: SC||The Supreme Court on December 6 said not just laws but people had to also change from within and learn to treat a woman with respect for the social evil of dowry to be vanquished once and for all. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud was responding to a petition that dowry persisted despite draconian criminal law provisions introduced in the Indian Penal Code, a new law in the form of the Dowry Prohibition Act of 1961 and the formation of the National Commission for Women. ‘Pervasive influence’ Advocate V.K. Biju, appearing for petitioners from Kerala, said the influence of dowry was so pervasive, even in the most literate State in the country, that young women were killed for gold by the husband’s family. He narrated how thick gold jewellery adorned women at weddings, objectifying them.   Mr. Biju highlighted how dowry continued to ravage society and the lives of innocent young women despite the existence of strict laws . “Change also has to come from within... There has to be an understanding about the basic social value of marriage... How a woman, newly married, should be treated...” Justice Chandrachud observed. The Supreme Court requested the Law Commission of India to take a “fresh look” to bring “more teeth” to the law against dowry. The Bench, also comprising Justice A.S. Bopanna, said the court could not craft legislative reforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/change-has-to-come-also-from-within-to-end-evil-of-dowry-sc/article37876586.ece
07 December 2021||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Attappady deaths a blot on Kerala: Opposition leader||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan on Monday described the recent infant deaths in Attappady as a shame on the State. “What happened in Attappady is not infant death, it is homicide,” he said after leading a United Democratic Front (UDF) team to Attappady tribal hamlets. The Pinarayi Vijayan government was responsible for the deaths due to malnutrition, he added. As many as four infants died in Attappady in successive days last week, triggering a wave of protests against the government neglect of the tribal population. Mere scapegoats Mr. Satheesan said the government was trying to wash its hands of the deaths by making officials scapegoats. The government has not brought any new project for Attappady, he said. The UDF team said that the Government Tribal Specialty Hospital at Kottathara was functioning without even basic amenities. “The government should immediately address these issues,” they said. Mr. Satheesan said that without enough doctors at the hospital, tribal patients were increasingly being referred to private hospitals at Perinthalmanna. “The government does not even consider the fact that there is limited travel facility from Attappady to Perinthalmanna,” he said. Flays Minister Mr. Satheesan also questioned the “hasty, unscheduled” visit of Health Minister Veena George two days ago. “Why did the Health Minister visit Attappady? She did not even declare any scheme for the tribespeople,” he said. Mr. Satheesan said the UDF had implemented several welfare schemes for the tribespeople of Attappady, and a nodal officer had been appointed. “Everything stopped under the Left Democratic Front government,” he alleged. He said that summoning the nodal officer to Thiruvananthapuram at a time when Ms. George visited Attappady smacked of vested interests.  The UDF team visited several hamlets, including Veetiyur and Padavayal. They also visited the Kottathara hospital. Mr. Satheesan also inaugurated a UDF dharna at Agali in protest against the infant deaths. UDF convener M.M. Hasan, Indian Union Muslim League State general secretary P.M.A. Salam, Communist Marxist Party leader C.P. John, Forward Bloc general secretary G. Devarajan, Nationalist Congress Party leader Sulfikar Mayoori, and N. Shamsuddin, MLA, accompanied Mr. Satheesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/attappady-deaths-a-blot-on-kerala-opposition-leader/article37876581.ece
07 December 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Staff to wear black badges as a mark of protest||Andhra Pradesh Non-Gazetted Officers’ (APNGO’s) Association State president and chairman of Joint Action Committee of various employees’ organisations Bandi Srinivasa Rao on Monday urged all the staff to register their protest between Tuesday and Thursday by wearing black badges at their respective workplaces. Addressing a press meet in Srikakulam, he said that an inordinate delay in revealing details of the implementation of the Pay Revision Commission’s recommendations and lack of information regarding the 71-point charter of demands forced the employees to begin a month-long struggle to get justice from the government. “We are disappointed with the lack of a proper response from officials during joint staff council meetings. There is no positive reply from officials over payment of 7 DAs and clearance of applications for withdrawal of GPF and other benefits,” he said. “We don't want a direct confrontation with the government but will strive to obtain a positive response from the government over our pending demands,” he added. AP Revenue Services Association general secretary Ch. Krishnamurthy said that there was no payment for medical bills and surrender of leaves. He said that lunch-hour demonstrations would be taken up in a phased manner from December 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apngos-employees-to-wear-black-badges/article37877151.ece
07 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Highly invasive snail spotted in Kerala||A tiny snail with a striking, pellucid golden-yellow shell found in the Edappally canal in Kochi has been flagged as an invasive species that could play havoc with native ecosystems. Having come across it during a biodiversity impact assessment study, researchers of the Department of Marine Biology, Microbiology, and Biochemistry of the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) have pinned it down as the acute bladder snail Physella acuta , globally branded as highly invasive. This is the first time that this snail has been reported in Kerala, according to the research team. What makes its discovery worrying is that it plays host to worms that can cause food-borne diseases and skin itches in humans. Moreover, its rapid growth rate, air-breathing capability, and tolerance to pollution makes the Physella acuta a potential competitor to native fauna. The findings by S. Bijoy Nandan, Dean, Faculty of Marine Sciences; postdoctoral fellows P.R. Jayachandran, R. Radhika, B.P. Aneesh, K.S. Santu, and research scholar M. Jima have been detailed in the scientific journal Proceedings of the Zoological Society . Using a scoop net, the team recovered 23 live specimens from the Eroor part of the Edappally canal during the biodiversity impact assessment carried out for the Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System (IURWTS) in Kochi. The specimens were found clinging to Ceratophyllum demersum , an invasive freshwater plant, and other gastropod species such as Indoplanorbis exustus and Racesina luteola . “Ceratophyllum demersum is used as a decorative plant in aquariums,” said Dr. Jayachandran. First described by J.P.R. Draparnaud in 1805, Physella acuta is considered native to North America but is now found in all continents except Antarctica. The snail was first reported in India in the early 1990s. Aquarium trade It is believed to have reached Kerala through the aquarium trade, a major vector for invasive species. In the Edappally canal, the snail had made its home in a highly polluted reach plagued by high sedimentation, untreated sewage, commercial effluents, construction wastes and a thick growth of invasive aquatic weeds. Small in size, the snail can grow to 16 mm in height and 9 mm in width. The dead, vacant shell is brownish-yellow while that of the live individuals are translucent golden-yellow with a mottled appearance. Physella acuta is easily identified by its sinistral (left-opening aperture) shell. Its good looks make this snail a favourite of aquariums, but Dr. Jayachandran is quick to add a warning note. “Special care should be taken while dealing with this snail and it should not be kept in home aquariums,” he said. The Cusat study also draws attention to the threat posed by invasive species to global biodiversity; how their ability to quickly dominate new environments endanger native species, even causing serious economic loss.  The research team has recovered 23 live specimens from the Eroor part of the Edappally canal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/highly-invasive-snail-spotted-in-kerala/article37876619.ece
07 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thiruppavai to replace Suprabhatam||The Suprabhata Seva which is performed every day at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here, to awaken the presiding deity, will be temporarily discontinued from December 17 in the wake of Dhanurmasam. According to the Hindu almanac, the auspicious Dhanurmasam will commence at 12.26 p.m. on December 16. The predawn Suprabhata Seva will be replaced by rendition of Thiruppavai, 30 ‘pasurams’ sung by Goddess Andal Goda Devi. It will be resumed on January 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thiruppavai-to-replace-suprabhatam/article37876643.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||An app that is beneficial to passengers and police||One can book autorickshaws in Tirupati with ease, thanks to ‘3 Chakra’, a mobile app, like the way one books a cab using an aggregator app on the phone. But unlike other apps, ‘3 Chakra’, has three-pronged benefit in that it is useful to not just the passenger and auto driver but also the traffic policeman. All that a passenger preparing for travel has to do is search for autorickshaws in the vicinity, book one online. The auto driver parked in the street corner automatically gets an alert, based on which s/he reaches the spot to pick up the customer. “The traffic policeman having the app downloaded on his mobile can easily track the movement of the vehicle and can track them in case of traffic violations like signal jumping,” says Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu, who recently launched the app. A sticker carrying QR code is pasted on the front and back of the vehicle, by scanning which the passenger can get the details of the driver. This is an enhanced security feature that gives confidence to the passenger, who can even share the details to his/her kin during emergency situations. Mr. Naidu calls it an app that focusses on passenger/driver comfort as well as individual safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/an-app-that-is-beneficial-to-passengers-and-police/article37876635.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to popularise Annamacharya kritis||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has taken a giant leap in popularising the hitherto-unknown kritis of saint poet Tallapaka Annamacharya by introducing them through new talent. At the curtain raiser and inaugural session of talent hunt programme ‘Adivo Alladivo’ at Mahati auditorium here on Monday, TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy said the TTD had recorded 4,000 sankeertans of Annamacharya so far, but only a few were enjoying public patronage. “We have designed this programme to introduce the lesser-known compositions of the poet and also encourage new talent. We are also bringing out a book with ‘Artha Tatparya’ for each of the kritis,” he said. SVBC Chairman Saikrishna Yachendra called it a big step towards encouraging talent in the age group of 15-25. Vice-Chancellors V. Muralidhara Sharma (National Sanskrit University) and Sannidhanam Sudarshana Sharma (SV Vedic University) offered to help the TTD in their endeavour. A video promo on the programme, with background score rendered by Madhu Balakrishna, was displayed on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-popularise-annamacharya-kritis/article37876645.ece
07 December 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinta: Balija candidate will be next CM||Congress Working Committee special invitee and former Union Minister Chinta Mohan has predicted that a person belonging to the Balija/Kapu community will take oath as the next Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh in 2024. Addressing the media here on Monday, he said the time had come to an end for the two communities that had enjoyed absolute power since independence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chinta-balija-candidate-will-be-next-cm/article37877294.ece
07 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Just-born baby found abandoned on highway||A just-born girl child was found abandoned on the Chittoor highway on the city outskirts on Monday. The Muthyala Reddy Palle police, on being alerted by the passersby that a baby with its umbilical cord attached to the body was found near Perur tank, reached the spot. A team led by Sub-Inspector Deepika rushed to the spot and shifted the baby to the SVR Ruia hospital for autopsy. Search on for parents The one-day-old child could have been dumped by the parents for reasons unknown, said the police. The police have launched an investigation to find out the baby’s parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/just-born-baby-found-on-highway/article37876653.ece
07 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTRUHS convocation put off over transfer of deposits||Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences (NTRUHS) had to postpone its 22nd and 23rd combined convocation scheduled for December 8 due to the standoff with employees over the transfer of its bank deposits amounting to Rs. 400 crore to the government through A.P. State Financial Services Corporation Limited (AP-SFSCL) allegedly without due compliance with the mandatory bidding process. The fund transfer order was issued by Vice-Chancellor Dr. P. Syama Prasad on December 2 and the remittance was made the next day. A request has since been made to the government by NTRUHS to give back Rs. 175 crore immediately to enable it to meet the basic expenditure of Rs. 100 crore and Rs. 25 crore each to provide for the employees, pension, gratuity and welfare funds in 2022-23. According to a senior official, the government was asked to part with only surplus funds but the V-C had no time to think over it and gave his nod to transfer the entire amount. Moreover, there was no clear projection by the employee unions on minimum funds which the varsity needed to have at its disposal. “When the State government itself is asking for funds and issued a facilitating Government Order (Rt. No. 1998 dated November 25, 2021), obviously there will be pressure. After all that has happened, I am doubtful whether the State government will concede our appeal for the return of Rs. 175 crore,” the NTRUHS official told The Hindu requesting anonymity A leader of NTRUHS employees’ JAC said initially 5% interest was promised and it was later changed to 5.5% and yet another government company (AP Power Finance Corporation Limited) offered 6%. ‘Oversight’ It remains to be seen whether the Rs. 175 crore which the NTRUHS wanted to be returned in order to meet its expenses would be given back and interest paid on the balance at least on par with six nationalised banks in which it parks its funds, the JAC leader said while indicating that transferring the entire Rs. 400 crore was an oversight. Meanwhile, MLC K.S. Lakshman Rao met JAC leaders who were continuing their protest, at the NTRUHS on Monday and assured them that he would put in a word with Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy to sort out the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ntruhs-convocation-put-off-over-transfer-of-deposits/article37877142.ece
07 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja smuggling racket, having links with many States, busted||The East Godavari district police busted a ganja smuggling racket, which has links to several States. They arrested six persons of Visakhapatnam, Odisha and Punjab, said Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. The gang was procuring ganja from the Chitrakonda forests in Odisha and supplying it to Punjab, Nagaland and other States, the SP said on Monday. On a tip-off, a team led by Peddapuram in-charge Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) S. Murali and Prathipadu CI K. Kishore Babu conducted the raids and seized the ganja stocks being loaded in a lorry near Annavaram. Later, the police team raided a dhaba being run by one of the accused, Malkith Singh from Amritsar, Punjab. He is at large, Mr. Ravindranath Babu said. Malkith Singh, the kingpin of the gang, had been running the dhaba on National Highway-16 at Bayyavaram village near Kasimkota. He allegedly roped in other gang members, Hera Singh of Punjab, Seman Pangi, Laba Khara, Rohit Pangi and Krishna Khemudu, from Odisha. The gang had been sourcing the contraband from the Chitrakonda forests in Malkangiri district with the help of Pangi Narasimha Rao of Vanabalingam village in Visakhapatnam Rural mandal. Malkith Singh had been stocking ganja in the storage spaces created in the beds arranged in a room in his dhaba and transporting it through lorries, said Mr. Ravindranath Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-smuggling-racket-having-links-with-many-states-busted/article37877298.ece
07 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor pays tribute||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan paid rich tributes to Bharat Ratna B.R. Ambedkar on the occasion of his death anniversary, which was observed as ‘Mahaparinirvan Diwas’, on Monday. In a message, Mr. Harichandan said that Dr. Ambedkar, the architect of Indian Constitution, fought for the rights of the weaker sections in the society. Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang paid tributes to Ambedkar at the AP Police Headquarters. Police officers from different wings also paid floral tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-pays-tribute/article37877140.ece
07 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP seeks judicial probe into breaches at major irrigation projects||Alleging that negligence of officials of the Water Resources Department led to a major breach in the Annamayya and Pincha projects in Kadapa district, BJP State president Somu Veerraju demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy order a judicial probe into the incidents. In a letter to the Chief Minister, Mr. Veerraju said the condition of minor irrigation projects warranted an urgent review as the consequences would otherwise be catastrophic. Those responsible for the breach of the Annamayya project should be held accountable and the quantum of financial loss recouped from them, Mr. Veerraju said. “Besides, the report of an expert committee which studied the condition of the Annamayya project must be released at the earliest. What caused the breaches at Pincha dam also needs to be ascertained and necessary remedial action should be taken,” the BJP leader said. Mr. Veerraju said that the government was not concerned about irrigation projects other than Polavaram for which the Centre was giving funds. Crops in thousands of acres in Rayalaseema were not getting water due to the government’s failure in constructing canals under the Brahmam Sagar project. The canals in Godavari districts were in an extremely bad shape. People faced untold hardships due to the breaches in Rayalacheruvu during the recent floods, he alleged. In spite of all this, there was no high-level review of the strength of the minor projects, Mr. Veerraju observed. The BJP leader suspected that illegal sand mining would have caused the dams to fall apart.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-seeks-judicial-probe-into-breaches-at-major-irrigation-projects/article37877144.ece
07 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Midhun Reddy takes aim at party MP||Narasapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju has cheated banks of thousands of crores by raising loans in the name of a dubious thermal power firm floated by him, and he is now making caustic remarks against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy apparently to force the party to expel him so that he can join the BJP, Rajampet MP P.V. Midhun Reddy said in the Lok Sabha on Monday. “Two CBI cases were lodged against him. The Centre should get them investigated and take punitive action against him,” Mr. Midhun Reddy, who is the YSRCP floor leader in the Lok Sabha, demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/midhun-reddy-takes-aim-at-party-mp/article37877145.ece
07 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Omicron variant should not be taken lightly, caution experts||The new variant of coronavirus ‘Omicron’ should not be taken lightly, especially based on a few reports stating that the new variant is high in transmissibility but low in severity. There is no proper scientific evidence suggesting it, as research is still on and the present facts are based on some clinical observations, said the experts who addressed the 99th weekly seminar on COVID-19 that is being organised by the Andhra Medical College. M.S.S. Mukharjee, senior consultant interventional cardiologist, said that Omicron has about 53 mutations and of them 32 are in the spike protein and about 10 are in the receptor bind protein. There are a few mutations such as the P681H and P681R that have immune escape mechanisms, including immunity developed from vaccine or natural infection, and it is too early to say that the effects of virus will be mild or people in India will not be affected seriously, he said. According to Dr. Mukharjee, the best way to keep away the Omicron wave, which could be the predicted third wave, is to develop a vaccine equity. It is time to see that the entire population is fully vaccinated. It is known that the virus mutates in the host body who is immunocompromised. Both Delta and Omicron had developed in such hosts. It is important to know the Omicron is from the Alpha group and it probably took over a year to mutate and develop. But if the entire population is vaccinated, then the chance of mutation is grossly reduced, he said. According to P.V. Sudhakar, Principal Andhra Medical College, it is true that many people who were vaccinated were infected, but a study shows that 90% of the people who were admitted into hospitals not only in India but also in the USA or other countries, were not vaccinated. This indicates that vaccine can at least reduce the severity of the infection, he said. Apart from vaccination, wearing of masks should be taken up seriously and the COVID protocols should be followed. The masks should be worn correctly and the right mask should be used, said Dr. Sudhakar. Dr. Mukharjee also suggested that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) should come out with detailed guidelines on treatment protocols. 15 new cases Meanwhile, 15 persons tested COVID-19 positive in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,59,035, ending Monday morning. No deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, keeping the total death count to 1,104. In the last 24 hours, 59 persons undergoing treatment were discharged, taking the total discharges to 1,57,697.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/omicron-should-not-be-taken-lightly-experts/article37876646.ece
07 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Remedial measures must to check beach erosion: scientists||The caving in of the boundary wall of a park at RK Beach has raised concerns on the safety of man-made structures located on the beach. Coming closely on the heels of cyclone Jawad, one may think it is solely caused by sand erosion as a result of the cyclone. But, there is more to it than meets the eye. Though deposition and erosion of sand is a common phenomenon, based on various factors, man-made issues are causing problems and failure to take remedial measures can have serious consequences, say scientists. “Visakhapatnam coast has special geo-morphological features. The Dolphin’s Nose, Kailasagiri and Rushikonda hills, jutting out into the sea, act as natural groynes to check erosion,” M. Jagannadha Rao, Vice-Chancellor of Adi Kavi Nannaya University, who is also honorary Professor of Geology in Andhra University, told The Hindu on Monday. “The longshore currents from south bring sand and deposit it to the north of Visakhapatnam. However, this deposition is being affected due to constructions by the port, which are obstructing the movement of sand. The sand is being dredged and dumped elsewhere. A thorough study of the geomorphology of the coast and placing of concrete groynes are required to prevent erosion of sand,” says Prof. Jagannadha Rao. No natural nourishment A study on ‘Erosional and depositional pattern, along Visakhapatnam’ by Kollu Sai Satya Sai Mounika of the Department of Geology, Andhra University, between January and December 2019, had noted that deprivation of natural nourishment is posing serious problem to the beach, especially between Naval Coast Battery and the Lawson’s Bay area. This erosion is further supplemented by storms during cyclones. She suggested construction of groynes at suitable intervals to trap the sand that comes in and nourishes the beach. “The pumping of the dredged sand towards this part may also help to some extent in stabilising the beach from further erosion,” she suggests. A study on ‘Coastal erosion – beach profiling’, conducted by the CSIR-NIO, Visakhapatnam, between 2011 and 2015, had shown wide changes on the water front, which helped in estimating the sand accretion and erosion, says G.P.S. Murty, Chief Scientist and Scientist-in-Charge of National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), Visakhapatnam. He said that the annual sand nourishment was not carried for one or two years prior to Hudhud cyclone (October 12, 2014), so the sand erosion was the highest. After Cyclone Hudhud which struck in 2014, beach sand nourishment was done at RK Beach and additional sand minimised the loss due to erosion in the following years, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remedial-measures-must-to-check-beach-erosion-scientists/article37877153.ece
07 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police Commissioner lauds services of Home Guards||Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha participated as the chief guest and received the Guard of Honour, at the 59th Home Guards Raising Day celebrations at the Police Parade Grounds here on Monday. While commending the Home Guards for performing their duties with dedication and discipline, Mr. Sinha said that the department was also committed to their welfare. An amount of Rs. 2 lakh was given to the dependents of Home Guards, who had died due to the COVID-19 pandemic, apart from provision of employment to a dependent from the bereaved families. Armed Reserve ADCP K. Subrahmanyam, DSP (Home Guards) D. Chandrababu and Admin RI B. Seetharam were among those who participated. At Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, DK Mohanty, Director (Commercial) & Director (Personnel) Additional I/c, unfurled the Home Guard Flag on the occasion at the Home Guards (HG) Complex, Ukkunagaram. Mr. Mohanty appreciated the contribution of HG personnel in ensuring security and safety aspects at RINL-VSP for the last three decades. Around 273 Home Guards are being deployed round the clock at various locations at RINL-VSP, he said. He later handed over the best performance awards to Home Guards and trophies / shields to the winners of various sports conducted on the occasion. Superintendent of Police (Visakha Rural) B. Krishna Rao has described Home Guards as a bridge between the police and the public. At a programme organised at the NTR Stadium at Anakapalle on Monday, the SP commended the services of Home Guards. Of the 693 Home Guards in the district, 84 were women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-commissioner-lauds-services-of-home-guards/article37877302.ece
07 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civil Defence Raising Day celebrated||The passing out parade of the 223rd Batch of Civil Defence Volunteers was held, on the occasion of National Civil Defence Raising Day, at the office of the Deputy Civil Defence Controller at Santhipuram here on Monday. The batch consisting of 60 volunteers were trained in ‘warden service’, ‘first-aid’, fire fighting and communication courses from November 15, this year. GVMC Commissioner G. Lakshmisha, who participated as the chief guest, said that the Civil Defence Organisation trains civilians to utilise their services in case of natural calamities or man-made disasters. Deputy Civil Defence Controller K. Bhavani and P. Rama Rao, retired DM & HO, were present. The 59th Civil Defence Raising Day was also celebrated by the Waltair Division at Zonal Civil Defence Training Centre in the city. Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy, ADRM Sudhir Kumar Gupta, Sr.DEN (HQ)/WAT Prabhakar Rao, Sr.DSC (RPF) Ch Raghuveer, and other branch officers were present. A mock drill was organised by conducting disaster management, rescue operations for persons trapped in attack at stations, fire fighting and Cardio Pulmonary Respiration Operation (CPR) under the guidance of Sr. Divisional Safety Officer Sakya Acharya. CHUBE Prasad, Civil Defence Inspector, part time Civil Defence inspectors and other Members of Civil Defence Organisation took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/civil-defence-raising-day-celebrated/article37877305.ece
07 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three women Maoists arrested in Visakha Agency||Police arrested three women Maoists under Koyyuru police station limits in Visakhapatnam Agency on Monday. They were identified as Marri Valasi alias Rame, Vanathala Lakshmi alias Sangeetha and Korra Devi alias Seetha. Of the three, Marri Valasi carried a cash award of Rs. 4 lakh while the other two carried a reward of Rs. 1lakh each. The police said Valasi (30) had joined the outlawed CPI (Maoist) in 2007 and became an Area Committee Member in 2017. She participated in five encounters with the police both in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh between 2016 and 2020. Police recovered 3 kg of explosives packed in a food container, detonators, one country-made pistol and some ammunition from her possession. Vanathala Lakshmi (23) was a party member and had participated in two encounters with the police that took place in Chintapalle (2020) and Koyyuru (2021). Korra Devi (20) was a member of the Galikonda Dalam and had gained expertise in blasting mines. Police recovered a steel carriage containing 2 kg of explosives and four detonators from her. A week ago, the CPI (Maoist) had released a letter alleging that the police had arrested these three Maoists and were illegally keeping them in confinement. In the letter, the rebels demanded that the trio be produced before court immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-women-maoists-arrested-in-visakha-agency/article37876620.ece
07 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Odisha Tourism holds roadshow in city||Odisha Tourism organised a roadshow, to boost its inbound and domestic tourism, here, on Monday. The event, organised in association with the FICCI, witnessed 100 travel operators from Andhra Pradesh and 30 host counterparts from Odisha engage in a series of interactions. Aimed at strategic promotion of the travel, tourism and hospitality sector in the domestic markets, Odisha is extensively marketing its flagship campaign, ‘Odisha By Road’, complemented by the ‘Eco Retreat Odisha’, a 3-month festival, which is scheduled to begin on December 15. Addressing the participants, Additional Secretary of Tourism Durga Prasad Mahapatra said that Andhra Pradesh and Odisha not only share a border but also similar cultures and commonalities. Road connectivity He said that the two States could make the region the most sought-after winter destination. Odisha has excellent road connectivity with neighbouring States and was keen on promoting various road trip itineraries under Odisha by road campaign.He said that visitors from Visakhapatnam could travel by road to Odisha via Araku Valley and visit key destinations like the Deomali hills and Duduma waterfall in Koraput, the picturesque valleys of Daringbadi, sandy beaches of Gopalpur-on-sea and Chilika, the Asia’s largest brackish water lake, that turns into a winter paradise for migratory birds. Exotic locations Divisional Manager Odisha Tourism Development Corporation P.K. Chand said that Eco Retreat Odisha was in its 3rd edition and would be held across seven exotic locations in the State, including three beach destinations of Konark, Pati-Sonapur in Ganjam and Pentha in Bhitarkanika National Park, hill stations of Daringbadi and Putsil in Koraput, and near the banks of Mahanadi in Satkosia and Hirakud. For more information, one can visitwww.odishatourism.gov.inThey can also email topmu@odishatourism.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/odisha-tourism-holds-roadshow/article37877295.ece
07 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rich tributes paid to Ambedkar||Rich tributes were paid to Baba Saheb Ambedkar by various organisations and associations on his death anniversary on Monday. A programme was organised by the VPT SC, ST Officers Welfare Association at the Convent Junction. Association president Umamaheswararao, general secretary, Rajashekar and general secretary of Port SC,ST Employees Association Srinivas monitored the arrangements. Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) Chairman K. Rama Mohana Rao garlanded the Ambedkar statue . Deputy Chairman Durgesh Kumar Duby, Port Secretary Venugopal, Chief Vigilance Officer, HOD s and officers also garlanded the statue and paid tributes.Addressing the gathering, the Chairman recalled Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s great service to the nation in drafting the Constitution. He also spoke on his contribution towards the cause of the poor and downtrodden people. Divisional Railway Manager of Waltair Anup Satpathy recalled the immense contribution of Ambedkar in protecting the rights of the dalits and against social discrimination and paid rich tributes to him. ADRM Sudhir Kumar Gupta, branch officers and a large number of staff were present. BJP State general secretary PVN Madhav and Parliament District president Raveendra Medapati garlanded a portrait of Ambedkar and paid tributes at the party office.BJP SC Morcha district president K. Sanjeeva Rao presided. BJYM State president K. Surendra Mohan, BJP District general secretary Prasad VSN Koppisetty, party leaders SRKKS Jagapathi Raja Bahadur, K. Subrahmanyam, S. Danesh and KNP Chakravarthy were among those who attended. CPI State assistant secretary J.V.S.N. Murthy alleged that the BJP government, which was chanting the ‘Ambedkar mantra’, was going all out to weaken the Constitution, written by him.He paid tributes to the Ambedkar statue at the LIC Junction. CPI city secretary M. Pydiraju, assistant secretary SK Rehaman and CPI leaders A. Vimala, G. Rambabu, P. Chandrasekhar and M. Manmadha Rao were among those who paid tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rich-tributes-paid-to-ambedkar/article37877306.ece
07 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakha Organic Mela to help Seema farmers hit by cyclone||Organisers of the Visakhapatnam Organic Mela have announced that they would give a compensation of Rs. 5,000 to the families of organic farmers in Rayalaseema districts who were severely affected by the recent cyclone. A total of Rs. 5 lakh have already been collected for this, said Jalgam Kumara Swamy, organiser of the cow-based Nature Farmers' Association. This was disclosed at the closing ceremony of the three-day mela here on Monday. The organiser of the mela thanked chairperson P.L.N. Raju for donating Rs. 3 lakh, Madhusudan Reddy of Satvaa Organic for donating Rs. 1 lakh and Nagireddy of Nature's Wealth for donating Rs. 30,000. The amount will be handed over to the selected families at an event to be held in Vijayawada in January. Mr. Kumara Swamy said that a national-level organic mela will be organised from January 7 to 9 at Vijayawada SS Convention Hall. He also said that the Organic Mela in Visakhapatnam was a success and was visited by about 80,000 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/visakha-organic-mela-to-help-seema-ryots-hit-by-cyclone/article37877296.ece
07 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man booked under POCSO for ‘misbehaving’ with minor girls||A mild tension prevailed in Prakashnagar under the Malkapuram police station limits, as some women of the colony roughed up a middle-aged for allegedly misbehaving with minor girls, here on Monday afternoon. According to the police, the accused Doman Chinna Rao, who heads a welfare society, was reportedly luring minor girls to his place and was allegedly sexually molesting them. All the victims were from classes four and five and they informed about the incidents to their tuition teacher, who in turn informed the school master and the parents of the girls. Enraged with this, the women of the colony dragged Chinna Rao onto the street and beat him up thoroughly and later handed him over to the police. The Malkapuram police filed a case against Chinna Rao under POCSO and other relevant IPC sections, based on the complaint lodged against him by the colony residents and the parents of the girls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-misbehaving-with-minor-girls/article37877139.ece
07 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel executives stage protest||Executives of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), on the banner of the Steel Executives Association (SEA), staged a protest at ‘smarak junction’ at Ukkunagaram on Monday seeking early implementation of their demands. The main demands of the steel executives include: implementation of 3rd Pay revision, implementation of DPC 2020, promotions up to E-9, merger of RINL with SAIL and probation completion for DPC 2019 promotions. SEA president Harbhajan Singh said that a candle light procession would be taken out from the VSP Main Gate to the smarak junction on December 9 as part of the series of protests, planned for the achievement of their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-executives-stage-protest/article37877303.ece
07 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers block MLA’s car for pattadar passbooks||Chodavaram MLA Karanam Dharmasri’s car was surrounded by farmers of JP Agraharam of Rolugunta mandal, when he went to the Rolugunta Mandal Office along with the Narsipatnam RDO for distribution of ROFR pattas, on Monday. The farmers of JP Agraharam were protesting at the office, when the MLA came in his car. The farmers squatted in front of the car and pulled up the MLA for failing to issue pattadar passbooks to the land under their cultivation. They alleged that real estate dealers from other districts were issued pattadar passbooks for 150 acres of land, without their knowledge by the officials. The MLA pacified them saying that he would look into their issue after distribution of the ROFR pattas. Later, the MLA sent a communication through a Sub-Inspector that 10 of them could go to the MDO office for discussions, according to the Girijan Sangham leaders. The farmers squatted on the road and demanded that the MLA must come and meet them. They alleged that the MLA ignored their demand and sped away in his car but they prevented it. He asked for the records from the revenue officials and directed the RDO to solve the issue within 15 days, following which the farmers gave up their agitation. AP Rythu Sangham district president G. Nayana Babu, CPI(M) district leader K. Govinda Rao and JP Agraharam farmers sangham leader Srinivasa Rao were among those who participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-block-mlas-car-seeking-pattadar-passbooks/article37877138.ece
07 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambedkar statue unveiled||Nellimarla MLA Badunkonda Appala Naidu on Monday urged youngsters to study the biographies of great personalities like B.R. Ambedkar and Babu Jagjivan Ram who strived for the uplift of the downtrodden sections. On the occasion of Ambedkar’s 65th death anniversary, Mr. Naidu inaugurated a statue of the leader at Arundhati Pranganam of Pedatadivada village on the outskirts of Vizianagaram. A statue of Jagjivan Ram was also unveiled there. Senior advocate and Dalit Bahujan Shramik Union State general secretary P. Chitti Babu and Arundathi Seva Sangham leader Madhu were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambedkar-statue-unveiled/article37877135.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM lays stress on alternative crops||He said awareness should be created among farmers on organic and nature farming and added that organic methods should be promoted as an alternative to chemical fertilizers and pesticides. “Farmers should be told about the risks involved in cultivation of crops like paddy under borewells. Organic farming should be given priority by taking RBKs as a unit. The necessary equipment for organic farming should also be kept in Custom Hiring Centres (CHCs) being set up under RBKs,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Equipment Equipment, pesticides and organic fertilizer manufacturing industries required for organic farming should be encouraged and organic farming certification should be given through RBKs, he said. The officials informed the Chief Minister that 45,35,102 farmers have registered 1.12 crore acres of crop through e-cropping. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that strict action would be taken against sale of fake or adulterated seeds, pesticides and fertilizers and two years imprisonment would be imposed on those responsible. He said amendments will be made in the Act in this regard and an Ordinance would be released, if needed. He said RBKs were set up with the good intention to provide quality seeds, fertilizers and pesticides to farmers and any violations would not be tolerated. If employees were involved in it, they would be dismissed immediately and legal action would be taken. He instructed the officials to ensure adequate supply of seeds. The Chief Minister said the equipment to be provided to farmers should be made available in CHCs rationally based on the number of farmers and the land being cultivated and the crops, and mapping should be done on it. Organic feed should be made available for livestock. He directed the officials to focus on marketing of organic milk and processing of organic products and to take measures to set up one processing unit in each district. The officials informed the Chief Minister that so far 1,77,364 women benefited through Palavelluva programme. The average daily milk production was 71,911 litres in November 2021 as against 2,812 in November 2020. About 1.32 crore litres of milk was procured till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-lays-stress-on-alternative-crops/article37877301.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM lays stress on alternative crops||be imposed on those responsible. He said amendments will be made in the Act in this regard and an Ordinance would be released, if needed. He said RBKs were set up with the good intention to provide quality seeds, fertilizers and pesticides to farmers and any violations would not be tolerated. If employees were involved in it, they would be dismissed immediately and legal action would be taken. He instructed the officials to ensure adequate supply of seeds. Organic feed The Chief Minister said the equipment to be provided to farmers should be made available in CHCs rationally based on the number of farmers and the land being cultivated and the crops, and mapping should be done on it. Organic feed should be made available for livestock. He directed the officials to focus on marketing of organic milk and processing of organic products and to take measures to set up one processing unit in each district. The officials informed the Chief Minister that so far 1,77,364 women benefited through Palavelluva programme. The average daily milk production was 71,911 litres in November 2021 as against 2,812 in November 2020. About 1.32 crore litres of milk was procured till date. Minister for Agriculture Kurasala Kannababu, and Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development Seediri Appalraju, and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-lays-stress-on-alternative-crops/article37877133.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No escape||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-escape/article37876648.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spectacle in the sky||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spectacle-in-the-sky/article37877308.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State hits grim milestone of 4,000 COVID deaths||The number of COVID-19 deaths in Telangana, according to the government media bulletin, has touched 4,000 with one more patient succumbing to the infection on Monday. Officially reported number of COVID deaths in the State has been a contentious issue since the first wave of the pandemic. Doctors, from both government and private hospitals, have time and again questioned the credibility of those figures and alleged that the number of deaths are grossly under-reported by the Health department. Every time a clarification was sought in this respect, Health officials said the data provided in the media bulletin was correct. They also said that some COVID patients died of co-morbidities and not because of the infectious disease. According to official statistics, the number of people who died of COVID in the State crossed 1,000 on September 16 last year, 2,000 on April 25 this year and then 3,000 on May 18. The highest number of deaths were reported during the second wave which took root in March this year. Meanwhile, applications received for Rs. 50000 ex-gratia are currently being processed. Sources said it would take some time to know if the approved applications outnumber the official fatality figures. A few districts are said to have received thousands of applications. The applications have to be filed through MeeSeva centres. “Some people have applied twice, and some others did not have the documents required to approve an application. The scrutiny is still under way. It will take us some time to go through all the applications,” said a source. Last month, the State government notified the formation of district-level COVID-19 Death Ascertaining Committees to issue ‘Official document for COVID-19 Death’. The District Collector is the chairman of the committee, District Medical Health Officer is member-convener and superintendent of headquarter hospital is a member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-hits-grim-milestone-of-4000-covid-deaths/article37876922.ece
07 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Drunk drivers leave two youths, couple dead||Four persons, including that of a couple, were killed in two separate car accidents caused by drunk drivers in the city on Monday. In the first accident that took place around 1.20 a.m. on Banjara Hills Road No. 2, two men working in Rainbow Children Hospital were hit by a speeding Porsche car, being driven by a realtor Bazar Rohit Goud, 29, from Uppal, allegedly under the influence of alcohol. The victims Ayodhya Rai, 26, an office aide and Devendra Kumar Das, 29, an assistant cook, were crossing the road to return home after completing their shifts. While Rai was a native of Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh, Das hailed from Gopalpur in Odisha. Mr. Goud is the director of EVL Projects Private Limited. His blood alcohol content (BAC) was 70 mg/100 ml against the permissible limit of 30 mg/100 ml when he hit the duo, Banjara Hills ACP M. Sudarshan said. The impact of the accident was such that the victims were flung into the air before landing at a distance, . Mr. Goud sped away from the spot and was later arrested by the police, who and booked him under Section 304 Part II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicles Act. In the second accident that occurred at Gandipet around 1 p.m., a couple travelling on a scooter was killed after they were run over by a Toyota Qualis driven by a 40-year-old man, whose BAC was 148 mg/100 ml. The Narsingi police said the victims Durgam Raju, 37, a milk vendor, and his wife Durgam Mounika, 28, were going in the wrong direction when the Qualis hit them. Driver Chittampally Sanjeeva was taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drunk-drivers-leave-two-youths-couple-dead/article37876933.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jamuna Hatcheries encroached govt. lands: Collector||Medak Collector S. Harish confirmed on Monday that there are encroachments of government and ceiling lands by Jamuna Hatcheries owned by E. Jamuna and Nithin Reddy, wife and son of former minister and BJP MLA E. Rajender at Hakimpet and Achampet villages in Masaipet mandal. He said that this was confirmed in the survey conducted by revenue and survey departments. Speaking to reporters at Medak Collectorate on Monday, Mr. Harish said a report regarding this was already submitted to the government. “There are government and ceiling lands in survey number 130 and 81 under the control of Jamuna Hatcheries. 70.33 acres of land was encroached with force by Jamana Hatcheries belonging to 56 farmers. These lands belong to SCs, Mudiraj, Vanjara and other communities. Not only that, there is no permission for poultry farm. Assignment land is being used for other than agriculture purposes without nala conversion,” said Mr. Harish adding that action will be taken against those responsible for registration as there was no permission for shed construction and poultry, which was constructed in survey number 97 near Haldi Vagu. The poultry is causing pollution and it was also found that there were violations of WALTA Act with the cutting of trees and laying of roads in the forest area, he added. ‘Undue pressure’ Stating that lands under prohibition list were also registered in the name of Jamuna Hatcheries in the two survey numbers, he said that it took place due to undue pressure on the officials concerned. “This is against Section 22 A of Registration Act. These sale deeds have to be cancelled as these lands are - government and assigned. Registration of these lands is not possible without Collector sending notification to IG (stamps and registrations) for denotifying. We checked the records at sub-registrar office and tahasildar office and we could not find any denotification notice,” said Mr. Harish The Collector said land owners want their lands back and this was promptly informed to the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jamuna-hatcheries-encroached-govt-lands-collector/article37876949.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||It’s KCR Constitution in State: Eatala||BJP MLA and former Minister Eatala Rajender said that the government can take back land if there are any encroachments by Jamuna Hatcheries owned by his wife Jamuna and others at Masaipet mandal in Medak district. He wondered if as a Minister he was able to occupy 70 acres, then how much might have been occupied by the Chief Minister. Speaking to reporters in Sangareddy on Monday after attending a two-day training programme for party workers here at Kandi, Mr. Rajender said: “I am committed for what my wife said - that she would rub her nose on the ground if there is even an inch of land occupied by our hatcheries. Officials go according to rules and if someone alleges that we have occupied lands, it is wrong,” he said. Alleging that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao made anti-defection law a laughing stock by admitting the TDP MLAs into the party in 2014 and Congress MLAs in 2019, the BJP MLA said that only Mr. Rao’s Constitution is being implemented in Telangana. “In Huzurabad elections, depending on a person’s status, money that was to be paid was decided. As much as Rs. 600 crore illegal money and Rs. 4,000 crore in the name of welfare schemes was distributed. MPTCs and ZPTCs are being threatened and they were asked to show the photo to whom they voted in MLC election. I request them to vote as per their atma sakshi ,” said Mr. Rajender. ‘Witch-hunt’ Meanwhile, Jamuna, wife Mr. Rajender, accused the TRS government of continuing to resort to ‘political witch-hunt’ and “harassing” her under the guise of land encroachment. “We have not done anything wrong and not did we illegally occupy any land. All our lands have been purchased based on Dharani portal registrations only. New regulations like Pollution Control Board clearance and others are sought to be imposed on us,” she said talking to the mediapersons at her residence in Shamirpet on Monday. Denying the charges levelled against her family which owns the Jamuna Hatcheries, she said the government seems to be bent on crushing Mr. Rajender financially by targetting him. “We are not getting permission for feed plant but are being accused of polluting the atmosphere. Are the same rules being made applicable to other hatcheries too as some of them are owned by Ministers themselves,” she said. She threatened to file a case against the Medak collector for levelling “false” charges against her family and demanded the details of the official survey being conducted be shared as soon as it is submitted to the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/its-kcr-constitution-in-state-eatala/article37876952.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Process for organisation of local cadres starts||The State government has initiated steps for organisation of local cadres for allotting employees holding posts required to be organised into local cadres in line with the new Presidential Order 2018. Accordingly, the government has decided to constitute committees at the district and State-levels for allotment of employees into district and zonal and multi-zonal cadres. The District Collector would be the chairman and district-level heads of departments concerned as members for allotment of district cadre posts. General Administration Department principal secretary, special chief secretary/principal secretary/secretary of the department concerned, head of the department concerned, senior consultant from Finance Department’s HRM and Services wing and any other senior officer as decided by the government would decide about the organisation of zonal and multi-zonal posts. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Monday issued detailed guidelines that should be followed for organisation of local cadre under The Telangana Public Employment (Organisation of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct Recruitment) Order 2018. The order was issued a day after the Chief Secretary held detailed discussions with representatives of employee unions. Mr. Somesh Kumar clarified in the order that the process for allocation of local cadres would be taken in the districts where the model code of conduct of the Election Commission of India is not in force. It would be taken up in the remaining districts after the MCC is lifted. The GO did not contain the schedule for the organisation of local cadres and allocation of the posts and the government said it would be communicated separately. The nine-page order (GO Ms. No. 317) detailed the process that should be followed for allotment of employees to new local cadres that comprise seven zones and two multi-zones that were created after the reorganisation of districts from the erstwhile 10 to 33. Accordingly, departments should fix the cadre strength of each district, zonal and multi-zonal cadre, a process that has already been completed. All the departments, having due regard to the administrative needs of the posts in local cadres, allocated the working strength in each new local cadre in the same proportion as the sanctioned posts were distributed among the new district/zonal/multi-zonal cadres. This was done to prevent skewed distribution and ensure fair and balanced distribution of working personnel among the new local cadres. The heads of departments had been directed to prepare a list of all employees as per seniority in each of the erstwhile local cadres for allotting them to new local cadres. These would include those on leave, under suspension, undergoing training, on deputation and on foreign service so as to ensure that no employees was left unallotted to new local cadre. Persons under these categories would be deemed to have reported to the new local cadre subsequent to their allotment and their leave/suspension/training, deputation would continue in the new local cadre. All the posts in the erstwhile district cadre, wherever they are located, would be taken into consideration for the purpose of allotment of district cadre employees. Eight new districts – Hanamkonda, Jayashankar-Bhupalpally, Mahbubabad, Mulugu, Siddipet, Mahbubnagar, Vikarabad and Ranga Reddy had been formed drawing areas from more than one erstwhile districts. Accordingly, persons holding posts in the erstwhile district cadre of Karimnagar, Warangal, Khammam, Nalgonda, Mahbubnagar and Ranga Reddy would be considered for allotment not only to the local cadre of the new districts, but also to local cadres of the neighbouring new districts. In respect of the zonal cadre posts, employees of erstwhile Zone V would be considered for allotment to Zones I to IV (excluding posts located in Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Medak and erstwhile Medak district area of Siddipet) and to Zone V to the extent such posts are located in Jangaon district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/process-for-organisation-of-local-cadres-starts/article37876953.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four of inter-State ganja supply gang arrested||In a big catch, the Sangareddy district police seized 992 kgs of dry ganja worth Rs. 99.2 lakh and arrested four persons, while another is absconding. The incident took place on Sunday. According to Superintendent of Police M. Ramana Kumar, 492 ganja packets, each containing about 2 kgs of dry ganja, were being transported from Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh to Aurangabad in Maharashtra in a lorry. Three persons escorted the lorry in another car, to caution the driver about any police checks. On a tip off, Sadashivapet Circle Inspector G. Santosh Kumar stopped the lorry at a petrol bunk and found the ganja being transported in packets. The arrested persons were identified as Altaf Ahmed, Abdul Rehman, Shaik Amees and Mushtaq Ahmed. Another accused Firoz is absconding. All of them hailed from Maharashtra. Mr. Ramana Kumar said that Firoz was the mastermind behind the transport and he offered Rs. 50,000 to the lorry driver to deliver the goods at Aurangabad while the others were offered another Rs. 50,000 to escort the vehicle. Police also seized a lorry, an Innova, four cell phones and Rs. 7,500 cash from the arrested. All of them will be presented before the Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-of-ganja-supply-gang-arrested/article37876710.ece
07 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Indo-Germany ties poised for further growth||Ahead of his visit, German Ambassador Walter J. Lindner had tweeted it was great coming back to Hyderabad and he looked forward to a packed, exciting schedule on Sunday/Monday. Indeed, it turned out to be as the diplomat, who is an active musician, enthralled audience with the flute at the 4th International Jazz Festival, helped Telangana government and potential investors from Germany strike synergies and visited University of Hyderabad. In an interview, before an investor summit on Monday, he said India-Germany ties are poised for further growth ahead. Edited excerpts: How is India-Germany relations panning out, especially in the backdrop of the pandemic, and which are the areas where greater cooperation is possible? COVID-19 impacted every nation. These were two years where we really did not have many delegations coming in. The [German] Chancellor was here in November 2019. It was followed by a visit of our Minister of Economic Cooperation. Thereafter we have been meeting digitally. We have to revitalise the physical presence. The ties have not suffered because of COVID. On the contrary, they got more intense, particularly with the focus on how to deal with the pandemic and issues around the globe. I think our two governments have found a good way to digitally communicate - be on the same wave length on topics such as Afghanistan, trade, climate [change]. Our relationship is not just focused on economy, it is also about student exchange, culture, agriculture, development policy. India is the country where we invest most of our development money, euro 1.2 billion. Do you see scope for more collaboration between medium-sized German firms and the small and medium enterprises in India? Medium-sized German companies have been here since decades, proved their presence and are here to stay. They know what they want. None of them left during COVID. We are ready to restart the process [of matchmaking], if the [Coronavirus] mutation permits. Investor summit such as the one being held here are important as they present a forum for the firms to spell out their expectations if they have to invest. How important is India for investors in Germany, especially in the backdrop of growing emphasis on diversification of supply chain beyond China? We have 2,000 companies here and they are mostly in Pune, Bangalore, Gujarat, and a few here. They have a reason to be here. A case in point is Schott’s facility in Gujarat that makes glass used in vaccine packaging and is one of the largest such production facilities. It is an example of Made in India with German know-how. COVID and inter-connectivity of the globalised world have shown that we have to diversify our supply chain. It is, however, not that we exclude a nation to produce something but diversify, get more sources where to get things. Where does Telangana figure in the plans of German companies? When I was here two months ago, I spoke to Minister [K.T.Rama Rao] and he said bring more German companies and make it known that we have good conditions. Hyderabad is not yet on top of the German investors list but it could move up because I was convinced when here last time what the [Telangana] government is offering is pretty attractive. Political stability, ease of doing business, infrastructure, public transport, efficient administration, skilled manpower are something every company looks for. When can we expect the next ministerial level discussion taking place? India is a strategic [partner] and we have government to government meetings every second year. The last one was when Chancellor Merkel was here in November 2019. Due to COVID we could not have any negotiations, now we will have another meeting hopefully in the first half of 2022.  This time the Indian Ministers will be visiting Germany. Which are the vaccines being used in Germany? BioNTech/Pfizer and Moderna have been used. Covishield has been approved. While WHO has approved Covaxin, we have to wait until the EU decision. We are very positive about Covaxin.  When I was here two months ago, I spoke to Minister [K.T. Rama Rao] and he said bring more German companies and make it known that we have good conditions. Walter J. Lindner, German Ambassador to India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/indo-german-ties-poised-for-further-growth/article37876946.ece
07 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Realtor dodged traffic police while pub-hopping||While hopping from one pub to another in the western part of the city on Sunday night, before hitting two youngsters with his Porsche Cayenne in an inebriated condition at Banjara Hills, the 29-year-old realtor managed to escape the drunk driving checks by traffic police. Bazar Rohit Goud, director of EVL Projects Private Limited, along with a bunch of friends went to a bar on Road No. 46 of Jubilee Hills, where they spent nearly two hours and left the place around 8 p.m. and went to another bar in the next lane – on Road No.45. “Goud and his friends left the place at about 11 p.m. and went to a star hotel in Banjara Hills,” Banjara Hills inspector P Shiva Chandra said. The group spent nearly one-and-half hours there before dispersing to their respective destinations. However, Goud and one of his friends Sai Suman (27), a resident of Karmanghat, decided to have dinner at a star hotel on Road No.2 of Banjara Hills and started driving towards KBR Park. A few metres before their destination, the accused knocked down Ayodhya Rai (26) and his colleague Devender Kumar Das (29) who were crossing the road and hit them; as a result, the duo died on the spot. “Their desire to have a late-night dinner at a star hotel by driving the car under the influence of alcohol had led to the tragic death of two youths,” police said. Tried to escape Immediately after causing the accident, the realtor tried to escape from the police by randomly parking his damaged Porsche in the cellar of a residential complex at Jubilee Hills. However, the drunk driver was ignorant of being tailed by a police vehicle. While he was crossing the KBR Park junction, the patrolling team of Jubilee Hills police got suspicious on noticing a damaged high-end car and followed it. The team captured the photographs of the car and contacted the neighbouring Banjara Hills police to know whether there was any road accident within their limits. Soon, the Banjara Hills team confirmed the details and arrested Goud and Suman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/realtor-dodged-traffic-police-while-pub-hopping/article37876939.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||United Xmas festivities on Dec.18||The 43rd Greater Hyderabad United Christmas Celebrations, with the participation of various denominations and groups, will be held at YMCA, Secunderabad, on December 18. Ministers Koppula Eshwar and T. Srinivas Yadav along with former parliamentarian B. Vinod Kumar will be part of the programme. As part of the inter-denominational joining for the celebration, Catholic Church, CSI, Methodist Church, Indian Orthodox, Seventh day Adventist, Lutheran, Baptist, Syro-Malabar Catholic, Mennonite, Salvation Army and Prayer Power, would be present. Celebrations will include choir performances by various churches, nativity presentation, Bible quizzes and singing contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/united-xmas-festivities-on-dec18/article37876917.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘India has the potential to become a healthcare powerhouse’||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said India has tremendous potential to emerge as the global powerhouse of healthcare sector. With sustained efforts, augmenting infrastructure and technology, and offering world-class quality services, the country can also feature in the list of ‘five favoured destinations for medical tourism in the world’, she said. Ms. Soundararajan’s assertions were also the way forward, delivered virtually in the 65th foundation lecture of the Administrative Staff College of India, on the theme ‘How India can become a healthcare powerhouse for the world’. According to her, a ‘4-I mantra’ — Innovation, Integration, Increased funding and Internationalisation of standards — can put India on the desired map. She opined that there was scope for improvement, on par with world leaders, in pharma, medical tourism, vaccine development, and training of medical and para-medical specialists. And, self-reliance in the active pharmaceutical ingredients market as crucial for growth and sustainability of the pharmaceutical sector, pragmatic blueprints with time-bound targets for initiatives, and world class standards across the indicators are strictly non-negotiable, she added. Calling for greater integration of technology, by enabling a startup ecosystem in the healthcare sector, she said the future could be explored through artificial intelligence, robotics, digital health technologies and analytics. With increased funding, Ms. Soundararajan envisaged patient-centered smart healthcare, a network of medical colleges with double the seats at all levels and international exchange programmes, all of which could comprehensively contribute to making India a global healthcare leader. ASCI Director General Nirmalya Bagchi and chairman K. Padmanabhaiah took part in the event.  The future could be explored through artificial intelligence, robotics, digital health technologies and analytics. Tamilisai Soundararajan, Governor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/india-has-the-potential-to-become-a-healthcare-powerhouse/article37876920.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||7 organs retrieved from brain-dead woman||The family of a 23-year-old woman from Nalgonda, who was declared brain dead following a road accident, have consented to donate multiple organs through the State government’s Jeevandan cadaver transplantation programme. Aerukonda Ashwini, a resident of Veliminedu village, Chityal Mandal of the district, was headed to her mother-in-law’s house in Yadadri along with her husband Aerukonda Sreenu, a constable at the police station in Begum Bazaar, and their nine-month-old daughter, on a two-wheeler. On the way, Mr Sreenu lost control of the bike and all three fell, informed a press release. The young mother was critically injured while the other two escaped with minor injuries. She was rushed to a corporate hospital in Hyderabad. After 72 hours of intensive treatment, she was declared brain-dead by a neurophysician on December 5. Counsellors from the Jeevandan programme spoke to her family regarding organ donation. “Her husband, father Radharapu Narasimha and mother Radharapu Chandramma consented to donate seven organs under Jeevandan programme,” as per the press note. Both kidneys, liver, corneas and lungs have been harvested from her.  Her husband and parents consented to donate seven organs under Jeevandan programme. Both kidneys, liver, corneas and lungs have been harvested from her. Jeevandan officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/7-organs-retrieved-from-brain-dead-woman/article37876924.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress, few independents pin hopes on cross-voting in MLC polls||Notwithstanding the camp politics being run by Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Congress for their elected representatives of rural and urban local bodies who form the electorate for the six MLC seats in the Local Authorities Constituencies (LAC) to keep them safe from ‘poaching’, Congress and a few independents are pinning their hopes purely on cross-voting. A total of 26 candidates are in the fray for the six seats for which polling is scheduled on December 10 in the erstwhile districts of Adilabad, Karimnagar, Khammam, Medak and Nalgonda with Karimnagar having two LAC seats. As the day of polling is approaching, the two parties are bringing them electors back from camps to their respective districts. Running camps for its elected representatives of the rural and urban local bodies by the ruling TRS has raised the eyebrows of one and all as the party enjoys raw majority in all the five erstwhile districts which were reorganised into 16 in 2016 as part of reorganisation districts. Having majority in all the 16 districts, the TRS has won all zilla parishad chiefs’ posts as also a majority of mandal parishad presidents posts. Similarly, the ruling party has in its kitty a lion’s share of urban local bodies in these districts with a few (single-digit) going to other parties. “We are aware of our numbers, but we don’t want to take any chances,” a senior TRS leader said adding that the party leadership is not willing to risk any of the six MLC seats at stake, keeping in mind a couple of setbacks the party had suffered in MLA, MLC elections in the past. Considering the numbers, either the Congress candidates, contesting Medak and Khammam LAC seats, or independents - stand no chance of getting elected even if they succeed in mustering the support of BJP and Left parties. However, they are heavily hoping on the cross-voting from TRS electors. On the other hand, the ruling party is holding its flock together with carrot and stick approach. It is also understood that that the party has also been seeking the support of the Left in spite of having clear majority numbers-wise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-few-independents-pin-hopes-on-cross-voting-in-mlc-polls/article37876944.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Road widening sought||Construction of the elevated corridor from Amberpet to Uppal is necessitating development of alternative roads to withstand the traffic flow diversions. On Monday, Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi inspected one such road and asked officials to explore the possibility of expansion of the road to take additional traffic load. Touring the Bagh Amberpet division along with Amberpet legislator Kaleru Venkatesh and corporator Padma Venkat Reddy, Ms.Vijayalakshmi issued directions to Chief City Planner S. Devender Reddy to submit a report for widening of the road from Shivam Road up to GHMC Park in DD Colony via Saibaba Temple, in the coming fortnight. Widening of the road requires property acquisition from a Central government’s skill development centre, and she asked the Revenue officials to collect details about the same for acquisition. The road has been experiencing heavy traffic owing to pilgrims to the Saibaba temple, and also due to Uppal-bound vehicles taking it in order to avoid the 6 No. junction, Ms. Padma Venkat Reddy explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/road-widening-sought/article37876934.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Close to 200 new cases detected again||The State recorded 195 new COVID infections on Monday even as 37,108 samples were examined. For the past one week, starting November 29, the daily caseload has been comparatively high with 35,000 to 40,000 tests being conducted every day. In fact, last Saturday, the case count breached the 200-mark after several weeks. Sunday was an aberration, courtesy of a dip in testing — only 156 infections were logged with just about 25,700 samples being tested. The new 195 cases on Monday included 78 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits, 14 each from Karimnagar and Medchal-Malkajgiri, and 13 from Rangareddy. No infection was detected in as many as 10 districts. The State’s case tally has reached 6,77,138. One more person died on the day, taking the death toll to 4,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/close-to-200-new-cases-detected-again/article37876923.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Expedite Patancheru hospital works: Harish||Plans for construction of a 200-bed super specialty hospital in Patancheru must be expedited. Health Minister T. Harish Rao, who issued directions to officials in this regard, has asked them to begin works at the earliest. Diseases or illnesses prevalent in the industrial area would be identified. Medical specialties which can address those health issues would be established at the hospital. Besides, sewerage treatment plants would be set up at major government hospitals in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expedite-patancheru-hospital-works-harish/article37876925.ece
07 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Medico drives drunk, injures 4 hotel workers||Four hotel workers suffered injuries after being hit by a car driven by a medico, driving under the influence of alcohol, at Madhapur here on Sunday night. Around 11.30 p.m. when the victims were walking on the road near Inorbit Mall, a speeding car driven by Ammathalli Nikhil Kumar Reddy (26), an MBBS graduate from Maseedbanda, Kondapur, hit them. The victims were rushed to a nearby private hospital for immediate medical assistance. According to Madhapur police Reddy along with his friends and flatmates, Gottumukkula Akhil Ramakrishna Raju (24) and Mendu Tharun (24), both medicos, consumed liquor at a bar in Gachibowli and were returning home. Reddy’s blood alcohol content was 116 mg/100 ml against the permissible limit of 30 mg/100 ml.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medico-drives-drunk-injures-4-hotel-workers/article37876940.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Obtaining preferences of staff incorporated in order||As assured, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar made sure that a provision for obtaining preferences of the employees is incorporated in the order. Particulars of the allocable working strength in the new local cadre would be displayed for the information of the employees. Persons holding posts belonging to the erstwhile district, zonal and multi-zonal cadres should indicate their preferences for allotment to the new district, zonal and multi-zonal cadres in the specified form that would be made available to them and submit the same to the department concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/obtaining-preferences-of-staff-incorporated-in-order/article37876957.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ATA to organise literary, charity events this month||Literary events promoting Telugu language and culture, awards to achievers, charity programmes in schools, encouraging entrepreneurs and medical camps will be part of the month-long programmes of the American Telugu Association (ATA) in the two Telugu States. Coined as ATA Seva Days and Vedukalu, the programmes will culminate into a grand finale at Ravindra Bharati on December 26, said ATA president Bhuvanesh Boojala and president-elect and chair of ATA Seva Days Madhu Bommineni at a press conference here. It will host a music event in Warangal on December 13, in honour of Annamayya, Ramadasu and Tyagaraja. These events are a precursor to 17th ATA Conference and Youth Convention in Washington DC from July 1 to 3, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ata-to-organise-literary-charity-events-this-month/article37876918.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Look only in RRB websites for test results||Indian Railways has appealed to the candidates to refer only to the official websites of Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs)/RRB Secunderabad (www.rrbsecunderabad.nic.in) for any latest updates on the recruitment process and not to get misled by unauthorised sources on this matter on Monday. In an official communique, the SCR stated that the first stage Computer Based Test (CBT) held for various non-technical popular courses and undergraduate posts held between December 2020 and July 2021 is currently under process and the results are tentatively scheduled to be published in the official websites of RRBs by January 15, 2022. The second stage Computer Based Test (CBT-2) exam for the candidates who will be shortlisted in CBT-1 is tentatively scheduled to be held from February 14-18. Pension Adalat SCR ‘Pension Adalat’ will be held on December 15 to redress the grievances of retired railway employees from headquarters, all six divisions (Secunderabad, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Guntakal, Guntur, Nanded), workshops and other units. The notification is placed on ‘scr.indianrailways.gov.in’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/look-only-in-rrb-websites-for-test-results/article37876931.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||German firm Liteauto to invest Rs. 1,500 crore in State||German firm Liteauto GmbH plans to invest Rs. 1,500 crore to set up an advanced design and manufacturing facility in Telangana. On Monday, the Magnesium alloys automotive component maker and Telangana government signed a memorandum of understanding in the presence of Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao and German Ambassador Walter J. Lindner, at a German Investors’ Summit in the city. Managing Director of Liteauto India Bala Anand Jeldi said the project is a part of the euro 600 million investment the German firm intends to make globally on creating capacities amid growing demand for the products. Most of the euro 180-200 million earmarked for India is expected to be made in Telangana, Mr. Jeldi said, adding a tectonic shift away from fossil fuel-based automobile engines to battery systems and hydrogen vehicles is driving the demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/german-firm-liteauto-to-invest-rs-1500-crore-in-state/article37876947.ece
07 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Retired persons illegally appointed at MCRHRDI’||All India Congress Committee (AICC) member Bakka Judson has alleged that retired persons are being appointed in Dr. Marri Channa Reddy Human Resource Development Institute (MCRHRDI). Informing that he had filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the High Court, he alleged that the Director General of the institute has illegally employed three persons - P. Prakash Rao, Gautam Pingle and Prof. Abbas Ali – all over 65 years of age, by paying hefty salaries and perks at the cost of several deserving candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/retired-persons-illegally-appointed-at-mcrhrdi/article37877178.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State Page Azad move, a loss to Congress and nation: Mallu Ravi||Former MP Malla Ravi found fault with the move by party senior leader Gulam Nabi Azad to establish a regional party in Jammu and Kashmir stating that it would harm the interests of the party as well as nation. “We respect Mr. Azad as senior most leader with a vision. There is a need of Congress coming to power and his decision will harm the party,” he said. In the past both Indira Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi accepted his suggestions for the party. Now his suggestions were opposed in the interest of the party and he is unable to digest it,” said Mr Ravi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-page-azad-move-a-loss-to-congress-and-nation-mallu-ravi/article37876950.ece
07 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Focus on 100% vaccination in Karimnagar by month-end||The Health department has renewed its focus on accelerating the pace of COVID-19 vaccination drive to achieve full coverage in the district by this month-end. Nearly 97% of the district’s eligible adults (or over 7.71 lakh persons) have received the first dose and around 76% or 5.83 lakh persons have taken both doses till date, sources in the Health department informed. An estimated 21,909 eligible adults of the district are yet to receive at least one dose of the vaccine. Meanwhile, Collector R.V. Karnan along with Karimnagar Police Commissioner V. Satyanarayana on Monday visited the Bommakal-based Chalmeda Anand Rao Institute of Medical Sciences (CAIMS), where around 42 positive cases were reported in the past two days. The college management declared holiday for the institution and sent the medical students infected with COVID to their homes. Mr Karnan reviewed the measures taken by the college management to prevent the spread of infection and implementation of the COVID safety norms. CAIMS chairman C. Lakshmi Narasimha Rao was present during the review. Contact-tracing Addressing a press conference here on Monday, District Medical and Health Officer Juveria said as many as 42 positive cases were detected when 364 medical students of CAIMS were tested in the past two days. Efforts are on to trace the primary contacts of the coronavirus-positive students and conduct tests on them, she said. Reiterating that relentless efforts were on to achieve cent per cent vaccine coverage by this month-end, she urged all eligible persons to get vaccinated against COVID-19 immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-on-100-vaccination-in-karimnagar-by-month-end/article37876928.ece
07 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Arrangements for MLC polls reviewed||Ahead of the Legislative Council elections to the Karimnagar Local Authorities Constituency (LAC) slated for December 10, the district administration has chalked out elaborate arrangements to ensure smooth conduct of the elections for the two vacant MLC seats in the Karimnagar LAC. Polling will be held at as many as eight polling stations in the erstwhile composite Karimnagar district in adherence to the COVID-19 safety precautions from 8 am to 4 pm on December 10. COVID-19 infected voters can cast their votes from 3 pm to 4 pm on the election day. District Collector and the Returning Officer for the Karimnagar LAC R V Karnan on Monday visited the SRR Government Degree and PG College here to take stock of the arrangements for setting up of the distribution and the reception centres as well as the strong rooms and counting centre at the college. He reviewed the arrangements to be made at the distribution centre for distribution of the polling materials to the polling officers on December 9 and dispatch of the election materials to the polling stations before the election day. Later, the Collector held a review meeting with the Additional Collectors, Zilla Parishad CEOs, and Municipal Commissioners of the old undivided Karimnagar district at the Collectorate here. Addressing the review meeting, he said as many as eight polling stations have been set up in the Karimnagar LAC to enable all eligible voters including MPTCs, ZPTCs, municipal councilors and corporators to exercise their franchise in the Legislative Council election scheduled to be held on December 10. These polling stations are located one each in Karimnagar ZP Office, Rajanna-Sircilla ZP Office, MPDO offices in Huzurabad, Jagtial, Korutla, Peddapalli, Manthani and Husnabad towns respectively. The 72-hour silence period will be in place from 7 pm on December 7 till the completion of the polling on December 10 as per the Election Commission’s model code of conduct. Additional Collector G V Shyamprasad Lal and Karimnagar Zilla Parishad CEO Priyanka were among those who attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/arrangements-for-mlc-polls-reviewed/article37876954.ece
07 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Woman held for online cheating||A woman, who allegedly duped several persons including a few well-educated young women by creating fake Facebook accounts under fictitious names, landed in the police dragnet. The fraudster allegedly tricked a young techie of the town into sending money to her account by regularly chatting with her by posing as an NRI doctor on the pretext of marriage, sources said. After coming to know the fraud, the aggrieved young woman approached the SHE team of the Karimnagar Police Commissionerate, who in turn conducted a discrete inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-held-for-online-cheating/article37877177.ece
07 December 2021||chandigarh,||Amarinder opens office for his party||Former Punjab CM hief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday opened his new party’s office here and reasserted that his Punjab Lok Congress, along with the BJP and former Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s outfit, will form the next Government. Mr. Singh quit the Congress and launched his Punjab Lok Congress after his unceremonious exit as the Punjab chief minister in September. Addressing the media later, Capt. Amarinder said the membership drive had already begun. “We are very hopeful that in the upcoming elections, we will win,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/amarinder-opens-office-for-his-party/article37876828.ece
07 December 2021||Kolkata,||SEC for jab camps before civic polls||The West Bengal State Election Commission on Monday requested the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) to organise special COVID-19 vaccination camps for the unvaccinated voters from December 12 to 17 to ensure that people remain safe during the upcoming civic polls. The KMC has agreed to provide all support for such camps, the poll panel said in a statement on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sec-for-jab-camps-before-civic-polls/article37877038.ece
07 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘Find permanent solution to Versova beach encroachments’||The Bombay High Court on Monday asked the Maharashtra Government and BMC to come up with a permanent solution to protect suburban Versova beach from illegal encroachments. A Division Bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Abhay Ahuja was hearing a public interest litigation filed by Ameet Satam, BJP MLA from Andheri west constituency, through advocate Prahlad Paranjape, raising concerns over drug peddling and prostitution at the beachfront. The plea sought directions to the State government, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and police for maintenance and upkeep of the beach as well as 24X7 surveillance for security. “These illegal structures breed graver problems such as drug peddling and prostitution in the shanties at night and in the area around the beach making the beach unsafe for common citizens,” the petition said. The Bench directed the government and the civic body to find a permanent solution to the issue and file an affidavit next week. Mr. Satam, in his plea, said he had raised the issue in December, 2014, following which, in 2015, the illegal shanties were demolished. However, these structures returned in June, 2016. The plea said such shanties come up regularly during monsoon, and sought that the BMC take precautionary measures before monsoon. “Because of the proximity to hostile nations, it is imperative to establish a permanent surveillance station on the beach which is manned 24 hours by trained police personnel,” the petition said. It sought for a beach monitoring committee to be constituted comprising citizens, elected representatives, police and civic staff to permanently monitor the situation at the beach and submit reports to concerned authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/find-permanent-solution-to-versova-beach-encroachments/article37877041.ece
07 December 2021||Mumbai,||Anil Deshmukh’s wife, son move High Court||Maharashtra’s former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh’s wife Aarti and son Salil have moved the Bombay High Court challenging the provisional attachment of assets by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the money laundering and corruption case against Mr. Deshmukh. The petition was filed on November 20 and was heard on Monday by a division bench of Justices Gautam Patel and Madhav Jamdar. The plea was filed by advocate Inderpal Singh which challenged the original notice of attachment by the ED. The attached assets include a flat worth Rs. 1.54 crore and land worth Rs. 2.67 crore. The court said there are serious questions on the adjudicating authority and posted the matter to be heard on January 14, 2022. CBI inquiry The case goes back to April 5, 2021, when the Bombay High Court directed the Central Bureau of Investigation to conduct a preliminary inquiry against Mr. Deshmukh. On April 21, ED registered a FIR against him under sections of the Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/anil-deshmukhs-wife-son-move-high-court/article37876831.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||No lockdown in Delhi; GRAP to kick in if virus cases spike: Jain||There is no possibility of a lockdown in Delhi due to COVID-19 and a ‘Graded Response Action Plan’ (GRAP) will be followed if cases rise, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday. “In this system [GRAP], when the positivity rate reaches 0.5% i.e. out of 1,000 people tested five are positive, then the first level will be implemented. The second level will come into force when the positivity rate is 1%, while the third will be implemented at a positivity rate of 2%. The last stage, or the red level, will be initiated when the positivity rate is 5%,” Mr. Jain said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said there was no need to panic and the Delhi Government was prepared to protect the people against the Omicron variant. “We are constantly monitoring the situation and progress being made to deal with the possible threat. Adequate oxygen, beds, equipment and medicines are being arranged,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Mr. Jain said every one needs to be alert as Omicron spreads even faster than the Delta variant. “Face masks are the only shield to prevent every variant of the virus. Every one must wear a mask and those who have not got the second dose of the vaccine should get it as soon as possible. Only then will we be able to face the corona firmly,” Mr. Jain said. He said in Delhi, more than 93.9% of people have received the first dose of the vaccine and more than 61.3% have taken both doses. People who are vaccinated also need to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, Mr. Jain said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-lockdown-in-delhi-grap-to-kick-in-if-virus-cases-spike-jain/article37876823.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||City records six more dengue deaths||The Capital recorded 699 dengue cases and six deaths over the past week (till December 4), taking this season’s caseload to 8,975 and the death toll to 15, a civic body report said on Monday. This season’s case figure is the highest since 2015 when the city reported close to 16,000 cases and 60 fatalities. The six deaths occurred in the last two months. The victims include a 25-year-old male who was admitted to the Delhi Government-run Lok Nayak Hospital, and a 38-year-old male, a 13-year-old boy, and an 11-year-old boy who were admitted to Max Hospital. The other two are a 20-year-old female who was admitted to Ayushman Hospital and a 43-year-old  female who was admitted to Holy Family Hospital. “The delay in reporting the deaths was because the lab reports from the hospitals took a while to arrive. Though fatalities are being recorded, it takes some time for the hospitals to review the causes. However, dengue cases have drastically come down,” a senior civic body official said. North Delhi recorded the highest number of cases last week at 126, followed by south Delhi with 124 cases. East Delhi added 117 cases. In the previous week (till November 27), north Delhi saw the highest number of cases at 273, followed by south Delhi with 242 cases and east Delhi with 192 cases. Earlier, the Delhi High Court had rapped the civic bodies for their “failure to control dengue”. “The delay in reporting is from the Delhi Government’s end because it is in-charge of the data. It wants to hide deaths that have occurred in its  hospitals. The SDMC is putting in all its efforts to control the situation,” South Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Mukesh Suryan said. In its earlier statement, the SDMC said that fogging drives were being carried out by 1,300 field workers. It said that around 92 lakh houses had been inspected this season and mosquito-breeding sites were found in 75,000 houses. Till November 27, Delhi had recorded 8, 276 cases for this season. A majority of the cases — 6,739 — were reported in November. In the current season, north Delhi has reported 2,515 cases, followed by south Delhi with 2,422 cases. East Delhi has recorded 1,048 cases, the lowest among the three corporations. Apart from the corporations, the New Delhi Municipal Council has recorded 78 cases, while other agencies have reported 157 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-records-six-more-dengue-deaths/article37876819.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Student enrolment up in SDMC schools’||South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) Mayor Mukesh Suryan on Monday said that the civic body-run schools had seen an increase in the enrolment this year with the entry of 93,000 students. Mr. Suryan said the corporation will open at least one English-medium school in each ward. It will also open 12 new schools in the coming months, he said. “Compared with private schools, the enrolment of students is higher in the SDMC schools. The reason is the civic body has been ensuring quality education despite the Delhi Government reducing the budgetary allocation, for education, by 24%-26%,” the Mayor said. SDMC’s education committee chairperson Nitika Sharma said that the corporation has been providing quality education to nearly three lakh students in its schools. “Science clubs have been started in 200 schools this year while smart classrooms have been constructed in 468 schools,” she said. To continue online education, Ms. Sharma said the SDMC, in association with NGOs, has been distributing tablets to students. “The civic body will distribute 5,000 tablets to students and 750 tablets to teachers by the end of December. CCTV cameras have been installed in 388 school buildings. To encourage students for sports activities, a sports cell has also been set up,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/student-enrolment-up-in-sdmc-schools/article37876820.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||1.5 lakh new members on Day 1 of drive: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Monday claimed that about 1.5 lakh people joined the party on the first day of its membership drive under the “MCD Badlaav” campaign. The campaign, which aims to remove the BJP from power in the three municipal corporations, was launched on Saturday. The party began a door-to-door membership drive on Sunday and targets to induct 50 lakh new members in the next three months. Election to the corporations is likely to be held by April next year. “Day one of AAP’s membership drive under the ‘MCD Badlaav’ campaign has proven to be a monumental success, which saw all expectations exceed and records broken. About 1.5 lakh people took the party membership,” Durgesh Pathak, AAP in-charge for municipal corporations, said. AAP Delhi chief Gopal Rai said the people of Delhi are suffering from a disease called the BJP and its tyrannical governance in the corporations. “In the last 15 years, the BJP has ruined the civic bodies to an extent that no one could have even imagined. Now it is time to uproot the BJP from the corporations and in view of this, AAP has started the campaign,” he said. Mr. Rai said thousands participated in the drive on Sunday and all mandal presidents of the party put up camps in their areas and registered about 1.5 lakh people for membership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/15-lakh-new-members-on-day-1-of-drive-aap/article37876822.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for raping differently abled woman||A 30-year-old woman suffering from speech and hearing impairment was raped by a man multiple times in north-east Delhi’s Bhajanpura, the police said on Monday. The accused has been arrested. On Sunday, the woman came to the Bhajanpura police station along with her mother and sister and complained that a man named Rehan had been sexually assaulting her multiple times since November 22. DCW counsellor The police said that a counsellor appointed by the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) was called, but since the victim was differently abled, an interpreter was required for recording her statement. “As it was quite late in the night, an interpreter wasn’t available. Later, a private interpreter was arranged and the DCW counsellor guided the victim with the help of the interpreter and her statement was recorded,” a senior police officer said. Medical examination The police said that based on the statement of the victim, a case was registered and investigation began. A medical examination of the victim was conducted, the police said. The accused, Rehan, 34, was arrested and produced before the court on Monday after which he was sent to judicial custody. Further investigation in the case is under way, the police said.  A private interpreter was arranged and the DCW counsellor guided the victim with the help of the interpreter and her statement was recorded Police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-arrested-for-raping-differently-abled-woman/article37876815.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. to celebrate Ambedkar’s legacy||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced plans to celebrate B.R. Ambedkar’s legacy in a “never seen before style” through a series of musical plays so that every resident of Delhi can learn about his life and ideology. Mr. Kejriwal said 50 shows of “the highest international standards” will be held at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and the entry will be free for all with India’s most famous artists taking part in the show on a 100-foot stage. “A majestic play is being prepared on his life on a very large scale. The programme consisting of 50 shows will be held January 5 onwards on the premises of the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in a grand manner. The musical play will be based on his life, thoughts, ideas and ideology and will have the most famous artists and experts take part in it,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Babasaheb, Mr. Kejriwal said, had a dream for the country — that every student should attain the best possible level of education without having to struggle for it and he had vowed to fulfil it. “He spent his whole life fighting for the oppressed and especially the Dalit community and did his best to uplift them. If I say that Babasaheb was the most educated person in the history of India, I don’t think I’d be making any erroneous statement in it,” he said. The Delhi Government currently supports students from the SC/ST/OBC/EWS communities in pursuing higher education and professional careers under the Jai Bhim Mukhyamantri Pratibha Vikas Yojana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-to-celebrate-ambedkars-legacy/article37876825.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||Doctors protest delay in PG NEET counselling||Over 4,000 resident doctors of the Central Government-run Safdarjung Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, and Lady Hardinge Medical College on Monday boycotted work, as a protest against the delay in PG NEET counselling, said the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA). “Over 4,000 resident doctors from the three hospitals boycotted work except for COVID-19 duties. The counselling for PG admission is stuck as the matter is pending before the Supreme Court,” FORDA president Manish said. A FORDA delegation also met the Union Health Minister at RML Hospital. “The Health Minister assured us that he has taken note of our grievances and that the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare will get the case mentioned in the SC for an early hearing,” FORDA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/doctors-protest-delay-in-pg-neet-counselling/article37876814.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||BJP demands reduction of VAT on diesel||The Delhi BJP on Monday staged a protest outside the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) office demanding reduction of VAT on diesel. A large number of party workers led by Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta and Leader of the Opposition in Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri marched from the ITO intersection to the AAP office. “Arvind Kejriwal who never gets tired of speaking against the Central Government regarding petrol and diesel prices to arrest inflation has betrayed Delhiites by reducing only Rs. 8 VAT on petrol,” Mr. Gupta said. Mr. Bidhuri said in 2018, then Finance Minister Arun Jaitley had reduced the excise on petrol and diesel by Rs. 5 each. Back then too, he said the Delhi Government was the only one which did not do so. “Mr. Kejriwal should now first give that Rs. 5 relief and should reduce VAT on diesel as well,” Mr. Bidhuri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-demands-reduction-of-vat-on-diesel/article37876816.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||Two held for stealing batteries of Yulu e-bikes||Two persons were arrested for allegedly stealing batteries of Yulu e-bikes at metro stations in the city, the police said. Five e-bike batteries have been seized from their possession in south-west Delhi’s Kishangarh. The police said that on December 2, Harshul Gupta in an e-FIR informed them about the theft of batteries of a few Yulu e-bikes in the parking area of Munirka metro station. The police laid a trap near the metro station and noticed two boys coming across the main road. On suspicion, the team signalled them to stop but, the duo tried to run away. Subsequently, the two were arrested. DCP (South-West) Gaurav Sharma said during probe, they disclosed that they had stolen batteries at different metro stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-held-for-stealing-batteries-of-yulu-e-bikes/article37876817.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||Cyber fraud: two arrested in Jaipur||Two persons, who were wanted in multiple cases of cyber fraud, have been arrested in Rajasthan’s Jaipur, the Delhi police said on Monday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) Esha Pandey said that the accused have been identified as Mehndi Hasan, 43, alias Harpal Singh and Mohammed Arbaj Khan, 20. The gang’s kingpin — a man of African origin — was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police in August in a fraud case of Rs. 80 lakh. “Based on technical surveillance, our team conducted a raid on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday in Jaipur and apprehended the two absconding men in this case,” Ms. Pandey said. The accused sent emails and forged letters to banks asking for fund transfers from the accounts of targeted companies to several fake current accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cyber-fraud-two-arrested-in-jaipur/article37876826.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||First batch of students enters DSEU||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said the Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University will bring in a change to the higher education system, making it up-to-date with the present needs of the market. He was speaking at an orientation programme for the university’s first batch. He added that it was an important, long due step towards revolutionising Delhi’s education system and that the Government was happy to provide the youth of Delhi the opportunity to attain skills and expertise in the domain of their choice. Neharika Vohra, Vice-Chancellor of DSEU, said the university is going to set examples for the country by changing the narrative of higher education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/first-batch-of-students-enters-dseu/article37876827.ece
07 December 2021||HONG KONG,||‘China is more confrontational than in the past’||The deterioration in India’s relations with China today is “much worse” than what followed previous border crises such as the years-long stand-off at Sumdorong Chu in Arunachal Pradesh in 1986, with China adopting a much more “confrontational” approach, according to former Foreign Secretary and Ambassador to China Nirupama Rao. Further transgressions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), where China’s ingresses starting in April 2020 triggered an as yet unresolved crisis, cannot be ruled out with past border agreements, designed to keep the peace, no longer adequate, Ms. Rao told The Hindu , speaking in an interview about her new book “ The Fractured Himalaya: India, Tibet, China 1949-1962 .” “In 1986, the Chinese intrusion into the Wangdung area in Tawang district of Arunachal Pradesh made relations slide back and deteriorate. The deterioration today, however, is much worse,” Ms. Rao said. “Today, we are dealing with a much more assertive, much more militarily powerful China, and a very, very hyper nationalistic China. Their whole approach to these contested areas is far more confrontational than it was in Sumdorong Chu.” Ms. Rao, who was involved in the process of both sides coming up with four border agreements to keep the peace starting in 1993, said the arrangements had come under stress since 2010 with the growing strength of both countries and capacities to patrol in contested areas. In June 2020, 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese soldiers were killed in a clash in Galwan Valley which marked the worst violence since 1967. Since then, both sides have disengaged in some areas but talks to do so in other hot-spots remain deadlocked, with Indian officials saying China has been dragging its feet to disengage. The prospect of de-escalation also appears remote with thousands of troops still present in forward areas in Ladakh. The PLA is also bolstering infrastructure closer to the LAC, not just in Ladakh but also in the eastern sector. “We are now faced with a situation where we can have such potential clashes, god forbid, in many other contested areas, too, unless there is a process of disengagement and de-escalation that both sides have the political vision, willingness and courage to do, and I don't see that happening at the moment.” Past agreements, she said, “definitely served their purpose but they were not adequate”. Proper reading The former Foreign Secretary said she was motivated to write the history of the crucial 13 years in India’s relations with China leading up to 1962 to enable a younger demographic to have a proper reading of history and “approach the issue with both reason and imagination. “If you don't understand the history, you will keep repeating the same shibboleths and make the same missteps and miscalculations all over again,” Ms. Rao said. On the Tibet factor in India-China relations, which the book deals with in detail, Ms. Rao said while India, and almost every country in the world, sees Tibet as a part of China, India has an interest in helping preserve Tibet’s cultural and civilisational identity, which has been fostered through the presence of the Dalai Lama and a large Tibetan community in India. On the question of the Dalai Lama’s succession, Ms. Rao said while she hoped the Dalai Lama lives “for as long as possible” and while China had indicated “in no uncertain terms” that it would determine the next Dalai Lama, she hoped the Chinese “could be more responsive and more empathetic to the sentiments of the Tibetan people when it comes to the question of succession”.  (Listen to the full conversation on our The Hindu On Books podcast: https://bit.ly/NirupamaRao )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-is-more-confrontational-than-in-the-past/article37876507.ece
07 December 2021||Berlin,||Olaf Scholz to take charge of Germany as Merkel era ends||Germany’s Parliament will officially elect Olaf Scholz on Wednesday as the country’s next Chancellor, bringing the curtain down on Angela Merkel’s 16-year reign and ushering in a new political era with the centre-left in charge. Mr. Scholz led his Social Democrats to victory against Merkel’s conservative CDU-CSU bloc in an epochal election in September, as the veteran chancellor prepared to leave politics after four consecutive terms in office. Greener and fairer Together with the Greens and the liberal Free Democrats, Mr. Scholz’s SPD managed in a far shorter time than expected to forge a coalition that aspires to make Germany greener and fairer. “I want the 20s to be a time of new beginnings,” Mr. Scholz told Die Zeit weekly, declaring an ambition to push forward “the biggest industrial modernisation which will be capable of stopping climate change caused by mankind”. Putting equality rhetoric into practice, he unveiled the country’s first gender-balanced Cabinet on Monday, with women in key security portfolios. “That corresponds to the society we live in — half of the power belongs to women,” said Mr. Scholz, who describes himself as a “feminist”. The centre-left’s return to power in Europe’s biggest economy could shift the balance on a continent still reeling from Brexit and with the other major player, France, heading into presidential elections in 2022. But even before it took office, Mr. Scholz’s “traffic-light” coalition — named after the three parties’ colours — was already given a baptism of fire in the form of a fierce fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic. ‘No red lines’ With intensive care beds running out in some regions and a rampant rise in infection numbers showing no signs of abating, Mr. Scholz and his new team have been pressed — including by Ms. Merkel — to agree new curbs even before they are sworn in by parliament. After Austria set the example and with Germany struggling to boost stagnating vaccination numbers, the parties also came under pressure to make an about-turn on a pledge made earlier in the pandemic not to make vaccinations compulsory. Mr. Scholz has since spoken out in favour of mandatory vaccination, saying he wanted MPs to vote on the issue before year’s end with a view of implementing it in February. “For my government, there are no red lines on what must be done. We’re ruling nothing out,” he told Die Zeit . “That’s not something we can do during a huge natural disaster or a health catastrophe like a pandemic.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/olaf-scholz-to-take-charge-of-germany/article37876508.ece
07 December 2021||Geneva,||UN slams ‘politically motivated’ Suu Kyi conviction in Myanmar||The UN rights chief on Monday slammed the Myanmar junta over the conviction and sentencing of ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi to four years in prison, demanding her release. “The conviction of the State Counsellor following a sham trial in secretive proceedings before a military-controlled court is nothing but politically motivated,” Michelle Bachelet said in a statement. “It is not only about arbitrary denial of her freedom — it closes yet another door to political dialogue.” Ms. Suu Kyi, 76, has been detained since the Generals staged a coup and ousted her government on February 1, ending the country’s brief period of democracy. She has since been hit with a series of charges, including violating the official secrets act, corruption and electoral fraud, and she faces decades in jail if convicted on all counts. On Monday, Ms. Suu Kyi was sentenced to two years for incitement against the military and another two years for breaching a natural disaster law relating to COVID-19. Former President Win Myint was also sentenced to four years on the same charges. Last month, Than Naing, former planning minister of Kayin State, and Nan Khin Htwe Myint, former Chief Minister of Kayin State, were sentenced to 90 and 75 years behind bars on corruption charges, she pointed out. “The military is attempting to instrumentalise the courts to remove all political opposition,” she said. “But these cases cannot provide a legal veneer to the illegitimacy of the coup and military rule.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-slams-politically-motivated-suu-kyi-conviction-in-myanmar/article37876514.ece
07 December 2021||Honiara,||Solomons embattled PM survives confidence vote||Embattled Solomon Islands Prime Minister Manasseh Sogavare survived a no-confidence vote on Monday, while accusing “Taiwan’s agents” of orchestrating recent political violence that plunged the Pacific island nation into crisis. The pro-Beijing leader comfortably saw off an opposition attempt to oust him, winning 32 votes to 15 after a fractious and hot-tempered day-long debate. The febrile scenes in Parliament — in which lawmakers traded claims of corruption, coups and shadowy foreign support — echoed recent anger on the streets that prompted the arrival of hundreds of international peacekeepers. Three days of rioting late last month left the Chinatown area of the capital Honiara in ruins and claimed at least three lives, with dozens of buildings destroyed. Ahead of Monday’s vote, armed troops and police from neighbouring Australia, Fiji, Papua New Guinea and New Zealand helped operate checkpoints across rain-soaked downtown Honiara to forestall more unrest. They used shipping containers to seal off areas of the rubble-strewn capital, closed the port to ferries from neighbouring islands and enforced a city-wide liquor ban. Authorities also warned people against posting inflammatory statements on social media. The prospect of further violence prompted the U.S. consulate in Honiara to restrict operations. The crisis erupted late last month when protests about Mr. Sogavare’s policies turned violent, fuelled by poverty, unemployment and inter-island rivalries in the nation of 8,00,000. The Prime Minister has refused protesters demands to step down, telling Parliament on Monday that leaving office under such circumstances would be surrendering “to the dictates of hooligans and lawlessness”. “We cannot entertain violence being used to tear down a democratically elected government,” he said. Large numbers of people were seen leaving the capital for the provinces on ferries on Sunday ahead of the no-confidence vote, expecting further trouble. Many of Mr. Sogavare’s detractors come from Malaita. Residents there believe the country’s most populous island does not get a fair share of resource revenue and is neglected by the central government. An underlying complaint against Mr. Sogavare is his 2019 decision to switch Honiara’s diplomatic allegiance to China from Taiwan, which had close ties with Malaita.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/solomons-embattled-pm-survives-confidence-vote/article37876511.ece
07 December 2021||Tehran,||UAE’s top security envoy makes rare visit to Iran||The National Security Adviser of the United Arab Emirates met on Monday with Iran’s President in Tehran, a major visit for the country that has long viewed the Islamic Republic as its main regional threat. The visit by Sheikh Tahnoon bin Zayed Al Nahyan comes as the Emirates and Saudi Arabia are both negotiating with Iran amid efforts in Vienna to save Tehran’s tattered nuclear deal with world powers. The UAE, home to Abu Dhabi and Dubai, reached a diplomatic recognition deal last year with Israel, increasing tensions with Tehran. The UAE has long served as a lifeline to the outside world for Iran amid international sanctions. Sheikh Tahnoon met first with Ali Shamkhani, the head of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council. The two men smiled and shook hands in front of journalists before their meeting, a large map of Iran and the Persian Gulf looming behind them. Iranian state television quoted Mr. Shamkhani as saying that “warm and friendly” relations between the countries remain a priority and that they shouldn’t be affected by other nations — likely a reference to the United States and Israel. Sheikh Tahnoon also met President Ebrahim Raisi, a hard-line protégé of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. A statement from the presidency quoted Mr. Raisi as welcoming “improved ties with the Emirates,” including on economic issues. “There should be no barrier in relation of the two Muslim nations of Iran and the Emirates,” Mr. Raisi said. “It should not be affected by foreigners’ dictation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uaes-top-security-envoy-makes-rare-visit-to-iran/article37876512.ece
07 December 2021||Washington,||Won’t send officials to Beijing Olympics: U.S.||The U.S. said on Monday it will not send government officials to the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing, after China pledged unspecified “counter-measures” against any such diplomatic boycott. President Joe Biden said last month that he was considering such a diplomatic boycott amid criticism of China’s human rights record, including what Washington says is genocide against minority Muslims in its western region of Xinjiang. “The Biden administration will not send any diplomatic or official representation to the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and Paralympic Games given the PRC’s ongoing genocide and crimes against humanity in Xinjiang and other human rights abuses,” White House press secretary Jen Psaki told a daily press briefing. “U.S. diplomatic or official representation would treat these games as business as usual in the face of the PRC’s egregious human rights abuses and atrocities in Xinjiang, and we simply can’t do that,” Ms. Psaki said, referring to the People’s Republic of China. The diplomatic boycott, which has been encouraged by some members of the U.S. Congress for months, would not affect the attendance of American athletes, she said. ‘Athletes to compete’ “The athletes on Team USA have our full support. We will be behind them 100% as we cheer them on from home.” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian had earlier said that if the “U.S. insists in wilfully clinging to its course, China will take resolute counter-measures.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/wont-send-officials-to-beijing-olympics-us/article37876607.ece
07 December 2021||London,||U.K. confirms community transmission of Omicron||The U.K.’s Health Minister on Monday told Parliament that the new Omicron variant of COVID-19 is now in transmission within the community across regions of England, as he confirmed a total of 336 cases of the mutation first detected in South Africa. According to the latest data, there are now 261 cases in England, 71 in Scotland and four in Wales, bringing the total number of confirmed cases across the U.K. to 336, Sajid Javid said in his statement to the Parliament. “This includes cases with no links to international travel. So, we can conclude that there is now community transmission across multiple regions of England,” he said. Nigeria has been added to the U.K.’s red list travel ban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-confirms-community-transmission-of-omicron/article37876608.ece
07 December 2021||Islamabad,||Pak. chopper crashes in PoK, 2 killed||A Pakistani Army helicopter crashed on Monday in bad weather in the Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), killing the two pilots on board, the military said. A statement from the military said the helicopter went down on the Siachen glacier, one of the world’s longest mountain glaciers, located in the Karakoram Range. The region is home to one of the highest battlefields in the world, with Pakistan and India deploying troops since the 1980s. Rescue helicopters and troops have been dispatched to Siachen, the military said. No further details on the crash were immediately available. The two pilots were identified as Maj. Irfan Bercha and Maj. Raja Zeeshan Jahanzeb. In a similar incident in late December last year, a Pakistani Army Aviation helicopter crashed due to a technical glitch, while carrying out safety evacuations in the region. At the time, four military personnel were killed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-chopper-crashes-in-pok-2-killed/article37876515.ece
07 December 2021||Tehran,||Iran ready to resume nuclear talks||Iran said on Monday it was ready to resume nuclear talks but based on draft proposals it submitted last week, accusing Western powers of stalling negotiations in Vienna. Last week, the Islamic republic returned to international talks in Vienna aimed at reviving the 2015 nuclear deal after a five-month pause. On Wednesday, it submitted two draft resolutions on the lifting of U.S. sanctions and nuclear-related measures. But at the weekend the U.S., as well as European participants at the Vienna talks, accused Iran of back-tracking. A senior U.S. administration official said the proposals “walked back any of the compromises that Iran had floated” during the previous six rounds of negotiations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-ready-to-resume-nuclear-talks/article37876509.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A docket full of unresolved constitutional cases||During the framing of the Indian Constitution, it was proposed that any petition alleging a breach of fundamental rights by the state ought to be judicially decided within one month. While the proposal did not, ultimately, find its way into the text of the Constitution, it nonetheless articulated something of great importance: between the individual and the state, there exists a substantial asymmetry of power. While the violation of rights — whether through executive or legislative action — is relatively costless for the state, it is the individual, or individuals, who pay the price, and who must then run from pillar to post to vindicate their constitutionally guaranteed rights. Consequently, a Constitution is entirely ineffective if a rights-violating status quo is allowed to exist and perpetuate for months, or even years, before it is finally resolved (and often, by the time resolution comes, it is too late in the day for it to have any practical significance). Blow to accountability This point, of course, is not limited to the violation of rights, but extends to all significant constitutional questions that arise in the course of controversial state action. Issues around the federal structure, elections, and many others, all involve questions of power and accountability, and the longer that courts take to resolve such cases, the more we move from a realm of accountability to a realm of impunity. In this context, as 2021 draws to a close, a look at the Supreme Court of India’s docket reveals a host of highly significant constitutional cases that were long-pending when the year began, and are now simply a year older without any sign of resolution around the corner. All these cases involve crucial questions about state power, accountability, and impunity. Consequently, the longer they are left hanging without a decision, the greater the damage that is inflicted upon our constitutional democracy’s commitment to the rule of law. Kashmir, electoral bonds What are some of these cases? First, there is the constitutional challenge to the Presidential Orders of August 5, 2019, that effectively diluted Article 370 of the Indian Constitution, and bifurcated the State of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories, controlled by the Centre. There is a widespread tendency to view the Kashmir question as having been “settled” after the events of August 5, 2019, with it now being a political impossibility to return to the pre-2019 status quo . Regrettably, this tendency seems to have gripped the Court as well in how assiduously it has avoided hearing and deciding the case. But politics aside, the case raises certain fundamental questions about constitutional power and accountability. First, it raises the question of whether the Centre can take advantage of an Article 356 situation in a State — a time when no elected government and Assembly is in existence — to make permanent and irreversible alterations in the very structure of the State itself. The answer will have important ramifications not just for Jammu and Kashmir but for the entire federal structure: India has a long history of the abuse of Article 356 to “get rid of” inconvenient State governments, and a further expansion of the power already enjoyed by the Centre will skew an already tilted federal scheme even further. Second, the case also raises the question of whether, under the Constitution, the Union Legislature has the authority not simply to alter State boundaries (a power granted to it by Article 3 of the Constitution), but degrade a State into a Union Territory (something that has never been done before August 5, 2019). If it turned out  that the Union Legislature does have this power, it would essentially mean that India’s federal structure is entirely at the mercy of Parliament: Parliament could then, constitutionally, convert India from a union of States to a union of Union Territories, if it so wanted. Needless to say, this — as well — would signal a hugely significant shift in power to the Centre. As long as both these questions remain undecided, however, the acts of August 5, 2019 remain presumptively legal, with the prospect that they may well be repeated in other parts of India. For this reason, the Supreme Court’s now two-and-a-half-year delay in hearing and answering these questions is unconscionable. Another long-pending case is the constitutional challenge to the electoral bonds scheme, that has now crossed four years. The electoral bonds scheme authorises limitless, anonymous corporate donations to political parties, making election funding both entirely opaque to the people, as well as being structurally biased towards the party that is in power at the Centre. In numerous central and State election cycles in the last four years, thousands of crores of rupees have been spent in anonymous political donations, thus impacting not only the integrity of the election process but also the constitutional right of citizens to an informed vote. However, other than two interim orders, the Supreme Court has refused to accord a full hearing to the constitutional challenge. In a few months’ time, it will be one full five-year cycle of central and State elections, with the case still awaiting a hearing: another black mark on the Court’s record. It is important to note that in both these cases, the Supreme Court’s inaction is not neutral, but rather, favours the beneficiaries of the status quo . In other words, by not deciding, the Court is in effect deciding — in favour of one party — but without a reasoned judgment that justifies its stance. Other key cases This is also true for a number of other cases pending before the Court. For example, as far back as 2013, the Gauhati High Court held that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was not established under any statutory authority. This verdict was immediately stayed when it was appealed to the Supreme Court, but in the intervening years, it has never been heard. Thus, the CBI continues to function — often controversially — despite a judgment by a constitutional court that has found its very existence to be illegal. More recently, constitutional challenges to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), filed in the immediate aftermath of the legislation’s enactment, remain unheard, as do the challenges to the much-criticised Section 43(D)(5) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, which makes the grant of bail effectively impossible, and is responsible for the years-long incarceration of several people. The challenge to Section 43(D)(5) is perhaps the case that most directly affects civil rights, as the section continues to be applied on a regular basis (most notoriously, in recent times, in the Bhima Koregaon case). And cases of this kind are legion. It wounds the judiciary Apart from benefiting the party that profits from the status quo — which, as we have seen, is invariably the state — judicial evasion of this kind is also damaging for the accountability of the judiciary itself. Once a court decides a case, its reasoning — which must, by definition be public — can be publicly scrutinised and, if need be, critiqued. In the absence of a decision, however, while the Court’s inaction plays as significant a role on the ground as does its action, there is no judgment — and no reasoning — that the public can engage with. For obvious reasons, this too has a serious impact on the rule of law. It must be acknowledged that the responsibility for constituting benches and scheduling cases especially cases that are due to be heard by larger Benches rests solely with the Chief Justice of India (CJI). While the three previous CJIs have been criticised for excessive deference to the executive, the current CJI has been on record stressing the importance of the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. One way of demonstrating that in action might be to hear — and decide — the important constitutional cases pending before the Court. Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based lawyer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-docket-full-of-unresolved-constitutional-cases/article37876495.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Basking in reflected glory||“Wow!” I said when news flashed that one more Indian, Parag Agrawal, from one of the Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) had been appointed the CEO of Twitter, a global technology behemoth that is shaping opinions, politics and the lives of people around the world. Is this a cause for joy? Did the hearts of Indians swell with pride? Indeed. Which parent won’t rejoice at such an achievement? Is there any alma mater which will not be proud of students like Mr. Agrawal? A mass exodus Yet, there was something troubling, a vague disquiet about this achievement. Can India rightfully bask in the reflected glory of those who left its shores and rose to the very pinnacle of their profession in a foreign land? Is this not the U.S.’s achievement? Is it not the fertile ecosystem of the U.S. that helps spot talent and allows people to rise to the top? The U.S. has its dark spots but it holds a promise to millions, even penniless immigrants, that they can achieve their wildest dreams if they reach there. It is this America of opportunities that has beckoned millions of migrants over two centuries — not just Indians but people from every nook and corner of the world. Mr. Agrawal’s journey has been similar to that of many Indians before him who we have admired over the years. Many CEOs are from the IITs and other well-known engineering colleges. After graduation, they headed to the U.S. and graduated from great universities like Harvard, MIT, Stanford, and Cornell. Indra Nooyi (PepsiCo), Sundar Pichai (Alphabet and Google), Satya Nadella (Microsoft), Arvind Krishna (IBM), Ivan Menezes (Diageo), Vasant Narasimhan (Novartis), Punit Renjen (Deloitte) and Ajay Banga (Mastercard) are some of those who rose to the pinnacle of their companies. There are thousands of successful techies in smaller companies who also migrated to lead a gilded life. Technology dominates our business and life. Those who lead tech companies are the new rock stars and demigods of the modern world. They have eclipsed the old-world magnates of steel, oil, and automobiles — men like Paul Getty, Andrew Carnegie and Henry Ford. But there are also other Indian migrants who have distinguished themselves in the U.S. in the fields of management education, science, medicine, and economics, among others. The number of leading physicians in medical schools and hospitals, investment bankers, and professors in academia boggles the mind. But the loftiest stars among them are the Indian-origin Nobel Laureates in physics, chemistry, medicine and economics who pursued their higher education in the U.S. and settled there. The troubling question is, why do our brightest minds fly to the West soon after graduation and mostly to the U.S.? The exodus from our premier institutions started in the late-1960s when private sector companies were few and there were few good jobs available in staid public sector undertakings. The government provided only a few hundred coveted positions each year in the Indian Foreign Service, Indian Administrative Service, and Indian Police Service. The rest joined revenue and allied services and lower-level grades which offered security and sinecure. The exodus continues. Even as we fellow Indians feel a sense of pride at the prosperity of the Indian community in the U.S., we cannot but help feel a tinge of sadness too. India, even after over seven decades of independence, is mired in poverty and inequality while our most gifted head for the West. When Non-Resident Indians — accomplished economists, scientists or CEOs — lecture India on what it should do to become a developed economy or how it should achieve equitable growth to alleviate poverty, there is a widespread feeling that they have lost their rights to give us such advice, even if it is sincere and well-intended, as they don’t live here. We who live here have to fight our battles and our injustice and make India a better place. An insecure diaspora But there is another lot of Indians too, millions of ordinary ones, largely in the U.S., who, cut off from their moorings and culture, turn inwards by building temples and forming regional as well as religious associations. This is an insecure diaspora which is not fully assimilated into the adopted westernised society and also alienated from its Indian roots. These NRIs have become more and more jingoistic and find false pride in spreading fake messages about ancient Hindu mythology — messages that Indians invented plastic surgery or rocketry or airplanes much before the West — and exhorting Hindus in India to be proud of their heritage and religion and guard against becoming a minority in their own nation. In doing so, they forget that they themselves are a minority in an alien land. At times like this, we feel a tinge of shame. Seshadri Kumar, an IIT graduate from Bombay, with an MTech and PhD from the U.S., who returned to India, wrote recently in The Wire that it is not surprising that a “dozen of the top CEOs in the world come from a country with 18% of the world’s population.” He wrote: “So forgive me if I don’t join the celebrations. But you know who should really be proud. The Chinese. Because Chinese people did not need to go to the U.S. to rise to the top. They were able to create success stories for themselves sitting in China. And unlike Indians, who are merely CEOs of companies founded by Americans, like Google, Microsoft and Twitter, the Chinese entrepreneurs founded world beating companies in China – Alibaba, Tencent, Didi, Xiaomi, Great Wall Motors, Huawei, ZTE, Foxconn and many others. When Indians do that, I’ll join the party.” That should wake up policymakers. What is India doing wrong? The greater glory is not in training engineers to become CEOs in the U.S. but in enabling a conducive ecosystem in India that creates world-beating companies and in building institutions that can produce Nobel Laureates. How can India create a climate that will prevent its best minds from going to foreign lands? The U.S., a nation of immigrants, is a capitalist, market-driven democracy. China is a communist country that has embraced capitalism along with authoritarianism and snuffed out freedom. Both have built a great economy and eliminated poverty. Which of these should India emulate? How can it progress while preserving its diversity and vibrant democracy? Should we not feel remorse that we have failed our youth who do not see a future here and fly to the U.S.after graduation? Shouldn’t we reflect about our own migrants and minorities and about their status in our society? Perhaps India is poor not because of a lack of resources or want of talent but because of its policies, polity and politics. G.R. Gopinath is farmer, soldier and entrepreneur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/basking-in-reflected-glory/article37876501.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Expanding India’s engagement envelope with Russia||Russian President Vladimir Putin’s visit to New Delhi for the 21st India-Russia Summit meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlights the constant efforts by both leaders to nurture and to provide further impetus to the ‘India-Russia Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership’. In the new grammar of multipolarity and globalisation, it is of utmost importance for dependable partners to ensure enduring sensitivity to their mutual interests. Strategic partnership More importantly, the robust partnership between India and Russia has come out of the shackles of the Cold War inheritance. A practical and result-oriented approach will pave the way for the most reliable partnership. The Putin-Modi meeting in an atmosphere of unprecedented regional and global transformations can ensure not only a new lease of life but can also generate more vitality to this trustworthy camaraderie. India-Russia relations have withstood the test of time and the ever-shifting nature of national interests. Relations between the two countries have deepened with time irrespective of the quagmire of realpolitik. This exceptional resilience is built on the firm foundation of strategic national interest and the synergy of geopolitics. In the post-Cold War era, India has emerged as an economic powerhouse and a key stakeholder in today’s global debate be it climate change, international trade, or the menace of terrorism. Russia with its global status and presence presents a win-win situation for deeper cooperation. This relation between both countries has evolved with time, deepening the integration and widening the breadth of the relation. A structure in place Russia has been one of India’s closest friends and allies with the signing of the “Declaration on the India-Russia Strategic Partnership” in October 2000 which unlocked new opportunities in strategic, science and technology, space, energy, nuclear ties, trade and commerce, culture and a people-to-people connect. For smooth functioning of this strategic partnership, it was governed by an institutionalised dialogue mechanism involving key stakeholders at the political and official levels. Mr. Putin’s visit to India in December 2010 heralded a new chapter in India-Russia relations when the Strategic Partnership was elevated to the level of a “Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership”. Convergence and divergence India and Russia have much convergence spanning different sectors. Russia is the key and principal supplier of arms and armaments to the Indian armed forces accounting for over 60% of weapons. It comprises the whole gamut covering the Indian Army, Indian Air Force and Indian Navy. India recently inducted the S-400 Triumf missile systems. Sukhoi Su-30 fighter aircraft, T-90 tanks, and the Talwar and the Krivak class stealth frigates are key weapons in the armoury of the Indian armed forces. The India-Russia defence cooperation has evolved from a buyer-seller model to new areas of military-technical collaboration. The BrahMos missile system was a successful collaboration of joint research, development, and production. Science and technology, nuclear, energy, space have been key driving forces. But changes in interests and capabilities being fuelled by geopolitical differences are widening the divergence between India and Russia. In terms of geostrategy, Russia is aligned with China and India is more anchored toward the United States. This dissonance was apparent in the Indian and Russian approach over Afghanistan. Bilateral trade has seen the two countries progressing from defence and energy to IT, pharmaceuticals, agro-industries, mineral and metallurgy, fertilizers, and infrastructure projects. India-Russia trade was valued at the U.S.$10.11 billion in 2019–20, but is not a true reflection of the potential that can be harnessed. Stability and diversity The ‘2+2’ mechanism has become the standard framework of cooperation to widen collaboration. The inaugural ‘2+2’ dialogue between the Foreign and Defence Ministers of the two countries promises to provide new vitality to the special and privileged strategic partnership. The uniqueness of this approach not only ensures result-oriented cooperation but also deliberates upon regional and global matters of mutual concerns and interests. At a time when global politics is in a state of flux, it becomes more important to have compatibility with geopolitical and geoeconomic realities along with the trust of the leadership. Therefore, this evolving political framework provides the necessary agility to the relationship in fine-tuning their differences and deepening their bonds. The Modi-Putin meeting has sent the unambiguous signal to the world that the India-Russia partnership is an incredible friendship ensuring stability and diversity. Defence, trade and investment, energy, and science and technology may be part of the agenda, but India and Russia need to work together in a trilateral manner or using other flexible frameworks, particularly in Southeast Asia and Central Asia. Their growing collaboration can be a force of stability and will bring more diversity to the region while strengthening multilateralism. Second, the two countries also need to look at peoples’ power — youth exchanges as well as deeper links in various fields including sport, culture, spiritual and religious studies. Finally, Buddhism can be an area where both countries can expand their interaction, where peace and sustainability can act as a balm in this turbulent world. Rajeev Ranjan Chaturvedy is Associate Professor at Nalanda University, Rajgir, Bihar. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/expanding-indias-engagement-envelope-with-russia/article37876497.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The way to tackle malnutrition||The National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-5 shows negligible gains in nutritional outcomes among under-five children. There has been tardy progress in reducing undernutrition, wasting and stunting. It is a national shame that even now, 35.5% of under-five children are stunted and 19.3% are wasted. Childhood anaemia has worsened from NFHS-4. Anaemia among adolescent girls and women aged 15-49 has also worsened. Though institutional delivery has gone up, early initiation of breastfeeding is static. If we are serious about a healthy new generation, we must ensure proper nutrition and growth.  While we need to monitor data for programmatic evaluation and correction, the question is, what type of data do we need to help starving children? Is it data on how much food is supplied, served and consumed or data on what went wrong and the prevalence of weight loss and growth stagnation? Do we need output or impact data or input and process data with their quality parameters? We need to monitor the input and process indicators. That is how we can rectify past mistakes. Data generated quickly can lead to mid-course corrections. Data-driven planning and strategies lead to good governance with accountability. The way forward So, what can we do? After monitoring the successful initiation of breastfeeding in the hospital, anganwadi workers, ASHA workers and Auxiliary Nurse Midwives must continue to monitor exclusive breastfeeding till the infant is six months old. Then they must record the timely initiation of complementary feeding with soft gruel. If this step is missed, growth faltering starts. And this is the critical period of growth that we cannot afford to compromise on. We must also ensure that there is take-home ration for under-three children through the regular supply of supplementary nutrition from the Integrated Child Development Services. We also need to know whether anganwadis are intermittently closed without any valid reason; whether the supervisors are erratic in field monitoring; how we can capture the regularity and quantity of dry rations supplied to anganwadi centres and schools for mid-day meals; whether there is live web-based centrally monitorable data on the movement of dry rations to anganwadis and schools; whether parents and teachers can monitor the serving of hot, cooked meals; whether self-help groups of women are involved in preparing the menu and procuring locally available vegetables, grains and millets to ensure dietary diversification and whether eggs are being denied or stopped for sociopolitical reasons. What goes into the family pot is also important. This depends on what parents can earn, and their purchasing capacity. So, it is important to monitor the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme workdays as well as the wages earned in areas where droughts frequently recur; where there is mass migration; and where there is prevalence of high malnutrition. The National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau was shut down some years ago. So, we don’t know what families can afford to cook and what they are cooking. Monitoring PDS Real-time monitoring of the Public Distribution System (PDS) will go a long way in ensuring food at the family level. Except in a few States where web-based portals are functioning, there is no monitoring of when PDS shops are open as well as the quantity and quality of dry rations supplied. Unfortunately, PDS is a hunger-mitigation mechanism; it does not enable nutrition security. The aim of the National Food Security Act of 2013 is to ensure that nobody goes to bed hungry and there is no starvation. The PDS is focused on procuring wheat and rice through the Food Corporation of India to distribute to families. Cereals fill the stomach and hunger is averted, but not malnutrition. There seems to be an aversion to facts and to reality that demands immediate action. Many established surveys seem to have methodological errors. The Consumer Expenditure Survey results of 2017-18, for instance, were withheld. Both Poshan Abhiyan and the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana need to be monitored with the help of the community to ensure sustainable nutrition security. Little of what is happening in the field right now reaches programme managers and policymakers for timely action. So, what is the point of crying over spilt milk? Malnourished children do not need repeated surveys that confirm our apathy and heartless inaction. K.R. Antony is a pediatrician, former health and nutrition specialist for UNICEF and Independent Monitor, National Health Mission, based in Kochi. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-way-to-tackle-malnutrition/article37876503.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Hate in the name of halal||Ever since the BJP-led government assumed power at the Centre in 2014, the party unit in Kerala has been desperately trying to elbow its way into the State’s traditionally bipolar polity. The BJP has been able to increase its vote share marginally among the Nair and the Ezhavas/ Thiyyas of the Hindu community in the subsequent three-tier local body, Assembly and Lok Sabha polls. But despite a high-voltage campaign and even fielding ‘Metroman’ E. Sreedharan, the party failed to retain even its lone segment Nemom in the 2021 Assembly polls. Now, after the Sabarimala issue, Sangh Parivar organisations are spearheading the halal controversy aimed at creating animosity towards Muslims among sections of Hindus and Christians in time for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Changing demography The halal issue has to be read with the changing demography of Kerala, with Muslims now constituting over 26% of the population and appropriating the strong economic and political clout which the Christians earlier enjoyed. Incidentally, the campaign is also centered around Muslim food rituals. This was after a video of a Muslim clergyman blowing air into the first plate of food to make it “holy” before serving it to guests during the Uroos at the Tajul Ulama Dargah went viral on social media. Though halal boards do not appear in hotels as extensively in north Kerala as claimed by the Sangh Parivar outfits, Hindutva and Christian radical groups are tagging the names of hotels owned by Muslims across the State on social media. At the same time, Islamist groups are countering the campaign, asking the Muslim community to avoid hotels owned by the Hindus and Christians. As business started to plummet, some hotel owners in Kozhikode filed a complaint with the police on the growing menace. Subsequently, the halal tags that appeared in non-Muslim regions in the southern and central parts also started vanishing. With the controversy in the air, S.J.R. Kumar, national vice chairman of the Sabarimala Ayyappa Seva Samajam and former State president of the Vishva Hindu Parishad, approached the Kerala High Court seeking a direction to stop the distribution of prasadam made of what was claimed to be halal jaggery in Sabarimala. Incidentally, if Christian and Muslim communities jointly opposed the ban on beef slaughter earlier endorsed by the BJP-led State governments, the current issue has seen Christian groups with the tacit support of Bishops of the powerful Syro-Malabar Church openly coming out against the “dominance” of the Muslim community. Several factors such as the booming Gulf money that benefited the Muslim community, the agrarian crisis, and the crash in the prices of cash crops resulted in the new social, political and economic milieu of the State. Opposing the agenda The ruling CPI(M), which had previously organised beef festivals across the State, is trying to oppose attempts to communalise food habits. Its youth wing organised a food street programme with various types of dishes, including chicken, beef and pork. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the halal controversy was part of an agenda set by the Sangh Parivar to foment division in the society. As for the Congress, it is still playing hide and seek with the issue without clearly taking a stand, especially when its leaders are coming under public and social media scrutiny. The hate campaign in the name of halal does not augur well for the State; it will only further vitiate the religious divide on a new spectrum of Islamophobia. biju.govind@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/hate-in-the-name-of-halal/article37876505.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||End the impunity||Notwithstanding the rationale provided by the Union Government and the armed forces for the horrific killing of six coal miners and the deaths of nine civilians and a soldier in the aftermath of the incident in Mon district, the residents of Nagaland, and indeed many in North-east India, will only read this incident as an outcome of impunity accorded by the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, or AFSPA. It is no wonder that two Chief Ministers — Conrad Sangma of Meghalaya and Neiphiu Rio of Nagaland — have immediately demanded its repeal; the Act remains in place in Assam, Nagaland, Manipur, three districts of Arunachal Pradesh, and areas falling within the jurisdiction of eight police stations of the State bordering Assam, with the authority to use force or open fire to maintain public order in “disturbed areas”. The firing on the vehicle carrying the coal miners in Oting village, home to the Konyak Naga community, was carried out by soldiers of the ‘21 Para Commando Unit’, and attributed to a case of mistaken identity. This action should be problematic even within the purview of AFSPA, as soldiers who open fire can do so only after warning the person found in contravention of the law. The Army’s and later Union Minister of Home Amit Shah’s contention that the vehicle was shot at only after the miners refused to “cooperate” when asked to stop seems incongruous as this was not an action at the Myanmar border seeking to take on armed infiltrators but an operation well within the country’s boundaries. That an ambush was purportedly laid on insurgents of the NSCN (Khaplang-Yung Aung) faction following an intelligence input and yet a civilian vehicle which offered no hostility was fired upon, suggests that the armed forces were too trigger-happy and showed barely any intent in securing order, which is the purpose of their presence in the region. The Government has promised an inquiry by a Special Investigation Team. It is clear that the continued reliance on AFSPA as a way to impose public order must be brought to a halt and the long-pending demand for its repeal acceded to. Unfortunately, the incident could put a spanner in the Naga peace talks between the Government and the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) and seven Naga National Political Groups for a solution that has been in the works. The secretive nature of the talks, largely due to the Government’s smoke and mirrors approach to the Peace Accord, has not helped matters either. An approach that shows genuine remorse for the actions, brings the culprits to book and seeks rapprochement with the Konyak Nagas through compensation for the violence, besides a renewed purpose to conclude the peace talks with the Naga groups, is now the only imperative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/end-the-impunity/article37876489.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Cuffed and collared||The sentencing of Myanmar leaders to four years in prison on two separate charges on Monday, by a court run by the military junta, appears to be just the first of a number of sentences aimed at putting State Councillor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, President Win Myint and other government leaders in custody for decades. The verdicts that relate to cases dealing with “incitement against the military” and for “breaching Covid laws” are frighteningly farcical. One relates to speeches made during protests against the military’s decision to dismiss the results of last November’s elections, which Ms. Suu Kyi’s party, the National League for Democracy (NLD), clearly won. The other, even more ridiculous, is for breaching COVID-19 protocols at an election rally when she was photographed wearing both a face mask and a shield throughout her campaign. The sentences, and the ones that will follow, are meant not only to ensure an end to the NLD and Ms. Suu Kyi’s public life but are also part of an effort to break the spirit of democratic groups. Over the past eight months since the military coup in February, more than 1,300 civilians protesting the military’s actions have been killed, and thousands including the entire NLD government arrested, with detentions, trials and sentences carried out in secret. In more evidence of the military’s brutality, three people were reportedly mowed down by a military vehicle on Sunday, when they took part in a peaceful protest. The military’s messaging is not aimed only domestically, however. Its actions are meant to challenge the international community as well, which has failed to take any action against Myanmar’s leadership in the past few years: first on its ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya that drove a million out to refugee camps in Bangladesh (which the NLD government was complicit in), and then its actions against the democratically elected government itself. Since February, the UN Security Council has done little other than issuing statements appealing for an end to the violence and the restoration of democracy, and to suspend the nation’s UN seat. While China, which has deep links with the military and a considerable investment in the China-Myanmar Economic Corridor, has sought to protect the junta from sanctions, the U.S. has proven ineffective in ensuring a different outcome as well. It is ironic that Ms. Suu Kyi’s sentencing comes in a week when the U.S. hosts a “Summit for Democracy”. The Modi government too, given its worries about losing a foothold in the neighbourhood, and its need for cooperation with the Myanmar military over the restive North-eastern border, has chosen silence over any serious attempt to change the course of events in Myanmar. Much like its inability to influence outcomes in Afghanistan, India’s ineffectual posture over the developments in Myanmar could also cause it considerable reputational damage as a regional leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cuffed-and-collared/article37876490.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||India recognises Bangla Desh govt.||New Delhi, Dec. 6: The Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, announced in Parliament to-day — amidst an unprecedented display of national solidarity and support for the Government — India’s recognition of Bangla Desh which will give an entirely new complexion to the present Indo-Pakistan war and the deadlocked debate in the Security Council over the current developments in the sub-continent. As expected, the Yahya regime in West Pakistan broke off diplomatic relations with India within hours of its recognition of the new People’s Republic of Bangla Desh, the eighth most populous country in the world ranking next only to China, India, the Soviet Union, the U.S., Indonesia, Brazil and Japan. But the historic step taken by India has dramatically altered the whole political picture by putting the Bangla Desh freedom struggle in better focus and opened the way for a similar recognition of the eight-month old Republic by the Soviet Union and other friendly countries, thereby exploding the legalistic myth still being fostered by the U.S. and China that the Bangla Desh crisis is an internal problem of Pakistan. After announcing India’s recognition, the Prime Minister placed before Parliament the text of a communication received from the Head of the Bangla Desh Government declaring that the basic principles of its State policy would be democracy, socialism and the establishment of an egalitarian society in which there would be no racial or religious discrimination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-recognises-bangla-desh-govt/article37876498.ece
07 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Sensex, Nifty slide 1.65% as Omicron raises uncertainty||Benchmark equity indices slumped 1.65% on Monday on fears of a rapid spread of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus and its potential adverse impact on the economy. Technology, automotive and pharmaceutical stocks were the worst hit, while all sectoral indices ended in the red. The BSE S&P Sensex slid 949.32 points to 56,747.14 as all 30 stocks on the index ended with losses. The NSE Nifty 50 index fell 284.45 points to 16,912.25. “Ambiguity surrounding Omicron continued to dent the morale of domestic investors ahead of the important RBI policy announcement on Wednesday,” said Vinod Nair, head-research, Geojit Financial Services. “The domestic market is expected to be volatile as the near term will be dominated by developments on new variant and, RBI and [U.S.] Fed policy decisions. Market expects RBI to hold on to the accommodative policy considering short-term uncertainties,” he added. However, a change [in policy] was expected in the first half of 2022, which the Indian market was factoring in, while global equities were ‘trading mixed’, Mr. Nair observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-nifty-slide-165-as-omicron-raises-uncertainty/article37876473.ece
07 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Fertilizer subsidy to cost 62% more on input costs: Crisil||The Centre’s fertilizer subsidy bill is set to soar 62% over the budgeted amount to Rs. 1.3 lakh crore this fiscal due to the massive rise in raw material prices despite lower demand, says a report. An unprecedented spike in natural gas prices and other raw materials is set to inflate the fertilizer subsidy bill by a whopping 62% or Rs. 50,000 crore to Rs. 1,30,000 crore this fiscal over the budgeted Rs. 79,530 crore. This is despite sales volume declining 10% from the record level last fiscal, Crisil said in its report on Monday. To encourage farmers to use fertilizers for better crop yield, government keeps the sale price significantly lower than market rates, and reimburses the difference to manufacturers directly. But for long, budget provisioning for such subsidies has been inadequate, leading to regular build-up of arrears. However, last fiscal, the government cleared arrears through an additional disbursement of Rs. 62,638 crore helping firms nurse balance sheets to better health. However, what followed was a massive spike in input costs, the biggest of which was of natural gas. Crisil expects the price of natural gas, the feedstock that accounts for 75-80% of the total cost of production for urea plants, to rise more than 50% this fiscal. This is on top of the prices of key raw materials like phosphoric acid and ammonia, for non-urea fertilizer companies, that are already up 40-60% over the past fiscal. All this will now have to be absorbed by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fertilizer-subsidy-to-cost-62-more-on-input-costs-crisil/article37876469.ece
07 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘Developers bought 1,757 acres amid pandemic’||Indian real estate developers and related entities sealed about 45 separate land deals for more than 1,757 acres across the top seven cities between Q3 2020 and November 2021, according to real estate consulting group Anarock. According to data collated by Anarock, developers including M3M Group, Godrej Properties, K Raheja Corp., and Shapoorji Pallonji Group were the top land buyers last year, even as the COVID-19 pandemic dented economic growth. While M3M acquired land worth Rs. 900 crore in Noida, Godrej Properties bought land worth Rs. 700 crore in Bengaluru. Of the total transacted land area, about 69% or 1,205 acres are proposed to be developed into multiple residential projects across these cities. The total development potential of these deals works out to at least 45-50 million sq.ft. of residential area, according to the data analysed by Anarock. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region led with 11 residential deals for 768 acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/developers-bought-1757-acres-amid-pandemic/article37876471.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘PSBs restructured MSME loans worth Rs. 58,500 cr.’||Public sector banks (PSBs) effected restructuring of 9.8 lakh accounts of micro, small and medium enterprises, due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, amounting to Rs. 58,524 crore as of November 26, the government said in Parliament on Monday. About 8.5 lakh accounts of individual borrowers, accounting for Rs. 60,000 crore have also been restructured.  Measures taken by the Centre and the Reserve Bank to aid retail and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) borrowers in the wake of the pandemic included a COVID-19 regulatory package granting moratorium of six months on payments of all instalments of term loans and deferment of recovery of interest on working capital from March 1 to August 31, 2020. Under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme, banks and non-banking financial firms had sanctioned loans amounting to Rs. 2.97 lakh crore as on 26 November, as per the reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/psbs-restructured-msme-loans-worth-rs-58500-cr/article37876476.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Normalise coal supply to captive power plants’||The Indian Captive Power Producers Association (ICPPA) has urged the government to normalise coal supplies to captive power plant-based industries, pointing out that if the supply of the fossil fuel was not restored immediately, it would lead to an irrevocable collateral damage of the national assets. In its representation to the government, ICPPA highlighted the issue of insufficient coal rake supplies to CPP-based industries at levels of 40-50%. In the last few months, the supplies meant for CPPs and industries had either been stopped or significantly curtailed for diversion to the power sector, which had led to a perilous situation for other coal-based power generators, adversely impacting their industrial operations, ICPPA said. The decision had left the CPP-dependent industry with no time to devise mitigation plans for sustainable operations, forcing CPPs to curtail generation or come to a standstill. On an average, captive power plant-based industries are getting less than 50% of coal against secured linkages and Coal India Ltd. (CIL) auctions, the association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/normalise-coal-supply-to-captive-power-plants/article37876479.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Delays reported in 144 central infra projects’||As many as 144 central infrastructure projects have reported delays in completion in the current financial year and the total cost overrun for these is Rs. 14,960.02 crore, Parliament was informed on Monday. Statistics Minister Rao Inderjit Singh said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha that the total anticipated cost of these 144 projects was Rs. 1,82,453.84 crore, an increase from Rs. 1,67,493.82 crore estimated originally. The Minister told the Upper House that major steps undertaken to ensure the completion of central sector infrastructure projects without time and cost overruns included periodic review of projects under PRAGATI through video conferencing; rigorous project appraisal; and online computerised monitoring system. The steps also included setting up of revised cost committees in the Ministries for fixing responsibility for time and cost overruns; regular review of infrastructure projects by the concerned administrative ministries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/delays-reported-in-144-central-infra-projects/article37876483.ece
07 December 2021||COIMBATORE,||Indo Count to buy GHCL unit for Rs. 576 crore||Home textiles manufacturer and exporter Indo Count Industries said it would acquire GHCL’s home textiles business for Rs. 576 crore by way of a business transfer agreement. The acquisition would be funded through a mix of internal accruals and debt and the transaction was expected to be completed by March next year, subject to necessary approvals and completion of condition precedents in the agreement, Indo Count said in a press release. GHCL has a fully operational home textiles manufacturing facility with an annual capacity of 45 million metres at Vapi in Gujarat, Indo Count added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indo-count-to-buy-ghcl-unit-for-rs-576-crore/article37876480.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||No shortage of coal in country: Joshi||There is no shortage of coal in the country, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi informed Parliament on Monday. Replying to a query in the Rajya Sabha, Mr. Joshi said that coal stocks at generating plants had depleted due to some interruption in supply of dry fuel due to heavy rains, increased power demand, and less electricity generation by imported coal-based power plants. Coal stock at power plants depleted to 7.2 million tonnes (MT) (sufficient for four days) as of October 8, 2021. Subsequently with increased coal supplies, the coal stock started increasing and has now reached 17.29 MT (sufficient for nine days) as of November 29, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/no-shortage-of-coal-in-country-joshi/article37876481.ece
07 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Muthoot Microfin gets $50 million equity funding from GPC||Muthoot Microfin Ltd. (MML), the microfinance business of the Muthoot Pappachan Group, said it had secured $50 million investment from Greater Pacific Capital (GPC), which would be deployed in financial inclusion. “This is the largest equity financing in the Indian microfinance sector since 2019,” MML said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/muthoot-microfin-gets-50-million-equity-funding-from-gpc/article37876472.ece
07 December 2021||Mumbai,||Shriram Properties to unveil Rs 600 crore IPO on Dec 8||Shriram Properties Ltd. has announced the opening of an initial public offering (IPO) on December 8, at a price band of Rs. 113-118 per equity share. The IPO comprises issuance of equity shares aggregating up to Rs. 600 crore, which includes a fresh issue of up to Rs. 250 crore and an offer-for-sale aggregating up to Rs. 350 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/shriram-properties-to-unveil-rs-600-crore-ipo-on-dec-8/article37876474.ece
07 December 2021||New Delhi,||Interglobe||InterGlobe Aviation, the parent firm of IndiGo airline, has issued a notice to shareholders for an EGM on December 30 to amend articles in the shareholders' agreement that say one promoter needs the approval of another before selling shares to a third party. The EGM has jointly been requisitioned by entities owned by promoters Rakesh Gangwal and Rahul Bhatia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/interglobe/article37876477.ece
07 December 2021||Mumbai,||Tata Motors to hike prices of commercial vehicles from Jan||Tata Motors has announced an increase in the price of its commercial vehicles in the region of 2.5%. The price increase will be effective January 1, 2022, across M&HCV, I&LCV, SCV and Bus segments. “The increase in prices of commodities such as steel, aluminium and other precious metals, in addition to higher cost of other raw materials, has incited this price rise,” the company said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-motors-to-hike-prices-of-commercial-vehicles-from-jan/article37876485.ece
07 December 2021||Jeddah,||Lewis Hamilton wins a chaotic thriller||Lewis Hamilton kept his hopes of an eighth World championship title alive with a thrilling victory in a dramatic and, at times, chaotic Saudi Arabian Grand Prix here on Sunday. The result left the seven-time champion level on 369.5 points with title rival Max Verstappen ahead of the final race in Abu Dhabi next weekend. Crashes, interruptions Hamilton was behind Verstappen for much of the 50-lap race which was stopped twice because of crashes and interrupted numerous times by the safety car and virtual safety car. But Hamilton, nursing a damaged front wing caused by a collision with Verstappen, came through late, to claim his eighth win of the season and the 103rd of his career. The title will be settled in Abu Dhabi, although if neither finishes in the points, Verstappen, with nine race wins, will take the title. Five-second penalty Verstappen finished second, 11.825secs behind in spite of being given a five-second penalty after colliding with the Mercedes star. Hamilton’s teammate Valtteri Bottas pipped Alpine’s Esteban Ocon on the line for third place to give Mercedes a 28-point lead in the constructors’ championship. It was the first time Jeddah was hosting a Grand Prix and the problems the drivers, including Verstappen, had had in practice and qualifying were apparent again.  The results: 1. Lewis Hamilton (Mercedes) 2hr 06min 0:15.118; 2. Max Verstappen (Red Bull) at 11.825; 3. Valtteri Bottas (Mercedes) 27.531; 4. Esteban Ocon (Alpine) 27.633; 5. Daniel Ricciardo (McLaren) 40.121; 6. Pierre Gasly (AlphaTauri) 41.613.   7. Charles Leclerc (Ferrari) 44.475; 8. Carlos Sainz (Ferrari) 46.606; 9. Antonio Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo) 58.505; 10. Lando Norris (McLaren) 1:01.358; 11. Lance Stroll (Aston Martin) 1:17.212; 12. Nicholas Latifi (Williams) 1:23.249; 13. Fernando Alonso (Alpine) one lap; 14. Yuki Tsunoda (AlphaTauri) one lap; 15. Kimi Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo) one lap.   Fastest lap: Hamilton 1:30.734, 47th.   Retirements: Mick Schumacher (Haas), George Russell (Williams), Nikita Mazepin (Haas), Sergio Perez (Red Bull), Sebastian Vettel (Aston Martin).   World championship standings: Drivers: 1. Verstappen (Ned) 369.5 pts (9 wins), 2. Hamilton (GBR) 369.5 (8 wins), 3. Bottas (Fin) 218, 4. Perez (Mex) 190, 5. Leclerc (Mon) 158, 6. Norris (GBR) 154, 7. Sainz (Esp) 149.5, 8. Ricciardo (Aus) 115, 9. Gasly (Fra) 100, 10. Alonso (Esp) 77, 11. Ocon (Fra) 72, 12. Vettel (Ger) 43, 13. Stroll (Can) 34, 14. Tsunoda (Jpn) 20, 15. Russell (GBR) 16, 16. Raikkonen (Fin) 10, 17. Latifi (Can) 7, 18. Giovinazzi (Ita) 3, 19. Schumacher (Ger) 0, 20. Kubica (Pol) 0, 21. Mazepin (Rus) 0.   Constructors: 1. Mercedes 587.5 pts, 2. Red Bull 559.5, 3. Ferrari 307.5, 4. McLaren 269, 5. Alpine 149, 6. AlphaTauri 120, 7. Aston Martin 77, 8. Williams 23, 9. Alfa Romeo Racing 13, 10. Haas 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lewis-hamilton-wins-a-chaotic-thriller/article37876662.ece
07 December 2021||MUMBAI,||India wraps up proceedings in quick time||Forty-three minutes and 69 balls was all it took for India’s spinners to wipe out New Zealand’s lower order and register a 372-run win — India’s biggest Test victory in terms of runs — to pocket the two-Test series 1-0 at the Wankhede Stadium here on Monday. Riding on the off-spin wizardry of Jayant Yadav and R. Ashwin, India picked up the remaining five wickets for just 27 runs on the fourth morning to bundle New Zealand out for 167 runs and add 12 vital points to its World Test Championship kitty. New Zealand being 400 runs adrift with five wickets in hand and two full days remaining, the challenge for Henry Nicholls and Rachin Ravindra was to try and frustrate India’s spin trio. Beginning of the end But the off-spinners — employed from the start with left-handers at the crease — spelt doom yet again on a turning track. After being swept for successive boundaries in the seventh over, Jayant rectified his length and all Ravindra could manage was a nick to Cheteshwar Pujara at second slip. That opened the floodgates as the game was all over in the next 28 balls. Jayant, who has been under Ashwin’s tutelage for half-a-dozen years, picked up two in his next over. He first got one to turn sharply into Kyle Jamieson to trap him leg-before and then tossed it up to Tim Southee to tempt him into a charge down the wicket, miss the line and be bowled. When Mayank Agarwal caught a bat-pad lob to dismiss Will Somerville in Jayant’s next over, he was on the verge of a five-wicket haul and keeping Ashwin waiting to join Anil Kumble as India’s second bowler with 300 Test wickets at home. Ashwin’s landmarks But Ashwin fittingly reached the landmark and ended the match in his next over. He enticed Nicholls into stepping out for Wriddhiman Saha to whip the bails off. Ashwin also became the second-quickest to earn 300 Test wickets at home, taking just one Test more than Muttiah Muralitharan’s 48. That he was adjudged Player-of-the-Series for an incredible 10th time in his career would have come as the icing on the cake. While Jayant bowled an impressive spell of 6-2-19-4 on the day, Ashwin continued his first-innings love affair with single digits in a spell that read 5.3-2-7-1. Future assignments The victory would have given the Indian camp a sense of satisfaction after losing to New Zealand in the World Test Championship final in June and failing to close out the first Test in Kanpur last week. While the Black Caps will head home and enjoy the Christmas break before taking on Bangladesh at home in the New Year, India will leave for South Africa next week for a thre-Test series starting December 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-wraps-up-proceedings-in-quick-time/article37876601.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||After eight games, Carlsen firmly in the driving seat||We are just past the halfway point of the Magnus Carlsen-Ian Nepomniachtchi World Chess Championship in Dubai. The first five games got everyone excited. Ian looked confident and well prepared. Magnus attempted one surprise after another, but far from buckling, Ian reacted well. With White, he got an advantage in every game and though Magnus managed to draw, the trend looked promising. With Black, he equalised effortlessly after Magnus came up with a good novelty against the Petroff. He seemed to be prepared for everything. The Catalan opening in Game 2 was the closest he came to landing a blow. He looked Carlsen’s equal and the only concern was that he hadn’t been able to capitalise on his advantage with White. The main thing though was that he hadn’t come close to losing. Game 6 was dramatic. The match could have gone almost any way in that game. Magnus came armed with another rare continuation, continuing his strategy of drawing Ian out of his preparation. And Ian responded very well, with 11…b5 and 12…Nb4. A few moves later, he had an opportunity to sharpen the struggle with 18…e5, but instead went for a level position with Nd4. As has been the case so far in the match, Ian continued baiting Magnus. 23..a5 and especially 25…Rac8 kept the tension at its peak. Neither player would back down and with limited time, the mistakes started flowing. Ian missed 29…Bb2   (Ian missed 29…Bb2)  And then Magnus missed two excellent chances to play Rc5. It’s not winning, but it would have been extremely hard for Ian to find the right way even if the players were not in time pressure. On move 33, Magnus missed his biggest chance yet and instead of 33.Rcc2, he went for 33.Rd1 and now 35…Bxb4 would have given him a big advantage.   35…Bxb4 leaves Ian a healthy pawn ahead . Instead he went 35…e5 and missed the idea even on the next move. In both cases, his approach would have paid off and he would have been in the driver’s seat. By 39…Qxb4, the game had turned around again. 40.Rdc2 would have been winning for White. Clearly, both of them were struggling with their nerves. In my opinion, Magnus’s wins were harder to find over the board and Ian squandered two relatively easy chances. His moves were obvious, one is tempted to ascribe his reaction to his impetuousness. An old problem of his, which he had controlled well until this point. They had drawn each other well out of their comfort zones! After move 40, the position could only favour Magnus. He could try forever without any risk. Even so, Ian found a safe setup and his far advanced  a  -pawn should have safely led him to a draw. Instead of repeating 52…Kh6 he suddenly went for a tactical trick.   52…Qe4 instead of just waiting gave Magnus fresh hope.  This was totally unnecessary — he had no hopes of a win, so why look for a different fortress when you already have one? A pattern was emerging. Excellent defence followed by thoughtless blunders. The position wasn’t easy to win, but Magnus is a genius at this. He regrouped his pieces and went for the kill. There is only one player in the world who could have won this game with less than a minute left on the clock, but sadly for Ian, he was facing him. Magnus repeated moves to add a minute on the clock, then used it up, then did it again. After 7 hours and 48 minutes, Ian’s resistance was finally broken in the longest game in the history of the World Championship!   136.Ng7 and Ian resigned the longest game in the history of the world championship.  The game finished past midnight and everyone was drained. It was so engrossing that not a single spectator left the hall till it was over. The situation was now looking bleak. With a one point deficit, Ian’s inability to sharpen the position with White was a serious handicap. How was he going to win a game? Still, there were 8 games remaining and something could be done. The players played Game 7 a mere 15 hours later and it was understandable that they didn’t have the energy for a big struggle. The 8th game was a disaster. Magnus showed great psychological cunning by opting for a near harmless line. It looks harmless, but Black has to navigate one or two mines before equalising. Ian reacted intelligently at first. 9…h5 was unexpected and threw Magnus off enough that he went for 10.Qe1+ allowing Ian to equalise easily with Qe7. Ian went for Kf8 and had a slightly unpleasant position. Nothing prepared anyone for the meltdown that was about to occur. Ian suddenly blundered with 21…b5, and lost without a fight. Suddenly a match which looked difficult looked hopeless. Two points down against a player who hardly ever loses a game. Ian showed great sportsmanship by politely answering all questions at the press conference. He must be feeling devastated. A match which only two days ago looked so close, had taken a disastrous turn. Ian Nepomniachtchi will have to summon every ounce of his strength to continue fighting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/after-eight-games-carlsen-firmly-in-the-driving-seat/article37876591.ece
07 December 2021||Nassau,||Hovland emerges the surprise champion||A horror final round for Collin Morikawa allowed Viktor Hovland to grab the Hero World Challenge title, at the Albany Golf Course here on Sunday. Morikawa, who started the day with a five-shot lead, returned an abysmal four-over 76 to finish tied fifth. Morikawa could have become World No. 1 had he won the trophy. Third title of the year Havland, who won his third tournament of the year, surged ahead with eagles on the 14th and 15th holes. The Norwegian holed a bunker shot on the 14th, and made a long putt on the next to place one hand on the trophy. “When I first teed off, I didn’t think winning was even in question. But after I made three birdies in a row at the end of the front nine, I looked at the leaderboard and saw I was tied for the lead or maybe one shot behind. That’s when I knew that I had a chance if I played well,” Havland said. Havland, 24, earned $1 million from a total purse of $3.5 million. He thanked former Norwegian pro Henrik Bjornstad for inspiring him to dream big. “I took a lot of inspiration and motivation from Henry Bjornstad, Norway’s first player on the PGA Tour. I was lucky that he did some work for our federation when I was growing up. I was about 13 or 14 when I got to pick his brain a little bit. It’s not often that junior golfers in Norway get to speak with a PGA Tour pro,” Havland said. Morikawa lost his way with double bogeys on the fourth and sixth holes. The day started with a bizarre incident, when the first group comprising Henrik Stenson and Jordan Spieth were penalised two shots each for playing the wrong tee. They hit their tee shot from the 17th hole, believing it to be the ninth. The tee positions were reshuffled for the final round. Both Stenson and Spieth saw the funny side of it at the media interaction. “They switched things around and put 17th on the ninth tee box today, and ninth was in a different place. Being first out, we didn’t pay attention and just motored along. It was only two shots each, so it wasn’t a big deal,” Stenson said.  The scores (top five): 270: Viktor Hovland (68, 69, 67, 66); 271: Scottie Scheffler (71, 68, 66, 66); 273: Sam Burns (71, 65, 68, 69), Patrick Reed (68, 69, 67, 69); 274: Justin Thomas (67, 72, 71, 64), Collin Morikawa (68, 66, 64, 76).   (The writer is in Nassau at the invitation of Hero MotoCorp)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hovland-emerges-the-surprise-champion/article37876597.ece
07 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sindhu & Spinny do their bit for talent promotion||Spinny, the full stack used car retailing platform with whom World badminton champion P.V. Sindhu has signed a partnership, is giving the proceeds from the sale of her car (amounting to Rs. 12.05 lakh) to support and train emerging talent at the Hyderabad-based Suchitra Badminton Academy, where Sindhu has been training for long. This is part of Sindhu’s partnership with Spinny to promote and encourage young Indians in different fields. “India has become one of the world’s top badminton countries — a position we will retain, given the many new stars training now. I have been practising at Suchitra Academy for a long time and I feel this fund will support young talent,” she said. Pradeep Raju, founder of Suchitra Badminton Academy, said the goal had always been to do something to promote the love of sports and help young badminton players hone their skills at a world class facility. Spinny CEO Niraj Singh said the collaboration with Sindhu was motivated by her values which mirrored the company’s. Imran Khan, who bought the car from Spinny, said: “What made it even more special was that it is Sindhu’s car and that we are contributing towards India’s upcoming badminton talent.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-spinny-do-their-bit-for-talent-promotion/article37876655.ece
07 December 2021||Leeds,||Yorkshire turns to Darren Gough||Former England bowler Darren Gough was appointed director of cricket at Yorkshire on Monday and vowed to rebuild the club that recently got rid of its entire coaching staff amid a racism scandal. Gough spent 15 years at Yorkshire across two spells and has become a leading figure in broadcasting since retiring in 2008. Slew of resignations Yorkshire, English cricket’s most successful team, turned to Gough after announcing the departure of 16 people — including Martyn Moxon, Yorkshire’s director of cricket since 2007, and head coach Andrew Gale — on Friday. They followed the resignations of club chairman Roger Hutton and then chief executive Mark Arthur in the wake of criticism of Yorkshire over its handling of racism allegations made by former player Azeem Rafiq. “Like many, I have followed how the club handled the recent racism allegations with sadness and anger,” Gough said. “I want to play my part in rebuilding cricket in Yorkshire and I am looking forward to working with the exceptionally talented group of players here.” Gough, who will be in the role until the end of the 2022 season, will relinquish his media duties and one of his immediate priorities will be overseeing the recruitment of a new coaching team. Positive action Kamlesh Patel, who replaced Hutton as chairman, has said “significant change is required” for the club to regain trust. “I share Lord Patel’s vision for Yorkshire County Cricket Club, and the collective determination to face the issues head on with a series of positive actions,” Gough said.  Like many, I have followed how the club handled the recent racism allegations with sadness and anger Gough||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yorkshire-turns-to-gough/article37876659.ece
07 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||JWC a dry run for 2023 WC, says Vineel Krishna||The success of the men’s hockey Junior World Cup during COVID times at the Kalinga Stadium here can be a ‘dry run’ for the senior men’s World Cup to be held at Bhubaneswar and Rourkela in January 2023, says Odisha Sports Department Secretary R. Vineel Krishna. Krishna expressed confidence that the state, which hosted the 2018 World Cup here, would be able to hold the 2023 event successfully. “It's a long way. Let's hope by then COVID will not be there. But assuming that there is a COVID situation by that time, since we have hosted a JWC, it is actually a dry run for us for that event,” Krishna told The Hindu . “Apart from the pandemic, the JWC was hosted on very short notice. The big infrastructure was ready, but you always needed to do some repair or the other to bring it to shape. The final go-ahead came only in October last week from the Ministries of Health and Sports and also from FIH based on the COVID situation. “It happened during the pandemic, so it added to the challenge. We had taken all precautions in terms of protocols and testing. We are very satisfied team-wise (we did it) without any positive cases in spite of the fact that they travelled from all across the world and they were here for a pretty long time.” Krishna was confident that the new 20,000-capacity hockey stadium in Rourkela would be completed in time. “It will be completed in time and we will have sufficient time to conduct a test event. “It is a steel structure. Currently the fabrication is happening at a different location. Once that is there, probably from December or January, you will start seeing the super structure.” Krishna said work on the airstrip and accommodation for various officials in Rourkela will be completed in time for the 2023 showpiece event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jwc-a-dry-run-for-2023-wc-says-vineel-krishna/article37876663.ece
07 December 2021||PUNE,||Sodhi knocks out third seed||Saheb Sodhi knocked out third seed Tanapatt Nirundorn of Thailand 6-2, 2-6, 7-5 in the boys’ first round of the Aryan Pumps ITF Asian junior tennis tournament here on Monday. Tanapatt had won the tournament at the same venue last week, but Sodhi was able to pull through in a tricky climax. In the pre-quarterfinals, Sodhi will play compatriot Anargha Ganguly.  The results (first round):   Boys: Rushil Khosla bt Skandha Rao 6-2, 6-1; Aryan Lakshmanan bt Aryan Sutar 6-2, 6-2; Chirag Duhan bt Artur Khairutdinov (Kaz) 7-6(6), 6-1; Aditya Nandal bt Parv Nage 6-3, 6-4; Max Batyutenko (Kaz) bt Rethin Pranav 6-3, 6-4;   Denim Yadav bt Daksh Agarwal 7-6(7), 6-1; Daniil Felker (Kaz) bt Muni Ananthmani 6-2, 6-4; Anargha Ganguly bt Jaishnav Shinde 7-6(5), 6-0; Saheb Sodhi bt Tanapat Nirundorn (Tha) 6-2, 2-6, 7-5; Yuvan Nandal bt Maanav Jain 4-6, 7-5, 6-3; Shingo Masuda (Jpn) bt Nikhil Mukherjee 6-0, 6-4; Islam Orynbasar (Kaz) bt Aryan Shah 2-6, 6-3, 6-4.   Girls: Kashish Bote bt Pari Chavan 6-4, 3-6, 6-4; Ruma Gaikaiwari bt Kotisha Modak 6-2 6-2; Hayu Kinoshita (Jpn) bt Riya Uboveja 6-2, 6-2.   Shruti Ahlawat bt Nemha Sarah Kispotta 6-1, 6-1; Honoka Umeda (Jpn) bt Anya Jacob 1-6, 6-2, 6-2; Kristi Boro bt Chahana Budhibhatti 6-1, 6-7(5), 6-0.   Zhanel Rustemova (Kaz) bt Tejasvi Dabas 6-4, 3-6, 7-5; Sandugash Kenzhibayeva (Kaz) bt Lakshmi Prabha 1-6, 6-4, 6-1; Sonal Patil bt Lakshmi Gowda 7-5, 6-0.   Sara Saito (Jpn) bt Nandini Dixit 6-2, 6-1; Suhitha Maruri bt Priyanshi Panigrahi 6-0, 6-0; Erkezhan Arystanbekova (Kaz) bt Bhumi Shekhar 6-0, 6-0; Yu-Yun Li (Tpe) bt Aarni Reddy Yellu 6-1, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sodhi-ousts-third-seed-tanapatt-nirundorn/article37876671.ece
07 December 2021||London,||A three-way battle for second spot in Group B||Porto, AC Milan and Atletico will battle it out for the second qualification spot behind Liverpool in Group B when the final round of group games in the Champions League kicks off on Tuesday night. Two-time former European champion Porto hold a one-point edge over both rivals ahead of the visit of Atletico. Milan hosts a Liverpool side that Jurgen Klopp could rotate heavily ahead of a busy festive schedule. Current La Liga champion Atletico is in danger of not advancing to the knock-out stage, as it sits last in Group B. It has to win at second-place Porto on Tuesday and hope that AC Milan draws or loses at home against group-winner Liverpool. Thirteen-time European champion Real Madrid, meanwhile, will be among those looking to clinch first place in its group, which is more likely to secure an easier match in the last 16. Madrid hosts Inter Milan on Tuesday in a match between two teams who have already secured a last-16 spot and who can both still win Group D. Madrid leads Inter by two points so a point will be enough for Carlo Ancelotti’s team. Club Brugge and RB Leipzig have no chance of reaching the last 16 but they can still join Borussia Dortmund and Sheriff in the playoffs for the Europa League knockout phase. Club Brugge and Leipzig are fighting for third place in Group A behind group winner Manchester City and runner-up Paris Saint-Germain. Leipzig will host Man City on Tuesday in an empty stadium due to coronavirus restrictions. PSG hosts Club Brugge in the other group game. Both Leipzig and Brugge have four points.   Tuesday’s matches  RB Leipzig vs Man City, PSG vs Club Brugge (11.15 p.m.) Ajax vs Sporting, Real Madrid vs Inter Milan, Porto vs Atletico, Milan vs Liverpool, Dortmund vs Besiktas, Shaktar vs Sherrif (1.30 a.m. Wednesday)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-three-way-battle-for-second-spot-in-group-b/article37876674.ece
07 December 2021||Chennai,||TNCA stops giving tickets to MRC||The Annual General Meeting of the Tamil Nadu Cricket Association was held on Monday with some key decisions being taken. The general body was informed about the progress of the renovation of the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium. The TNCA had recently secured permission for demolishing the old structures including a section of the Madras Cricket Club and is now awaiting approval for building new structures including a state-of-the-art pavilion. According to sources, in a significant move, it was decided not to give tickets to Madras Race Club for matches from now on. The Madras Race Club made a substantial contribution when the stadium was built for which it received 500-600 tickets for every match held at Chepauk. The move was proposed by Minerva CC and was accepted in Monday’s meeting. “It was felt that with the new stadium in place, it was no longer needed to continue the old practice,” a source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnca-stops-giving-tickets-to-mrc/article37876733.ece
07 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rahi Sarnobat shows her class to clinch gold||Rahi Sarnobat was a class act in the climax, as she unleashed a perfect five on the last round to beat 14-year-old Naamya Kapoor 37-31 in the women’s 25-metre sports pistol in the 64th National shooting championship here on Monday. The gold was secure after two shots, but Rahi was unstoppable. The 31-year-old Rahi had qualified in the fourth place with 581, but was at home in the final in which shots of 10.2 or more alone fetch a hit. Having had a remarkable run in the World Cups this season with gold and silver, Rahi was comfortable in handling the competition. World junior champion Naamya did well to get past Manu Bhaker and qualification topper Rhythm Sangwan (585) to bag the silver. Esha Singh, T.S. Divya, Abhidnya Patil and Shri Nivetha were the others to make the final. Naamya was able to assert herself in the junior competition, which was a thriller as the top three were tied on 27. Esha took the bronze as she had a tie-break score of two as compared to four each by Manu and Naamya. There was a tie for the gold, as both Naamya and Manu were level on 30. In a fitting climax, Naamya got all the five hits, while Manu missed the last.  In the women’s rifle 3-position event in Bhopal, Shriyanka Sadangi won the gold, beating Mansi Kathait by 1.4 point. Qualification topper Sift Kaur Samra (1171) was overtaken to the bronze by Ayushi Podder. Olympian Anjum Moudgil shot 1161 and missed the final as Shrishti took the last berth with the same score, and a better number of inner-10s, 52x to 48x. Anjali Bhagwat was placed 10th with 1159, in a strong field of 131 shooters.  The results:   25m sports pistol: Women: 1. Rahi Sarnobat 37 (581); 2. Naamya Kapoor 31 (578); 3. Manu Bhaker 25 (580).   Juniors: 1. Naamya Kapoor 30(5) 578; 2. Manu Bhaker 30(4) 581; 3. Esha Singh 27 (582).   50m rifle 3-position: Women: 1. Shriyanka Sadangi 454.9 (1167); 2. Mansi Kathait 453.5 (1163); 3. Ayushi Podder 440.9 (1164).   Juniors: 1. Nischal 452.9 (1159); 2. Ashi Chouksey 450.9 (1165); 3. Sift Kaur Samra 440.7 (1171).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahi-sarnobat-shows-her-class-to-clinch-gold/article37876801.ece
07 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,||‘More needs to be done for women’s football in Kerala’||Kerala’s campaign came to an early end at the National senior women’s football championship. The host went out of the competition in the league stage itself. That wasn’t much of a surprise, though. For, the women’s game isn’t exactly thriving in the State. Kerala coach Amrutha Aravind believes much has to be done if women’s football has to move forward in the State. “We have to focus on the grassroots level to begin with and we also need to form a departmental team (of the State government),” she told The Hindu on Monday. “If a department like the Kerala Police forms a team, it would be a huge boost for the game.” She said Kerala also needed more women coaches. “You require good coaches at the grassroots level,” she said. “The decision to start an under-14 academy for girls at Kochi is a positive development.” She thinks the revamped State women’s league is another step in the right direction. “There is a lot of potential in Kerala,” she said. “We have to learn from States like Tamil Nadu, which has come a long way due to hard work. In my days with the Kerala team, we used to score big wins against the likes of Mizoram and Tamil Nadu.” Amrutha has witnessed Tamil Nadu’s growth as a powerhouse in Indian women’s football from close quarters. She was the coach when Sethu FC won the Indian Women’s League in 2018-19. “Sethu and the various academies in Tamil Nadu have played big roles in making the State a force to reckon with in the women’s game,” she said. “I was expecting Tamil Nadu to do much better here.” Setback Tamil Nadu was knocked out by Odisha in the quarterfinals on Sunday. “Odisha is another State where women’s football is taken seriously,” she said. “Yes, our team should have done better in this tournament, but the loss to Mizoram in the first match proved costly. We were handicapped by the injury to T. Nikhila in that game.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/more-needs-to-be-done-for-womens-football-in-kerala/article37876988.ece
07 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Maheep, Ajay shine||K. Maheep Kumar’s 135 (115b, 7x4, 8x6) and K. Ajay Kumar’s spell of five for 17 helped Gajuwaka Greens Cricket Club score a thumping 243-run win over Vizianagaram District Cricket Association in the semifinals of 24th The Hindu Trophy one-day cricket championship at the Port Stadium here on Monday. Batting first, Gajuwaka posted an imposing 354 for six in 50 overs. Apart from Maheep, the other main contributors were R.A.R. Achuta Rao (62, 75b, 6x4, 1x6) and K.V. Ram Kishore (52, 31b, 6x4, 2x6). In reply, Vizianagaram folded up for 101 in 23.4 overs in the face of medium-pacer Ajay’s accrate spell. He was given good support by G. Appana, who claimed three wickets. For the loser, N. Satish (33, 14b, 2x4, 4x6) was the top-scorer.  The scores:   Gajuwaka Greens 354/6 in 50 overs (K. Maheep Kumar 135, R.A.R. Achuta Rao 62, K.V. Ram Kishore 52. S. Durga Prasanth 3/73) bt Vizianagaram DCA 101 in 23.4 overs (N. Satish 33, K. Ajay Kumar 5/17, G. Appanna 3/36).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maheep-ajay-shine/article37877131.ece
07 December 2021||Rome,||Juve sinks lowly Genoa||Juan Cuadrado and Paulo Dybala scored as Juventus eased to a 2-0 win over Andriy Shevchenko’s Genoa on Sunday to register its fourth victory in five Serie A games. Cuadrado struck direct from a corner that sailed over the head of Genoa goalkeeper Salvatore Sirigu in the ninth minute, with Dybala drilling a second late on to send Juve up to fifth place. The victory begins an important month for Massimiliano Allegri’s side which will hope a run of favourable fixtures can allow it to close the seven-point gap to the Champions League places. Juve is 11 points adrift of leader AC Milan ahead of matches against Venezia, Bologna and Cagliari in the run up to Christmas and the winter break. Genoa has won once in 16 games this term, picking up just one point in four outings since the appointment of former Ukraine and Milan star Shevchenko. It has yet to score under the 2004 Ballon d’Or winner and did not attempt a single shot against Juve. Ciro Immobile grabbed a pair of goals in Lazio’s 3-1 victory at Sampdoria. Sergej Milinkovic-Savic swept Lazio ahead on seven minutes before Immobile squeezed in a scrappy second. The Italy forward scored again before the break but Milinkovic-Savic was sent off in the second half and Manolo Gabbiadini netted a consolation for Sampdoria.  The results: Serie A: Sampdoria 1 (Gabbiadini 89) lost to Lazio 3 (Milinkovic-Savic 7, Immobile 17, 37); Juventus 2 (Cuadrado 9, Dybala 82) bt Genoa.   La Liga: Rayo Vallecano 1 (Cabrera 55-og) bt Espanyol 0; Elche 3 (Fidel 13-pen, Morente 75, Fernandes 90+3) bt Cadiz 1 (Alex 90+1); Levante 0 drew with Osasuna 0; Celta Vigo 1 (Aspas 11) lost to Valencia 2 (Duro 19, Gomez 53) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juve-sinks-lowly-genoa/article37876676.ece
07 December 2021||Manchester,||De Bruyne must fight for his spot: Guardiola||Pep Guardiola has warned Kevin De Bruyne that he faces a fight to win back a regular place in the Manchester City side after a campaign marred by injuries and a coronavirus infection. The Belgium midfielder returned to action as a substitute against Watford on Saturday but has been told he will start Tuesday’s Champions League match in Leipzig, City’s final fixture in Group A. The 30-year-old suffered ankle ligament damage at Euro 2020 that prevented him from starting a Premier League game until late September but was just starting to find his form when he tested positive for Covid-19.  Despite his pedigree, De Bruyne will have to battle for a starting spot at a club where competition for starting places is intense, with Bernardo Silva described by Guardiola as the best player in the Premier League at the moment. “He has to come back and fight for a position like everyone else,” said Guardiola. “Kevin doesn’t have to show absolutely anything to me but he has to come back to being himself and show himself he’s back, and do what he has to do. Like he has done the last five or six years, every single three days. “Of course the competition is so necessary and he knows it, but Bernardo knows it, and (Ilkay) Gundogan knows it, and all the wingers and strikers know it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-bruyne-must-fight-for-his-spot-pep/article37876677.ece
07 December 2021||Surat:,||Hattangadi stars for Goa||Kaushal Hattangadi (96, 128b, 17x4, 1X6), missed out on a well-deserved ton by four runs as Goa finished on 222/6 on the first day its Cooch Behar u-19 clash against Tamil Nadu here on Monday. Shivansh hits century At Visakhapatnam, Shivansh Sharma slammed 110 ( 110b, 16x4, 5x6 ) to help Jammu & Kashmir score 205 in the first innings on the first day against Puducherry in a Elite Group E match. In reply, Puducherry was 93 for one at close.  The scores:   At Surat: Goa 222/6 in 90 overs (Kaushal Hattangadi 96, Udit Yadav 53 batting) vs Tamil Nadu.   At Visakhapatnam: J & K 205 in 52 overs (Shivansh Sharma 110, B. Jyothi Swaroop 3/37, S. Rohan 3/78) vs Puducherry 93/1 in 26 overs (Neyan Kangayan 61 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hattangadi-stars-for-goa/article37876731.ece
07 December 2021||CHANGANASSERY,||Thrissur boys, Thiruvananthapuram girls march into semifinals||Shaking off a few mid-match jitters, Thrissur defeated Pathanamthitta 95-65 and marched into the boys’ semifinal of the 45th State junior basketball championship at the St. Berchams College indoor stadium here on Monday. Thrissur, with many of its boys from Sree Kerala Varma College, sparkled with its fast and focused play. Ball handler C.K. Abhinav, Deepak Vettikattu and Georjoice Riju sliced through the Pathanamthitta defence and scored at will and the team quickly raced to a 10-point lead at 28-18 early in the second quarter. The team put up a strong defence too and often the Pathanamthitta boys were forced to attempt outside shooting. But Pathanamthitta bounced back strongly. Two threes, from Govind Manoj and centre Jordan Cherian, and some smart defensive rebounding by the latter saw the side come close. A little later, some quick running through the defense and shooting from Jermy Sebastian and Sreehari Vijayan saw Pathanamthitta even grab the lead at 34-33.  Thrissur was shocked but it regrouped well. Abhinav was in full flow with his speed and quick shooting in the last two quarters and turned the match around sharply. He scored 35 points and in the end, Thrissur won by a huge margin. Meanwhile, girls’ defending champion Thiruvananthapuram entered the semifinal where it will meet Kozhikode while Thrissur will take on host Kottayam.  The results (quarterfinals):   Boys: Thrissur 99 (C.K. Abhinav 35, Karthik Jayasankar 23) bt Pathanamthitta 65 (Sreehari Vijayan 19, Jordan Cherian 18).   Thiruvananthapuram 68 bt Malappuram 32.   Kozhikode 69 (Krishnalal Mukesh 19) bt Ernakulam 55 (Anwin Mattom 17).   Girls: Thiruvananthapuram 63 (R. Abhirami 15, Nandhana Mohan 15) bt Alappuzha 41.   Thrissur 94 (M.S. Hrdya 20) bt Kannur 18.   Kozhikode 62 (Avani Nanda 22) bt Pathanamthhitta 39 (Aiswarya Susan Mathew 17).   Kottayam 52 bt Ernakulam 26 (Amanda Maria 16).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thrissur-boys-thiruvananthapuram-girls-march-into-semifinals/article37876984.ece
07 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Indian cricket is in safe hands, says Kohli||On a day India regained the No. 1 Test ranking, captain Virat Kohli has hailed the younger crop of the group for delivering the goods under pressure. “To play Test cricket you need passion and intent. Indian cricket is in safe hands when you have so many people who have that. People are hungry to play Tests well. It’s nice to see youngsters want to feel what it is to play Tests,” Kohli said on Monday after India’s win. Toughest format “That’s how they understand why it’s called the toughest format, most respectful format. They want to do well in India and outside. That attitude is what is going to help us do better going ahead.” Despite many positives, Ajinkya Rahane’s form continues to be a concern with the vice-captain having averaged just 26 since the start of 2020. But Kohli continued to support his deputy, although Rahane didn’t feature in the second Test owing to a ‘hamstring injury’. “I can’t judge his form. No one can judge it. Only the individual knows what he is going through. We need to back them in these moments, especially when they have done well in the past,” Kohli said. New Zealand’s stand-in captain Tom Latham said, “The longer you go on in India the tougher gets and we know how good they are in their own conditions. From our batting point of view, It’s important that the batters do the the bulk of the work. Unfortunately, we were five-down overnight (on Sunday)... and it could not work out (that way) today.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-cricket-is-in-safe-hands-says-kohli/article37876594.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||JFC downs ATK MB||Jamshedpur FC came up with a fine show of aggression and composure to prevail over the last year’s runner-up ATK Mohun Bagan 2-1 in an Indian Super League fixture at Bambolim on Monday. Jamshedpur scored once in each half through Seimenlen Doungel and Alexandre Lima while Mohun Bagan pulled one back through Pritam Kotal in the final moments. Jamshedpur FC showed the right intent and made a positive start attacking and pressing ATK MB. The opening goal in the 37th minute resulted from one such attack when the hard working Jitendra Singh released Doungel unmarked inside the ATK MB box. The experienced winger unleashed an angular shot that gave Amrinder Singh in the ATK MB goal no chance. ATK Mohun Bagan put up a much improved show following the interval but the equaliser remained elusive as both its highly rated attackers – Krishna and Hugo Boumous – were kept under leash by the JFC defence. Lima fetched JFC’s insurance goal in the 84th minute immediately after arriving as a substitute and made Kotal’s 89th minute goal a consolation for ATK MB.  The result: Jamshedpur FC 2 (Doungel 37, Lima 84) bt ATK Mohun Bagan 1 (Kotal 89) .   T uesday’s match: SC East Bengal vs FC Goa, 7.30 p.m .   SC East Bengal vs FC Goa, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jfc-downs-atk-mb/article37876603.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||In search of a maiden win||SC East Bengal will be gunning for its first win of the tournament when it hosts the currently bottom-ranked FC Goa in an Indian Super League match at the Tilak Maidan Stadium, Goa, on Tuesday. The match pits two of the least successful sides of the league. East Bengal has two points from as many draws while FC Goa is yet to open its account following three successive losses. East Bengal showed good organisation and tact in a goalless draw against two-time champion Chennaiyin FC and will hope for improvement against Goa. Coming in to the tournament with a new team that was hurriedly created under former Real Madrid Castilla coach Jose Manuel Diaz, East Bengal is yet to settle down to a playing system. “It’s a good start for improving our level. We could have won the match and we hope that we win a match in the near future,” Diaz had said after the match against Chennaiyin. Goa coach Juan Ferrando is still waiting for his team to click as a performing unit. The Gaurs lost their previous outing against North East United FC after conceding deep in to second-half added time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/in-search-of-a-maiden-win/article37876799.ece
07 December 2021||Mysuru,||Jo Jo routs Vidyaranya||Paras (four for 39 and four for 45) starred in Jo Jo CC’s emphatic 10-wicket win over Vidyaranya CC in the KSCA Mysore zone first division two-day league here.  The scores:   I div.: Vidyaranya 133 in 39.3 overs (R.S. Yogesh 38, A. Abhay Rangan 29, Shantaraj 5/37, Paras 4/39) & 156 in 48.2 overs (Surendra Rathore 45, R.S. Yogesh 30, G.L. Yashas 4/36, Paras 4/45) lost to Jo Jo 219 in 44.2 overs (Vinay Sagar 50, G. Harshavardhan 34, K. Arun 31, Vineeth Manjunath 4/58, N. Bharath 3/48) & 72/0 in 6.3 overs (Vinay Sagar 45 n.o.). Jo Jo 5 points, Vidyaranya 1.   II div.: SKRSC 114 in 28.1 overs (Bhojaraj 30, R. Raaj 4/8) lost to Bellur 115/1 in 17.5 overs (V. Chiranth 55 n.o., N. Sanjay 36) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jo-jo-routs-vidyaranya/article37877082.ece
07 December 2021||BENGALURU,||Memorable win for Karnataka||The Karnataka under-25 cricket team scripted a memorable three-wicket win, after chasing down a mammoth 346-run target against Mumbai in a quarterfinal match of the BCCI State-A Trophy at the Alur Grounds near here on Monday. Luvnith Sisodia’s blistering 20-ball 48 at the top got the pursuit off to a great start, before an 83-run seventh-wicket stand between Shubhang Hegde (38, 45b) and Manoj Bhandage (67 n.o., 40b) in 62 balls sealed the tie in the home side’s favour. Mumbai’s total swelled largely due to middle-order batters O.H. Jadhav (78, 46b) and Khizar Dafedar (72, 29b). Nischith Rao’s four-wicket haul (10-2-47-4) for Karnataka was the best bowling effort of the day. Karnataka will next meet Punjab in the semifinal at Alur on Wednesday. The other last-four clash will be between Gujarat and Baroda at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium.  The scores: Mumbai 345/6 in 50 overs (Bhupen Lalwani 30, Divyaansh 76, Rudra Dhanday 74, O.H. Jadhav 78, Khizar Dafedar 72, Nischith N.Rao 4/47) lost to Karnataka 351/7 in 49.4 overs (Luvnith Sisodia 48, B.U. Shivakumar 52, K.V. Aneesh 56, Kruthik Krishna 65, Shubhang Hegde 38, Manoj Bhandage 67 n.o.).   Baroda 206 in 48.4 overs (Atharv Karulkar 36, A.B. More 31, Shivalik Sharma 49, M.R. Solanki 32) bt Bengal 181 in 49 overs (Ankur Paul 44, Kazi Junaid Saifi 60, Ram Bharwad 4/22).  The Karnataka under-25 cricket team scripted a memorable three-wicket win, after chasing down a mammoth 346-run target against Mumbai in a quarterfinal match of the BCCI State-A Trophy at the Alur Grounds near here on Monday. Luvnith Sisodia’s blistering 20-ball 48 at the top got the pursuit off to a great start, before an 83-run seventh-wicket stand between Shubhang Hegde (38, 45b) and Manoj Bhandage (67 n.o., 40b) in 62 balls sealed the tie in the home side’s favour. Mumbai’s total swelled largely due to middle-order batters O.H. Jadhav (78, 46b) and Khizar Dafedar (72, 29b). Nischith Rao’s four-wicket haul (10-2-47-4) for Karnataka was the best bowling effort of the day. Karnataka will next meet Punjab in the semifinal at Alur on Wednesday. The other last-four clash will be between Gujarat and Baroda at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium.  The scores: Mumbai 345/6 in 50 overs (Bhupen Lalwani 30, Divyaansh 76, Rudra Dhanday 74, O.H. Jadhav 78, Khizar Dafedar 72, Nischith N.Rao 4/47) lost to Karnataka 351/7 in 49.4 overs (Luvnith Sisodia 48, B.U. Shivakumar 52, K.V. Aneesh 56, Kruthik Krishna 65, Shubhang Hegde 38, Manoj Bhandage 67 n.o.).   Baroda 206 in 48.4 overs (Atharv Karulkar 36, A.B. More 31, Shivalik Sharma 49, M.R. Solanki 32) bt Bengal 181 in 49 overs (Ankur Paul 44, Kazi Junaid Saifi 60, Ram Bharwad 4/22).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/memorable-win-for-karnataka/article37876656.ece
07 December 2021||Brisbane,||Arch-rivals poised for fierce battle||After a build-up overshadowed by controversies and COVID, Australia and England’s hotly anticipated five-Test Ashes showdown gets under way on Wednesday in Brisbane with Joe Root’s men confident of defying recent history to cause an upset. Few series between the old rivals have witnessed such troubled preparations, with the tour threatened early on over Australia’s tough COVID-19 quarantine rules. With that hurdle cleared, the hosts were rocked by a text-message scandal that led to the downfall of skipper Tim Paine, while English cricket has been engulfed in claims of institutional racism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arch-rivals-poised-for-fierce-battle/article37876592.ece
07 December 2021||Johannesburg,||India’s SA tour schedule||Cricket South Africa (CSA) on Monday announced the updated schedule of India men’s tour of South Africa, beginning from Dec. 26.   The updated schedule:   Three Tests: Dec. 26-30 (Centurion); Jan. 3-7 (Johannesburg); Jan. 11-15 (Cape Town).   Three ODIs: Jan. 19 (Paarl); Jan. 21 (Paarl); Jan. 23 (Cape Town) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-sa-tour-schedule/article37876595.ece
07 December 2021||Bloemfontein:,||South Africa-A 249/7||South Africa-A, after choosing to bat first, was 249 for seven in 89 overs against India-A at close on the first day of the third ‘Test’ here on Monday. Navdeep Saini took three wickets.  The scores: South Africa-A 249/7 in 89 overs (Sarel Erwee 75, Tony de Zorzi 58, Khaya Zondo 56, Navdeep Saini 3/42) vs India-A .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-africa-a-2497/article37876598.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Loyola triumphs||Loyola College won the University of Madras A zone men’s kabaddi tournament at D.B. Jain College, beating Gurunanak College 28-9.   Ethiraj College defeated Soka Ikeda 25-18, 25-11 in the Madras University B zone volleyball tournament recently.    Tamil Nadu’s Rithvik Sanjeevi finished runner-up in the Yonex-Sunrise Bangladesh International Challenge 2021 held in Dhaka on Sunday. Rithvik, lost to his Indian compatriot Abhishek Saini 21-15, 21-18 in the final. P. Sri Krishna and B. Navneeth finished runner-up in the men’s doubles, losing to Sri Lanka’s Sachin Das and G. Buwaneka 15-21, 9-21 in the final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/loyola-triumphs/article37876730.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Olariche scores a hattrick||Prince Olariche scored a hat-trick as Kickstart FC walloped Bangalore Independents 4-0 in the BDFA super division league, at the Bangalore Football Stadium on Monday.  The results: Kickstart FC 4 (Prince Will Emika Olariche 57, 64, 66, Sudheer Kotikela 73) bt Bangalore Independents FC 0; Thanco's Students Union FC 2 (Taiki Yoshida 32, 42) bt ADE FC 0; Jawahar Union FC 2 (R.M. Siyadul Askar 70, Lijith 90) bt Bangalore Dream United FC 0 .      The Indian duo of Vijay Lancy and K.A. Aneesh defeated Denmark's Johnny Hast Hansen and Scotland's Mark Macay 21-18, 21-16 to win the 45+ men's doubles title at the BWF World Senior Championships in Huelva, Spain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olariche-scores-a-hattrick/article37876658.ece
07 December 2021||BENGALURU:,||Extra day’s races at Bengaluru||The Stewards of the Bangalore Turf Club, at their meeting held on December 3 have decided to conduct first extra race day on Saturday (December 11), 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/extra-days-races-at-bengaluru/article37876670.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||No partiality here||Is there not a sense of bias in the Lord's dealing with the asuras and the celestial beings, though He is held to be a 'suhruth' to all beings right from Brahma to the smallest ant? The Bhagavata Purana clarifies this lurking doubt and shows through its many narratives that the Lord is Absolute and always impartial, and that whatever He does is for the good of the beings and that He is never harmful, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. All beings are born of Him and the entire creation is driven by Kala, Time, Karma and the time for domination of the three guans, satva, rajas and tamas. As a result, differences of all kinds coexist, and each one's progress is rewarded according to individual merit. If, say, only a couple of students among a class of forty are able to score centum, can it be said that the examiner is partial to the top scorers? The warmth from the fire lighted in the cold season to keep oneself warm will be felt only by those who are in its vicinity and not by those away from it. Likewise, by merely standing under the Kalpavriksha tree, one's desires will not be granted unless he makes them specific. One has to approach God and seek His help if one desires His protection. In Prahlada's prayer to Narasimha, he rightly points out that the asuras had their rule over the celestial beings, including Brahma, for a long spell. Even though His help was sought and He alone had the power to quell all this, He abided by the dictates of time and karma. He waited for the time to be ripe and then intervened. In the Gita, He proclaims that He has no enemies and no friends; but to those who approach Him with love and devotion, He is always very much with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/no-partiality-here/article37876552.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 07:15 IST,||Sudoku — December 7, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-7-2021/article37877318.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Leader by example||On the last night of November, the words ‘Virgil was here’ were scrawled across the Miami sky in drone lights as a thousand people raised their eyes to remember and salute a designer whose contribution to fashion went far beyond, well, fashion and firmly into the realm of culture. Louis Vuitton showed Virgil Abloh’s Spring-Summer 2022 menswear collection to both the fashion community and the Virgil community — encompassing art, music, the whole darn internet — gathered together one last time for the man they loved. Big dreams and endless ambition I am far more affected by Abloh’s passing than I really should be, given that I have no strong personal connection to him, his designs, or indeed the brands he helmed. Perhaps it is because his great power, and what Abloh ultimately stood for, was possibility. He opened doors that have been sealed shut for as long as any of us can remember. He built a path for Black kids like him with big dreams and endless ambition, and showed them that it could be done. He was showing the world, yes, but it always felt like he was showing the kids. Everyone who speaks of Abloh speaks of his unrelenting optimism, his kindness and compassion, his generosity and warmth — qualities uncommon in fashion. After his passing, social media was awash with stories of him helping his community, giving back, offering words of encouragement, advice and mentorship to young ones. Having read a story in Vogue about a group of young skaters in Ghana, Abloh reached out quietly to the reporter to help build them a skatepark, which was completed this year. He fundraised regularly for organisations working towards reducing poverty and gun violence. Last year, he raised $1 million to launch his Post-Modern scholarship fund for Black students to make the fashion industry a more inclusive place, to help level the playing field. Many Virgil Abloh quotes have been referenced over the last few days. One of my favourites is where he talks about his brand Off-White: “It’s targeted towards the demographic that can afford it. But for the demographic that can’t afford it, it’s meant so that you start the competing brand that’s better than Off-White.” And perhaps the most special thing about Abloh was that he would happily help you do it.  Aishwarya Subramanyam is a journalist and former editor of Elle magazine .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/leader-by-example/article37877028.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Thank you, Virgil Abloh||When we look back at the history of civilisation, there will be some poignant defining moments in every field, moments which made the industry do a complete 180 degree on whatever was happening till then. When Virgil Abloh decided to purchase old Ralph Lauren ware for 40-odd dollars, paint over them, and then sell them for more than 10 times the price under his newly-christened brand, Pyrex Vision, few knew he would change the world of fashion forever — swiftly and so slickly that even the biggest of names would have to fall in (this new) line. But Pyrex wasn’t even about the profits; it had a far deeper message: one of representing youth culture and shining the light on what will soon come to be defined as streetwear. It was a mirror being held up to the fashion stalwarts, to show them just how apathetic the entire industry was to the voices of the current generation. Virgil with one little move, got everyone to sit up and take notice. And all this when he was barely getting started. ‘ I am not a fashion designer’  A young engineering graduate who also got an architecture masters along the way and interned at Fendi’s Rome office (with Ye, who earlier went by Kanye West) in the late noughties, Virgil never claimed to be a fashion designer. As he said, he was “riding the wave” every day in the world of design, observing it, studying it, and envisaging when and where it will break. In 2013, when he founded Off-White — which he defined as the grey between black and white — out of Milan, his influence grew. His first releases, although rooted in deep design with rich historical allegories, were interpreted in a manner that everyone could connect with. It was quite polarising — the zip ties, Caravaggio canvasses, Bauhaus influences, those ubiquitous double quotes. People either loved it or completely derided it, there was no sitting on the fence with what Virgil presented you with. He claimed to be merely an observer who took things as they were and changed them by 3%, so much so that they were recognisable and yet completely new. It reminds strongly of French artist Marcel Duchamp’s sculpture for an exhibition in Paris in 1917, wherein he sent them a common male urinal (signed R Mutt) but labelled it as a fountain. Virgil was not a copycat, as many had once alleged; he was just utterly brilliant at repurposing. To use a cliché, he saw things as they weren’t and questioned, why the hell not.    In the league of legends   The ultimate validation then would have come in the form of his many collaborations, from the Nike ‘The Ten’ series to being appointed the artistic director of menswear at Louis Vuitton, and also heading Kanye West’s brand, Donda, as creative director. But the real influence was on the street, where he encouraged people to come up with their own iteration of the Off-White design language. His double quotes have possibly become the most recognisable graffiti motifs since Banksy’s works. Since 2019, Virgil was battling a rare and deadly form of cancer and yet, through his arduous treatments and therapies, he kept it all tightly sealed and work continued as usual. His new collections were now the most awaited event of the year, as the cynosure of all fashion critics who would sit patiently, part waiting to tear him down but always curious to see just how next he would enthral and redefine the idea of fashion and style. One of his last shows, in 2020, was in Tokyo for Louis Vuitton, where he showcased some very obvious and heavy Ghanaian influences, a pandemic-era show where he asked some heavyweight questions about the connection between provenance and ownership. He didn’t shy away from being influenced by elements from his own life and everything around him; rather he embraced them with alacrity, pride and just that right amount of smirk-inducing chutzpah. On November 28, Virgil Abloh, 41, finally succumbed to the cardiac angiosarcoma that had tried to retard his success story but so far failed. The work he leaves behind will continue to evolve fashion and design forever. His works and influence will be spoken of in the same league as Warhol, Basquiat and Haring. He wasn’t a fashion designer, he was a visionary. He didn’t design, he interpreted it, extracted it and exhibited it from life quotidian and made us all sit up and notice all that we weren’t all along. Off-White, to me, isn’t just a brand that put streetwear all the way up there right next to haute couture, it was the language of a one-man tour de force which, now, we are all learning and will be using as the common medium of communication that talks across generations, cultures and socio-economic divides. If fashion ever wielded the power to unite and define an era, we are all living it right now, all thanks to the works of this one man. We should be so lucky. Thank you, Virgil, for everything.  Continued on page 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/thank-you-virgil-abloh/article37877029.ece
07 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Namaz issue: right-wing groups claim agreement with imams||The Gurugram Imam Sangathan in a joint meeting with the district administration and right-wing groups on Monday agreed not to hold Friday prayers at the 20 designated open places and instead sought new half-a-dozen open places on rent from the administration for offering the prayers. List of six places Muslim Rashtriya Manch convener Khurshid Rajaka, addressing mediapersons after the meeting late on Monday evening, said the prayers would not be offered at the 20 designated places involved in the controversy and the Imam Sangathan had submitted a list of six places to the district administration seeking their permission to hold namaz. Mr. Rajaka said they had offered to pay rent in return for using these public places for offering namaz. “We have made a written request for these places. It is for the administration to decide,” he said. He said there was never any opposition to offering of namaz in Gurugram, but the only demand was to hold the prayers in a more organised manner. The Imam Sangathan, in the letter to the administration, said they needed six public places on a temporary basis till the time they get back the properties belonging to the Waqf Board. The group also demanded that the administration help them get back the Waqf Board properties. ‘Imams responsible’ Expressing satisfaction over the development, Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti president Mahavir Bhardwaj said in case any issue comes up in the future with regards to offering namaz in the city, then their group would engage only with the Imam Sangathan and not those “trying to take political mileage out of the situation”. Mr. Bhardwaj said these imams would also be responsible to establish the identity of the devotees offering prayers. However, the Gurgaon Muslim Council, a Muslim group constituted to hold talks with the administration on the issue, rejected the agreement saying the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti has once again colluded with the Muslim Rashtriya Manch (an RSS wing) who got some Maulanas along with them and conspired to state that Friday prayers would not happen at any of the open places in Gurugram which had been approved by the administration since May 2018. The Council, in a statement, said that it would soon expose the conspiracy behind it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/namaz-issue-right-wing-groups-claim-agreement-with-imams/article37876836.ece
07 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan gears up to deal with Omicron||The Rajasthan Government is gearing up to deal with the spread of Omicron variant of COVID-19 after the detection of nine cases in Jaipur. Four members of a family, who had returned from South Africa a few days ago, and five of their acquaintances, who all tested positive for Omicron, were admitted to the Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) Hospital here on Monday. The nine persons had attended a wedding ceremony in Jaipur on November 28. Medical and Health Secretary Vaibhav Galriya said the relatives of the bridegroom, hailing from Sikar district’s Ajitgarh town, had been traced and were found to be COVID negative. The bride and her relatives had arrived from New Delhi. Of the 15 persons who tested COVID positive in Jaipur on Monday, a woman had arrived at Sanganer airport from Ukraine, while another person belonged to the family found infected with the Omicron variant. Both of them were shifted to the RUHS Hospital as a precautionary measure and their samples sent for genome sequencing. The State reported 29 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking the total number of active cases to 221. Mr. Galriya said intensive contact tracing had been launched to identify all the people whom the Omicron-infected persons are likely to haved met during the last few days. Quarantine centre The RUHS Hospital’s fifth floor has been dedicated to quarantine the Omicron-positive cases, while a back-up plan has been formulated for immediate availability of oxygen concentrators and cylinders. Besides, the beds with ventilators and oxygen support have been reserved in the hospital to meet an emergency situation. RUHS Hospital’s Superintendent Ajit Singh said 300 of the 1,200 beds in the hospital were equipped with the intensive care facilities and the number of oxygen-supported beds could be increased from 900 to 1,000, if needed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-govt-gears-up-to-check-spread-of-omicron/article37876833.ece
07 December 2021||Panaji,||MGP, Trinamool seal pre-poll pact ahead of Mamata’s visit||The Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) on Monday announced it would contest the forthcoming Goa Assembly elections in an alliance with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) as the combine pitched for good governance as its main poll plank to take on the ruling BJP. The alliance between Goa’s oldest regional party and the new entrant in State politics comes ahead of TMC chairperson and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s visit to the coastal State on December 13. MGP president Deepak Dhavalikar told reporters the details of the alliance would be announced at a later stage and added the two parties will be sharing seats for polls to the 40-member Assembly. He claimed there was a “wave” against the BJP in Goa and the two parties would seek to capitalize on it in the polls likely in early 2022. TMC Member of Parliament and Goa desk in-charge Mahua Moitra said the details of the alliance would be made public before Ms. Banerjee’s scheduled visit. Earlier in the day, Mr. Dhavalikar said the MGP’s central committee, a key decision-making body of the party, resolved to have an alliance with the TMC, a new player in Goa politics. CM candidate He said the combine’s Chief Ministerial face would be declared later. Mr. Dhavalikar said both the parties have joined hands to provide good governance to people. “There is a wave against the BJP. People want a change and we will be able to form the Government in the State,” he said. Mr. Dhavalikar said an impression was being created that the MGP did not have any option but to join hands with its former ally the BJP. “We have been always criticizing the BJP. Except the BJP, we were in talks with other parties like the AAP, the Congress and the TMC (for an alliance),” he said. The MGP chief said 60% of the people in Goa are yet to decide whom to vote for and hence an option has been provided to them in form of the alliance with the Kolkata-headquartered party. He said the MGP was capable of contesting the elections on its own, but considering the current political scenario in Goa, it decided to go for a pre-poll alliance. TMC vice-president Luizinho Faleiro expressed happiness over the alliance. The MGP, which has worked with the BJP in the past, has realised that joining hands with the TMC was the best thing for Goa and its people, he added. After the 2017 Assembly polls, the BJP, despite winning only 13 seats in the 40-member House compared to 17 bagged by the Congress, quickly stitched an alliance with the MGP and another regional outfit, Goa Forward Party, to form its government. The MGP, which had won three seats in the 2017 polls, is currently left with only one MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mgp-trinamool-seal-pre-poll-pact-ahead-of-mamatas-visit/article37876829.ece
07 December 2021||Hyderabad,||Drunk drivers leave two hospital staff, couple dead||Four persons, including a couple, were killed in two separate car accidents caused by drunk drivers in the city on Monday. In the first accident that took place around 1.20 a.m. on Banjara Hills Road No. 2, two men working in Rainbow Children Hospital were hit by a speeding Porsche car, being driven by a realtor Bazar Rohit Goud, 29, from Uppal, allegedly under the influence of alcohol. The victims Ayodhya Rai, 26, an office aide and Devendra Kumar Das, 29, an assistant cook, were crossing the road to return home after completing their shifts. While Rai was a native of Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh, Das hailed from Gopalpur in Odisha. Mr. Goud is the director of EVL Projects Private Limited. His blood alcohol content (BAC) was 70 mg/100 ml against the permissible limit of 30 mg/100 ml when he hit the duo, Banjara Hills ACP M. Sudarshan said. The impact of the accident was such that the victims were flung into the air before landing at a distance. Mr. Goud sped away from the spot and was later arrested by the police, who and booked him under Section 304 Part II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicles Act. Scooter hit In the second accident that occurred at Gandipet around 1 p.m., a couple travelling on a scooter was killed after they were run over by a Toyota Qualis driven by a 40-year-old man, whose BAC was 148 mg/100 ml. The Narsingi police said the victims Durgam Raju, 37, a milk vendor, and his wife Durgam Mounika, 28, were going in the wrong direction when the Qualis hit them. Driver Chittampally Sanjeeva was taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/drunk-drivers-leave-two-hospital-staff-couple-dead/article37876584.ece
07 December 2021||Mumbai,||Deshmukh’s wife, son move High Court||Maharashtra’s former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh’s wife Aarti and son Salil have moved the Bombay High Court challenging the provisional attachment of assets by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the money laundering and corruption case against Mr. Deshmukh. The petition was filed on November 20 and was heard on Monday by a division bench of Justices Gautam Patel and Madhav Jamdar. The plea was filed by advocate Inderpal Singh which challenged the original notice of attachment by the ED. The attached assets include a flat worth Rs. 1.54 crore and land worth Rs. 2.67 crore. The court said there are serious questions on the adjudicating authority and posted the matter to be heard on January 14, 2022. The case goes back to April 5, 2021, when the Bombay High Court directed the Central Bureau of Investigation to conduct a preliminary inquiry against Mr. Deshmukh. On April 21, ED registered a FIR against him under sections of the Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act. As per ED’s probe 11 companies were directly controlled by the family members of Mr. Deshmukh and another 13 companies came to light which are in the names of close associates of Deshmukh family. Bank account statements show that money flowing from companies indirectly controlled by Mr. Deshmukh’s family members to companies directly controlled by his family members. There are statements of bar owners and managers that reveal that dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze, currently lodged at Taloja Central Jail, collected money from them. Mr. Vaze in his statement also revealed that he was getting direct instructions from Mr. Deshmukh to do so. Mr Vaze also alleged that he was told to collect Rs. 3 lakh per month from various bars and restaurants and that he handed over Rs. 4.70 crores from December 2020 to February 2021 to Kundan Shinde (personal assistant) on behalf of Mr. Deshmukh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/deshmukhs-wife-son-move-high-court/article37877045.ece
07 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha CM keeps launching one scheme multiple times||Having remained home-bound for almost of the last year and a significant part of this year on account of COVID-19 pandemic, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik is on a whirlwind tour of the State to compensate for his absence in the public. Since August 20, the 75-year-old leader has criss-crossed the State starting from Malkangiri to Balasore. At all the meeting he is distributing smart health cards to beneficiaries under Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY), a scheme he launched on August 20. Mr. Patnaik has unveiled the same scheme separately for 23 districts. In most of these meetings he does not say much as his recorded speeches is played. For some districts, he has been doing it through video conferencing mode. The smart card under BSKY facilitates cashless treatment. About 3.5 crore people, belonging to poorer section of the society, are likely to be benefited by it. Women members of the family can get treatment cost up to Rs. 10 lakh in a year.With the smart card, people can also avail quality healthcare services in as many as 200 hospital in the country, including Odisha. While Opposition political parties had dubbed it as blatant misuse of State exchequer, the ruling Biju Janata Dal justifies it by saying it is required to make people aware about their entitlements. Healthcare in rural Odisha is still not in the best of shapes due to large scale vacancies of doctors and paramedics in government health institutions and the new smart card system may not fulfil the intended objectives fully as BSKY beneficiaries need to travel to the private healthcare facilities for treatment. But, the BJD’s political managers are confident that the smart health card system may prove another game-changing welfare programme like the Rs. 1 per kg rice scheme and it will further strengthen party’s position among voters. “The Smart Health Card is well thought-out programme to lessen burden of villagers. The health facilities in Odisha’s rural sector have improved significantly over the years compared to other States. The smart health card is just supplementing it,” said Lenin Mohanty, BJD spokesperson. With Mr. Patnaik travelling to districts to distribute the health cards, the BJD hopes that the CM’s image of being a pioneer of varied welfare schemes is also getting registered in the minds of voters. Though inauguration functions are official programmes, the mobilization of local leaders and villagers, especially women, seems to be prodding the BJD cadres to become active before two crucial elections — panchayat and civic body polls. ‘It’s a pattern’ Political observers point out that the Chief Minister has been following a pattern. Just before every election, the State Government comes up with programmes, which help him and other Ministers to get closer to people through official platforms while the party does not have to spend from its coffer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-cm-launches-same-scheme-again-and-again/article37876811.ece
07 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘Ambedkar would be pained to see that SC/ST still need reservation’||Fondly remembering Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, Subhash Kashyap, former secretary-general of three Lok Sabhas said, “If Dr. B.R. Ambedkar was alive today, it would have pained him to see that the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes still need reservation. He was for a casteless and classless society.” Talking about the Father of the Indian Constitution on his death anniversary, Mr. Kashyap said, “It would have pained him to see that people are increasingly wanting more reservation for their castes. The reservation for SC and ST was agreed by the Constituent Assembly on the condition that it will not be extended to any other group of people. He repeatedly said he was for a casteless and classless society.” As the chairman of the drafting committee, credit is given to Dr. Ambedkar for the Indian Constitution but he had once told Mr. Kashyap, one-to-one, that he was not happy with the final version of the Constitution. Very strong words He also said this in the Rajya Sabha and had used very strong words, “I would be the first person to burn the Constitution. It is no good.” The Constitution expert, Mr. Kashyap explained, why the first Law Minister of India thought this and said, “Dr Ambedkar had told me whether the Constitution is good or bad it will depend upon the persons who are called to work on it.” Referring to the Constitution, Dr. Ambedkar had said, “We built the temple for gods to be installed there but I am disappointed.” Mr. Kashyap, who got a chance to meet Dr. Ambedkar several times in the Parliament library said, “He was an intellectual person, a jurist, a scholar and very human.” ‘Quota not forever’ Mr. Kashyap went on to say, “Dr. Ambedkar did not spell out too many things but on the point of reservation for SC and ST, he had said that 10 years is too short a period and it should be 40 years, but thereafter the Parliament should have no power to extend reservation by law. He was against reservation in perpetuity. He had said ‘I would not want that symbol to continue in Indian society forever’.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ambedkar-would-be-pained-to-see-scst-still-need-reservation/article37876830.ece
07 December 2021||Mumbai,||Wankhede pays tributes to Ambedkar||The Narcotics Control Bureau’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, who was accused of forging his caste certificate by Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik, visited the memorial of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar here on Monday on the latter’s death anniversary. Mr. Wankhede later told reporters that he is inspired by Dr. Ambedkar in his “fight for truth” and expressed confidence of winning it. On the other hand, Mr. Malik, without naming the NCB officer, implied it is the impact of the fight he put up that “some people” have started coming to Chaityabhoomi, the place where the architect of the Indian Constitution was cremated. Mr. Wankhede, had in October, led a raid on a cruise ship and drugs were claimed to have been seized onboard. Actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan and some other people are accused in the case. Following this, Mr. Malik had levelled several allegations against Mr. Wankhede, including that the NCB officer was a Muslim by birth and produced a bogus certificate to get the Government job. He had claimed that Mr. Wankhede did not belong to a Scheduled Caste. Mr. Wankhede had denied all allegations. Asked about the NCB officer’s visit, Mr. Malik told a TV channel that everyone has the right to pay respects to Babasaheb. “If someone believes that only people of a particular community can pay respect to him, then it is a wrong assumption. I come here every year. Now, some people have started coming here,” he said. Referring to the movie Jai Bhim , the Minister said the film depicts injustice meted to members of a community and their struggle against it. “I think the fight I have put up, its impact has started. Hence, people are coming to pay respects,” he said, without naming anyone. To a question on whether he had seen Mr. Wankhede pay respects at the Chaityabhoomi earlier, Mr. Malik said, “I cannot talk about it. But, it is true he was offering namaz with me.” Meanwhile, workers of Bhimshakti Republican Sena objected to Mr. Wankhede’s visit to the Chaityabhoomi and raised slogans against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wankhede-pays-tributes-to-ambedkar/article37877053.ece
07 December 2021||Mandya,||BJP, Cong. are enemies of JD(S): Kumaraswamy||Janata Da (S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday described both the BJP and the Congress as equal enemies of his party, as he tried to clarify that the saffron party leader B.S. Yediyurappa has only sought “cooperation” and not an alliance for the Legislative Council polls in Karnataka on December 10. Stating that he would reveal JD(S) stand on Mr. Yediyurappa’s request for support to BJP candidates in the seats, where the regional party is not contesting, on Tuesday, the former Chief Minister said there had been no official request in this regard from the saffron party itself. “Tomorrow (Tuesday), I will hold a press conference in Bengaluru where I will speak on all issues. I want to bring one thing to your notice, I have nowhere said that I will have an alliance with another party till now,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said in response to a question. Speaking to reporters here, he said neither the Congress nor the BJP has sought JD(S)’ support so far, and only Yediyurappa had a couple of times appealed for support, where the regional party has not fielded its candidates. The JD(S) has fielded only six candidates, while the BJP and Congress are contesting in 20 seats each. There is a heightened buzz over a possible pact between the ruling BJP and JD(S) for the Legislative Council polls, following display of bonhomie between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the JD(S) patriarch Deve Gowda, during their meeting in Delhi last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-cong-are-enemies-of-jds-kumaraswamy/article37876569.ece
07 December 2021||Jammu,||Selfie point in Jammu damaged||The first-ever selfie point with an installation ‘I love Jammu’ set up under the smart city mission at B.C. Road here was damaged by unidentified persons, following which an FIR was lodged in the case, officials said on Monday. The selfie point was inaugurated by Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Jammu Smart City Limited (JSCL) Anvy Lavasa on October 29 and had become a major attraction for the local residents. The officials said it was a heartbreak moment for the people of the city when they found the selfie point damaged by unidentified persons who removed its heart logs as well as other alphabets. Acting swiftly, the Jammu and Kashmir Police lodged an FIR and started investigation, they said, adding police were scrutinising the CCTV footage. Condemning the incident, local resident Daleep Kumar urged people not to damage public properties. “These properties belong to the people of Jammu and maintaining them is our own responsibility,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/selfie-point-in-jammu-damaged-fir-lodged/article37877042.ece
07 December 2021||Panaji,||Bombay HC postpones Tejpal case hearing||The Goa Bench of the Bombay HC on Monday postponed the hearing in the Tarun Tejpal case to December 13 after one of his lawyers said a colleague had tested positive for COVID-19. Advocate Raunaq Rao, representing Mr. Tejpal, told a Division Bench of Justices Revati Mohite Dere and M.S. Jawalkar that a lawyer briefing senior counsel Amit Desai had tested corona positive, and requested a postponement, which was granted. Mr. Tejpal, the former editor-in-chief of Tehelka magazine, accused of sexually assaulting his then colleague in the lift of a hotel in Goa in November 2013, was acquitted by a sessions court in May this year. The acquittal was challenged by the Goa Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bombay-hc-postpones-tejpal-case-hearing/article37877049.ece
07 December 2021||Belagavi,||I was jailed for not going with BJP, says Shivakumar||Karnataka Congress president D.K. Shivakumar on Monday claimed he was sent to Tihar jail as he did not support or go with the BJP. He called the BJP Government in the State the most corrupt in the country. “I went to Tihar jail because they [BJP] sent me. You [BJP] sent me, as I did not support you, didn’t come along with you,” Mr. Shivakumar said in response to a statement by senior BJP leader and Minister K S Eshwarappa, questioning why he went to Tihar jail. Asked whether he would not have gone to jail had he joined the BJP, he said, “Everything is known, there are records...” Mr. Shivakumar was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate on September 3, 2019 in a money laundering case, and was lodged in Tihar jail from where he was released on October 23 that year after the Delhi High Court granted him bail. Demanding a fair probe into kickback charges levelled by the State contractors association, he called the current Karnataka Government the most corrupt Government in the country. The association had claimed harassment by elected representatives, accusing them of demanding 30% of the tender amount for approving contracts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/i-was-jailed-for-not-going-with-bjp-says-shivakumar/article37876571.ece
07 December 2021||Mumbai,||Car lifters’ gang busted, 3 arrested||The Mumbai police has busted a inter-State gang involved in stealing of cars with the arrest of three persons. According to police the gang used to gather information of new cars from Uttar Pradesh and Delhi that has claimed accident insurance and would then steal similar model of cars in Maharashtra. The accused would then change their chassis and engine numbers to match those from U.P. and Delhi and then sell them off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/car-lifters-gang-busted-3-arrested/article37877039.ece
07 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Six foreign returnees test positive||Six foreign returnees have tested positive in Odisha, but it has not been ascertained if they have tested positive for the Omicron variant of COVID-19. The Odisha government has sent COVID-19 positive samples drawn from foreign returnees from ‘at risk’ countries for genome sequencing at the Institutes of Life Sciences (ILS). ‘Results by Friday’ ILS Director Ajay Parida said the results of genome sequencing would be known by Friday. Earlier, the ILS had conducted genome sequencing study on 141 samples, but none of the samples had traces of Omicron variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/six-foreign-returnees-test-positive/article37877040.ece
07 December 2021||Indore,||Move for zero waste at weddings||A concept of “zero-waste” wedding functions is being promoted in India’s cleanest city Indore to ensure minimum waste generation at such events and its systematic disposal, a civic official said on Monday. During the recent marriage function of Indore Municipal Corporation employee Siddharth, all environment-friendly items were used — including wares used for serving food and welcome banners for guests, the official said here in Madhya Pradesh. The IMC, which is promoting the “zero-waste” wedding concept, also gifted a ‘home composting kit’ to the newly married couple and distributed compost manure, prepared on the spot by disposing of the wet waste, to guests on the occasion, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/move-for-zero-waste-at-weddings/article37877043.ece
07 December 2021||December 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Jawad reaches Kolkata||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jawad-reaches-kolkata/article37877047.ece
07 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Amarinder opens his party office||Former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Monday opened his new party’s office here and reasserted that his Punjab Lok Congress, along with the BJP and former Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s outfit, will form the next Government in the State. Addressing the media later, Capt. Amarinder said the membership drive had already begun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amarinder-opens-his-party-office/article37877050.ece
07 December 2021||Dharamsala,||Himachal: Bodies of missing trekkers found in Dhauladhar hills||Bodies of two trekkers, who had gone missing in the Dhauladhar mountain range, were recovered from under a hill on Monday, officials said. Harsimranpreet Singh and Naveen Kumar had gone for trekking on Monday last, Dharamsala SDM Shilpi Beakta said. When their families did not hear from them, they informed the police, she said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/himachal-bodies-of-missing-trekkers-found-in-dhauladhar-hills/article37876837.ece
