08 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland seeks AFSPA repeal, scraps ongoing Hornbill Festival||Mon district in Nagaland observed a shutdown on Tuesday in protest against the killing of 14 civilians by the security forces, while the State Government called off a major ongoing festival as a mark of respect to the deceased. The State Cabinet also decided to write to the Union Government to immediately repeal the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958, now in force in the State. Government spokesperson and State Planning Minister Neiba Kronu said the Cabinet, at an emergency meeting in Kohima on Tuesday, discussed the botched operation by the Army in Oting village of Mon district on December 4. “The Cabinet decided that the special investigation team headed by an IGP should complete its probe into the Mon incident and submit its report within a month. It also decided to write to the Government of India for repealing the AFSPA immediately from the State,” he told reporters. Mr. Kronu added that the Cabinet had decided to cancel the ongoing Hornbill Festival in view of the mourning announced for the deceased and to express solidarity with the bereaved families. The 10-day annual marquee festival that attracts tourists from all over began on December 1, marking the day Nagaland attained statehood in 1963. The Tourism Department has been asked to wind up the festival — barring the entrepreneurial activities — with a short, solemn closing ceremony. Mr. Kronu said two persons injured in the firing were still in a critical condition in a hospital in Dibrugarh and six others were under treatment in Dimapur. Twenty-two persons had been discharged, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nagaland-seeks-afspa-repeal-scraps-ongoing-hornbill-festival/article37891527.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court adjourns Rajiv Gandhi case convict’s plea for early release||The Supreme Court on Tuesday scheduled for January a hearing on a plea for early release by Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict A.G. Perarivalan. Perarivalan has already spent three decades in jail. The cardinal question raised in court was about the Governor’s decision to refrain from taking an independent decision on Perarivalan’s release. The Governor had referred the convict’s case for release to the President. This was despite the fact that the Council of Ministers of the Tamil Nadu Government recommended his release way back on September 9, 2018. “After sleeping over for five years in the Article 161 [pardon] petition and sitting over the recommendation of the State Cabinet to release the petitioner for more than a good two-and-a-half years, the Union of India, on February 4, has filed an affidavit [in the Supreme Court] stating that the Governor has sent the petition to the President, whereas the law is clear that the Governor does not have independent discretion,” Perarivalan, represented by senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan and advocates Prabu Ramasubramanian and K. Paari Vendhan, had contended in the Supreme Court recently. ‘Completely political’ Perarivalan had argued that the “stalemate” over his release from prison was “completely political”. The court on Wednesday said it could not, on the grounds of immunity, ask the Governor not to pass any order. Appearing for the Centre before a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta requested the court to adjourn the case, as he was engaged in another court. The court, though not happy with the adjournment, posted the case to January 2022. It said it would grant no further adjournments in the case. Perarivalan had argued that he had been “under the hangman’s noose for 16 years and [had spent] 29 years in solitary confinement of the total 30 years of incarceration”. He had suffered the pain and trauma of the death row syndrome. “The pain was equally felt by the ageing and fragile parents due to the uncertainty between life and death, and hope and despair,” he said. The Centre, in an affidavit earlier, had highlighted that the case against Perarivalan concerned the assassination of none other than a former Prime Minister. Forty-three other people had sustained serious injuries in the bomb explosion in Sriperumbudur, Tamil Nadu, in 1991.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-adjourns-rajiv-gandhi-case-convicts-plea-for-early-release/article37891643.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmer unions to take call on ending protests today||Responding to a proposal from the Ministry of Home Affairs on Tuesday morning, which urged the protesting farmers to call off their agitation as most of their pending demands had been resolved, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) sought clarifications on several points, including the withdrawal of “fake” cases against protesters. After a discussion at the Singhu border, the farmers’ unions decided to reconvene at 2 p.m. on Wednesday to announce a final decision on ending their protest. On the MHA proposal, the unions sought “clarifications” on several points from the Union Government, especially with regard to the “fake cases” filed against protesters and the composition and mandate of a committee to discuss minimum support prices (MSP). Tikait for talks While some farmers say they are ready to go home if the Government adapts the language of its proposal to accede to their demands, Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union said the Government must still sit across the table with farmer leaders and hold talks with the SKM. Apart from the political compulsions to keep the struggle alive in the run-up to the Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh, the pending demand of a legal guarantee for MSP remains a major issue for Mr. Tikait’s supporters and in other parts of the country where the existing MSP regime is not as strong as in Punjab and Haryana. The Home Ministry proposal only said that the SKM leaders would be included in the proposed committee to discuss MSP, among other issues. “This leaves open the possibility that other so-called farmers groups, who supported the farm laws and the WTO [World Trade Organization] regime against MSP, will also be part of the committee,” warned All India Kisan Sabha leader Ashok Dhawale, adding that the committee must have a specific mandate to discuss an MSP law. Another sticking point, especially among Punjab leaders, remains the Government’s conditional offer to withdraw the cases filed against protesters over the past year, including during a chaotic Republic Day tractor rally in Delhi. The proposal said that once the agitation was withdrawn, the cases would also be withdrawn by the Government of Uttar Pradesh and the Government of Haryana, as well by the Union Government which has police jurisdiction over the national capital. “The protest can only end when the cases are withdrawn. This cannot come with any conditions,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads his own faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union in Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farm-unions-to-take-a-call-on-ending-protests-today/article37891529.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,||Western bypass road project yet to gain momentum||The process of acquiring land for the western bypass road project, which began in 2014 and gained momentum in 2018, seems to be delayed further, according to sources. The State Highways Department plans to develop a western bypass for Coimbatore for 32.43 km from Sugunapuram to Narasimhanaikenpalayam at a cost of Rs. 605 crore for the civil works. The project alignment, which was approved by the district road safety committee in 2014, passes through 15 villages and requires nearly 353 acres of both, private and government land. These are to be acquired at a cost of Rs. 320 crore, which is expected to be revised to Rs. 380 crore. The sources said that as per the TamilNadu Highways Act 2001, 15 (2) the notification has been published for all the 15 villages and 15 (1) gazette notification published for 13 villages. Works are nearing completion for the remaining two villages too. The process of document registration is on at five villages. The Department plans to implement the project in three phases, covering 11.8 km in phase one, 8.52 km in phase two, and 12.10 km in the final phase. Civil works can commence only when at least 80 % of the land is acquired for a project. At present, acquisition process is one for just about 65 % land in phase one, the sources said. District Collector G.S. Sameeran said the delay is mainly because of land value fixation. The fixation of value for land has to be cleared by the State-level price fixation committee. In Coimbatore, traditionally, the price fixed for acquisition is on the higher side. “We are asking for certain standards that we can follow for land price fixation and acquisition,”. Acquiring land for the project is only a “procedural delay” that will get cleared shortly. The other works are going on so that once the approval comes from the government the project can take off, he said. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the project was mooted almost 15 years ago. An alignment finalised then was revised. There may be different reasons for the delay, which may be valid, but the project is yet to take off. The land value should be finalised at the earliest so that works to develop the road takes off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/western-bypass-road-project-yet-to-gain-momentum/article37891659.ece
08 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||More students join agitation against KSLU on second day||The agitation by students of Karnataka State Law University (KSLU) in protest against the university holding offline examinations continued for the second day on Tuesday, with more students joining the protestors who spent the night on the university campus on Monday. Continuing the agitation for the second day, the protesting students urged the Vice-Chancellor of the university to withdraw the decision to hold offline examinations, scheduled to begin on December 15. Holding placards urging the university authorities not to extend the academic year and complete the course within the stipulated duration, the students raised slogans against the authorities who, they said, had failed to redress their grievances. The main grouse of the students is that KSLU is insisting on holding offline examinations of the previous semesters now, after promoting them to the next semester. This was despite the fact that different modes of holding examinations, including the online mode, have been permitted by the competent authorities, they said. The protest began on Monday morning with students from different parts of the State gathering in front of the main gate of the university demanding the withdrawal of the decision to conduct offline examinations. On Tuesday, addressing the protestors, leaders of students clarified that they are not against holding examinations as it was mandatory under the Bar Council of India guidelines. They once again clarified that they are against holding the examinations in the offline mode. They said that they are unable to understand why the Vice-Chancellor of the university is insisting on holding offline examinations despite having other options to conduct the examinations. The students are saying that the university can use options such as open book examination, assignment-based examination and online examination and said they will urge the university to begin classes for the next semesters, admissions for which have already been taken by students. Earlier in the day, the protesting students met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai at his residence in Hubballi and tried to convey their grievances to him. However, they could not elaborate on it as there was a huge crowd. The Chief Minister said he would look into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-students-join-agitation-against-kslu-on-second-day/article37891775.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||Supreme Court paves the way for Sudha Bharadwaj’s release||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to interfere with a Bombay High Court order granting default bail to advocate Sudha Bharadwaj in the Bhima Koregaon case, paving the way for her release from jail after a span of three years. A Bench of Justices U.U. Lalit, S. Ravindra Bhat and Bela M. Trivedi declined the arguments made by the NIA that the High Court on December 1 erred in concluding that the Pune Sessions Court, which took cognisance of its chargesheet and extended the period of her detention under Section 43D(2) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), had no jurisdiction in the case. The Sessions Court was not notified as a Special Court under the NIA Act, the High Court had noted. The default bail order of Ms. Bharadwaj comes into effect from December 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-paves-way-for-sudha-bharadwajs-release/article37891533.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Health dept. to resume one lakh tests a day||Telangana Health staff would resume conducting around 1 lakh COVID tests on a daily basis. The last time over 1 lakh samples were examined in a day, was during the second wave of the pandemic earlier this year. Currently, around 35,000 to 40,000 samples are being examined per day. From the past one week, the daily caseload is around 180 to 200. Health Minister T. Harish Rao said on Tuesday that the daily tests would be increased to 1 lakh. Since the Health officials and experts have been pointing out that detection of Omicron variant in the State is only a matter of time, more tests are needed to know if cases are on the surge. Professor at School of Medical Sciences, University of Hyderabad, B.R. Shamanna said that the tests have to be conducted strategically — among people who are not vaccinated, especially in the 12-18 years age group, in localities or places where cluster of infections are detected, and among people with symptoms. The 12-18 years population was cited since they are attending classes at educational institutes. Besides this, he said that genomic surveillance has to be increased, which helps to detect not only Omicron, but also other variants, if any. Other indicators used by the Health department to know if cases are increasing is keeping a tab on ICU bed occupancy, oxygen consumption at government and private hospitals, and spike in flu or respiratory distress cases in a locality. The health authorities gather the data from private and government hospitals. Apart from increasing the number of COVID tests, Mr Harish Rao has also urged people to wear masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-dept-to-resume-one-lakh-tests-a-day/article37891794.ece
08 December 2021||Vijayawada,||CM asks bankers to support govt. schemes||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has urged bankers to extend their support to the State government in its endeavour to tide over the COVID pandemic and its plans to bring in revolutionary changes in education, health, women empowerment and other sectors. He wanted the banks to extend loans to the tune of Rs. 9,000 crore for setting up teaching and nursing colleges in the State. Mr. Jagan said that the 2.70 lakh volunteers force would help the bankers in bringing down their non-performing assets (NPAs). Addressing the 217th State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) meeting on Tuesday, he said Andhra Pradesh registered a growth of 13.7% during the first half of the current financial year. But, the State economy was slowing down due to propaganda on third wave and Omicron. At this juncture, the banks had to chip in and make plans to bolster the economy and development of the State. They were expected to chalk out their priorities and plans in accordance with the State needs, he said. Credit plan Referring to the annual credit plan, Mr. Jagan congratulated the bankers for the achievements during the first half of the financial year. The total outlay was Rs. 2,83,380 crore, of which, 60.53% — Rs. 1,71,520 crore — was disbursed in the first six months of the current fiscal. Similarly, the annual credit target for priority sectors was Rs. 2,13,560 crore, of which 47.29% (Rs. 1,00,990 crore), was disbursed during the first half of the financial year, he said. The Chief Minister urged the bankers to focus on disbursing agriculture term loans and providing Kisan Credit Cards to farmers who didn't receive them yet. Tenant farmers should get loans and banking services need to be started in 4,240 RBKs, he said. Referring to housing, Mr. Jagan urged the bankers to provide Rs. 35,000 as loan at 3% interest to women for the housing scheme and focus on providing loans for TIDCO houses. There were 8.3 lakh accounts related to MSMEs, of which 1.78 lakh accounts were restructured, he said and urged the banks to support MSMEs for one-time restructuring of their loan accounts. Stating that there are 9.1 lakh beneficiaries under Jagananna Thodu scheme, he requested the banks to complete the processing of applications at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-asks-bankers-to-support-govt-schemes/article37891524.ece
08 December 2021||Mangaluru,||Special probe team set up after one more group clash at Uppinangady||Close on the heels of two incidents of group clash at Ilanthila village in Uppinangady, Dakshina Kannada district, on Sunday night, another attack took place there on Monday night, giving the incidents a communal colour. Mohandas Shetty, who runs a fish vending stall at Subrahmanya Cross in Uppinangady, along with his younger brother, Ashok Kumar Shetty, complained to the Uppinangady police that a group of about 25 people reached his stall on motorcycles and a car and randomly assaulted him, his brother, and a customer, Mahesh, with sharp weapons on Monday night. This is believed to be in retaliation to group clashes reported from Ilanthila on Sunday night, Mohandas said in his complaint. On August 22, their stall was set on fire and the Uppinangady police had registered a case on a complaint by Ashok who said that the previous day a few persons had issued a threat to him against running his fish vending business. Meanwhile, the Uppinangady police have arrested Jayaram, 21, and Shodhan, 21, who are said to have assaulted two groups of people at Ilanthila on Sunday night. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane said additional forces, comprising two police inspectors, four sub-inspectors, 38 constables, three District Armed Reserve parties, and two KSRP platoons, had been deployed as a precautionary measure. A special team of officers from Puttur, Bantwal, Belthangady, and Uppinangady had been formed for speedy investigation of the attacks, he said. An eyewitness said it all started innocuously, when Jayaram, who runs a mobile eatery at Uppinangady, questioned a few people as to why they were staring at him on Saturday. When they went near his residence, a verbal clash ensued after which Jayaram, Shodhan, and others are said to have assaulted Mohammed Fayaz and Hafeez on Sunday evening. Later, people from both the communities came together and another attack took place around 8 p.m., according to the eyewitness. The Superintendent of Police, however, said reasons for these clashes could be ascertained only after the investigation. ‘Exercise restraint’ Meanwhile, DYFI State president Muneer Katipalla said the Government itself appears to be foisting violence and there was a need for people to exercise restraint. Group clashes reported on Sunday and Monday were targeted against different communities, while the district administration’s hands were kept tied, he said. Dakshina Kannada BJP spokesperson Jagadish Shenava told reporters on Tuesday that Sangh Parivar activists “bore the brunt of the attacks”. The law should be allowed to take its own course, he said, and added that no one should indulge in retaliatory attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/special-probe-team-set-up-after-one-more-group-clash-at-uppinangady/article37891584.ece
08 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Medicos call off strike||Following discussion with Health Minister Veena George in the eleventh hour, postgraduate medical students (junior residents) in government medical colleges (GMCs) across the State who threatened to intensify their seven-day strike from Wednesday have decided to withdraw their stir. Junior residents in GMCs, as part of a nationwide strike against the inordinate and indeterminate delay in NEET-PG allotment, had earlier decided to stay away from all emergency services from Wednesday. This had threatened to precipitate a crises in all GMCs. With the Health department having diverted faculty from various medical colleges to the new medical colleges at Idukki and Konni, prior to the inspection by the National Medical Commission (for granting recognition of the new medical colleges), the strike by the junior residents, who are the main workforce in medical college hospitals (MCHs), the proposed strike would have seriously affected all patient-care activities in these institutions.. Minister’s promise The Kerala Medical Post Graduates’ Association said here that they decided to withdraw from the strike after discussions with Ms. George as the latter promised to recruit “non-academic” junior residents (medical students who have finished house surgency and are waiting for PG entrance) within two days. NEET-PG counselling for 2021 has been delayed indefinitely as the Supreme Court is now examining the issue of income limit for availing of reservation under the quota for economically weaker sections. With the Centre seeking more time to fix the income limit for the quota for the economically weaker sessions, the NEET-PG admission procedures have come to a standstill. The KMPGA said here that PG medicos (junior residents) in MCHs were struggling to manage the workload in the absence of their junior batch, especially as their senior batch too has now been allowed to go off duty partially to prepare for their exams. The increased workload has seriously affected the functioning of various medical specialities in MCHs as well as the quality of care delivered, they said. Crises in MCHs Though they had urged the State government to intervene in the issue and to pressurise the Centre to plead with the Supreme Court that all matters of dispute be settled during the next year’s PG allotment and to allow 2021 PG counselling and admission to take place without delay, the government had chosen to ignore their strike till it threatened to result in an unmanageable situation in MCHs. Meanwhile, sources at the Thiruvananthapuram MCH said that the institution was already facing a huge human resource shortage as a chunk of its faculty have been shifted “on working arrangement” to the new medical colleges at Konni, Idukki and Paripally, violating all transfer norms, in anticipation of the upcoming inspection of new medical colleges by the National Medical Commission. Some of the busy departments had informed the authorities that if the strike by junior residents escalates, the situation would turn quite grave as the existing faculty will not be enough to cover the OP clinics, inpatients, ICUs and COVID duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/medicos-call-off-strike/article37891836.ece
08 December 2021||Vizianagaram / Srikakulam,||Two foreign returnees test positive for COVID||Even as the Omicron threat looms large, two foreign returnees testing positive for COVID-19 has put the district administrations of Vizianagaram and Srikakulam in a state of alert. Of the two persons, one has returned to Vizianagaram district from Ireland and the other to Srikakulam district from South Africa. ‘Nothing to worry’ Their samples have been collected for further tests. Meanwhile, Vizianagaram District Medical and Health Officer P. Ramana Kumari said there was no need to worry about the new variant. “The samples of the person who returned from Ireland have been sent for genome sequencing and other tests. He has been directed to be under home quarantine till the test reports are received,” Dr. Ramana Kumari said. “We have conducted tests for those who interacted with the foreign returnee, and all of them tested negative for the virus,” said said. The person who returned from South Africa had reached Ummilada village of Santabommali mandal in Srikakulam district a couple of days ago. As he tested positive for COVID-19, his samples had been sent for genome sequencing and other tests to identify if he had contracted the new variant. The officials have urged all foreign returnees to get themselves tested for COVID-19 and be in home quarantine till further advice from the medical and health authorities. ‘No need to panic’ Vijayawada Staff Reporter writes: Meanwhile, Commissioner, Health, Medical and Family Welfare, Katamneni Bhaskar, has said that no Omicron suspected patients have entered Andhra Pradesh and there is no need to panic. He said the foreign returnees entering the country were being tested thoroughly, and the immigration authorities were following the procedure laid down by the Ministry of Health, Government of India, at the airports. “At the Gannavaram International Airport, a couple of international flights are arriving twice a week. The Immigration and the Medical and Health Department personnel are testing the foreign returnees after landing,” the Commissioner said. 84 new cases “No person with COVID-19 new variant was identified and no patient is in isolation with Omicron symptoms in Andhra Prdesh. The situation in the State is under control and there is no need for the the public to worry,” Mr. Bhaskar told The Hindu on Tuesday. The State has reported 84 COVID-19 cases and two deaths, one each from Chittoor and Krishna districts, in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-foreign-returnees-test-positive-for-covid/article37891521.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||Omicron wave may be milder, report suggests||Two weeks since the emergence of the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus in Gauteng province of South Africa, it appears that the variant is linked to a smaller proportion of deaths compared with the previous waves of COVID-19. A much smaller fraction of those admitted to hospital required supplemental oxygenation than during the earlier three waves, according to an analysis of patient records by researchers at the South African Medical Research Council (SAMRC). Though yet early, and with a caveat that the situation may change “significantly in the next two weeks”, Fareed Abdullah, author of the analysis, noted: “The main observation that we have made over the last two weeks is that the majority of patients in the COVID wards have not been oxygen dependent.” The report is not a peer-reviewed medical study but a “news feature” on the official SAMRC website. India so far reported 23 Omicron cases, most of them passengers with a history of travel to Africa. Nearly all of those infected reportedly have mild symptoms. The SAMRC researchers compared case rates and corresponding death rates over the four waves of COVID-19. When the case rates at the peak of the first Alpha wave (July 2020) touched 18 per 1,00,000 population, the death rates approached two per million. During the Beta wave (January 2021), the case rates hit 15 per 1,00,000, with a death rate peak of a little over two per million. The Delta wave (July 2021) saw the highest peak of 35 cases per 1,00,000 population, and a death rate of around four per million. In the ongoing fourth or Omicron wave, the case rate has crossed 30 per 1,00,000 population — though the peak is yet to come — but the death rate per million is little over zero or even less than the Alpha wave. Tshwane district, in Gauteng, has been the global epicentre of the Omicron outbreak, with the weekly number of cases reaching 8,569 between November 21 and November 27, and jumping to 41,921 by December 3. The scientists analysed 166 new admissions between November 14 and 29, 2021 at the Steve Biko Academic and Tshwane District Hospitals (SBAH/TDH) complex, which makes up 45% of all Tshwane district admissions in the public sector, and 26% of all admissions in both the public and private sectors for the same period. There were ten deaths in the SBAH/TDH cohort in the past two weeks, making up 6.6% of the 166 admissions. Four deaths were in adults aged 26-36 years, and five deaths were in adults over 60 years. A snapshot of the 42 patients in the ward on December 2, 2021 suggested that 29 (70%) were not oxygen dependent. These were patients who did not have threatening respiratory symptoms and did not need supplemental oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-wave-may-be-milder-early-indicators-suggest/article37891535.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||Sena, NCP differ on role of Congress||The Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), partners in Maharashtra’s ruling alliance, appear to differ on the prominence that their common ally, Congress, should have in any non-BJP political formation. The Sena on Tuesday emphasised the Congress’s inevitability in any Opposition unity effort, while the NCP noted that the strength of MPs outside the United Progressive Alliance exceeded that of the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sena-ncp-differ-on-role-of-congress/article37891887.ece
08 December 2021||Kolkata,||Bar BSF from habitations, Mamata directs police||Referring to the violence in Nagaland where 14 civilians were killed, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday directed police officers of certain border districts not to allow Border Security Force personnel in habitations without permission. “The BSF is allowed for 15 km, that too with the permission of the police, but they are going wherever they want. You all have seen what has happened in Nagaland... I don’t want any confrontation,” the CM said, while participating in an administrative meeting. She said that in Malda, Murshidabad, Uttar Dinajpur and Dakshin Dinajpur districts, the BSF was entering habitations. Emphasising that law and order is a State subject, Ms. Banerjee said in case of such complaints, local Block Development Officers, along with the inspector in charge of the local police station, should “tell them that this is not your jurisdiction”. The remarks by Ms. Banerjee assume significance because of the recent notification of the Union Home Ministry increasing jurisdiction of the BSF from 15 km to 50 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bar-bsf-from-habitations-mamata-directs-police/article37891888.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,||No pact with BJP for Council polls: HDK||Setting to rest speculation over a pre-poll arrangement between the Janata Dal (Secular) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the December 10 elections to 25 seats of the Legislative Council, the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Tuesday said local leaders in constituencies where his party was not contesting had been allowed to take decisions “based on ground reality”.  The JD(S) move was much anticipated after the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa sought the support of the regional party in constituencies whereit is not contesting. Speculation was rife after JD(S) supremo and former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda met Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently.Soon after the meeting, Mr. Gowda had said Mr. Kumaraswamy would take a call on the issue. Mr. Kumaraswamy told reporters, “I have told local unit leaders to take decisions in the constituencies where we are not contesting, keeping in mind the next Assembly elections in which we have a target to win 123 seats.” Defending his decision to not support either the BJP or the Congress, he said, “Both are our rivals and we will fight against them. I do not need a certificate from Congress leaders, and the BJP has not sought our support. Mr. Yediyurappa respectfully asked for our support and I am respectfully informing him about our independent fight.” He said: “In some constituencies our members are supporting the BJP and in some others, they are supporting Congress candidates. In Sindhanur, our party legislator took my approval to announce support to Congress candidates. There is no internal or external understanding with anyone.” Blaming the Congress for “spreading canards” about the pre-poll arrangement, he said, “It is not about supporting the BJP or the Congress, but about taking a decision at local level without hurting our organisational strength.” While the JD(S) is contesting in six seats in Old Mysore region, the BJP and the Congress are contesting in 20 seats each. Internal matter: CM Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, in Belagavi, described Mr. Kumaraswamy’s decision as “their internal matter”. He said: “It is not that the BJP had sought support from them. Our leader Yediyurappa had requested JD(S) leaders to help our candidates, since it was fielding its nominees in all seats. But he had clarified that it was for the JD(S) to decide.” DKS reacts KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar said the BJP seeking alliance with the JD(S) reflected the former’s lack of confidence. The Council polls have been necessitated on account of 15 Congress members, six BJP members, and four JD(S) members retiring in January 2022, from the 75-member Upper House. The BJP currently has a strength of 32 seats there, Congress 29, and the JD(S) 12. This is apart from an Independent member and the Council Chairman, who is from the JD(S).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-pact-with-bjp-for-council-polls-hdk/article37891557.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Prices of plots slashed in SIDCO industrial estates||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday announced reduction in the prices of plots in SIDCO industrial estates, by 5%-75%, depending on the industrial estate. He said prices had skyrocketed over the years, leading to plots remaining unsold. An official statement said when the DMK had come to power, several micro, small and medium entreprises’ associations had requested the State to reduce the prices of plots in SIDCO industrial estates to help entrepreneurs come out of the difficulties caused by COVID-19. The government said it was reducing the rates of plots in the industrial estates for the first time in 50 years, as many remained vacant without allotment. The government has now made it affordable for entrepreneurs and business persons to buy plots in various SIDCO industrial estates, the statement said. An acre in the Uthangarai Industrial Estate, which was priced at Rs. 1.19 crore, is now available at Rs. 30.81 lakh, after a 75% reduction. At Kumbakonam, the price has been brought down from Rs. 3.04 crore an acre to 81.98 lakh an acre, following a 73% reduction, and at Nagapattinam, from Rs. 2.39 crore to Rs. 85.35 lakh, after a 65% reduction. At Kurichi in Coimbatore district, the price has been reduced from Rs. 9 crore to Rs. 4.2 crore and in Erode from Rs. 6.4 crore to Rs. 3.8 crore. At Kumbakonam, the price has been brought down from Rs. 3.04 crore an acre to 81.98 lakh an acre, following a 73% reduction, and at Nagapattinam, from Rs. 2.39 crore to Rs. 85.35 lakh, after a 65% reduction. At Kurichi in Coimbatore district, the price of an acre at the SIDCO industrial estate has been reduced from Rs. 9 crore to Rs. 4.2 crore, at Vinnamangalam in Tirupattur district from Rs. 4.8 crore to Rs. 2 crore, at Alathur in Chengalpattu district from Rs. 6 crore to Rs. 3.5 crore and in Erode from Rs. 6.4 crore to Rs. 3.8 crore. At industrial estates in Karaikudi, Pidaneri and Rajapalayam, where over 400 plots remain vacant due to high prices, the prices have been reduced by 30%-54%, while Virudhunagar, Arakkonam and Bargur are seeing a price reduction by 40%-50%. In 19 other estates, prices have been reduced by 5%-25%. Apart from this, the government has retained the prices prevailing in 2016-17 in 12 industrial estates, including the ones in Ambattur and Tirumazhisai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prices-of-plots-slashed-in-sidco-industrial-estates/article37891612.ece
08 December 2021||Vijayawada,||‘Reserve 5% land for govt. projects in layouts’||The State government has issued orders making it mandatory for the real estate developers to earmark 5%of the developed layout area to the State government. In a Gazette notification issued on Monday, the government said layout owners/developers have to hand over the 5% land to the District Collectors. The government would utilise the 5% additional land reserved for YSR Jagananna Housing Projects for the poor. The government gave three options to the layout developers or owners in the Gazette. They have to hand over 5% land or 5% land within 3 km range from the original layout or pay the basic value of such 5% land. In the gazette, the government said, “If the owner/developer is not able to hand over 5% additional land within the current layout, the owner /developer shall hand over the 5% land within 3 km range from the original layout.” The private owner /developer also has the option of paying the basic value of such 5% of layout area to the Development Authority. At present, the layout developers have to earmark 30% of the land for roads and 10% for open space. In addition, the developers have to provide 2% space for amenities, and 0.5% for utilities, if the layout total area is 5 acres of less. Similarly, the developers have to leave a space of 3% for facilities in the layout if it were more than 5 acres. Also, 1% for utilities has to be handed over to the local bodies. With the new orders, the developers have to leave 47.50% space, if the layouts are less than 5 acres. It is 49% if the layout is more than 5 acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-reserves-5-land-for-govt-projects-in-layouts/article37891482.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||Trinamool is fulcrum of Opposition: Abhishek||The Trinamool Congress will expand its footprint across the country whether “one party” likes it or not, party national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee told The Hindu on Tuesday. Mr. Banerjee said in a democracy, the voter is the final arbiter. The Trinamool has skipped all Opposition meetings in the ongoing winter session of Parliament, not willing to sit in a meeting chaired by the Congress. However, Mr. Banerjee insisted that the Trinamool was not aloof, saying: “We have been the fulcrum of Opposition whether one likes it or not.” The party has also been accused of cannibalising the Congress. “When Trinamool steps into other States, we are told that we are pulverising the Congress and when the Congress does the same thing, no such charge is levelled against them. There can’t be different standards for different people. My advice to them is to practise what you preach,” he said. The reins of the Opposition can no longer be left to the Congress, he said. “We have been sitting quietly for the past seven years, without stepping out of Bengal. But the fact is, we cannot depend on a force which doesn’t act.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trinamool-has-been-fulcrum-of-opposition-says-abhishek/article37891531.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Heavy rain likely in a few districts in T.N.||Some districts may experience thunderstorms with heavy rain in one or two places on Wednesday. However, the State will largely have a respite from intense rain until the weekend. Officials of the Meteorological Department said the easterly wave would sustain the wet weather over the State. Heavy rain is likely in isolated places of Cuddalore, Ramanathapuram, Pudukottai, delta districts and Karaikal on Wednesday. Coastal parts of the State may receive moderate rain and one or two places in other districts may receive light rain. Similarly, five districts, including Thoothukudi and Kallakurichi, may get heavy rain in one or two places on Thursday. No major disturbances The same weather pattern will continue till December 13, as there are no major weather disturbances over the Bay of Bengal, officials said. Parts of the coastal and adjoining interior districts are likely to get light to moderate rain on Friday and Saturday. Parts of Chennai too may receive light to moderate rain on Wednesday. The city woke up to a foggy morning on Tuesday, and motorists travelling during the early hours had to manage with low visibility for some time. Foggy mornings Officials said calm winds prevailing over the land during the nights and moisture in the atmosphere would lead to such foggy weather during early morning hours. On Wednesday too, there is a possibility of mist during the early morning hours over the coastal and adjoining interior districts. Chennai will experience a maximum temperature of 31 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. During the past 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday, Ayikudi in Tenkasi district recorded heavy rainfall of 10 cm. Several other places, particularly in the south, recorded moderate rain. Chennai recorded light rain of 1.7 mm. On Manapparai in Tiruchi district receiving extremely heavy rain of over 27 cm, officials said the amount of rainfall recorded had not yet been considered by the Department, as satellite and radar data did not support the extreme rainfall event in the particular period ending Tuesday morning. The Department will clarify soon.  The same weather pattern will continue till December 13, as there are no major weather disturbances over the Bay of Bengal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/isolated-heavy-rain-likely-in-some-districts-of-tamil-nadu/article37891651.ece
08 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||2 U.P. school directors held for molesting 17 minor girls||The police have arrested the directors of two private schools in Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh for allegedly molesting 17 minor girl students who were asked to stay overnight on a school premises on the pretext of a practical examination. The incident allegedly took place on November 18, but the local police registered the first information report (FIR) only on Sunday (December 5) after a local MLA intervened on behalf of the parents. In their complaint, the parents said that on the morning of November 18, the director of a school in Bhopa took the 17 girls for a practical examination to another school in Purkazi. The distance between the two towns is around 25 km. After the examination, the girls were told to stay back in the school so that they could appear for the next day’s exam. “At night the girls were given food laced with sedatives and were molested. The next morning, they were told not to share the incident at home or else their family members would be killed and their academic career spoilt,” the complaint, registered on December 4, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-up-school-directors-held-for-molesting-17-minors/article37891525.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Steady stream||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/steady-stream/article37891692.ece
08 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||8 samples test negative for Omicron||Even as Kerala continues its vigil on the new virus variant Omicron, eight out of the 10 samples of international travellers sent for genomic sequencing at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology here have tested negative for Omicron. Health Minister Veena George said here on Tuesday that two samples each from Kozhikode, Malappuram, Ernakulam and one each from Thiruvananthapuram and Pathanamthitta were tested for Omicron. The samples are all from travellers who had come to the State from nations which are in the “high risk” list released by the Centre and had tested positive for SARS-CoV2. On Tuesday, one more person who arrived at the Kozhikode international airport from one of the high risk nations tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8-samples-test-negative-for-omicron/article37891837.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,||One killed, seven injured in serial accident||A high-end car, allegedly being driven recklessly, caused a serial accident and claimed the life of a restaurant employee in Indiranagar on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-killed-seven-injured-in-serial-accident/article37891559.ece
08 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||Akhilesh, Jayant hold joint rally in western U.P.||The Samajwadi Party and the Rashtriya Lok Dal on Tuesday pitched their alliance as the foremost contender to the BJP in the 2022 Assembly election. Addressing a massive rally in Meerut, SP president Akhilesh Yadav and RLD chief Jayant Singh said their alliance would provide the “true double-engine Government” in U.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/akhilesh-jayant-hold-joint-rally-in-western-up/article37891891.ece
08 December 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra EC stays polls for OBC seats||A day after the Supreme Court scrapped the Maharashtra Government ordinance giving 27% reservation to OBCs in the local body polls, the State EC on Tuesday stayed the election on seats reserved for OBCs in the local civic bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-ec-stays-polls-for-obc-seats/article37891889.ece
08 December 2021||Hassan,||Polls: Candidates count on gods to win loyalty||Candidates contesting the Council polls are said to be engaged in wooing voters with money and gifts. A few are distributing silver coins with images of deities so that “god-fearing voters” do not “cheat” after accepting gifts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/polls-candidates-count-on-gods-to-win-loyalty/article37891957.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||Sena, NCP differ on role of Cong. in anti-BJP front||The Shiv Sena and the NCP appeared to differ on the prominence of their common ally, Congress. While the Sena emphasised the Congress’s inevitability in any Opposition unity effort, the NCP noted that the strength of MPs outside the UPA exceeded that of the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sena-ncp-differ-on-role-of-cong-in-anti-bjp-front/article37891690.ece
08 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Airport to start online booking for RT-PCR test||The Mangaluru International Airport will shortly start a facility for online booking of slots for RT-PCR test at the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/airport-to-start-online-booking-for-rt-pcr-test/article37891934.ece
08 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Students to get bus pass concession||Moving forward with its Chalo bus cards for cashless travel on city buses, the Dakshina Kannada Bus Operators Association has decided to offer the facility at 60% concession in fares to students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-to-get-bus-pass-concession/article37891938.ece
08 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||KVGB, Liberty tie up to offer low-cost insurance||Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank has signed an MoU with Liberty General Insurance Co. Ltd. for selling general insurance products through its branches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kvgb-liberty-tie-up-to-offer-low-cost-insurance/article37891773.ece
08 December 2021||BELAGAVI,||Working of GPs will be revolutionised: CM||“The State Government is taking several steps to revolutionise the functioning of the gram panchayats,’’ Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/working-of-gps-will-be-revolutionised-cm/article37891777.ece
08 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Beware of ‘red caps’: PM in U.P.||Targeting the Samajwadi Party, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the party wanted to form a Government in Uttar Pradesh to show leniency to “terrorists” and free them from jail. He was launching several projects in Gorakhpur in the eastern region of the State and the home turf of Chief Minister Adityanath, ahead of the Assembly election in 2022. “The one with lal topis [red caps, worn by SP members]  are a red alert for U.P … they are a danger bell,” Mr. Modi said. Mr. Modi’s reference to “terrorists” being freed from jail was a reference to decisions taken by the previous SP Government led by Akhilesh Yadav to withdraw cases against persons jailed under terror charges. In its 2012 election manifesto, the SP promised to release innocent Muslim youth lodged in jail on terror charges, and after coming to power, the party initiated steps to withdraw the cases. However, the Allahabad High Court then ruled that the State Government could not withdraw the cases without the permission of the Centre. Following the 2014 Lok Sabha election, the SP backed off from the issue. The party later lost power in 2017 and since then Mr. Yadav has strategically tried to distance himself from Muslim symbolism. ‘Bereft of principles’ Attacking the SP, which stands as the chief challenger to the BJP in 2022, Mr. Modi said the party had long abandoned the “principles and discipline” of its socialist ideologues Jayaprakash Narayan and Ram Manohar Lohia. “Today, whole U.P. knows well that the people with lal topi are only interested in lal batti (red sirens on vehicles). They have nothing to do with your pain and suffering,” Mr. Modi said, adding that the SP wanted power so it could carry out scams, fill its coffers, grab land and give a free hand to mafias. Mr. Modi lavished praises on Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and said he had provided electricity to all villages. In comparison, Mr. Modi alleged, under the previous SP Government when it came to electricity distribution, some districts were treated as VIP ones. “Yogi ji has made every district a VIP,” Mr. Modi said. “Today, the mafia are in jail. And investors are investing in U.P. with their full heart. This is the double development of double engine,” Mr. Modi said. Mr. Modi launched projects worth Rs. 9,600 crore. This included dedicating to the nation the Gorakhpur Fertilizer Plant, which was revived and built at a cost of Rs. 8,600 crore after lying shut for more than three decades. Mr. Modi also inaugurated the fully functional complex of the AIIMS built at a cost of Rs. 1,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/beware-of-red-caps-pm-in-up/article37891310.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||All Opposition MPs to boycott Upper House, join protest today||Stepping up the protest against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members for “misconduct” in the previous monsoon session of Parliament, all Opposition MPs in the Rajya Sabha have decided to boycott the session on Wednesday and join their suspended colleagues at the Gandhi statue outside Parliament. Opposition MPs from the Lok Sabha will join them on another day. According to sources, the Congress made several attempts at reaching out to other Opposition leaders to wrap up the protest. The party argued that it was essential to run the House to ask questions of the Government and hold it accountable. Sources said senior Congress leaders met the suspended MPs proposing that Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge could express regret on behalf of all those suspended to resolve the issue. But this offer was rejected. Sessions adjourned At a meeting, the majority of the Opposition leaders said that the protests cannot be suspended selectively for any particular debates or legislative business. The Rajya Sabha failed to function on Tuesday. Within five minutes after the House was convened, it was adjourned to 2 p.m. It was adjourned for an hour at 2 p.m. because protests erupted again. When the House met at 3 p.m., the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill 2020 was moved but the debate could not carry on. Nagaland MP K.G. Kenye tried to raise the issue of Army killings in the State, but Deputy Chairman Harivansh disallowed him and the House was adjourned soon. Protest to continue Addressing a press conference, Mr. Kharge said that the protest would continue till the suspension was revoked. “We wanted to raise several issues, like inflation and the Nagaland killings. But 12 of our colleagues remain suspended and are not able to participate in the debate,” he said. Mr. Kharge said the Government ignored any demand and kept adjourning the session multiple times. “This clearly shows that the Government is not willing to run the House,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-opposition-mps-to-boycott-upper-house-join-protest-today/article37891327.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||Vaccine coverage of people with disabilities is low, figures show||Only 4,018 people with disabilities have received both doses of the COVID-19 vaccine till November 28, as per figures released by the Health Ministry during the ongoing session of Parliament. It added that as per the CoWIN portal, 8,390 people with disabilities received the first dose. As per Census 2011, the differently abled population in India stands at 26.8 million. “As per Census 2011, there are 14.9 million men with disabilities, as compared to 11.9 million women in the country. The total number of differently abled people is over 18 million in the rural areas and just 8.1 million enumerated in the urban settings,” notes a government document “Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan) in India — A Statistical Profile: 2021”. It adds that the percentage of men with disabilities is 2.41% as against 2.01% in women. Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar, while responding in the Upper House, said that the Central Government was providing free supply of COVID-19 vaccines in adequate quantity to States and Union Territories for administration to the adult population aged 18 and above. Satendra Singh is a physician with disability and is involved in a project on understanding inequities in vaccine access and uptake among transgender and disabled communities in India. More support needed “None of the official Government circulars mentioned disabled people as vulnerable communities; and our multiple demands to provide at-home vaccination to people with disabilities with high support needs were denied by the Centre, leaving disabled people behind,” Dr. Singh said. “Until and unless vaccine equity plans involve people with disabilities and researchers with disabilities, we won’t be able to flatten the curve,” he added. According to figures released by the Health Ministry on Tuesday, India’s COVID-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 128.76 crore, according to provisional reports till 7 a.m. The Centre has maintained in Parliament that data on segregation of unvaccinated persons on the basis of possession of prescribed identity card is not maintained; however, under the national COVID-19 vaccination programme, there is a provision to facilitate vaccination of persons without prescribed identity cards (including Aadhaar card) such as migrants, nomads, refugees, the destitute and beggars through special sessions where 100% vaccination is done through on-site registration under a special procedure. It added that as of November 26, a total of 34,54,379 doses of COVID-19 vaccines had been administered to such beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coverage-of-disabled-low-figures-show/article37891348.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We will expand our presence, whether one party likes it or not’||Sitting at the Gandhi statue in the Parliament complex along with other Opposition lawmakers protesting against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members, Abhishek Banerjee , national general secretary of the Trinamool Congress, speaks of his party’s growing vote share, saying it ‘attracts’ leaders from other parties rather than ‘poach’ them. Excerpts:  The Trinamool has been aloof from the rest of the Opposition in this Parliament session. Why is that? Trinamool is not aloof at all! We have been the fulcrum of the Opposition whether one likes it or not. Let the people decide what will happen and when. We are expanding our party’s presence across the country; we have gone into Tripura, Goa, Meghalaya and Haryana. Our party will keep on expanding its footprint, whether one party likes it or not. In a healthy democracy, it is the people who decide. So far, it looks like you are out to cannibalise the Congress rather than building space for yourself. Your comments? The Congress did an alliance with a radical organisation in West Bengal in cahoots with the Left to oust Mamata Banerjee’s Government. Doesn’t that amount to breaking Opposition unity? When the Congress poaches the AAP MLAs in Punjab, isn’t it hurting the Opposition unity? And Trinamool does not poach. We attract. There is a difference. Now take Tripura for example, what is the Congress standing there? It does not command even 5% vote share. In fact, in the last municipal polls, they are down to 1%. Three months back, we started out from scratch and today, we are the primary opposition party, with 24% cumulative aggregate vote share. When the Trinamool steps into other States, we are told that we are pulverising the Congress; but when the Congress does the same thing, no such charge is levelled against themd. There can’t be different standards for different people. My advice to them is to please practise what they preach. Sonia Gandhi and Mamata Banerjee have shared a very warm relationship for years, but the Trinamool’s efforts to displace Congress as the lead Opposition party has created bitterness. Your comments. There is no bitterness. We have been sitting quietly for the last seven years, without stepping out of Bengal. But the fact is, we cannot depend on a force which doesn’t act. Of course, Sonia ji and Didi [Mamata Banerjee] share a warm relationship, but that does not and should not rob us of the right to expand our presence. If the Congress can do it, so can we. Why now? Trinamool has attempted to go national in the past as well, we did work in Tripura, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh. Like I said when I became the national general secretary of the party, our attempt this time to go national, will be very different from what was attempted in the past. We want to be a platform of choice for the people. In 2022, five States are going to the polls. How many of these will the Trinamool be contesting? Will you field your candidates in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election too? Mamata ji has made it very clear, we will not be participating in the U.P. Assembly election. But we will definitely be contesting seats in U.P. during the 2024 Lok Sabha election. Trinamool right now is working in three States — Tripura, Goa and Meghalaya. In the next threeor four months, we should have working units in five or six other States including Haryana, U.P., Himachal Pradesh and Assam. On what basis is the party deciding which States to enter? Is the choice based on the relative health or ill health of the Congress in these States? It is the people who are reaching out to us. We are seen as a party that will not sell its soul to the BJP and will have the spine to stand against them no matter what. How do you scale the barrier of being a Bengali party? Narendra Modi was also just the Gujarat Chief Minister before he won the 2014 Lok Sabha election. Ultimately, when you are fighting for a bigger cause, these things don’t matter. Slowly, and gradually, people will understand that there is one lady who can take on the BJP, she is Mamata Banerjee. We have already shown that in Bengal and we will show it in other places too. To people, it won’t matter whether we are from Kashmir, Kanyakumari or the Hindi heartland. Why do you think you will do any better than many other parties who have made similar attempts? The AAP has been in Goa for the past 10 years now and its record has been dismal. Why would your fate be any different? I don’t want to get into the intricacies of why the AAP failed or their ambitions. I am sure that the Trinamool will try and offer to people to convince them that we are the party that ultimately delivers on its commitments. Mamata Banerjee came from the Congress, the Trinamool was born out of the Congress. Are you trying to replace the Congress? It is too early to predict that now, it is ultimately for the people to decide as they deem fit. We will surely take on the BJP’s might, come what may. We can’t be the one to sit in the comfort of our homes and be a Twitter warrior. We have the fire in our belly and we will fight them out on the ground. How many of the G-23 and other disgruntled Congress leaders are in touch with you? Let’s wait for the right time. I would like to leave the speculation alive.  We can’t be the one to sit in the comfort of our homes and be a Twitter warrior||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-will-expand-our-presence-whether-one-party-likes-it-or-not/article37891329.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI/SRINAGAR,||Triservice training held in Kashmir||The Army’s Srinagar-based 15 Corps conducted a triservice helicopter borne training and validation exercise in the snow-clad higher reaches of the Kashmir Valley on Monday. “The exercise was planned to validate the joint capability to insert the task force tactically behind enemy lines in an intense air defence and electronic warfare operating environment,” the Army said in a statement. “The heli dropped task force operated in snow clad region at heights over 9,000 feet. It included troops from Infantry, the Special Forces and the MARCOS from Navy.” The heli-drop exercise included full transportation and armed helicopters from Army and Air Force including Apache attack helicopters, the Army said adding that aspects related to electronic warfare were also validated. A Srinagar-based defence spokesman said the exercise showcased the capability of the Chinar Corps and the Indian Army “to carry out successful operations in high altitude areas incorporating all facets of contemporary and modern battle field in synergy with Indian Air Force and Indian Navy”. Director-General of Police, J&K, Dilbag Singh called upon police force manning the railway stations in the Union Territory to make maximum use of technology. Security audit Chairing a meeting in Jammu, DGP Singh reviewed the security audit of vital installation, experimental running of glass-top rail bogies, availability of X-ray baggage scanners for their optimum utilisation. "Optimum use of the technology for security should be employed for hassle free services to passengers," DGP Singh said. Officials said 235 closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras were installed at 12 railway stations in J&K.  (With inputs from   Peerzada Ashiq in Srinagar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/triservice-training-held-in-kashmir/article37891469.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||Article 370: Mehbooba vows not to contest polls||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti said on Tuesday she will not contest elections till Article 370 is restored in Jammu and Kashmir. The former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir said the revocation of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) was part of the agenda when the PDP formed the Government in the erstwhile State in alliance with the BJP in 2015. Ms. Mufti claimed that the BJP had assured her while forming the Government that it would not touch Article 370 till they were in power. Ms. Mufti said, “The present Government is running the country with a colonial mindset. Unfortunately, J&K has become a laboratory for their experiments... Gandhi’s India has become Godse’s India. The pillars of democracy — the judiciary and the media— are watching silently.” “The middle ground is obliterated, statehood is not our demand. When the Prime Minister met us [in June], media treated us as separatists. Article 35A and 370 were removed unconstitutionally, only J&K Constituent Assembly is allowed to do that. It was a black day. They could do this because of brute majority,” she said. She said the delimitation exercise was part of the Government’s divisive agenda. “When in rest of the country, delimitation cannot happen till 2026, why are they doing so in J&K? It is part of their divisive agenda,” she said. “Of course we [the party] will fight elections, we are not going to cede any space to them,” she added. “People think we are agents of New Delhi, they have a negative feeling ... see what India has done to us, we have been disrobed and disempowered. In Haryana, they have localised jobs, in Himachal, non-locals cannot buy property,” she said, when asked about the disenchantment among the Kashmiris. Asked if she was in favour of talks with Pakistan following the recent killings of a Kashmiri Pandit, a Sikh school principal and non-locals in Srinagar, Ms. Mufti said, “The State Government and the agencies had information about their killings. Had it been any other part of the country, the godi media would have questioned them and held them accountable…Vajpayee visited Pakistan twice. When you [Government] can speak to China that has occupied our territory, then why get irritated when it comes to talks with Pakistan?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/article-370-mehbooba-vows-not-to-contest-polls/article37891316.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||Shiv Sena, NCP differ on role of Cong. in an anti-BJP front||The Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party, partners in Maharashtra’s ruling alliance, appear to differ on the prominence that their common ally, Congress, should have in any non-BJP political formation. The Sena on Tuesday emphasised the Congress’s inevitability in any Opposition unity effort, while the NCP noted that the strength of MPs outside the United Progressive Alliance exceeded that of the Congress. It insisted that the anti-BJP front cannot exclude anyone, even if they are beyond the UPA umbrella. Mamata’s plan Trinamool Congress president Mamata Banerjee is trying to displace the Congress as the lead opponent of the BJP, and she is in discussions with NCP leader Sharad Pawar on restructuring the Opposition space. Ms. Banerjee has particularly questioned former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s leadership skills. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut had an hour-long meeting with Mr. Gandhi. Emerging from the meeting, he said, “An Opposition front is not possible without the Congress. The face of the Opposition front may be a matter of discussion. Rahul Gandhi will soon visit Mumbai. There should be only one front.” While the Shiv Sena is signalling the pre-eminence of the Congress, the NCP spoke of unity of all anti-BJP forces, with the Congress being one among the equals. Ms. Banerjee had recently met Mr. Pawar in Mumbai. It was after this meeting that she proclaimed that “there is no UPA”. The NCP working committee held a meeting in Delhi. Briefing the media after the meeting, NCP leader Nawab Malik said an anti-BJP front should have the Congress but at the same time other non-UPA parties should not be excluded, and that all should have equal prominence.  An Opposition front is not possible without the Congress Sanjay Raut Shiv Sena leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shiv-sena-ncp-differ-on-role-of-cong-in-an-anti-bjp-front/article37891331.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||AK-203 rifles to roll out of U.P. facility in a few months||Russia is ready to ensure full-scale production of the AK-203 assault rifles in India within two-three years, said Alexander Mikheev, Director General of the Russian state agency, JSC Rosoboronexport (RoE). The manufacturing of the rifles at the plant in Uttar Pradesh is likely to begin within a few months, officials said. “The first 70,000 AK-203 rifles will be produced in India with a phased increase in the extent of localisation from 5% to 70%. The rest of the rifles will be produced with 100% localisation,” Mr. Mikheev stated. Since 2019, Russian and Indian specialists have completed a huge amount of preparatory work to optimise the price and tech parameters of the contract, Kalashnikov spokesperson Maria Vorobyeva said. “Today, the long-awaited contract for the production of more than 6,00,000 assault rifles in India has been signed. We are ready to start producing the AK-203 assault rifles in India in the upcoming months,” she added. Over 6.1 lakh AK-203 assault rifles costing over Rs. 5,000 crore will be manufactured by the joint venture, Indo-Russian Rifles Private Ltd (IRRPL), at Korwa in Amethi. The IRRPL was set up jointly between the erstwhile OFB [now Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited (AWEIL) and Munitions India Limited (MIL)] of India, and RoE and the Kalashnikov concern of Russia. Mr. Mikheev said, to date, a modern production line has been established at Korwa, and a small arms range has been set up, where both the factory and acceptance tests of the assault rifles will be carried out. “Rosoboronexport and Kalashnikov specialists take an active part in all production setup stages,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/soon-ak-203-rifles-will-be-manufactured-in-up/article37891351.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Scindia tells airports to ensure seamless floor management||Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday held a meeting on the need for better crowd management at airports after photos on social media of an overcrowded Delhi airport went viral raising concerns about COVID-19 protocols being defied. “Took stock of the preparedness, testing capacities, and the situation on the ground with regard to crowd management at both private and @AAI_Official airports. Have put an action plan with 8 compliances,” Minister Scindia posted on Twitter. He added that airports had been asked to expand RT-PCR services, ramp up help desks and forex counters and ensure seamless floor management. Delhi airport CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar and Chairman of Airports Authority of India Sanjeev Kumar were present at the meeting. Last week, the Government announced stricter protocols for passengers arriving from “at-risk” countries which require mandatory testing on arrival in India. Passengers have to wait for their test results, which can take up to six hours, before they exit the airport or take a connecting flight, leading to chaotic scenes at airports. Several airports have announced additional measures to reduce waiting time for passengers. The Bengaluru airport said late on Monday that it had added 50 new testing machines to scale up its testing capacity and had dedicated counters for senior citizens, passengers with reduced mobility and mothers with infants. The Delhi airport said that it had installed 120 rapid PCR test machines and provided 20 dedicated counters for passengers who had pre-booked their tests online. Meanwhile, the Government said that it was strengthening its Air Suvidha portal, where all international passengers are required to fill a self-declaration form before undertaking travel to India, to ensure a smooth experience for all. It said that the portal allows for segregation of passengers from “at-risk” countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scindia-tells-airports-to-ensure-seamless-floor-management/article37891472.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Judicial inaction favours those in power’||High pendency of cases, large number of vacancies and the collegium system of appointment were among the key issues raised by Lok Sabha members on Tuesday while debating a Bill that seeks to bring clarity on when Supreme Court and High Court judges will get enhanced pension on attaining a certain age. Opening the debate on the High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor made some critical observations about “the judiciary failing to stem the tide of majoritarianism”. Judiciary's “inaction” always favours those in power, Mr. Tharoor said as he cited a number of examples such the judicial challenge to the abrogation of Article 370 and Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Mr. Tharoor also flagged the “insensitivity” shown by higher judiciary while dealing with the plight of migrant workers during the COVID-19 lockdown. Kalyan Banerjee of the Trinamool Congress raised the issue of transfer of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee from the Madras High Court to the Meghalaya High Court by the SC Collegium, and said that the decision was tantamount to “wasting a property of the nation”. Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury called for a mechanism to ensure accountability for corruption in the judiciary. Several members also stressed the need to increase the retirement age of High Court judges and bring it on a par with the retirement age of SC judges. As of now, HC judges retire at 62 and SC judges at 65. Dayanidhi Maran (DMK called for a cooling-off period for judges, saying two former Chief Justices of India were “demoted” — one was appointed a Governor and the other became a Rajya Sabha member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/judicial-inaction-favours-those-in-power/article37891513.ece
08 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||BJP’s sun is bound to set, says Akhilesh||In a massive show of strength in western Uttar Pradesh, the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) on Tuesday pitched their alliance as the foremost contender to the ruling BJP in the 2022 Assembly election. Addressing a massive crowd of over a lakh, SP president Akhilesh Yadav and RLD chief Jayant Singh said their alliance would provide the “true double engine Government” in U.P. In the wake of growing anxiety on the delay in announcing the alliance, the RLD chief turned a scheduled RLD public meeting at Dabatwa village in Meerut into the first joint Parivartan Sandesh (message of change) rally of both parties. Mr. Yadav said the massive turnout was proof that the “BJP’s sun is bound to set in West U.P.” “In East U.P., the BJP is already facing a khadera (eviction).” During the BJP’s rule, farmers were humiliated and the farmers’ agitation will ensure that baees (2022) will see badlaav (change),” he said. Riding on the farmers’ agitation, the two parties seek to consolidate the Jat, Yadav, and Muslim vote bank and make a dent in the Dalit support of the Bahujan Samaj Party and the BJP. Babasaheb Ambedkar’s contribution has been repeatedly invoked, apart from socialist stalwarts Chaudhary Charan Singh and Ram Manohar Lohia. The leaders underlined the importance of brotherhood in the region which provided rich dividends to the BJP in the 2017 election when the party won 86 of the 110 seats in western U.P. Mr. Yadav described the BJP as creating divides in society — “ Jo paida kare khayi, wohi Bhajpayi (one who spawns a rift, he is a BJP member).”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjps-sun-is-bound-to-set-says-akhilesh/article37891307.ece
08 December 2021||Kolkata,||Don’t allow BSF personnel in habitations, says Mamata||Referring to the violence in Nagaland where 14 civilians were killed, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday directed police officials of certain border districts not to allow personnel of the Border Security Force in habitations without permission. “The BSF is allowed for 15 km, that too with the permission of the police, but they are going wherever they want. You all have seen what has happened in Nagaland. You have to be very careful. I don’t want any confrontation,” Ms. Banerjee said, while participating in an administrative meeting for Uttar Dinajpur and Dakshin Dinajpur districts in north Bengal. Ms. Banerjee said that in Murshidabad, Malda, Uttar Dinajpur and Dakshin Dinajpur districts, the BSF was entering habitations. Emphasising that law and order is a State subject, Ms. Banerjee said that in case of such complaints, local Block Development Officers, along with the inspector in charge of the local police station, should “tell them that this is not your jurisdiction”. The Chief Minister also referred to the violence at Sitalkuchi during the West Bengal Assembly election earlier this year where Central forces opened fire at a polling booth and a recent incident in Cooch Behar where three persons were shot dead in an attempt to foil cattle smuggling. Director-General of Police Manoj Malaviya said that he had spoken to officials of the BSF, and the West Bengal Police were denying permission to the requests of the BSF to enter the habitations. The remarks by Ms. Banerjee assume significance because of the recent notification of the Union Home Ministry increasing jurisdiction of the BSF from 15 km to 50 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bar-bsf-from-habitations-mamata/article37891313.ece
08 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Give voice samples, Gehlot tells Shekhawat||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday demanded that Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat give his voice samples in a case being investigated by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) for the alleged attempts to topple the Congress government in July 2020. The case is based on leaked audio clips of certain conversations. The case was registered on the complaint of Congress leader Mahesh Joshi in connection with the audio clips in which some persons are heard discussing the steps to pull down the State Government by horse trading of MLAs. While Mr. Joshi had claimed that one of the voices in the audio tapes was that of Mr. Shekhawat, the Union Minister had rejected the allegation and said the tapes were fake. ‘Ways to escape’ Mr. Gehlot told reporters outside the Pradesh Congress Committee headquarters here that though Mr. Shekhawat’s voice was audible in the audio clips, he had lodged a case with the Delhi Police against the CM’s Officer on Special Duty (OSD) in connection with phone tapping. “The Minister is trying to find ways to escape. He should give his voice samples which will make the things clear,” he said. OSD Lokesh Sharma was interrogated by the Crime Branch of the Delhi Police on Monday in the case registered in March this year on Mr. Shekhawat’s complaint alleging unlawful interception of telephonic conversation. The Delhi High Court has granted interim relief from arrest to Mr. Sharma till January 13, 2022. Mr. Gehlot said the Home Minister and several other Union Ministers were involved in the conspiracy to topple his government. “All of them will be exposed... They wanted to destabilise the Rajasthan Government, but their own MLAs did not support them. We received people’s support,” he said. The audio clips of alleged conversations between Mr. Shekhawat, who represents the Jodhpur constituency in Lok Sabha, and some Congress MLAs went viral in July last year amid the political crisis caused by the rebellion by the then Deputy CM Sachin Pilot and18 party MLAs supporting him. It was alleged that Mr. Sharma had circulated the audio clips on social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/give-voice-samples-gehlot-tells-union-jal-shakti-minister/article37891693.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Be regular in House, PM tells BJP MPs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi exhorted BJP MPs to be more regular in Parliament and to “bring a change within themselves”, warning that if that was not done then “change is something that happens anyway”. He was addressing a parliamentary party meeting of the BJP at the Ambedkar International Centre, a first for the party’s parliamentary group, as the customary place of holding the meeting, the Balayogi Auditorium in the Parliament House complex, was unavailable due to construction issues. “Try and bring a change in yourselves; otherwise, as you know, change is something that happens anyway,” said Mr. Modi, not for the first time urging BJP MPs to be regular in attendance and participation in debates in Parliament. His admonishment is not new, and during the recently concluded national executive of the BJP held in New Delhi, he urged party members to act like a “bridge” to the people, a pointer on the need for party-men to be seen going among the people and being engaged with public works. Briefing the press after the meeting, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the Prime Minister expressed his intention of calling district and mandal presidents of the party for a meeting in Varanasi on December 14. Mr. Joshi said the Government’s floor managers told the BJP MPs the sequence of events that led to the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members. “The country has witnessed whatever took place. It is on record. If they apologise even today, we are ready to withdraw the suspension,” he said. BJP president J.P. Nadda said a ‘kisan sammelan’ should be held to showcase the work of farmers who used innovative techniques.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/be-regular-in-house-pm-tells-bjp-mps/article37891325.ece
08 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Faruqui dropped from Gurugram show||Controversial stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui has been dropped from an upcoming three-day comedy show later this month here in the wake of a complaint filed against him by the BJP Haryana unit’s IT department head. In his complaint to the Gurugram police, Arun Yadav, IT department head, Haryana BJP, said that Mr. Faruqui had insulted Hindu deities divine to his faith and the stand-up comedian was continuously doing so on open platforms such as live performances and shows. “His activities have offended my Hindu faith. This is intentionally done to incite communal disharmony,” said the complaint by Mr. Yadav, with reference to some of the videos of the stand-up comedian allegedly mocking Hindu deities. He also put out the copy of the complaint on his Twitter handle. Mr. Faruqui was to perform at Gurgaon Comedy Festival from December 17 to 19. His name has also been removed by the organisers, The Entertainment Factory, from the promotional posters. Mr. Faruqui in a tweet on November 28 hinted that he may not do any more shows, a day after his scheduled event in Bengaluru was cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/faruqui-dropped-from-gurugram-show/article37891320.ece
08 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Court awards death for toddler’s rape, murder||A local POCSO court in Surat, Gujarat, on Tuesday sentenced a 35-year-old migrant worker to death for the rape and murder of a two-and-half-year-old girl in November this year. The court held that the case was “rarest of rare” and sentenced the accused after finding him guilty of the heinous crime of first raping and subsequently murdering the toddler. The court wrapped the trial in two weeks after the police submitted chargesheet in a week following arrest of the accused, a migrant labourer from Bihar. The victim was the daughter of fellow migrant workers and her body was recovered from bushes. During the fast-track trial proceedings, the court had recorded statements of 43 witnesses. On Tuesday, Special POCSO Court Judge P.S. Kala observed that the case was the “rarest of rare”, and awarded capital punishment to the accused. The court also asked the State Government to pay Rs. 20 lakh as compensation to the victim’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-awards-death-for-toddlers-rape-murder/article37891694.ece
08 December 2021||Mumbai,||Malik wilfully breached undertaking: Bombay HC||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday observed that Maharashtra Cabinet Minister Nawab Malik had “wilfully breached” his undertaking, given to the court in November, of not making any public statements against the Narcotics Control Bureau’s Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede and his family. The court was hearing an application filed by Mr. Wankhede’s father Dhyandev claiming that, despite reassurances to the court, he [Mr. Malik] was making statements against his [Mr. Dhyandev’s] son. Senior advocate Birendra Saraf representing Mr. Wankhede submitted portions of Mr. Malik’s interview to a regional newspaper, alleging defamatory statements to the court. Mr. Malik’s counsel contended that those statements were made “in his individual capacity and not politically”. The court said, “Before we take any action against the respondent [Mr. Malik], we direct him to file his affidavit setting out as to why action should not be taken against him for wilful breach of statements/ undertaking.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/malik-wilfully-breached-undertaking-bombay-hc/article37891314.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Farm unions to take a call on ending protests today||The pending demand of a legal guarantee for MSP remains a major issue for Mr. Tikait’s supporters in Uttar Pradesh, as well as in other parts of the country where the existing MSP regime is not as strong as in Punjab and Haryana. Tuesday’s Home Ministry proposal only says SKM’s leaders would be included in the Centre’s proposed committee to discuss MSP, among other issues. “This leaves open the possibility that other so-called farmers groups, who supported the farm laws and the WTO [World Trade Organisation] regime against MSP, will also be part of the committee,” warned All India Kisan Sabha leader Ashok Dhawale. Another major sticking point, especially among Punjab leaders, remains the Centre’s conditional offer to withdraw cases filed against protesters over the last year, including during a chaotic Republic Day tractor rally in the capital. The Home Ministry proposal said that once the agitation was withdrawn, the cases would also be withdrawn by the Governments of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, as well by the Centre which has police jurisdiction over the capital. “The protest can only end when the cases are withdrawn. This cannot come with any conditions,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads his own faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union in Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farm-unions-to-take-a-call-on-ending-protests-today/article37891311.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||U.P. school directors held for molesting 17 minors||In their complaint, the parents said that on the morning of November 18, the director of a school in Bhopa took the 17 girls for a practical examination to another school in Purkazi. The distance between the two towns is around 25 km. After the examination, the girls were told to stay back in the school so that they could appear for the next day’s exam. “At night, the girls were given food laced with sedatives and were molested. The next morning, they were told not to share the incident at home or else their family members would be killed and their academic career spoilt,” the complaint, registered on December 4, said. Senior SP Abhishek Yadav said the directors of the two schools had been booked under Sections 328, 356, and 504 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant Sections of the POCSO Act. “We have suspended the SHO of Purkazi police station and the statements of the students are being recorded,” he said. Krishna Kumar Bishnoi, circle officer, told The Hindu that one director was arrested on Monday night and the second accused was nabbed on Tuesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-school-directors-held-for-molesting-17-minors/article37891317.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Nagaland seeks AFSPA repeal; scraps festival||“Further, we have decided to support the demands that the Konyak Union has put forward to the President of India,” he said. The Konyak Union, apex body of the dominant Naga tribe in Mon, had imposed the district bandh on Tuesday to protest against the “massacre” and its violent aftermath besides the scrapping of the AFSPA. It also declared seven-day mourning across the district from Wednesday and asked the armed forces to abstain from patrolling in the Konyak region during this period. In a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, it demanded the identification and booking of all Army personnel involved in the incident. “The action taken against the erring soldiers should be put in the public domain within a month,” it said. The union asked the President to ensure two members from the Eastern Nagaland Peoples’ Organisation (ENPO) in an independent team under a competent investigation agency for probing the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagaland-seeks-afspa-repeal-scraps-festival/article37891318.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||SC paves way for Sudha Bharadwaj’s release||She has to appear before the Special Court on Wednesday for a hearing on the conditions of her bail. “We find no reason to interfere,” Justice Lalit said in the order. During the hearing, Justice Lalit said the moot question was whether the court that extended the detention was competent or not. “Within 90 days, you have to complete the investigation, unless you can show reasons not to have completed,” Justice Lalit said. The High Court had, in its order, upheld Ms. Bharadwaj’s indefeasible right to personal liberty. It had said the guarantee of personal liberty under Article 21 (right to life) of the Constitution cannot be thwarted on technical grounds that her plea for default bail was premature. That would be a “too technical and formalistic view of the matter”.  Ms. Bharadwaj was taken into custody by the Pune police in August 2018. The chargesheet was filed in February 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-paves-way-for-sudha-bharadwajs-release/article37891321.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Omicron wave may be milder, report suggests||“This is a picture that has not been seen in previous waves. In the beginning of all three previous waves and throughout the course of these waves, there has always only been a sprinkling of patients on room air in the COVID ward...The COVID ward was recognisable by the majority of patients being on some form of oxygen supplementation with the incessant sound of high-flow nasal oxygen machines or beeping ventilator alarms,” said Dr. Abdullah, Director of the Office of AIDS and TB Research at the SAMRC and a part-time HIV clinician at the Steve Biko Academic Hospital. Of 38 adults in the COVID wards on December 2, 2021, six were vaccinated, 24 unvaccinated, and the vaccination status of eight patients was not known. Of nine patients with COVID pneumonia, eight are unvaccinated. “The relatively low number of COVID pneumonia hospitalisations in the general, high care and ICU wards constitutes a very different picture compared to the beginning of previous waves. A detailed analysis comparing the current picture with previous waves is still being conducted. This may very well be related to the early upswing of the fourth wave,” Dr. Abdullah noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-wave-may-be-milder-early-signs-show/article37891322.ece
08 December 2021||Bhopal,||Four arrested in M.P. school vandalism case||The Madhya Pradesh Police have arrested four persons of a right-wing outfit and lodged cases against over 50 people for vandalising a missionary school in Vidisha district on Monday, even as they began investigation into allegations of religious conversion of eight students at the institution in October. Those arrested for the vandalism at the St. Joseph School in Ganjbasoda, some 105 km from Bhopal, were identified on the basis of CCTV footage, said S. Desai, station in-charge, Kotwali Police Station. “Investigations into allegations of religious conversion are underway,” he told The Hindu . The school administration, however, has denied the allegations. “A video of Catholic students being taught religious rituals was circulated on social media as a conversion ceremony,” said Brother Antony, the school’s principal. On Monday, members of an as yet unidentified outfit had entered the school premises while classes were on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-arrested-in-mp-school-vandalism-case/article37891344.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||1984 riots: former MP charged with murder||A Delhi court has framed charges of murder against former Congress MP Sajjan Kumar in connection with the death of a father-son duo during the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. The order was passed by Special Judge M.K. Nagpal, who framed charges against Kumar under provisions for murder, attempt to culpable homicide, and rioting, among others. The deceased were identified as Jaswant Singh and Tarun Deep Singh. The court, however, dropped the charges under attempt to murder and destruction of evidence. According to the family of the deceased, a mob led by Kumar burnt the two men alive, and also set their house on fire, on November 1, 1984. Kumar is already lodged in jail after he was convicted in another murder case pertaining to the 1984 riots. The judge noted that there was sufficient evidence to show that Kumar was not only a participant in the mob, but was also leading it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1984-riots-former-mp-charged-with-murder/article37891345.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||India adds Ghana, Tanzania to list of ‘at risk’ countries||India on Monday added Ghana and Tanzania to the list of “at risk” countries, passengers from where have to follow additional COVID-19 testing and quarantine measures. The Aviation Ministry said on Tuesday that the list of “at risk” countries was updated on Monday. Countries in Europe, including the U.K., and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Ghana, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Hong Kong, Singapore, Tanzania and Israel have been placed in the “at risk” category, the Aviation Ministry noted. Delhi had reported its first case of the Omicron variant on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-adds-ghana-tanzania-to-list-of-at-risk-countries/article37891337.ece
08 December 2021||Mumbai,||Complaint against BJP’s Ashish Shelar||Ashish Shelar, BJP MLA in Maharashtra, landed in a controversy on Tuesday after the Shiv Sena complained against him for his “objectionable comment” against the Mayor of Mumbai, Kishori Pednekar. “I am filing a police complaint against Ashish Shelar. His statement about me has not only disrespected me but the entire women community,” she said. Mr. Shelar denied all the allegations, saying his statement had been taken out of context. The BJP’s women corporators approached the Mumbai Police in support of Mr. Shelar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/complaint-against-bjps-ashish-shelar/article37891305.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||Court gives time to CPIO on Rajan’s list||The Delhi High Court on Monday allowed the Central Public Information Officer (CPIO) to seek instructions with regard to a petition challenging a CPIO order that upheld a decision by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). The matter pertained to the withholding of information sought under the RTI Act with reference to a list of high-profile bank fraud cases submitted by former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan. A Single Bench of Justice Rekha Palli noted in the order that counsel for the respondent has sought time to obtain instructions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-gives-time-to-cpio-on-rajans-list/article37891511.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Government, farmers seek adjournment||Citing “changed circumstances”, the Centre and the farmers’ side came together in the Supreme Court on Tuesday to postpone the hearing of a plea to remove farmers “blocking” the highways to the national capital. “On the lighter side, it is good to see Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta [for the Centre] and advocate Prashant Bhushan [for farmers] on the same side,” Justice S.K. Kaul said granting the adjournment. Though both sides did not elaborate, the “changed circumstances” may be the repeal of the three controversial farm laws by Parliament. The court deferred the hearing to January. The hearing was in stark contrast to earlier ones which had seen verbal clashes between the opposing sides. In the previous hearing, the farmers’ side had blamed the State for deliberately blocking the roads to turn public sentiments against them.They had urged for permission to enter the Ram Lila Maidan and Jantar Mantar in Delhi to continue their protests against the laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-farmers-move-to-postpone-hearing-in-sc/article37891308.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul seeks relief for kin of dead farmers||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked the Union Government to provide compensation and jobs for the next of kin of farmers who died during the year-long agitation against the three farm laws on the borders of the national capital. Mr. Gandhi, who had unsuccessfully moved an adjournment motion on the farmers’ issue, tabled a list in the Lok Sabha of deceased farmers whose families were given compensation and employment by the Punjab Government. Demanding a statement from the Government on the issue, Congress members, along with DMK and NCP colleagues, walked out of the House raising slogans against the Government. “Around 700 farmers died in farmers’ agitation. The Prime Minister apologised to the farmers and accepted his mistake. On November 30, Agriculture Minister was asked a question — ‘how many farmers died in the agitation?’ Agriculture Minister said he had no data. We found out that Punjab Government has paid compensation of Rs. 5 lakh each to more than 400 farmers. Of these 400 farmers, 152 have also been given jobs. I have one more list of 70 farmers from Haryana,” Mr. Gandhi said. “The Prime Minister has apologised. Now, farmers should get compensation and jobs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-seeks-relief-for-kin-of-dead-farmers/article37891336.ece
08 December 2021||Srinagar,||DGP reviews security in J&K stations||Dilbag Singh, Director General of Police, Jammu and Kashmir, has called upon the police force manning the railway stations in the Union Territory (UT) to make the best use of technology. At a meeting in Jammu on Tuesday, DGP Singh reviewed the security audit of vital installation, experimental running of glass top rail bogies and availability of X-ray baggage scanners. Officials said 235 CCTV cameras were installed at 12 railway stations in J&K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dgp-reviews-security-in-jk-stations/article37891515.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||SII to slash Covishield production||With not enough orders for Covishield from the Union Government, Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla on Tuesday said the company was looking at slashing monthly production of vaccines by at least 50%. The SII has written to the Government to seek clarity on its requirement, if any, for regular doses and also on booster doses. “I am actually in a dilemma that I never imagined... we are producing 250 million doses a month but the good news is that India has covered a large part of its population and we would have completed all our orders to the Ministry of Health in a week’s time,” Mr. Poonawalla said in an interview to a TV channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sii-to-slash-covishield-production/article37891517.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP MP raises concern over drug abuse in Delhi||BJP MP Parvesh Sahib Singh on Tuesday alleged that the Delhi Government was not acting against drug abuse by minors, while asking a question in the Lok Sabha about the Centre’s anti-drug campaign. The West Delhi MP said “whether it is the children of Bollywood stars” or the “children of beggars on the streets”, the trend of using party drugs among children was increasing while the Government was blowing its own trumpet by saying it had improved the quality of schools.He said they were at risk of catching HIV and Hepatitis by injecting drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mp-raises-concern-over-drug-abuse-in-delhi/article37891323.ece
08 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder flays Congress over Ajay Maken’s appointment||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday hit out at the Congress “high command” for appointing Ajay Maken as the screening committee chairman for shortlisting candidates for the upcoming Assembly election in Punjab. Capt. Amarinder said Mr. Maken was the nephew of the late Lalit Maken, who was one of the accused of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi. “The Congress could not have nominated a worst person than Mr. Maken and thus is rubbing salt into Punjabis’ wounds,” the former Congress leader said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarinder-flays-congress-over-ajay-makens-appointment/article37891332.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||Kharge takes a dig at MHA’s reply on infiltration||The Union Home Ministry informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that in the past three years, there had been “nil” cases of infiltration from the China and Bhutan borders. Taking a dig, Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha, tweeted that the reply by the Ministry suggested that no soldiers were killed in Galwan in Ladakh. The tweet also asked if the Chinese village in Arunachal was built by the ‘Beijing Janata Party’ under the ‘PM Awas Yojana’. In June 2020, 20 soldiers were killed in violent clashes with the Chinese Army in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kharge-takes-a-dig-at-mhas-reply-on-infiltration/article37891333.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Time to repeal AFSPA, says Agatha Sangma in LS||Agatha Sangma, MP of the National People’s Party, a BJP ally, said in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that it was time to repeal the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, which had “failed” to curb insurgency in Northeast India. During Zero Hour, the Meghalaya MP said the killing of 14 civilians by security forces in Nagaland on December 4 and 5 was not the first time that such an incident had occurred, “where innocent civilians have to bear the brunt of a draconian law like AFSPA”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/time-to-repeal-afspa-says-agatha-sangma-in-ls/article37891335.ece
08 December 2021||Mumbai,||Aaditya demands reducing vaccination age to 15||Maharashtra Minister and Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday wrote to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya asking the Central Government to consider reducing the age of eligibility for COVID-19 vaccination to 15. “In my conversation with various doctors, it seems that it may be okay to reduce the minimum age of vaccination to 15. This will enable us to cover secondary school and junior colleges with vaccine protection,” said the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aaditya-demands-reducing-vaccination-age-to-15/article37891343.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||Former CEC joins advisory board of international democracy body||The Election Commission said on Tuesday that former Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora had joined the board of advisers for the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance, a Stockholm-based inter-governmental organisation of 34 member countries. He had served as CEC from December 2, 2018 to April 12, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-cec-joins-advisory-board-of-international-democracy-body/article37891346.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||9 key posts in dept. handling disability matters vacant||The Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry on Tuesday admitted in the Lok Sabha that key posts in the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities were lying vacant, including the posts of chairpersons of the Rehabilitation Council of India and the National Trust, and Chief Commissioner for PwD. Six posts of directors of national institutes are also lying vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/9-key-posts-in-dept-handling-disability-matters-vacant/article37891349.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||‘Hydrogen sulphide suppresses HIV’||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) and their collaborators have identified a key role played by hydrogen sulphide (H2S) gas in suppressing the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). Increased H2S was found to have a direct effect on reducing the rate at which the virus multiplies in HIV-infected human immune cells. The finding paves the way for developing a more comprehensive antiretroviral therapy against HIV. The team included researchers from the Department of Microbiology and Cell Biology (MCB) and the Centre for Infectious Disease Research (CIDR) at IISc., along with collaborators from the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute. The results are published in the journal eLife .  ‘Not a cure’ According to an IISc. release, current state-of-the-art combined antiretroviral therapy (cART) is not a cure for HIV. It can only suppress the virus by causing it to become latent. “Unfortunately, in some cases, cART is known to fail even when patients fully follow their drug regimen. Certain negative effects are also associated with cART, such as the build-up of toxic molecules leading to ‘oxidative stress’ and loss of function in the mitochondria, the cell’s powerhouse. These effects can contribute to inflammation and organ damage. Stopping cART is also not an option because the virus can reactivate – emerge from its latent state – in the absence of therapy,” according to the release. Amit Singh, Associate Professor in MCB/CIDR and corresponding author of the study, said, scientists have recently begun exploring the beneficial effects of the presence of H2S in HIV-infected cells on both oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. As the role of H2S in HIV has not been explored before, the authors had to set up experiments from scratch. “Studying the effects of a gaseous molecule on HIV required us to build and validate new model systems,” said Virender Kumar Pal, a PhD. student in MCB and the first author of the study. “We started with experiments on established cell lines before moving on to cells donated by HIV patients in 2019. Our collaborators in the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, and Prof. Annapurna Vyakarnam’s group at CIDR, were of great help.” The researchers studied the effects of natural generation of H2S in HIV-infected cells as well as supplementing this with a chemical donor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hydrogen-sulphide-suppresses-hiv/article37891475.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||SI suspended in custodial torture case||The police sub-inspector of Byatarayanapura station in Bengaluru, Harish Kumar, has been suspended over the alleged torture of a 22-year-old man in custody. Tousif, a resident of Padarayanapura, was taken to the police station for an inquiry over a fight with a neighbour. Tousif alleged that he was tortured in custody. Following a complaint by his parents, an inquiry was conducted. It revealed dereliction of duty on the part of Harish, following which he was suspended until further orders. This is the second such incident after three policemen from Varthur station were suspended for allegedly torturing a suspect in a theft case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/si-suspended-in-custodial-torture-case/article37891473.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Focus is back on passenger amenities||Several infrastructure projects were thrown into disarray when normal suburban train operations were shut down for nearly 20 months owing to the pandemic. These included commissioning of lifts and escalators, construction of foot over bridges (FOBs), maintenance of public conveniences and extension of platforms, apart from routine upkeep of stations. With the Southern Railway resuming full-fledged suburban train services from November 15 and footfalls slowly returning to the pre-COVID levels, the focus has returned to the need for improved passenger amenities. The Chennai Division, which manages the suburban train services, is slowly resuming operations to implement several passenger amenities. It is speeding up construction of FOBs, commissioning of escalators and lifts, installation of closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras and maintenance of stations. Work in progress B. Guganesan, Chief Public Relations Officer, Southern Railway, giving details of the passenger amenities projects, said the commissioning of lifts in Ambattur, Avadi, Villivakkam and Thiruninravur was underway, and construction of FOBs was in progress in Guindy and Avadi. Extension of platforms for accommodating 12-car rakes had begun at Ambattur and Thiruninravur. Two lifts each are set to be installed in the Thiruninravur, Ambattur and Avadi stations. The Chennai Division has been working on improving cleanliness and preventing trespassing of tracks to avoid accidents, studying the feasibility for making FOBs more commuter-friendly and improving the safety of passengers, particularly women, through a campaign of the Railway Protection Force (RPF), named ‘ Meri Saheli’ . These were initiated based on inspections carried out by a Divisional Railway Manager and senior railway officials. Commuter feedback The initiative was framed based on feedback received from commuters, associations and social activists. A senior official of the Chennai Division acknowledged the upkeep of railway stations was affected after COVID-19, and multiple agencies were involved in the awarding of contracts for station upkeep. A new cleanliness policy has been formulated, wherein a well-coordinated mechanism for appointing and monitoring of the maintenance contractors has been set up. Soon, the efficiency of the cleanliness policy will be reflected in several stations on the Chennai Beach to Arakkonam, Sullurpet and Chengalpattu stretches, he said. One of the major complaints in railway stations is the poor maintenance of public conveniences. Hence, the Chennai Division has designed two maintenance models — sponsorship and pay-and-use. The pay-and-use model was already in use in the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) and the sponsorship scheme would be rolled out soon in several railway stations. As part of improving the safety of the commuters, mainly women, the installation of closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras in suburban stations through the Nirbhaya Fund is being carried out in three phases. The railway official said CCTV cameras would be installed in 17 stations by June, 26 stations in August and 31 stations in October next year. The Chennai Division has created a dedicated wing of women RPF personnel who will travel in the ladies compartment to get feedback on security from commuters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-is-back-on-passenger-amenities/article37891636.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM tells officials to start flood mitigation work||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin on Monday visited flooded parts of Manali New Town, along the banks of Kosasthalaiyar. The area was flooded for several days after the recent spell of rain. More than 450 residents, who were affected by the floods, were accommodated in flood shelters of Greater Chennai Corporation. An estimate of the total number of flood-affected households will be made shortly. Work commenced The Water Resources Department (WRD) and the Chennai Corporation have started work on flood prevention along the river in areas like Manali. Water has receded in such areas, officials said. As the flooding of northern parts of Chennai, including Manali zone, was caused because of the release of water from Poondi and Red Hills reservoirs, the Chief Minister ordered officials to start work on flood prevention in low-lying areas along the river. On Monday, Mr. Stalin also visited flooded parts of Tiruvallur district and directed the Water Resources Department officials to start work on flood control along the banks. Greater Chennai Corporation officials led by Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi accompanied the Chief Minister. The Chennai Corporation and the Water Resources Department officials have already launched flood mitigation work in the Buckingham canal in North Chennai. Areas such as Kodungaiyur were flooded during the recent rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-tells-officials-to-start-flood-mitigation-work/article37891772.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNPSC sets out plan to fill thousands of vacant posts||Chairman of the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) Ka. Balachandran on Tuesday released the annual recruitment planner for 2022. As per the plan, thousands of vacancies in 32 different posts in various departments will be filled. Speaking to mediapersons, Mr. Balachandran said competitive examinations would be conducted in a transparent manner, adopting technology to prevent malpractices, based on a new syllabus. “We are preparing the syllabus for Group II, Group II A and Group IV. We will upload the syllabus on the TNPSC portal in a few days. Before notification of the examinations, the new syllabus and model question papers will be given on the portal. Students will be able to clear the examinations if they prepare, following the syllabus and model question papers given in the portal,” he said. Around 11,000 vacancies in Group II, Group II A and Group IV posts are expected to be filled shortly. As many as 5,831 vacancies in Group II and Group II A, including posts such as Municipal Commissioner, and 5,255 vacancies in Group IV, including posts such as Village Administrative Officer, are expected to be filled in 2022. The notification for the Combined Civil Services Examination for Group II and Group II A will be made in February, 2022. More than 25 lakh aspirants have been preparing for the examinations in various parts of the State. Pandemic effect The previous examination for Group II posts was conducted in November 2019. Examinations for important posts were not conducted for the past two years because of COVID-19. As the Madras High Court declared as unconstitutional a law passed by the Tamil Nadu legislature providing 10.5% internal reservation to the Vanniakula Kshatriya community within the 20% earmarked for Most Backward Classes (MBCs) in education and public employment, the TNPSC will not provide it in existing examinations. Any list of selected candidates made following the law will be revised. “The final decision will be based on the order of the Supreme Court,” said Mr. Balachandran. Answering questions relating to candidates from other States clearing the examinations, Mr. Balachandran said some Tamil people from bordering regions such as Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry were clearing the examinations conducted by TNPSC. “People from States such as Bihar have not cleared the examinations in large numbers,” he said. Candidates have to score marks in Tamil language to clear the examinations. According to the annual recruitment planner for 2022, the Group IV examinations will be notified in March 2022. The examinations are expected to be conducted after 75 days of the notification. In January 2022, notification for posts of Assistant Director in the Cooperative Audit Department and Executive Officer in Grade I of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department will be given by the TNPSC. Combined exams The Combined Civil Services Examinations for Group I posts to select officers such as Deputy Collector and Deputy Superintendent of Police will be notified in June 2022. Competitive examination for English reporter and Tamil reporter in the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly and Secretariat will be notified in July 2022. The notification for District Educational Officer in the School Education Department will be made in September, 2022. Examinations for Assistant System Engineer and Assistant System Analyst in the Tamil Nadu Information Technology Service will be notified in December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnpsc-sets-out-plan-to-fill-thousands-of-vacant-posts/article37891615.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mylapore residents complain of stagnating sewage||Residents of Joseph Colony in Mylapore, who have been living in slushy surroundings, are dreading the prospect of another spell of rain in the city. Sewage as well as slush can be seen all over the colony ever since the city began receiving rain around a month ago. The houses in the colony are located around a large open space, where sewage remains stagnant. “Even with the slightest of rain, the drainage overflows, and since our houses are in a low-lying area, water from the surrounding streets also inundates our street,” said H. Henry, a resident. Other residents, like A. Mary, said the recent spell of rain a week ago saw the drains overflowing and entering their houses. “Many of us had to leave the area and go to our relatives’ houses till the water receded. We have children at home and it is extremely worrying if this keeps happening every time it rains,” she said. She and the other residents point to the stagnant water and slush, and stated that they were extremely worried about how they would leave their house in case of a medical emergency since many vehicles refused to enter the waterlogged area.  Transportation issues “There was a death in the colony a few days ago, and we struggled to take the body out through the slush. Even people who came to visit their house had to walk through the dirty water,” said F. Nathan, another resident. A few residents said they had developed sores on their feet and legs since they had been walking through the patch of stagnant sewage every day. The residents said while the manholes in the area are cleaned occasionally, the silt is left next to it which again results in the drains getting blocked during the rain. “We want a permanent solution for this,” Mr. Henry said. When asked about the concerns faced by the residents, an official from the Greater Chennai Corporation said that they would reach out to the residents and help them clear the slush.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mylapore-residents-complain-of-stagnating-sewage/article37891628.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents oppose TNUHB plan on Mandaveli high-rise project||Residents of the old Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB) tenements in Mandaveli on Tuesday protested against the board’s plan to demolish the buildings and reconstruct them as high-rise apartments. Stating that they did not want the buildings to be taller than five storeys, the residents urged the board to provide them adequate time for finding alternative rental accommodation during the demolition and reconstruction. K. Dinesh Kumar, an youngster residing in the area, said there were 448 units in the older buildings that were constructed more than 30 years ago. Apart from that, around 150 families resided in tiled roof or thatched roof houses in the locality. “To accommodate these families, we do not need 11 storeys,” he said. G. Manonmani, another resident, said they were afraid that such high-rise buildings would result in the apartment units and the lobby being cramped. “We are seeing media reports on how such buildings are in Pulianthope. There are 15 to 20 apartment units on every floor,” she said. She said the additional apartment units to be built were likely to be used to house families from other parts of the city. “All the families here are living as a community for decades. If outsiders come, it would cause a variety of problems,” she said. N. Jothilakshmi, another resident, said they were finding it difficult to find alternative accommodation. “Majority of us are daily wage earners. Our livelihood and our children’s education are tied to this area, and hence we cannot move to faraway places. However, house owners are demanding Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 10,000 as rent and Rs. 7 per unit for electricity. Such an amount is not affordable for us,” she said. She said the board can instead wait for two housing projects in nearby localities to complete before commencing this one. “The residents, who were living in those areas, had moved elsewhere for rental accommodation. Once they move back in, the rental houses will be available for us at a relatively cheaper rate,” she said. She added that the residents also wanted the reconstruction to be done in a timely manner unlike the delays experienced in a few other places. Highlighting that the officials from the TNUHDB had not informed them about any payment to be made for the new houses, she said none of them were in a position to pay any money for the houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-oppose-tnuhb-plan-on-mandaveli-high-rise-project/article37891647.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu records 710 fresh cases; three districts see no infection||Tamil Nadu added 710 fresh cases of COVID-19 to its tally on Tuesday. Ariyalur, Pudukottai and Virudhunagar saw no fresh case, even as the number of cases continued to exceed 100 in both Chennai and Coimbatore. While Chennai and Coimbatore recorded 126 and 122 cases, respectively, 20 districts logged fewer than 10 infections each. There were 57 cases in Chengalpattu. Erode and Tiruppur reported 56 and 52 cases, respectively. Forty-three people tested positive in Salem, while Namakkal’s count stood at 38. Two returnees from West Bengal were among those who tested positive. The State’s tally stood at 27,31,945. Ten more people succumbed to the infection and the toll touched 36,549. Twenty-nine districts did not report any fatality. There were two deaths in Chennai, and one each in Chengalpattu and Coimbatore. Among the deceased was a 38-year-old man from Chennai who had periampullary carcinoma with metastasis. He was admitted to a private hospital on November 30 with difficulty in breathing and died on December 6 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. With 731 people being discharged after treatment, total recoveries touched 26,87,414. The active caseload fell below 8,000 — 7,982 people are under treatment for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. They include 1,265 people in Coimbatore and 1,212 in Chennai. Twenty-two districts have under 100 active cases each. With 1,00,393 samples being tested, the total count touched 5,49,85,621. Inoculation coverage With 2,93,346 more people being vaccinated against COVID-19, the total coverage in government centres reached 7,19,72,037. Of the inoculated, 1,68,720 were aged 18 to 44, 82,156 were in the 45-59 age group and 42,254 were senior citizens. The coverage in private centres stood at 27,66,255.  With 731 people being discharged after treatment, total recoveries touched 26,87,414. The active caseload fell below 8,000 — 7,982 people are under treatment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-records-710-fresh-covid-cases-three-districts-see-no-infection/article37891618.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A literary magazine that gave equal importance to cinema||The name Manikodi conjures up an era when the Tamil literary world witnessed outstanding short stories and writers. The literary magazine that survived for just six years from its launch on September 17, 1933, had also accorded equal importance to cinema, and a new monograph sheds light on the subject. “It was a time when people were attracted to cinema in a big way. The magazine, then a weekly, had decided to publish film advertisements to ensure its existence. Compared to Ananda Vikatan , Manikodi had published more film advertisements,” said writer Kadarkarai Matthavilasa Angatham, the author of the book Manikodi Cinema.  Though it was inevitable for a literary magazine to allot adequate space for cinema reviews to make itself relevant, in the case of Manikodi , some of its writers nurtured the dream for a role in the film world. Languishing in poverty, Pudumaipithan, a trailblazer in Tamil short story writing, went to Pune with the hope of becoming a rich man. “But he only got tuberculosis and was left without money to even buy medicine. His letters to his wife Kamala reveal his life,” Kadarkarai said. However, P.S. Ramaiah, who became the editor of the magazine, made a successful entry into the film world and directed films. He also wrote a book, Cinema, based on his experiences in the film world. “His success in the film world is explained by the presence of bigwigs in the committee constituted to celebrate his 60th birthday. A.V. Meyyappa Chettiar was the president of the committee and the members included S.S. Vasan, Kothamangalam Subbu, Gemini Ganesan, K.S. Gopalakrishnan, J.P. Chandrababu and Pandaribhai,” said Kadarkarai. When Mehaboob Khan, the well-known Hindi film producer, wanted to make Aan in Tamil, he had commissioned Ramaiah for the project and gave him a whopping Rs. 60,000. S.S. Vasan had given Ramaiah an advance of Rs. 10,000 and Kadarkarai has collected the details from the souvenir published on the occasion of the birth centenary of Vasan. All aspects Kadarkarai has written in detail about the reviews published in Manikodi and in the process offers information on every aspect of films including actors, directors and production companies. For instance, he has quoted from the review of the movie Saint Thiyagarja by critic Sanjayan: “Barring the appearance of a bicycle in the movie, the period of saint Thiyagaraja should belong to the age as claimed by the film makers.” In 1939, a conference in Chennai witnessed a heated argument. While Murugadasa, who directed films like Nandanar , made a strong case for making films that would inculcate “healthy taste” in audiences, another director, Y.V. Rao, lamented that “ideal film” would not result in box office collections. An age-old argument indeed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-literary-magazine-that-gave-equal-importance-to-cinema/article37891649.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK hopes to become more coordinated||The election of former Chief Ministers, O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswami, as coordinator and co-coordinator of the AIADMK has paved the way for the organisation to function in a more coordinated manner than in the past, according to a cross section of office-bearers, “This has demonstrated how united the party is from top to bottom,” said D. Jayakumar, organisation secretary and former Fisheries Minister. “Many people had predicted that the party would disintegrate after the demise of Amma [Jayalalithaa]. We are alive and kicking. Not just that. The latest event has shown that there is no end to the party, which will continue to flourish,” contended Mr. Jayakumar. Asked whether the election meant the continuation of the “dual leadership” system in the party, K. P.Munusamy, deputy coordinator of the party, said the organisation had established a system and the poll was held based on the system. “As was done for the post of general secretary when Amma was alive, we had got the two incumbents elected,” he explained. Another veteran, speaking on the condition of anonymity, felt the election had ensured the elimination of the possibility of former interim general secretary V,K. Sasikala getting back into the party as ‘general secretary’, the position being claimed by her. He expressed the hope that hereafter, the slogan of “single leadership” would not be raised by a section of cadres. R.Thangathurai, a long-standing observer of the party, said the system of dual leadership was an “innovation” as no other party would have experimented with it. This was different from what Sonia Gandhi and Manmohan Singh had as the former looked after the affairs of the Congress party and the latter was “in charge” of the government. The election had ensured the continuance of the system at least for another five years. However, G. Palanithurai, veteran academician, viewed the development differently and said the two leaders were carrying on together as otherwise they would lose the strength of the party workers, who were “oriented to the loyalty of leaders [Jayalalithaa and M.G. Ramachandran] and symbol [“two leaves”] and the politics of antagonism towards DMK and its leader, M. Karunanidhi”. Under such circumstances, the system of “dual leadership” would not work in the long run and the workers were waiting for “a strong leader”. Meanwhile, before leaving for Madurai, Mr. Panneerselvam told reporters that the organisational elections had begun as per the party’s rules, and in the first phase, the poll for the posts of coordinator and co-coordinator had been held “in accordance with the rules and dharma”. Asked how the party would respond to any court’s order, he replied that “generally, I respect the verdict of the court”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-hopes-to-become-more-coordinated/article37891620.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||$500 mn funding for solar module project in T.N. gets DFC green light||The U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) has announced that it has approved up to U.S. $500 million of debt financing for First Solar, Inc. to support the company’s previously announced vertically integrated photovoltaic (PV) solar module manufacturing facility in Tamil Nadu, with a projected annual capacity of 3.3 gigawatts (GW). The debt financing would be subject to negotiations of definitive agreements between the DFC, America’s development bank and First Solar, the largest American solar manufacturing company. “The DFC is thrilled to be in a position to support First Solar’s new venture in India, which will boost solar panel manufacturing capacity for a key ally and help mobilise the industry to take up better standards that align with the U.S. values,” said Dev Jagadesan, DFC’s Acting Chief Executive Officer in a press release. “This transaction represents another milestone in the U.S.’ effort to drive alternative supply chains and to articulate a vision for climate finance that drives our development mission.” Mark Widmar, First Solar’s Chief Executive Officer said like the U.S., India has recognised that it must shape its own sustainable energy future and has sought to supercharge the expansion of its domestic solar manufacturing capacity. “The DFC’s intent to support this facility has the potential to create a high-visibility, repeatable blueprint for enabling the clean energy ambitions of like-minded nations through American innovation, ingenuity, and competitiveness.” A press release said this investment will promote the DFC’s commitment to diversify supply chains. First Solar produces “thin film” solar panel modules, which do not use polysilicon. First Solar, which was the first of the world’s ten largest solar manufacturers to join the Responsible Business Alliance, will replicate its industry-leading transparency and traceability protocol in India, amplifying efforts to boost supply chain transparency throughout the renewable energy sector. First Solar had announced its intent to build the India facility in July 2021. The company expects to reach 16GW of global manufacturing capacity in 2024.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/500-mn-funding-for-solar-module-project-in-tn-gets-dfc-green-light/article37891653.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Citizenship to refugees not part of 1987 accord’||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra on Tuesday clarified in the Lok Sabha that conferring citizenship on refugees from Sri Lanka was not part of the mandate of the Rajiv Gandhi-Jayawardene accord signed between India and Sri Lanka in 1987. He made this statement in a written reply to an unstarred question raised by D. Ravikumar, Member of Parliament representing Villupuram, who sought details about those who got citizenship under the 1987 accord. To a question on whether the Union Government had any proposal to increase the amount of cash dole for the refugees living in camps in Tamil Nadu, the Union Minister Mr. Mishra answered that the dole was considered “for revision from time to time.” He told the House that the Tamil Nadu Government had decided to construct 7,469 houses for the refugees. Asked about the details of amenities given to refugees belonging to various countries, Mr. Mishra said the amenities, including cash dole, could not be compared with one another as the scheme for rehabilitation of refugees from various countries was “guided by the requirement of that particular community, area of their settlement and other considerations.”  The amount of cash dole for the refugees living in camps in Tamil Nadu was considered for revision from time to time Ajay Kumar Mishra Union Minister of State for Home Affairs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citizenship-to-refugees-not-part-of-1987-accord-union-minister/article37891685.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested by CCB for land grabbing||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) has arrested three persons on charges of land grabbing in two separate cases. A. Ayyanar and N. Venkatachalam were arrested on charges of attempting to grab a land worth Rs. 10 crore. A CCB officer said a complaint was filed by M. Sathyaseelan, a resident of Malakanandapuram, stating that some persons were attempting to encroach on his vacant land, measuring nearly 73 cents, using forged documents. A special team traced the two accused who were involved in the land grabbing. They had planned to sell the land with a fake sale agreement, and planned to collect nearly Rs. 50 lakh. In another case, the CCB police arrested B. Karthikeyan alias Karthik, 51, of Madambakkam, for illegally selling a land measuring 10 cents in S. Kolathur on Tuesday. The CCB filed a case based on the complaint from the land’s owner M. Anitha Mathews. They found the accused had sold the land, which was worth Rs. 2 crore, for Rs. 60 lakh. The accused were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-by-ccb-for-land-grabbing/article37891630.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM to launch scheme for accident victims||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will launch the State Government’s latest initiative, Nammai Kaakkum 48, in Chengalpattu on December 18. The scheme is being rolled out to ensure the timely hospitalisation and treatment of people injured in road accidents. The scheme will cover the injured, irrespective of whether the accidents take place on rural roads, State Highways or National Highways, and irrespective of the country, State and district the victim is from, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian told reporters on Tuesday. “The scheme will be rolled out in 610 hospitals — 205 government facilities and 405 private ones — across the State. The list of empanelled hospitals will be released soon. Those injured in accidents can be admitted to these hospitals and the State Government will spend Rs. 1 lakh for their treatment,” he said. At least 50 to 60 people die in road accidents every day in the State, he said, adding that deaths mainly occurred due to the victims not being taken to hospitals on time. Passers-by usually hesitate to help accident victims, considering that they will have to go to the police station and courts. Keeping this in mind, the State government has also decided to grant an incentive of Rs. 5,000 to those who immediately take accident victims to hospitals, he said. ‘No case of Omicron’ The Minister said no case of the Omicron variant had been detected in the State so far. He said two more countries — Ghana and Tanzania — had been added to the list of ‘at-risk’ countries, taking the total number of countries to 13. “So far, nine persons from ‘at-risk’ countries have tested positive for COVID-19 on arrival. Eight of them have been admitted to hospitals — four in the Government Corona Hospital in Guindy and two each in Tiruchi and Namakkal — and one person, who later tested negative, is in home isolation,” he said. While initial analysis showed that the samples were of the Delta variant, the State has sent all nine samples to InStem, Bengaluru, for confirmation, Mr. Subramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-launch-scheme-for-accident-victims/article37891616.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC reserves orders on plea against AIADMK organisational elections||The Madras High Court on Tuesday reserved orders on a writ petition filed by a member of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) to restrain the Election Commission of India (ECI) from approving the election of former Chief Ministers O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami as the coordinator and co-coordinator of the party. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu deferred their verdict after hearing arguments advanced by advocate N.G.R. Prasad, representing the writ petitioner J. Jayachandran of Arasanatti in Hosur. During the course of hearing, the judges wanted to know how a writ petition could be maintainable with respect to private affairs of a party. They also asked how the Election Commission of India could be expected to interfere with the internal elections of a political party. Replying to the queries, Mr. Prasad said when a political party performs public functions and expects the general elections to be held in a democratic way, it was equally important that its own party elections were also held in the same spirit. ‘Bylaws were tweaked’ He complained that the two former Chief Ministers were declared elected to the two top posts in the party unanimously on Monday after successfully preventing any other person from filing nominations. He said the bylaws were tweaked to suit their convenience and a farcical election notification was issued, without even publishing the voters list, and the winners were declared in no time. The counsel also relied upon a few Supreme Court rulings and also the High Court’s celebrated verdict in 2007, where it had invoked its writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution to order re-election in 99 wards during the 2006 Chennai corporation polls, which was marred with violence, booth capturing and other electoral malpractices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-reserves-orders-on-plea-against-aiadmk-organisational-elections/article37891621.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Young doctors trained in preventive care||The Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital is imparting preventive healthcare training to junior doctors and medical students. On Tuesday, the programme was held for medical students and those undertaking the Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship (CRRIs) on the various aspects of the State government’s Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam , an initiative to take healthcare to the doorstep of people. The scheme covered non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and cancers as well as extended home-based services such as palliative care. “The aim was to train the young doctors who will be going into the field in the future. Healthcare providers play a crucial role in taking forward such initiatives. If young doctors are trained in preventive healthcare, the community-level health will be better,” said R. Shanthimalar, KMC dean. It was organised by the Department of Community Medicine of KMC along with the urban primary health centre, Chetpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/junior-doctors-trained-in-preventive-care/article37891633.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Combined kidney, liver transplant successfully done on Bengaluru boy||Doctors at a private hospital in Chennai said they recently pulled off a combined liver and kidney transplant from live donors for a 12-year-old boy suffering from a rare genetic disorder. The boy from Bengaluru was suffering from primary hyperoxaluria type-II, where the liver cannot regulate the excessive build up of oxalate in kidneys and other vital organs of the body. Due to renal failure caused by the disease, the boy was already undergoing dialysis thrice a week. According to a press release from Gleneagles Global Health City (GGHC), when the patient was brought by his parents, his condition demanded a combined liver and kidney transplant as the problem was primarily in the liver. While the boy’s mother donated a kidney, his aunt donated a part of her liver. Somashekhara, consultant paediatric hepatologist and liver transplant physician, said it was a challenge to treat the boy as there were not many proven studies reported elsewhere. Careful coordination According to Mettu Srinivas Reddy, director, liver transplantation and hepatobiliary surgery, a team of over 20 surgeons were involved in the combined transplant. “It is like a large symphony orchestra where the timing of the two donor operations and the child’s double transplant surgery had to be carefully coordinated, so that the out-of-body time of both the donated organs was kept to a minimum while ensuring safe transplantation,” he said. K. Muruganandham, head and senior consultant, urology and renal transplantation, said the kidney transplant was particularly complicated as a full-sized adult kidney had to be placed in the pelvis of a child. Karnan, head, paediatric intensive care, said the boy was monitored post-surgery and was discharged after 16 days. The donors recovered within a week. Alok Khullar, CEO, GGHC, Chennai, said “The multi-disciplinary approach coupled with technical expertise helped us to ensure the success of the surgery.”  While the boy’s mother donated a kidney, his aunt donated a part of her liver||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/combined-kidney-liver-transplant-successfully-done-on-bengaluru-boy/article37891652.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Model station for ‘zero waste’||The Chennai Division of the Southern Railway has drawn up plans for making the Chengalpattu railway station a model for ‘zero waste’. It will become a prominent station with the completion of the third line work, linking it to the Tambaram junction, which would give a boost to suburban train services. A senior official said the railway station already has a compost plant for recycling organic waste, and steps are being taken to set up a sewage treatment plant and a plastic recycling plant by March. Plans for Central station The Chennai Division also plans to install a composting plant in the Dr. M.G.R. Chennai Central Station for which the tender will be floated soon, and the work is planned to be completed by June. The official said the Zero Waste Management Project will be executed in other important railway stations of the Chennai Division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/model-station-for-zero-waste/article37891632.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held under POCSO Act||The police arrested a man from Old Washermenpet on Tuesday for sexually assaulting a 11-year-old girl. The accused, identified as M. Sadiq Basha, was produced before a judicial magistrate and remanded in custody. A senior police officer said a complaint was registered by the parents of the victim accusing Sadiq Basha of attempting to misbehave with their daughter while she was playing outside their home. The girl was rescued by neighbours after she called for help. In another incident, V. Pandian, 24, of Kundrathur, was arrested on charges of sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl after luring her to his house.   (ChildLine operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress -1098)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-under-pocso-act/article37891631.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GCC resumes work on modernisation of more schools||The Greater Chennai Corporation has resumed modernisation of its schools at an estimated cost of Rs. 61.7 crore. According to a press release by GCC Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi, the civic body has invited bids for modernisation of schools in eight locations, including Nungambakkam, MGR Nagar, Shenoy Nagar and Kottur under Singara Chennai 2.0. Work on schools at six locations has already begun. Work on another 12 schools in areas such as Saidapet and Alwarpet will be taken up shortly. The adoption of modern technology and smart classroom facilities is expected to increase in the number of students in the Chennai Corporation schools. The number of students in the schools had come down from 1.3 lakh to 87, 000 in the past few years. The civic body has launched initiatives to improve facilities in the corporation schools. The modernisation programme was taken up before 2014 with support from countries such as Finland. After the launch of Smart Cities Mission in 2015, the civic body improved the smart classroom facilities in the past few years in some of the schools. Currently, it is planning to implement smart classroom facilities in all higher secondary schools. The facilities will be developed in 281 schools in a phased manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gcc-resumes-work-on-modernisation-of-more-schools/article37891638.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AWBI, Animal Husbandry Dept. at loggerheads||The Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) and the State Animal Husbandry Department on Tuesday found themselves at loggerheads with each other before the Madras High Court on the issue of the alleged ill treatment of stray dogs on the sprawling IIT-M campus. Appearing before the first Division Bench of Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu, who were seized of a public interest litigation petition, Additional Government Pleader C. Harsha Raj said 57 dogs had died on the campus over 13 months, and the numbers were quite alarming. He said a committee that conducted inspections on November 29 and 30 on the IIT-M campus had found that the major clinical conditions encountered by the dogs were wounds, respiratory diseases and helminthiasis. These conditions directly point to poor sanitation hygiene in the dog shelters, he said. On the other hand, a counsel representing AWBI said an inspection was conducted by the board this February, and no such ill treatment to dogs was seen. He said the stray dogs were being taken care of by the IIT-M management, and there were absolutely no complaints about their condition. The judges adjourned the case to Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awbi-animal-husbandry-dept-at-loggerheads/article37891654.ece
08 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 50,000 for kin of COVID-19 victims||The Tamil Nadu Government has ordered an ex-gratia payment of Rs. 50,000 from the State Disaster Response Fund to the kin of those who died of COVID-19, including people involved in relief operations or were associated in preparedness activities. The cause of death has to be certified as COVID-19, as per guidelines jointly issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Indian Council of Medical Research on September 3. Expenditure will be incurred from the State Disaster Response Fund, in strict compliance with the guidelines of the National Disaster Management Authority, issued on September 11, a Government Order said. The ex-gratia assistance will be applicable from the day when the first COVID-19 case was reported in the country, and will continue till the denotification of COVID-19 as a disaster or until further orders. This excludes frontline workers who have been given an ex-gratia of Rs. 25 lakh, children who lost both parents (Rs. 5 lakh) and children who lost one parent (Rs. 3 lakh).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-announces-rs-50000-for-kin-of-covid-19-victims/article37891645.ece
08 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Fake entries were technical errors: Minister||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Tuesday denied that fake entries had been made in Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 vaccination data. The Minister said the State’s vaccination coverage stood close to 7.5 crore, and it was common for one or two “technical errors” to creep in. “In Kancheepuram, we came across two to three such issues, and we found that they were due to technical errors made by the temporary staff. There is no need to register an unvaccinated person as vaccinated. We have asked for an inquiry into these incidents,” he said. An officer has been appointed in each district through the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine to rectify errors in vaccination certificates, he said. If anyone deliberately makes wrong entries, action will be taken against them, he said, adding that, however, there was no chance such things would happen.  The Hindu reported that several fake entries had crept into the COVID-19 vaccination data, as healthcare workers had “unrealistic vaccination targets”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fake-entries-were-technical-errors-minister/article37891625.ece
08 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||I-T raid finds Rs. 1,000 cr. sales suppression||The I-T Department has found suppression of sales to the tune of over Rs. 1,000 crore at a leading retail chain outlet in Tamil Nadu. On December 1, the department undertook search and seizure operations at 37 premises of two groups engaged in retail sales of jewellery, textiles and home appliances in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Tirunelveli. In one of the groups, it seized documents and incriminating materials revealing that the retail group was involved in a systematic sales suppression by manipulating books of accounts. “The extent of suppression of sales is found to be more than Rs. 1,000 crore, over several years. It was also found that the assessee had made unaccounted cash purchases of about Rs. 150 crore in textile and jewellery divisions, during the past few years,” a release said. The department did not name the groups. The release said in the second group, suppressed taxable income of Rs. 80 crore was detected. The group was “found to be debiting inflated making charges of jewellery,” it said, adding that unaccounted rental receipts and scrap sales aggregating to Rs. 7 crore was also detected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-t-raid-finds-rs-1000-cr-sales-suppression/article37891626.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPS seeks CBI probe into two deaths||The AIADMK co-coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, on Tuesday demanded that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) be given the task of conducting a probe into the circumstances that led to the death of a youth in Ramanathapuram district and a trader in Villupuram. In a statement, he explained that allegations were levelled against the police department for being responsible for the death of the two persons. He wanted the payment of solatium of Rs. 50 lakh each to the kin of the deceased and the provision of government jobs to eligible persons from the families of the deceased. Making similar demands, party coordinator O. Panneerselvam, said the two lives would not have been lost, had the police handled the situation deftly. Meanwhile, the party’s former interim general secretary, V.K. Sasikala, met actor Rajinikanth and his wife at the actor’s residence at Poes Gardens on Monday, according to a release issued by her office. She enquired about the film star’s health and greeted him on receiving the Dadasaheb Phalke Award. In a series of tweets, AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran deplored the transfers of sub-collector of Cheranmadevi and Superintendent of Police of, Tirunelveli, which, according to reports, were done following their action against those who had links with the ruling party for having indulged in irregularities in the mining of minerals.                                                  He also criticised the removal of the portrait of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa at the Amma Unavagam in Tiruverkadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-for-cbi-probe-into-ramanathapuram-villupuram-deaths/article37891640.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister inaugurates office buildings||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin inaugurated 11 office buildings of the Commercial Taxes and Registration Department via videoconference on Tuesday. The buildings were constructed at a cost of Rs. 14.27 crore. He also handed over appointment orders on compassionate grounds to five persons whose parents had died while in service. A total of 15 such appointments were made. He launched a scheme to integrate the software of the Registration Department with the Greater Chennai Corporation, Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board and Tangedco. The Chief Minister also made a contribution to the Flag Day Fund, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-inaugurates-office-buildings/article37891641.ece
08 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Talks held on resettling 23 Kadar families||Representatives of the Kadar community, Scheduled Tribe activists, Anamalai Tiger Reserve officials and the district administration under Collector G.S. Sameeran held talks on resettling 23 Kadar families, who lost their Kallarkudi settlement to natural calamities. S. Thanaraj, State coordinator of Ekta Parishad, who attended the meeting told The Hindu that the meeting was to decide on the way the Kadar people wanted to settle in Theppakulamedu, where they had relocated. After their settlement was damaged in heavy rain and landslip, the tribal people had attempted to establish another settlement in Theppakulamedu, which the Anamalai Tiger Reserve officials had objected to by citing that the land identified was in the core tiger reserve. Protest After the removal of their huts, the tribals had staged a protest and a fast to reiterate and establish their rights, Mr. Thanaraj said. The tribal people decided to take the issue to the notice of the Collector, who was the chairman of the district committee as per the Forest Rights Act, because the forest officials in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve continued with their objection even after the Kadar families got the title deeds. Building huts At the Monday’s meeting, the tribal people impressed upon the District Collector the need to establish huts at their will, though within the extent mentioned in the title deed. They explained how they looked at various aspects of nature, factored in animal movement, etc. while building the huts, Mr. Thanaraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/talks-held-on-resettling-23-kadar-families/article37891660.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation looks at monetising assets on lake fronts||Coimbatore Corporation that is inching toward completing the works at tanks it had taken up for development under the Smart Cities Mission has drawn plans for monetising assets. The asset monetisation included throwing open the places it had created to those interested to set up eateries of various types. The Corporation was looking for partners to set up eateries in Selva Chinthamani tank first and then the Ukkadam Periyakulam and Valankulam. While developing the lake fronts, the Corporation established places where eateries could be established. Now it was planning to let out those places for eateries of various types – a floating restaurant in Periyakulam (Big Tank), food courts and premium outlets. Persons interested in establishing food courts should have at least five years’ experience with courts of at least 200 seats and five outlets and a net worth of Rs. 25 crore. As for premium outlets, the Corporation said the interested parties should be a pan-India operator offering various cuisines, have FSSAI licence and a turnover of Rs. 5 crore a year. Though monetisation of assets was on plan right from day one of taking up the Smart Cities Mission project, there was an urgent need to let out the places because the Corporation wanted to meet at least a part of the expenditure it incurred in maintaining the assets created. A cursory analysis showed that the Corporation was spending Rs. 1.50 crore a month on maintaining the assets created and that included security personnel, lights, CCTV cameras and garden. With internal assessment showing that the three tanks had started attracting people, the highest being 6,000 a day, the Corporation sources said the civic body was hopeful of good response. If the Corporation were to continue maintaining the assets created it was imperative that it had to meet the maintenance expenditure, or at least a part of it, by monetising assets. Deadline extended The sources said the Corporation that was supposed to open the expression of interest on Tuesday had extended the deadline to December 22. Until now, it had received 15 queries and was hopeful of receiving more before the extended deadline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-looks-at-monetising-assets-on-lake-fronts/article37891663.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to deploy 200 more workers to control dengue||Coimbatore Corporation will soon engage 200 persons to control dengue. The civic body was in the process of recruiting on a temporary basis the 200 persons, 100 of who would be men, to join the team of 800 domestic breeding checkers to fight dengue by destroying mosquito breeding sources, said officials. The Corporation would group the 100 men into rapid response teams for deployment in areas where dengue cases were reported. The men would go door-to-door in neighbourhood of houses with dengue-positive cases to destroy mosquito breeding sources – those that stored fresh, rainwater where the dengue-causing Aedes aegypti mosquito bred. The Corporation would also deploy the teams in dengue hotspots, the sources said and added that the civic body would deploy the other 100 workers for regular mosquito-control work. This was necessary because the city had reported 120 dengue cases in November this year and was seeing an average of 10 – 15 cases a day. The city had also seen the death of a child to dengue on November 28. Further, the city had dengue hotspots in Wards 36, 37, 40, 41, 42, 16, 17, 18, 97, 9, 86, 79, 71 and 72. In those and other parts of the city, the workers to be engaged would also check for breeding sources in under-construction buildings, locked or unoccupied houses. They would also be visiting commercial establishments to check if discarded items had turned fresh water containers and mosquito breeding sources, the sources said. In the recent past, the Corporation had engaged with various types of commercial establishment groups. In particular, it had asked traders engaged in vulcanising and puncture shops to ensure that disused tyres did not turn mosquito breeding sources. In continuation of the effort, the civic body had seized three tonnes disused tyres, the sources added. Home quarantine Health wing officials said the civic body had placed in home quarantine 76 persons who had returned from high-risk countries where Omicron cases were reported. The Corporation had let them exit the Coimbatore airport only after their first test result showed negative. After the eighth day of their arrival, the Corporation was collecting samples for a second test. Thus far, none had turned COVID-19 positive and therefore it had not sent any sample for genome sequencing to identify if the virus variant was Omicron, the sources said. Further, the Corporation was in daily touch over phone with the 76 persons to inquire about their health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-deploy-200-more-workers-to-control-dengue/article37891661.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Postponement of meeting leaves DRUCC members disappointed||Members of the Divisional Railway Users Consultative Committee (DRUCC) of Salem Division expressed disappointment at the postponement of the 23rd meeting, which was scheduled to be held on December 10. In a communication to the DRUCC members, Secretary of DRUCC, Salem Division, and Senior Divisional Commerical Manager E. Harikrishnan wrote that the meeting was postponed as a precautionary measures in view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic condition [sic].” D.L.S. Rajendran from Mettupalayam said that the 22nd meeting was conducted by the Salem Division in 2019. The meeting was not held in 2020 amid the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. Various demands pertaining to the increase in train services to Mettupalayam and improvement of the infrastructure at Mettupalayam Railway Station would be taken to the attention of the railway authorities through this meeting, Mr. Rajendran said. Another DRUCC member K. Jayaraj said, “we have several demands pertaining to trains for the Kongu region, which could be presented through the DRUCC meetings to get results,” he said. The Salem Division authorities must at least consider conducting the 23rd DRUCC meeting via videoconferencing, Mr. Jayaraj urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postponement-of-meeting-leaves-drucc-members-disappointed/article37891678.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Operate night trains via Pollachi to avoid elephant deaths: MP||Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram has appealed to the Ministry of Railways to operate night trains between Palakkad and Coimbatore via Pollachi as a temporary measure to avoid wild elephants getting killed on a section of railway line that passes through forests and peripheries. He wanted all the trains that operate on the Palakkad-Walayar-Coimbatore segment to be shifted to Palakkad-Pollachi-Coimbatore from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. A total of 11 wild elephants were killed on the railway line between Kanjikode and Madukkarai stations on the Palakkad-Walayar-Coimbatore segment from 2016 to 2021, including three pachyderms that were knocked down by a train on November 26, the MP said in a letter addressed to Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav. Reducing speed of trains on the vulnerable stretch to 30 kmph, introducing Tri-Netra (Terrain Imaging for Diesel Drivers − Infrared Enhanced Optical and Radar Assisted) system and building underpasses were other temporary measures suggested by Mr. Shanmugasundaram. An elevated corridor that is away from the dense forest on the Kanjikode-Madukkarai section and running parallel to the Coimbatore-Palakkad highway could be a permanent solution, he said. Mr. Shanmugasundaram pointed out that a geographic information system (GIS) study done on the deaths of the three elephants between Kanjikode and Madukkarai revealed more insights on this section of the forest which falls under the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve (NBR) which was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 2012. A major portion of the railway track B-line between Kanjikode and Madukkarai stations and 60% of track A-line between Walayar and Ettimadai stations seem to fall within the forestry zone and restoration zone of the NBR. “This insight has given a clarity on why the wild elephants fall prey and get killed by the operation of trains within a biosphere, which in turn has threatened the ecosystems,” the letter said. The GIS study was done by civil engineer and RTI activist R. Pandiyaraja of Tenkasi and Dayanand Krishnan, a civil engineer, GIS consultant and a nature enthusiast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/operate-night-trains-via-pollachi-to-avoid-elephant-deaths-mp/article37891679.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NMR train services cancelled till Dec. 14||The Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) train services between Mettupalayam and Udhagamandalam that were cancelled till further advice on October 23, will remain cancelled till December 14 due to delay in engineering works amid the rain. In a press release on Tuesday, Salem Railway Division said that the track between Kallar and Coonoor railway stations was obstructed by fallen boulders and trees. The track was also covered by mud due to the landslides triggered by the frequent downpours in the Nilgiris. “These recurring incidents hamper the ongoing engineering works to restore the damaged railway track in Mettupalayam – Coonoor section of the Nilgiri Mountain Railway,” the release said. Train No. 06136 Mettupalayam – Udhagamandalam special train as well as Train No. 06137 Udhagamandalam – Mettupalayam special train on the NMR section will remain cancelled till December 14, but NMR services between Coonoor and Udhagamandalam will continue uninterrupted, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nmr-train-services-cancelled-till-dec-14/article37891757.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman booked for death of her newborn||A 32-year-old woman from Coimbatore was booked by the police on Monday after a male baby she gave birth to died, allegedly after she chose to deliver at her house, without the assistance of anyone. A case was registered against V. Punniavathi, a resident of Kempatty Colony in Coimbatore. The Bazaar Street police said the woman had three children, and her fourth delivery was expected this week. She developed labour pain around 10 a.m. on Monday, following which she allegedly did not inform anyone or seek help. The police said she wanted to prevent the baby being born alive and hence gave birth to the child at her house without the assistance of anyone. According to the police, the male baby suffered injuries during the delivery, following which the newborn was taken to a nearby health centre. The newborn and the mother were referred to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital where the baby died around 5.30 p.m. Inspector K.P. Shanthi investigated the incident based on a complaint received from Karthik Prabhu, legal probation officer with the District Child Protection Office, Coimbatore. A case was registered against the woman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-booked-for-death-of-her-newborn/article37891669.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Gaana singer lands in police custody||R. Abinesh (19), a gaana singer from Sulur, was arrested after they found out that a video posted by him on social media, a gaana song, had led to a clash between two football teams in the locality in November. The youth, in the custody of the police, apologised for the post. To tender an apology, he rendered an instant gaana song in front of the police personnel and praised the Department for its services to society. A video of the apology song, allegedly released by the police, went viral on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gaana-singer-lands-in-police-custody/article37891672.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mettupalayam GH performs complex pancreatic surgery||A team of doctors from the Government Hospital, Mettupalayam, recently performed a complex pancreatic surgery on a 12-year-old girl from Annur. The girl had been suffering from recurrent episodes of abdominal pain, vomiting and digestion related problems since her infancy. She was diagnosed with a congenital condition called pancreatic divisum due to which her pancreas had developed as two different parts with separate draining ducts as against a single gland with a single major ductal system in normal case. According to a release, the major duct was not well developed with obstruction at its orifice that caused poor drainage of pancreatic juices into the intestines. The pancreatic head was slowly damaged and the duct got filled up with stones, a condition called chronic calculus pancreatitis. Doctors found that the girl needed to undergo Frey’s procedure, in which the deceased portion of the pancreatic head is cored out, and a drainage procedure called lateral pancreaticojejunostomy. Special instruments The government hospital’s Chief Medical Officer Kannan and chief paediatric surgeon from SGK Hospital Vijayagiri formed a team and special instruments and suture materials were brought from Coimbatore. The procedure, which costs Rs. 3 to Rs. 4 lakh if done in a private hospital, was done free of cost under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. The release said it was the first time a taluk-level government hospital performed such a procedure in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettupalayam-gh-performs-complex-pancreatic-surgery/article37891758.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested||The Kattoor police on Monday arrested two persons with 4.6 kg of ganja. The arrested have been identified as U. Jishnu (26) and M. Sagaptheen (46) from Nanjundapuram Road near Ramanathapuram. The police picked up the duo from the back side of the SETC bus stand at Gandhipuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested/article37891673.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||ACP pens COVID-19 awareness songs||Two of the popular COVID-19 awareness songs played by civic bodies and the police in many parts of the State have a Coimbatore connection. A. Sekar, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) attached to the Armed Reserve, Coimbatore city, has penned them. Mr. Sekar’s songs – ‘ Thaduppom thaduppom, Coronave thaduppom’ and ‘ Thappikka vazhiyundu, kelunga, kelunga’ - are currently played by the Erode Municipal Corporation, Coimbatore Municipal Corporation and Chennai City Police. “The songs are composed by music directors Yani Desh and Erode Karthi. The two Corporations play the song in garbage collection vehicles to create awareness about COVID-19 in residential areas,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/acp-pens-covid-19-awareness-songs/article37891680.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Murder accused detained under Goondas Act||A man hailing from Madukkarai, who was arrested by the police in connection with a murder in August this year, has been detained under provisions of the Goondas Act. The police said R. Ragupathy (20), who hails from Bodipalayam, was involved in the murder of Ramesh at Bodipalayam within the limits of Madukkarai police station on August 29. A release issued by the police said Collector G.S. Sameeran issued the detention order based on a report submitted by Coimbatore District (Rural) Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam. The detention order was served on the accused on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murder-accused-detained-under-goondas-act/article37891682.ece
08 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore gets highest rainfall for November in 10 years||Coimbatore South had received the maximum rainfall in the 24 hours that ended 8 a.m. on Sunday. Data shared by the Coimbatore district administration showed that it had received 71mm, followed by Chinnakalar 47 mm, Periyanaickenpalayam 21.40mm, Coimbatore Airport 20 mm, Valparai 10 mm and Valparai Taluk 8 mm. Saturday’s downpour was only a continuation of the good rain the city had witnessed since the start of the North East Monsoon in late October, said S.P. Ramanathan, Head of the Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. In November this year, the rainfall recorded was 271.9mm. As against the month’s average of 92mm, the district had recorded 196% excess rainfall, Mr. Ramanathan said, and pointed out that the rainfall received was the highest in the last 10 years.The second highest rainfall in November that the district had received was in 2011 – 243.1mm, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-gets-highest-rainfall-for-november-in-10-years/article37891683.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Animal welfare camps to be held||Animal Husbandry Department would conduct 240 animal welfare camps till March 2022. A release from the district administration said the Department veterinarians would conduct the camps at 20 each a block to vaccinate, deworm, artificially inseminate and treat animals for various ailments. The veterinarians would also offer suggestions to cattle growers and farmers and offer solutions for doubts they would have, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/animal-welfare-camps-to-be-held/article37891664.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Brief reports||The Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC) will conduct a camp from December 8 to 12 at its branches here to sanction loans for NEEDS and other schemes of the government. Officials will explain details of the schemes of the government at the camp and 50 % processing fee will be waived for loan applications. For NEEDS applications, the processing fee will be waived fully, according to a release.   The Superintending Engineer of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation would conduct a grievances redress meeting for electricity consumers at 10.30 a.m. at the office of the Executive Engineer, Ondipudur, on December 8, a release said. Superintending Engineer, South, will conduct a grievances redress day meeting on December 8 at 11 a.m. at the office of the Executive Engineer, Somanur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brief-reports/article37891665.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Martin Homeopathy Medical College and Hospital conducted the third edition of breast and cervical cancer screening camp for women. A release said that around 200 women were tested free of cost, according to a release.   Tmt. Rangammal prize for the best Tamil novel would be awarded to author Nandhini Sugumaran for her novel Mayanguvatheno Maduravane . According to a release from Kasthuri Srinivasan Trust, cash prize of Rs. 50,000 along with a certificate and memento will be given to Ms. Nandhini.   The third edition of Elgi Equipments’ annual “ #whatsyourfinishline” challenge was held in different countries last month. As many as 103 teams from 22 countries took part, clocking over 42,500 miles over a fortnight. Elgi Equipments will power the ninth edition of the Coimbatore Marathon, to be held virtually this month. All proceeds from the marathon will go to the Coimbatore Cancer Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37891666.ece
08 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Sangh celebrates 50th anniversary||The Jain community in Coimbatore celebrated the 50th anniversary of the founding of the Rajasthan Jain Swethambar Murthi Poojak Sangh and the 25th anniversary of the Suparswanath Jain temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sangh-celebrates-50th-anniversary/article37891681.ece
08 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power shut down on Thursday||In view of the proposed maintenance works to be carried out at the Peelamedu sub-station on December 9 , there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the following areas: Bharathi Colony, SLV Complex Road, VN Industrial Estate, Akilandeswari Nagar, Chinnasamy Layout, Ellaithottam, Arugus Nagar and Hope College, part of Avanashi Road, VK Road, Anna Nagar, Metha Layout, parts of Kalluri Nagar, Balan Nagar, Bharathi Colony and Gopal Nagar, PKD Nagar, Balaguru Garden, PVG Road and Avanashi Main Road, parts of Meena Estate, Periyar Nagar, Rajeev Gandhi Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Perks Arch Road, Co-operative Colony and Rajeswari Nagar, parts of Avarampalayam, Bharathi Nagar, Vadharaja Nagar, Indira Nagar, Gandhi Maanagar, VG Rao Nagar, and KK Nagar, Thirumagal Nagar, Chandragandhi Nagar, Thulip Apartment, Karunanidhi Nagar, PSG Hospital, Hindusthan Hospital, part of Kannapiran Mill Road, Lamboodhara Apartment, Sripathi Nagar, Kongu Nagar, part of Nanjundapuram Road and Nethaji Nagar, Pricol Apartment, Old Damu Nagar, Kondaisamy Nagar, part of Avanashi Road, Peelamedupudur, PSG Tech, Rangavilas Mills, Peelamedu, Housing Unit, PPS Colony Anna Nagar, Jeganathan Colony, Indira Nagar, part of Surya Garden, Bharathi Colony, Varadharaja Nagar, Sakthi Road, Bharathi Nagar, R.K. Puram, Ashish Nagar and Air Force Quarters, part of Avinashi Road, New Dhanmu Nagar, ALG School, Red Fields Road, Manchester towers, INS Agrani, Ammankulam Road, Erimedu, LIC Colony, Bharathi Nagar, parts of Sowripalayam Road, Kannapiran Mill Road, Chinnasamy Layout, TNHB Colony, RVL Colony and Vasantha Nagar, part of Meena Estate, Udayampalayam, Chinna Sowripalayam, Periya Sowripalaya, Annai Velankanni Nagar and Bharatipuram.  Pappanaickenpalayam sub-station from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.: Burani Colony, Avarampalayam, Ganesh Nagar, Kamadenu Nagar, Nava India Road, Ganapathy bus-stand, Sidhapudur, Pazhayur, Pappanaickenpalayam, GKNM Hospital, Alamu Nagar, Ramakrishna Hospital and Kalyana mandapam area, crematorium, Pudiyavar Nagar, Tiruchi road left side (Sungam to Olyumbus).  Race Course sub-station from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.: Thomas Park, Kamarajar Road, Race Course, Avinashi Road (From Anna Statue to Collectorate), Tiruchi Road from Kannan Department Store to Ramanathapuram signal), Puliakulam Road (from Sungam to Vinayakar temple), Ramanathapuram 80 ft road, Sripathy Nagar, Susila Nagar, Rukmani Nagar, Bharathi Nagar 1 to 6, Pappammal Layout, Park Town, Karuananidhi Nagar and Angannan Street.  Kallimdai sub-station on December 10 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.: Kamaraj Road, Bharathi Nagar, Sakthi Nagar, Jothi Nagar, Ramanuja Nagar, Neelikonampalyam, Krishnapuram, Singanallur,GV Residency, Uppilipalayam, Balan Nagar, Sarkarai Chettiar Nagar, NGR Nagar, Hope College to civil aero, Varadarajapuram, Nanda Nagar, Housing Unit, part of Ondipudur, Masakkalipalayam and Medical College Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shut-down-on-thursday/article37891668.ece
08 December 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Garden scheme launched in Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri||District Collector S. Dhivyadarshini inaugurated the Chief Minister’s Nutritive Vegetable Garden Scheme here by handing over 12 different vegetable seeds and 15 types of immunity building nutritive saplings to beneficiaries. The vegetable seeds were distributed to four beneficiaries and immunity boosting saplings to three beneficiaries for terrace gardens in the urban areas and vegetable gardens in the rural areas. According to the administration, under the scheme, seeds, green bags, saplings among other terrace garden supplies worth Rs. 3.38 lakh have been made available for urban areas in the district. Similarly, seeds worth Rs. 2.03 lakh worth have been allotted for outdoor gardens in rural areas. In addition, Rs. 4.13 lakh worth immunity boosting fruit saplings are also being distributed under the scheme. Those seeking to avail themselves of the scheme may apply through https://tnhorticulture.tn. gov.in/kit   In Krishnagiri, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy launched the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garden-scheme-launched-in-dharmapuri-krishnagiri/article37891759.ece
08 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Redesigning delays temporary bus stand works at Solar||The Corporation’s move to establish a temporary bus stand at Solar Punjai Lakkapuram, along the Karur Bypass Road, has been delayed by over two months as the State government has asked the civic body to redesign the entire project. Smart Cities project Under the Smart Cities project, development works were taken up at Rs. 39.5 crore in the existing bus terminus in the city in September. To ensure uninterrupted work, it was decided to establish a temporary bus stand at Solar for buses heading to Karur, Tiruchi, Madurai, Tirunelveli and other south-bound districts. The civic body owns 51.4 acre at Solar and the work to establish the temporary bus stand began at the place where the sewage treatment plant once functioned. Since it is located 50 metres away from the bypass road, it was decided to establish the bus stand along the road so that commuters did not face hardship. The change of spot has delayed the work, which was earlier scheduled for completion by September. Removing of bushes and land levelling works were taken up in October. However, the design submitted by the civic body to the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department was asked to be reworked after which works were halted. Corporation officials said that it was planned to accommodate 40 buses with basic amenities, offices and taxi and auto stands. “We are working on redesigning the bus stand with more amenities”, they said and added that the cost of the project would be known only after the design was finalised. They also added that the five-acre land where the bus stand is to come up was steep and levelling of land has to be done.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/redesigning-delays-temporary-bus-stand-works-at-solar/article37891763.ece
08 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Special business campaign for MSMEs||Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC) will be conducting a special business boost campaign for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) from December 8 to 15 at its branch office in the city. According to a release, TIIC is a State government finance corporation that has been a pioneer in the development of industry by providing loans to micro, small and medium enterprises, service sectors under various special schemes to set up new factories or expand existing units and diversification. During the campaign, detailed presentations on the special features of various schemes of TIIC, 25% Government of Tamil Nadu investment subsidy up to Rs. 50 Lakh, Central and State Government grants (capital grant, 6% interest subsidy and other grants), New Entrepreneurship and Enterprise Development Scheme (NEEDS) will be presented. Term loan applications submitted during the campaign would be given a 50% discount on the investigation fees, while applications submitted under NEEDS scheme by the first generation entrepreneurs would be exempted from processing fees. The campaign will be held at the Erode Branch Office at C.S. Sengottiah Complex, Second Floor, 23, Chidambaram Colony, 80 Feet Road, Periyar Nagar, Erode – 638 001, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-business-campaign-for-msmes/article37891767.ece
08 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Flag Day collection target fixed at Rs. 1.03 crore||The district administration has fixed a Flag Day collection target of Rs. 1,03,68,000 this year. Collector H. Krishnanunni inaugurated the Flag Day collection at the Collectorate on Tuesday by offering his contribution to the fund for the welfare of ex-servicemen. He also handed over educational assistance to the tune of Rs. 1.55 lakh to the family members of ex-servicemen. Last year, the district collected Rs. 1,30,24,600, against a target of Rs. 86,40,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flag-day-collection-target-fixed-at-rs-103-crore/article37891766.ece
08 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power supply disconnected to two plastic production units||Officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) disconnected power supply to two units that were involved in manufacturing of banned plastic items. Based on information, the officials inspected the units functioning at Thanneerpandal Palayam and Periyasemoor and found the production of banned plastic items. A report was submitted to H. Krishnanunni, District Collector and Chairman of the District Coordination Committee, who ordered disconnection of power supply to the units. The Collector in a release said that the State government through its order number 84 dated June 25, 2018, had banned manufacture, storage and sale of one-time use and throwaway plastics irrespective of thickness. Banned items The items banned by the government are plastic carry bags, plastic flags, plastic sheets for wrapping food, spreading on the dining table, plastic plates, plastic coated tea cups, plastic tumbler, water pouches and packets and plastic straw. The release warned of action against violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-supply-disconnected-to-two-plastic-production-units/article37891769.ece
08 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for stealing mobile phone||A 64-year-old man from Tiruppur was arrested by the Government Railway Police on charges of stealing mobile phone from a passenger. K. Nisanth, Sub Inspector, Railway Protection Force, found a man moving suspiciously on the Erode Railway Junction premises. The man, C. Kannaiyan of Ayyampalayam, was holding a mobile phone. The RPF personnel took the phone from him and switched it on. The mobile started ringing and the caller identified himself as the owner of the phone. He told the police that his phone went missing while he was in the retiring room. Kannaiyan was handed over to the GPF, who registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-stealing-mobile-phone/article37891768.ece
08 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 56 fresh COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Tuesday reported 56 new COVID-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 1,06,700. While 67 persons were discharged, 722 persons are under treatment. Salem district reported 43 new cases and one death on Tuesday. According to health officials, 39 cases were indigenous and 18 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported 38 fresh cases, all indigenous. Krishnagiri district recorded 13 new cases and Dharmapuri four fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-56-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37891764.ece
08 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Bhavanisagar dam up||With an inflow of over 5,000 cusecs, the discharge from Bhavanisagar dam to River Bhavani was increased to 4,800 cusecs on Tuesday. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the reservoir was 5,838 cusecs, while the total surplus was 6,300 cusecs, including 1,500 cusecs into the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal. Discharge into Kalingarayan, Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals were stopped. The storage was 32.37 tmc ft, against the total capacity of 32.80 tmc ft. Water level continued to remain at 104.50 feet against the full reservoir level of 105 feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-from-bhavanisagar-dam-up/article37891761.ece
08 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||In view of maintenance work at Thingalur sub-station , power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. on December 9 at Thingalur, Grey Nagar, Kallakulam, Vettaiyankinaru, Pappampalayam, Mandiripalayam, Nallampatti, Suppaiyanpalayam, Thandacoundanpalayam, Mettur, Sukkakaranpalayam, Seenapuram West areas only, Dasampudur, Chellapampalayam, Veerachipalayam, Veeranampalayam, Karandipalayam, Thalayampalayam, Ponmudi, Naduvalasu, Ayicoundanpalayam, Kullampalayam, Netta Chellapalayam, Keezheri Palayam, Pattakaranpalayam, Nesavar Colony, Madathupalayam, Komaiyan Valasu, Velankadu, Manoorkadu and Mamutti Thoppu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37891770.ece
08 December 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Special camp for housing scheme on December 18||A special camp for those seeking houses under the Prime Minister’s Awas Yojana (Urban) Housing For All programme will be held at Billanakuppam in T.Thippanapalli here on December 18. According to the administration, G+3 housing unit complexes are available in Billanakuppam panchayat and as many as 528 units have been built under the scheme. Eligibility District Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy said that priority would be given to those currently residing in water poramboke and the urban poor under the Below Poverty Line category. Persons seeking allocation will be required to pay Rs. 1.45 lakh as the beneficiary participation, and the remaining amount will be contributed as subsidy under the scheme. The applicant shall not own any house in any part of the country and the monthly income of beneficiary shall not exceed Rs. 25,000 a month. The camp will be held from 10 a.m to 5 p.m. and those interested to apply should bring the Aadhaar cards of their family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camp-for-housing-scheme-on-december-18/article37891760.ece
08 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Overflowing Vaigai compounds traffic woes on arterial roads||Overflowing Vaigai river water has compounded the traffic woes in Madurai city which is already facing congestion in Goripalayam junction after demolition of Kuruvikaran low-level bridge and Obulapadithurai causeway. Piling up of vehicles, from two-wheelers to buses on Alagarkoil Road up to Tamukkam, on Panagal Road up to the entrance of Government Rajaji Hospital, Palam Station Road up to Kalpalam junction is a common sight, as all vehicles from Tamukkam and Anna bus stand have to take only A.V. Bridge due to overflowing Vaigai river that has submerged the causeway under Kalpalam New Bridge. Otherwise, vehicles proceeding towards Sellur and Dindigul Road would take the Alwarpuram Moongilkadai Road or Meenakshi College Road to take North Bank Road and reach Sellur. Unable to manage the choc-o-bloc traffic jams that spilled over even at Anna Nagar, Kamarajar Salai (near Teppakulam) and East Veli Street (up to Simmakkal), the police opened up the Meenakshi College Road despite water flowing on the pothole-ridden one. “We have taken all precautions by placing barricades along the river and also around potholes and allow vehicles to slowly pass through the low-lying road stretch under Kalpalam New Bridge,” said a traffic police officer. “This disorder in the important junction is only because of sheer lack of proper planning in execution of Smart City projects by the administration,” complained V. Kottaisamy, a Communist Party of India (Marxist) functionary. Either the Kuruvikaran Salai high-level bridge work should have been completed on time or at least the Obulapadithurai causeway should have been spared for diversion of traffic, at least for those days when Vaigai river does not have much flow, he said. The Kuruvikaran Salai bridge work that was scheduled to be completed by March 2021, is still under way. “This work has also ruined the South Bank Road at the Kuruvikaran Salai junction thus blocking traffic flow between this junction and Teppakulam area. The Obulapadithurai bridge work has not progressed all these days, he complained. Same is the case with North Bank Road near Alwarpuram that was dug up by Highways Department months back for constructing a culvert, he charged. Bumper-to-bumper movement is a daily menace on PTR Bridge connecting Anna Nagar with Teppakulam as no causeway/bridge is available for over 2 km till A.V. Bridge. “It takes at least 10 minutes to cross the bridge. It is waste of time, fuel and energy,” complained K. Balachander of Gomathipuram. Road users want the authorities to complete the Kuruvikaran Salai bridge work and lay the North Bank Road between MGR Bridge and Sellur ROB at the earliest to free up congestion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/overflowing-vaigai-compounds-traffic-woes-on-arterial-roads/article37891931.ece
08 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth’s death: High Court orders fresh post-mortem||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered the conduct of a fresh post-mortem on the body of L. Manikandan, a youth from Ramanathapuram district, who died hours after being released from police custody. His family had alleged that it was a case of custodial torture. The victim’s mother, L. Ramalakshmi, had filed the petition, seeking the conduct of a fresh post-mortem. She said her son was beaten up by the police. She also sought a probe into his death. Justice G.R. Swaminathan, while ordering the conduct of a second post-mortem, also took note of the fact that the police personnel present before the court were not aware of the guidelines issued by the court for the conduct of post-mortems in cases involving custodial deaths. The judge orally requested Additional Advocate-General Veera Kathiravan to intimate the Director General of Police about the guidelines, so that whenever allegations of custodial death are made, the directions are followed in letter and spirit. The petitioner, Ms. Ramalakshmi, said on December 4, around 4 p.m., Manikandan and his friends had gone out to purchase manure for their agricultural field. She said two policemen intercepted her son’s two-wheeler near the Keelathooval Kali temple. ‘Not in stable condition’ According to her, he was beaten up and dragged to the police station. Later, she was called and asked to take him home. She said her son was not in a stable condition and was murmuring that the police had beaten him up. He died around 1.30 a.m, and his body was taken to the Mudukulathur Government Hospital. She said the post-mortem was not conducted properly and sought a fresh one. The court said the authorities should have taken into account that only a few hours separated the youth’s release from the police station and his death, and they ought to have followed the guidelines issued by the court. The judge said the guidelines specifically stated that in such cases, an autopsy should be carried out by two doctors with Master’s degrees in forensic medicine, and who are attached to a medical college hospital. The judge said a second post-mortem had been ordered on the sole ground that the autopsy was not conducted as per the guidelines. The court directed the second post-mortem to be conducted at the Ramanathapuram Medical College and Hospital. The court said a senior and experienced Deputy Superintendent of Police must carry out the investigation. It also recorded an undertaking given by the petitioner, stating that the family would receive the body following the conduct of the fresh post-mortem. Among the guidelines issued by the court earlier is its direction to the Judicial Magistrate conducting the inquiry to ensure that the kin of the deceased is allowed to see the body and take videos and photos. No autopsy should take place before the kin sees the body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youths-death-high-court-orders-fresh-post-mortem/article37891623.ece
08 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Allot shops selling only heritage items at bazaar: PIL petition||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Monday ordered the auction conducted for the shops at Heritage Bazaar at Jhansi Rani Park in Madurai be kept in abeyance. The court passed the direction on a public interest litigation petition filed by Madurai BJP president and former MLA P. Saravanan. Seeking a response from State and Madurai Corporation, a Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan adjourned the hearing in the case till December 15. The petitioner said Madurai Corporation was trying to allot shops to those selling other than heritage items in Heritage Bazaar. He said under the Heritage Development Scheme of the Smart Cities Mission, many places were being renovated and constructed in the city. One such place was Heritage Bazaar. The bazaar had been constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 2.45 crore. Twelve shops had been constructed for selling antique and heritage items to attract foreign and local tourists. However, only two shops had been allotted for the purpose of selling antique and heritage items, he said. The petitioner complained that the very objective of constructing Heritage Bazaar would be defeated if other shops and commercial establishments were opened there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allot-shops-selling-only-heritage-items-at-bazaar-pil-petition/article37891924.ece
08 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||AIDWA seeks arrest of radiologist for harassing woman patient||Members of All India Democratic Women’s Association have demanded legal action against the male radiologist, who has been placed under suspension, for sexually harassing a patient. Led by its Madurai district secretary, R. Sasikala, the members staged a protest in front of Collectorate seeking the arrest of the accused. Alleging that there were a few more such cases of men misbehaving with women patients and workers in Government Rajaji Hospital at night, Ms. Sasikala said that the Government should ensure that such crimes do not recur. She also charged that contraceptive device was being inserted in the body of the women, who come for delivery in the hospital, without their knowledge. Ms. Sasikala alleged corruption in procurement of goods during COVID pandemic. The women also sought better sanitisation on the GRH premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aidwa-seeks-arrest-of-radiologist-for-harassing-woman-patient/article37891928.ece
08 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Consider petition to remove encroachments from tank: High Court||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court directed Theni district administration to consider the representation made by Thenkarai Vivasayigal Sangam of Theni district to remove the encroachments from the Periyakulam tank. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan directed the representation be considered and the encroachments removed within eight weeks. The petitioner had complained that at least 60 persons had encroached upon the water storing area. The State submitted that there were about 88 encroachers and due to incessant rain in the area they could not evict the encroachers and they would require about eight weeks time in order to remove the encroachers. Thenkarai Vivasayigal Sangam represented by its secretary P. Rajasekaran said that some people were involved in illegal fish farming in the tank. A representation had been made to the authorities. But no action was taken, he said. The petitioner said the authorities had not taken steps to protect the tank. Therefore, necessary steps must be taken to remove the encroachments from the tank, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consider-petition-to-remove-encroachments-from-tank-high-court/article37891753.ece
08 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac worker assaulted, thumb chopped off||A Tasmac employee lost a thumb and sustained cut injuries on his head after three armed men attacked him at Nagari on Monday night. The police said when O. Pandi, 47, of Palangantham, who is the salesman in the Tasmac shop at Chithalangudi, along with his colleague, M. Anbu Dharmalingam, 42, was coming out of the shop after closing it at around 10.30 p.m., three masked men attacked Mr. Pandi with sharp weapons. After threatening him with dire consequences, they fled the scene. Police said the accused did not attempt to rob the two workers and also did not harm the other person. Mr. Pandi said he could not identify the attackers. Sholavandan police are on the lookout for the perpetrators of the crime. In an unrelated incident, Karuppayoorani police arrested M. Dharma, 23, and R. Malairajan, 27, of Andarkottaram, for robbing a mini-bus conductor on Karuppayoorani Road on Sunday night. The police said the duo, along with two others, waylaid the bus while it was proceeding to Karuppayoorani from Andarkottaram at around 11 a.m. They snatched Rs. 930 from the conductor, S. Loganathan, at knifepoint. Based on his complaint, the police arrested the duo. In another case, the police arrested A. Surya Prakash, 21, and B. Vignesh, 25, of Peraiyur on the charge of robbing a 17-year-old girl of her mobile phone at Peraiyur on Monday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-worker-assaulted-thumb-chopped-off/article37891926.ece
08 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Take action against those involved in illegal mining’||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has directed the Dindigul Collector to consider the representation made by a petitioner to take action against those indulging in the illegal mining of minerals from Palani dam. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan directed the representation be considered within four weeks. The court was hearing the petition filed by N. Kanagaraj of Dindigul district. He sought a direction to the authorities to take action against those indulging in illegal activities and restore the place. He said that rainwater coming from the Kodaikanal hills would be stored at the dam and after purification the water was supplied to the residents of Palani and other nearby places. But, some influential people were illegally mining minerals from the dam. They were attempting to damage the dam, he said. He said that he had made a representation, but there was no response. The State submitted that the representation made by the petitioner would be considered and appropriate orders passed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-action-against-those-involved-in-illegal-mining/article37891925.ece
08 December 2021||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||Reward for tip-off on units making banned plastics in Mayiladuthurai||The district administration has announced a reward for information on units manufacturing banned single-use plastic items. The administration has instructed environment-conscious people to inform the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board about details of plastic industries manufacturing banned items illegally in residential/commercial areas. The complaints have to be conveyed to the office of District Environmental Engineer, Tamilnadu Pollution Control Board, Nagapattinam, through letter/mail (deenpm@tnpcb.gov.in)/ Phone (04365 250832)/ Mobile and Whatsapp (8056049500). The complainants are requested to provide their name and mobile number so that additional details could be sought. This is also required to avoid prank calls. The confidentiality of the citizen providing information will be strictly maintained, Collector R. Lalitha said. The government has banned manufacture, store, supply, transport, sale or distribute of use and throwaway plastics such as plastic carry bags irrespective of size and thickness, non-woven carry bags, plastic coated paper plates and cups, plastic tumblers, thermocol plates and cups, plastic tea cups, plastic sheet / cling film used for food wrapping, plastic sheet used for spreading on dining table water packets/pouches, plastic straw and plastic flags in order to prevent the huge threat of pollution caused by the single use plastics. Though illegally-operated units manufacturing banned plastic items are identified and closed by TNPCB based on regular inspections and complaints, there are difficulties in identifying units operated illegally in a small space within residential/commercial establishments. Most of these units are highly unorganised without proper registration with any of the government authorities and function purely on a temporary basis, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reward-for-tip-off-on-units-making-banned-plastics/article37891725.ece
08 December 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||School teacher arrested under POCSO Act||A teacher at the Namakkal Government Girls Higher Secondary School was arrested by the police on Tuesday on charges of sexual harassment. A Class X student at the school recently lodged a sexual harassment complaint against the teacher, Mathivannan, with the Chief Education Officer (CEO). Based on the complaint, the police arrested the accused under the POCSO Act on Tuesday. CEO Maheshwari said that a departmental inquiry has been ordered. Members of the DYFI staged a protest here demanding action against the teacher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-teacher-arrested-under-pocso-act/article37891771.ece
08 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Recruitment of constables to commence next month in U.T.||The long overdue recruitment of constables in Puducherry is all set to start from next month. The Physical Standard Test (PST) and Physical Efficiency Test (PET) to fill vacancies for the posts of 390 constables, 12 radio technicians and 29 deck handlers in the territorial police will be held during the third week of January. The venue for the tests will be communicated to the applicants in due course. The PST and PET will be done using Radio Frequency Identification Device Chip Timing Technology, a release from the Police Department said. A total of 17, 225 applications have so far been found eligible for physical tests. The list of rejected candidates with reasons for their rejection has been put up on the department’s website,https://police.py.gov.in. The department has asked 2,459 candidates whose applications have been rejected to submit grievance representations for reconsideration. They can submit the representations with relevant documentary proof to substantiate their claim for re-admission for the recruitment process, the release said. The applicants can submit their grievance representations to the Superintendent of Police, Recruitment Cell, PTS Complex, Gorimedu, Puducherry. They can submit these applications till December 16. A help desk will function at the SP Office, PTS, from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. They can also dial 0413-2277900 for assistance. The government has decided to provide 0.5% reservation to Scheduled Tribes. Around 22 ST candidates have been asked to re-submit their application, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recruitment-of-constables-to-commence-next-month-in-ut/article37892011.ece
08 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Plea to stop dumping waste||The Uchimedu Tank Bund Association has urged the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, Central Pollution Control Board, National Green Tribunal, and Secretary, Department of Science and Technology, Government of Puducherry, to take immediate steps to stop dumping of waste around the Uchimedu tank. G. Sathiyamoorthy, president of the Association, in his letter on December 6 wanted the MHA and CPCB to issue necessary direction to the territorial administration to stop all illegal activities near the pond. The letter cited The Hindu report on December 2 on dumping of waste near the lake and paddy fields. In the report, the official of the Puducherry Pollution Control Board was quoted as saying the Bahour Commune panchayat has been asked to construct a wall around the place where waste was dumped. ‘Illegal act’ The association said that dumping of the waste and construction of a concrete wall near the pond were illegal. Mr. Sathiyamoorthy said “as per the CPCB guidelines Section 5.3, neither dumping of waste, landfill, nor creation of impervious structures are permissible within the 100 metre buffer zone of the waterbody. Thus giving lame instructions for the creation of a wall or for providing a lining /compound wall is in complete violation of the directives of the NGT and the CPCB,” The association has urged the authorities to take disciplinary action against erring officers, Mr. Sathiyamoorthy said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-stop-dumping-waste/article37892013.ece
08 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.S. Consul General calls on Chief Minister||Consul General of the United States in Chennai Judith Ravin on Tuesday called on Puducherry Chief Minister N. Rangasamy. A release from the Chief Minister’s Office said the Chief Minister and the Consul General have agreed to build more partnership among the civil society. The Consul General promised the Chief Minister all assistance to the Union Territory and the residents. The Consul General also promised to work in coordination to contain the spread of COVID-19. Political/economic chief of the Consulate Virsa Perkins and cultural affairs specialist Brindha Jayakanth were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/us-consul-general-calls-on-chief-minister/article37892017.ece
08 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narikuravas petition Chief Minister||The Narikurava community has urged Chief Minister N. Rangasamy to take appropriate measures to improve their means of livelihood. A section of the Narikurava community members, especially women, on Tuesday submitted a memorandum to the Chief Minister seeking his intervention to improve their living conditions in the Union Territory. The members said in the prevailing situation the community found it difficult to eke out a living. An official should be appointed to ascertain the present living conditions of the Narikuravas. A scheme should be implemented on the likes of Tamil Nadu government to improve the living condition of the Narikuravas in the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narikuravas-petition-chief-minister/article37892015.ece
08 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||One COVID-19 death, 12 new cases in U.T.||The Union Territory on Tuesday recorded one COVID-19 death and 12 new cases. A 69-year-old person succumbed to the virus while undergoing treatment at the Government General Hospital in Yanam. With the latest fatality, the death toll due to COVID-19 has touched 1,876 in the Union Territory. The 12 new cases were detected from screening 2,729 persons. Of the total new cases recorded, 11 are from Puducherry and remaining one from Yanam, according to the data released by the Health Department. The test positivity rate stood at 0.44%. So far, 1,29,105 persons had got infected from the virus in the Union Territory. One death in Cuddalore Cuddalore district recorded one more COVID-19 death and seven new cases on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 64,442. The official death toll stood at 873. In Villupuram district, four persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 46.040. Kallakurichi district reported one positive case, taking the overall tally of positive cases in the district to 31,573.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-covid-19-death-12-new-cases-in-ut/article37892018.ece
08 December 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Flag Day: Pudukottai exceeds target amount||Pudukottai district has exceeded the target set in respect of last year’s Flag Day collection. The district has collected Rs. 1.19 crore as against the target of Rs. 1.08 crore set in 2020, Collector Kavitha Ramu said on Tuesday. Welfare fund Inaugurating the Flag Day collection here, Ms. Kavitha Ramu said the district was given the target of collecting Rs. 1.29 crore for 2021. The amount would be utilised for the welfare of ex-servicemen and their dependents. The Collector called upon government officials and general public to contribute more towards the fund. Assistant Director, Ex-servicemen Welfare, Pudukottai, Shenbagavalli participated in the event, an official press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flag-day-pudukottai-exceeds-target-amount/article37891743.ece
08 December 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Water from Big Tank being released||As the Big Tank in Ramanathapuram has got water close to its brim, Public Works Department engineers have started releasing water from the southern regulator near Karugudi since Monday. The sluice of the regulator was last opened in 2011. Though the engineers have closed the inlet of water gushing through the Vaigai, the rainwater from catchment areas continued to flow into the tank. “The tank which has a maximum depth of 7.5 feet, has water to more than 6.5 feet. Considering that more rain is expected during December, water from the tank is being released for safety of the tank,” PWD Lower Vaigai Basin Division, Executive Engineer, S. Madhana Sudhakaran, said. With southern regulator located on the lowest level of the tank, water could be released in a regulated manner depending upon the inflow. As of now, 300 cusecs of water was being released. The Big Tank has a maximum storage capacity of 618 mcft. Every year, only the Vaigai credit of water from the Vaigai dam is released into the Big Tank and around 1.5 feet of water is stored for groundwater recharge and the rest is used for for irrigation. “But, this year, flood water has been received in abundant quantity and all our credit is still stored in the Vaigai reservoir,” he said. With around 12,000 cusecs of water released from the Vaigai dam realized at Parthibanur, the PWD officials have been using it to fill up tanks in tail-end regions and around 5,000 cusecs is being released through the river. Excess release of flood water from the Vaigai dam had resulted in inundating of several villages and roads after it outflanked a few days back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-from-big-tank-being-released/article37891749.ece
08 December 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Student beaten to death, take legal action against police personnel: CPI (M)||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has sought legal action against the police personnel involved in reported brutal attack on a student, L. Manikandan, leading to his death. After visiting his parents at Neerkozhiyenthal near Mudukalathur on Tuesday, the former MLA, Bala Bharathi, said that there were eye-witnesses to the brutal attack. The police attacked him for not stopping the vehicle during a vehicle check. “The police claim that he was not assaulted in the lock-up. But, people have seen them assaulting him on the road after a chase,” she said. He had vomited blood and was taken to the police station. After calling his parents to the police station, the police handed him over to them after getting signature as acknowledgement of handing over. “This per se has raised suspicion over the role of the police. It is very clear that the boy was murdered by the police,” she said. Stating that the boy was a first-generation college student, she said that the boy, who dreamt of joining the police force, was killed by the police themselves. She sought Rs. 1 crore compensation to the poor family and protection to them and a government job to one of the family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-legal-action-against-police-for-brutal-assault-on-student/article37891751.ece
08 December 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Courtallam falls will be open to visitors soon||After a gap of 34 months, all falls in Courtallam will be open to visitors again from December 20. People were barred from taking bath in all the waterfalls since March 2019 in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The district administration has allowed visitors to take bath between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. with some restrictions - only 10 men and six women will be allowed to take bath at a time in Main Falls after they produce vaccination certificate. It is 10 each in Five Falls. In Old Courtallam Falls, five men and 10 women will be allowed to take bath at a time. The duration of bathing will be decided by the officials stationed there based on water flow and the crowd. It is to ensure compliance of Standard Operating Procedure evolved by the Department of Public Health of the State government. District-level Monitoring Team, Crisis Management Team and Rapid Response Team have been formed to ensure that the SOP is strictly followed. According to Collector S. Gopala Sundraraj, the decision to open the waterfalls for the public was taken after getting reports from the officials who are part of the District-level Monitoring Committee. The Collector has constituted four Crisis Management Teams and as many Rapid Response Teams to monitor visitors at Main Falls, Five Falls, Eco Park near Five Falls, Old Courtallam Falls and the waterfalls in Mekkarai and Kannupulimettu. Since the safety and health of visitors are paramount, the areas close to the waterfalls will be sanitised. Those waiting in line to take bath in falls must maintain a two metre gap between one another and their body temperature will be checked using thermal scanner. “After losing the business since March 2019, commercial establishments will be happy to receive visitors, especially Ayyappa devotees. We hope that the restrictions will gradually go as the COVID-19 situation is showing encouraging signs,” said Senthur Pandian, a functionary of Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/courtallam-falls-will-be-open-to-visitors-soon/article37891739.ece
08 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Kerala Govt. back-pedals on PSC Waqf Board recruitment||The State government has back-pedalled on leaving Waqf Board appointments to the Public Service Commission (PSC). On Tuesday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan conferred with Samastha Kerala Jamiyathul Ulema and assured them that any future decision would hinge on a consensus among the stakeholders. Notably, the government appeared to keep the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) out of the loop, possibly forestalling any Opposition move to claim a political victory from the outcome of the talks. The IUML had campaigned hard against the PSC intervention in Waqf recruitments and caused a stir by allegedly threatening to take its protest to mosques and Friday prayers. Mr. Vijayan told Samastha leaders that the government had not initiated the measure. The Kerala State Waqf Board had decided to leave appointments to the PSC. (The Centre's Waqf (Amendment) Act, 2013 governed regional waqf boards.) Hence, the government was flexible about the matter. He also dispelled the propaganda to appoint non-Muslims in Waqf institutions. The IUML had alleged that the government had plotted to open the door for religiously non-observant Muslims and those from other religions to dabble in Waqf matters, including administration of wealth, trusts, endowments, institutions and properties, by leaving appointments to the PSC. The IUML had also pointed out that the Nair Service Society and Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam had opposed the move to leave Devaswom board appointments to the PSC to keep the administration of publicly owned temples and allied institutions within the fold of the Hindu community. It demanded parity of law. Opposition charge Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said wisdom appeared to have dawned late on the government. The PSC could not notify appointment tests exclusively for job aspirants from a particular community. Such a move was patently unconstitutional. Hence, the United Democratic Front had demanded the constitution of a Special Recruitment Board on the lines of the Devasom Recruitment Board to make Waqf Board appointments transparent and just. The UDF had aired the grievances of the Samastha and other Muslim social organisations in the Assembly. However, the government chose to turn a blind eye. It tried to demonise the IUML on the issue. The CPI(M) pushed to portray the IUML as a divisive outfit. The government’s retreat on Waqf appointments was akin to the Centre’s repeal of the farm laws, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-govt-back-pedals-on-psc-waqf-board-recruitment/article37891478.ece
08 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Kerala to move SC against T.N.’s water release||The State government will file an interlocutory application (IA) in the Supreme Court to prevent Tamil Nadu from releasing vast quantities of water from the Mullaperiyar dam at night, purportedly without warning. Irrigation Minister Roshy Augustine tweeted: “All possible attention with alacrity is being given to conduct of Mullaperiyar SC case. Regarding recent unilateral actions of TN in repeatedly releasing huge quantity of water at night, new and specific IA will be filed tomorrow (Wednesday) before SC seeking its urgent intervention (sic).” Earlier, Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan accused the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government of striking a strangely slothful approach in the inter-State dispute. Tamil Nadu routinely opened the floodgates at will without informing Kerala. People downstream of the Mullaperiyar woke up regularly to midnight flooding and sudden inundation of houses. Thousands were at their wit’s end. Peaceful sleep has eluded them for months. They live in a constant state of insecurity and fear. Yet, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has not convened the Supreme Court-appointed supervisory oversight committee despite entreaties from the Opposition, he added. Mr. Satheesan said the government appeared steeped in fear. It was afraid to take a decisive action to protect the life and security of 40 lakh people who live in the shadow of the 126-year-old barrier that has outlasted its life span by at least 80 years. Interests sacrificed Moreover, the government appeared to have sacrificed the State’s interests in the Mullaperiyar dispute on the altar of political expediency. By covertly allowing the Tamil Nadu government to fell trees and clear undergrowth to fortify the baby dam, Kerala jeopardised its case for a new barrier at a “seismically unstable” Mullaperiyar, he said. The government had scapegoated some officials for the political decision. Moreover, Mr. Vijayan had lent legitimacy to Tamil Nadu’s argument against Kerala’s demand for a new dam at Mullaperiyar. It had also indirectly justified Tamil Nadu’s claim in the Supreme Court to keep the reservoir level at a “perilous” 152 feet, said the Opposition leader. Without clearance The government had permitted Tamil Nadu to fell trees in the Periyar Tiger Reserve without necessary clearance from the Central government. Kerala did not insist that Tamil Nadu follow due process. At a stroke, it had contradicted the State’s position on felling trees near the baby dam in the apex court, he said. Mr. Satheesan pointed out that Mr. Augustine’s response to the situation was pathetic. “The Minister merely stated that the Mullaperiyar situation was painful,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-to-move-sc-against-tns-water-release/article37891480.ece
08 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Switch over to mechanised transplanting’||Collector K. Senthil Raj has appealed to farmers to switch over to the mechanised transplanting of paddy as it will save them Rs. 3,600 per acre. After taking a look at mechanised transplanting of paddy near Srivaikundam on Tuesday, Dr. Senthil Raj said that shortage of farmhands and coverage of more area in short duration had encouraged the farmers to rely upon mechanised transplanting of paddy. Since this method would come in handy for the farmers following system of rice intensification, it would save the farmers Rs. 3,600 per acre. “While the mechanised planting of paddy costs Rs. 4,500 per acre, it would be Rs. 5,500 if farmhands are used. Besides saving seeds, the use of ‘cono weeder,’ being operated by a farmhand, ensures sizable savings of Rs. 2,000 for the farmers as the mechanization averts the use of 12 farmhands for weeding. Hence, the paddy farmers should switch over to mechanisation of paddy cultivation,” Dr. Senthil Raj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/switch-over-to-mechanised-transplanting-of-paddy/article37891754.ece
08 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Cycling competition for differently abled students||One hundred students from 15 districts participated in a State-level cycling competition for differently abled school students here on Tuesday. Collector K. Senthil Raj inaugurated the race conducted on South Beach Road and distributed prizes to the winners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cycling-competition-for-differently-abled-students/article37892050.ece
08 December 2021||Thrissur,TAMIL NADU||Major range loss predicted for flycatchers||The Black-and-orange flycatcher (BOF) and the Nilgiri flycatcher (NIF), two bird species endemic to the Western Ghats, may suffer a substantial loss of their suitable habitat by 2050 due to climate change. A recent study by the Kerala Agricultural University indicates that climate change may cost 31% and 46% of the range of the Black-and-orange flycatcher and the Nilgiri flycatcher respectively. These flycatchers are commonly seen in high elevations (above 700 m) of the Ghats. The study has been published in the scientific journal Current Science . Two species E.R. Sreekumar and P.O. Nameer of the Department of Wildlife Science, College of Forestry, KAU, undertook the study on the two species to know how they respond to the predicted climate change scenarios. Climate change can adversely affect several species and they may lose their potential habitat, shift their range, or become locally extinct, says Mr. Nameer. They prepared species distribution models and climate models to understand the current potential suitability and possible response of the species to climate change. “We observed the loss of suitable areas of the Nilgiri flycatcher in its entire range. In the case of the Black-and-orange flycatcher, loss of suitable locations occurred in the Anamalai, Pandalam, and Agasthyamalai compared to other regions,” he says. The study shows that 75% of the currently suitable areas of both species lie outside the protected area network of the Western Ghats. “The most suitable locations for these two flycatchers in the Anamalai and Nilgiri hills lie outside the protected area network. Regions within the Agasthyamalai hills, Pandalam hills, Anamalai hills, and Nilgiri hills are the core habitats for both species of flycatchers. They have a high preference for montane habitats.” The study found that climate change may threaten more than 40% of the available suitable areas for both species. Specialised habitats such as shola are under threat from various human activities and invasive plant species. The researchers suggest that wildlife managers in Kerala, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu need to take urgent action to realign the boundaries of the existing protected area network to include the suitable regions of these flycatchers for their long-term conservation. These endemic species need more specific conservation prescriptions, for which more detailed autecological studies must be carried out, they add.  Climate change can adversely affect several species and they may lose their potential habitat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-range-loss-predicted-for-flycatchers/article37891488.ece
08 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||AAI nod for parking facility at Tiruchi airport||Airports Authority of India, New Delhi, has given administrative approval and expenditure sanction for establishing a parking lot opposite to the upcoming integrated passenger terminal at Tiruchi international airport. The new surface parking area is to come up at a cost of Rs. 49 crore and the tendering process is to take place soon after the approval came a month ago. AAI, which initially planned to build a multi-level facility, has dropped the move and, instead, decided to go for surface parking area in front of the new passenger terminal under construction. In addition to accommodating a fleet of over 700 cars, the parking lot will also be able to to accommodate taxis in queue, staff vehicles, buses and vehicles of persons with disabilities. The works are expected to begin once the tendering process is completed, P. Sree Krishna, General Manager, Projects, Airports Authority of India, Tiruchi Airport, said on Tuesday. Mr. Sree Krishna, who directly monitors the construction of the terminal, says that nearly 68% of the works are over. The revised target for completion of the project is now December 2022. The mega project, which began late 2018 following sanction of funds and clearances, has suffered setbacks in the wake of COVID-19, which led to to non-availability of key materials from other States due to lockdown. However, the works have resumed. Heavy downpour in the city in the recent weeks has also affected the progress of the project although interior works continue. Over 900 labourers have been deployed for the project. The approach road for the new terminal has been completed and nearly 80% of the elevated road is over. The basement works have also been completed, Mr. Sree Krishna said. Cooling towers have been erected for air-conditioning plants for the new terminal, which is coming up on an area exceeding 70,000 sq m at a cost of over Rs. 950 crore. Lifts, escalators and other electrical appliances have been procured for installation. Other works, including baggage handling system and the parking facility, are also planned for completion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aai-nod-for-parking-facility-at-tiruchi-airport/article37891733.ece
08 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Timings specified for devotees on ‘Vaikunta Ekadasi’ at Srirangam temple||The district administration has announced that devotees would be allowed to enter the Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple from 7 a.m. onwards on Vaikunta Ekadasi on December 14 to worship Lord Ranganatha and the processional deity Sri Namperumal by adhering to COVID-19 standard operating protocols laid down by the State government, similar to last year. In a press release issued on Tuesday, Collector S. Sivarasu said the main event of the Vaikunta Ekadasi was the opening of the Paramapadavasal in the early hours on December 14. On this day, Sri Namperumal would be taken out in a procession from the sanctum sanctorum through the Paramapadavasal in the early hours to the Thirumamani Asthana mandapam . The release further said devotees would be permitted darshan of Lord Rangathana at the sanctum sanctorum from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. The timings for the public to have darshan of the processional deity is from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Public would be allowed to pass through the ‘paramapadhavaasal’ from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Devotees would be allowed to enter the temple through the Sri Renga Sri Renga gopuram from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. The Collector appealed to devotees to follow the standard operating procedures by wearing masks and ensuring personal distancing while worshipping the deities. Only those devotees without fever and other symptoms would be permitted to enter the temple, the release added. Local holiday in Tiruchi A local holiday has been declared for Tiruchi district on December 14 in view of the opening of the Paramapadavasal , the highlight of Vaikunta Ekadasi festival of Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam. Collector S. Sivarasu, in a press release, said all government establishments and educational institutions under the control of the State government would remained closed on the day. However, the holiday would not apply for scheduled examinations in schools and colleges. The district treasury and sub-treasuries would function with limited staff. December 18 would be a working day in lieu of the local holiday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/timings-specified-for-devotees-on-vaikunta-ekadasi-at-srirangam-temple/article37891742.ece
08 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Residents escape repeat ordeal, thanks to PWD efforts||Frantic and timely efforts by officials of the Public Works Department River Conservation Division to temporarily repair a drainage sluice along the Kudamuritti canal banks on Monday have effectively prevented the inundation of Fathima Nagar — one of the most vulnerable low-lying areas in the city — this time around. Fathima Nagar and its surrounding areas beyond Vekkaliamman Temple near Woraiyur experienced flooding twice last month during this monsoon. And when news of Monday’s heavy rain of 27 cm in Manapparai reached here, residents of the colony fervently prayed that they be saved from the ordeal yet again. The Ariyar was in spate due to heavy rain in Manapparai leading to a surge in flow in the Kudamuritti canal (which drains the waters of the Koraiyar and the Ariyar into the Cauvery) and inundation of some low-laying areas along Dindigul Highway, Vayalur Road and Kuzhumani Road in the city, but there was no inundation in Fathima Nagar, much to the relief of the residents. Fathima Nagar and its surrounding areas have been frequently inundated over the years due to Kudamuritti waters heading up through a drainage sluice on the canal bank near Karalamman Temple. The sluice shutter was also said to have been in poor condition, which resulted in inundation of the colony about 10 days ago even though there was not much rain in the city. On receipt of information of heavy rain in Manapparai and anticipated heavy discharge in Kudamuritti, officials of PWD RC Division got down to work at the sluice from Monday morning. The main problem, sources in the PWD said, was a conduit pipe that had been laid at a low level by the civic body years ago to let out the sewage flowing in the Kathirikai Vaical into the Kudumuritti river. Hence, whenever there is heavy flow in the canal, the waters headed up into the colony through the sluice. Acting swiftly, the PWD officials replaced the old pipe with a new one of a bigger diameter at the ground level to prevent the canal water heading up into the colony. It would also ensure that it acted as a storm water drain for the locality. Rather than using casuarina poles, they reinforced the bund and sluice using GI pipes, mesh and sand bags. Over 7,000 sand bags were used on the stretch of about 30 meters where temporary restoration work was done. The work was completed in the early hours of Tuesday. A new shutter would be installed at the sluice after the water drained in the canal, PWD sources said. “But for the work, our colony would have been inundated as the Kudamuritti was running full just as the previous occasions. Guess the PWD would take up permanent restoration work once the water drains in the Kudamuritti,” said Vishnu, a resident of Fathima Nagar. The issue has also brought to fore the letting out of untreated sewage directly into the Kudamuritti canal from Kathirikai Vaical and the need to remove encroachments from water bodies. The Kathirikai Vaical, which was once an irrigation canal, has now turned into a massive open drain. About 30 to 40 cusecs of sewage is said to be continuously flowing into the Kudamuritti canal from the drain and ultimately flows into the Cauvery, polluting the river. “The civic body just cannot let out the sewage directly into the Kudamuritti and needs to establish a sewage treatment plant. At the same time, the PWD also needs to desilt the Kudamuritti to increase its carrying capacity and prevent overflow,” observed an official. “The PWD has carried out temporary repairs on the drainage sluice in a pucca manner; if they build a retaining wall at the stretch, it will be even better,” observed a representative of the Fathima Nagar Welfare Association, expressing a sense of relief. He, however, felt that the authorities should ensure that the encroachments on the Kathirikai Vaical were removed as a permanent measure to prevent inundation of the locality. The open drain was as wide as 15 feet once running via Fathima Nagar and Thyagaraja Nagar but has now been shrunk in size drastically, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fathima-nagar-residents-escape-repeat-ordeal-thanks-to-timely-pwd-efforts/article37891727.ece
08 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Defence employees to go ahead with three-day strike||Employees affiliated to All-India Defence Employees Federation will go ahead with the three-day strike from December 8-10 called in protest against the government decision to corporatise ordnance factories (by way of bringing them under seven defence PSUs) notwithstanding the promulgation of the Essential Defence Services Act 2021 (EDSA). The AIDEF has filed a writ petition in Delhi High Court against the “draconian” EDSA 2021 (that has banned and criminalised the strike). The writ petition has been admitted and court has issued notice to the Centre. The government is yet to file its counter reply, AIDEF general secretary R. Srikumar said. Of the two defence units in Tiruchi, the Ordnance Factory has been subsumed by the Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Ltd, with Kanpur as the base, and the High Energy Projectile Factory by Mun itions India Ltd based at Khadki in Pune. After conversion of the Ordnance Factory Board, consisting of 41 production units across the country into seven DPSUs with effect from October 1, 2021, the employees have placed a charter of demands including call for regular payment of GPF withdrawals, maintaining 44-3/4 hours per week schedule, and settling of all pending interfactory/inter directorate transfer cases. “Post-corporatisation after 01/10/2021, even though all 76,000 defence civilian employees are Central government employees, the seevn corporations started issuing “whimsical and unilateral instructions without authority” interfering in the service conditions of the employees,” he said. Earlier this month, representatives of AIDEF and Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh, in a meeting with the Additional Secretary, Ministry of Defence, submitted a charter of demands conveying 32 issues/problems, and warned that if the problems were not settled, the employees would go on strike inspite of EDSA 2021. “AIDEF will not tolerate the anti-labour policies of the present government and will continue with its struggle,” Mr. Srikumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/defence-employees-to-go-ahead-with-three-day-strike/article37891729.ece
08 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||60 new cases recorded||The central districts on Tuesday registered 60 cases and zero death. Four of the nine districts in the region recorded fresh cases of infection in single digits. No new cases were reported in Ariyalur and Pudukottai districts. While 17 patients tested positive in Tiruchi, Karur and Thanjavur recorded 14 cases each. The day’s count was eight in Tiruvarur. Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam registered three cases each and Perambalur one.  One death in UT The Union Territory on Tuesday recorded one COVID-19 death and 12 new cases. A 69-year-old person succumbed to the virus while undergoing treatment at the Government General Hospital in at Yanam. With the latest fatality, the death toll due to in COVID-19 has touched 1,876 in the UT The 12 new cases were detected from screening 2,729 persons. Of the total new cases recorded registered, 11 are from Puducherry and remaining one from Yanam, according to the data released by the Health Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/60-new-cases-in-delta/article37891736.ece
08 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tobacco products seized||A special police team of the Thanjavur Range on Tuesday seized 1,700 kg of banned tobacco products that were being smuggled in a container lorry to Thanjavur. Acting on secret inputs, the team stopped the container lorry at Kollankarai village in Thanjavur district and checked the vehicle. The team seized the contraband valued at Rs. 75 lakh besides confiscating the container lorry. It also seized a mini freight carrier that was showing the route to the container lorry. The banned tobacco products were brought from Bengaluru to Thanjavur for illegal sale, said police sources. Three persons, Rajkumar, Ashok Raj and Anand, were arrested in this connection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1700-kg-of-banned-tobacco-products-seized/article37891738.ece
08 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man murders aged mother in Thanjavur district||A 70-year-old woman died after she was allegedly hit with a sharp rod by her son and pushed to the ground in their house in Pattukottai town in neighbouring Thanjavur district on Monday night. Police identified the deceased woman as K. Anjammal, a widow residing at Mela Theru. The aged woman was staying with her son K. Pavainathan, 38, a painter and said to be an alcoholic. Argument Police sources said Paavainathan, allegedly under the influence of alcohol, had an argument with his mother. The sources said Paavainathan allegedly hit his mother with a sharp rod and pushed her to the ground. The woman sustained injury on the rear side of her head and collapsed. She was immediately rushed to the hospital but died. The family members reportedly attempted to carry out the funeral of the deceased woman when their neighbours alerted the police about the incident. Police personnel visited the spot and conducted an inquiry. Pattukottai police registered a case of murder and arrested Paavainathan on the charge of kiling his mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murders-aged-mother-in-thanjavur-district/article37891744.ece
08 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||BHEL, Tiruchi, bags honour for excellence||Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, Tiruchi, has bagged the Gold Plus commendation for business excellence based on the internationally recognised European Foundation of Quality Management (EFQM) excellence model. At a function held at Bengaluru recently, S.V. Srinivasan, General Manager-in-Charge, BHEL Tiruchi Complex, received the award in the presence of Nalin Shinghal, Chairman and Managing Director, BHEL. Earlier, a three-member CII Exim Bank Business Excellence awards assessment team visited BHEL, Tiruchi, from October 18 to 20 and conducted the assessment, while four other members conducted the assessment through video conferencing. The assessors also interacted with outsourcing partners and CSR beneficiaries through video conferencing, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhel-tiruchi-bags-honour-for-business-excellence/article37891728.ece
08 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Give compensation: CITU||Seeking compensation of Rs. 25 lakh to the family of a casual conservancy worker, who was reportedly injured while impounding stray cattle and later succumbed to his injuries in hospital, members of Centre for Indian Trade Unions staged a protest on the Corporation premises here on Tuesday. The agitation was withdrawn after the officials agreed to give employment to the wife of the deceased on producing proper documents. President of Tirunelveli District Rural Development and Local Administration Employees’ Association R. Mohan, who led the agitation, said that Marimuthu, 38, father of three children, including a 11-year-old boy, suffered grievous injury on the chest, after he was ‘forced’ to impound stray cattle on Saturday. He was admitted to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital where he succumbed to injuries. “Besides giving Rs. 25 lakh as compensation to the family of the deceased, the State government should give employment to Marimuthu’s wife,” said Mr. Mohan. He said the Corporation, which had outsourced sanitary work, was utilising the services of 1,000 casual workers as its permanent strength of 200 was not sufficient to carry out cleaning operations across the city. Hence, the civic body should abolish outsourcing system by regularising the services of casual workers. The Employees’ Provident Fund contribution being paid by conservancy workers should be properly paid to the EPFO with equal contribution from the Corporation. Even as the protest was going on, Aathi Thamizhar Peravai district secretary Kalaikannan, along with four others entered the crowd and started raising slogans against the CITU. He accused the CITU of hoodwinking the sanitary workers. However, the protestors, rushed towards him. As the police intervened immediately, the tension subsided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-compensation-citu/article37892052.ece
08 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin to inaugurate renovated bus stands||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin will inaugurate the Venthankulam new bus stand, which has been renovated with additional facilities on an outlay of Rs. 50.72 crore under Smart Cities Mission programme, through videoconference on Wednesday. He will also inaugurate a science and technology park established near the bus terminus at a cost of Rs. 10.54 crore and the Palayamkottai bus stand renovated an outlay of Rs. 13.08 crore. After renovation of the bus stand with sprawling parking space for bikes and four-wheelers was taken up, the temporary bus stand was set up near Perumalpuram police station. Now, the 15-month-long temporary arrangement has come to an end with the opening of the renovated bus stand which has more shops and two more bus bays to take the total bus bays to six. Collector V. Vishnu inspected the bus terminus on Tuesday along with Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-inaugurate-renovated-bus-stands/article37891747.ece
08 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||From deep forest to hi-tech Bosch unit||From collecting honey and doing agriculture work in the dense forests of Western Ghats, a girl from Kani tribal community will soon be making hi-tech sensors in the manufacturing unit of Germany’s Bosch. With the objective of equipping Kani youth living in Papanasam to crack competitive exams and get wider employment opportunities, Collector V. Vishnu started a coaching centre at Mundanthurai through the Department of Employment and Training. After two Kani girls, who cleared the examinations conducted by the Department of Forest and became Forest Guards recently, the number of Kani youth getting trained by this coaching centre rose phenomenally. Since these candidates have to come to the coaching centre at Mundanthurai from Mayilaru, Servalar and Agasthiyar tribal hamlets, Mr. Vishnu also provided them free bus service so that they can reach the training centre with ease. Mr. Vishnu also made arrangements for field trips for these candidates to the government offices on the Collectorate campus, Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project and VOC Port in Thoothukudi with the objective of igniting these young minds to work hard to crack the competitive exams for occupying the enviable positions in such offices. When the district administration organised the job fair in Palayamkottai last Sunday, 20 Kani tribal candidates, all getting trained in the Mundanthurai coaching centre, also participated. “As 22-year-old S. Sandhiya got selected by Germany’s Bosch for its Gangaikondan manufacturing unit, where the multinational giant is manufacturing sensors, I was so thrilled. Moreover, three other Kani youth have cleared the first-level exam of Bosch and are getting trained for the personal interview to be held shortly,” Mr. Vishnu told The Hindu . Ms. Sandhiya has been selected for the post of machine operator to manufacture sensors being used in a range of appliances, said Assistant Director of Employment Antony, who is shaping the candidates for the competitive examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/from-deep-forest-to-hi-tech-bosch-unit/article37891741.ece
08 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Tuesday stood at 136.70 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 2,159.61 cusecs and a discharge of 648.50 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 117.15 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 613 cusecs and a discharge of 100 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37892053.ece
08 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Singing bushlark spotted in Tiruppur district||In what appears to be the first recorded sighting, birdwatchers have spotted a lone singing bushlark ( Mirafra cantillans ) near the Uppar dam at Dharapuram in Tiruppur district. A five-member team from Dharapuram Nature Society spotted the bird on a grassland about four km away from the dam. One of the members R. Magesh said that they spotted the singing bushlark on December 5. “We suspect that there could be more birds, but we were able to photograph only one,” he said. According to eBird, an online database of bird sightings, singing bushlarks have been frequently spotted in Salem district and have also been recorded near Coimbatore and Kancheepuram in the past few years. Mr. Magesh cited the field guide Birds of the Indian Subcontinent , according to which this bird can be spotted in Karnataka, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Odisha. “A case study is required to ascertain whether this bird is a resident of Tamil Nadu,” he said. P.B. Balaji, a core committee member of the Coimbatore Nature Society and an eBird reviewer for Coimbatore district, said that he photographed a singing bushlark at Kalangal near Sulur in March 2019. According to him, there were no recorded sightings of this bird in the State prior to his sighting in Coimbatore district. He noted that singing bushlarks have subtle morphological differences when compared to Jerdon’s bushlark ( Mirafra affinis ), which are relatively more widespread across the country. “The main distinguishing features of the singing bushlark are its shorter beaks, whitish throats, white outer tail feathers and shorter hind toe nails,” he said. The bird is capable of mimicking other birds in its calls, Mr. Balaji said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/singing-bushlark-spotted-in-tiruppur-district/article37891755.ece
08 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Redress grievances of residents: former councillor||A former councillor of Tiruppur Corporation on Monday petitioned the Assistant Commissioner of Zone-II demanding redressal of grievances pertaining to basic amenities such as roads, sanitation and water supply in Ward No. 7. P. Vijayakumar, who was the AIADMK councillor of the then Ward No. 20 (now Ward No. 7) from 2011 to 2016, in his petition to Assistant Commissioner Kannan, said that the roads in several areas of Ward No. 7 such as Boyampalayam, Thirumoorthi Nagar, Guruvayurappan Nagar and Sakthi Nagar were damaged due to the underground drainage works. The petition also alleged that the drinking water supply for Ward 7 was reduced to once a week from twice a week and door-to-door waste collectionwas not being carried out properly. He also claimed that sewage was entering households in Sakthi Nagar and Ganapathi Nagar due to the damaged canal, which has not been repaired for several months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/redress-grievances-of-residents-former-councillor/article37891686.ece
08 December 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Government nurse feted||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani on Monday felicitated a government hospital nurse Vanaja who performed Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) on an accident victim and saved his life recently. The Minister appreciated the nurse attached to Mannargudi Government Headquarters Hospital for her life saving act at a programme organised at the Collectorate here. Collector Gayathri Krishnan and other officials participated in the programme. Ms. Vanaja was proceeding on the Vadaseri road when she noticed the unconscious youth aged around 20 to 22 years. He appeared to have been riding a two-wheeler and met with an accident. She examined him and performed the CPR on the youth, who was later identified as Vasanth of Karuvakurichi village. After he began to breathe again, she sent him to Mannargudi Government Headquarters Hospital for further treatment. An official press release on Monday said the injured youth was in good condition now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-nurse-feted/article37891737.ece
08 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Ornamental tree species relentlessly spreads in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve||A species of ornamental tree, Senna spectabilis , which was introduced to the Western Ghats has continued its relentless spread throughout the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the last two years, threatening biodiversity in the tiger reserve’s core areas. The species, which was introduced for its bright-yellow flowers that bloom during summer, is spreading rapidly and destroying native biodiversity in the process. Coupled with the continued presence of the Lantana camara , Eupatorium and Parthenium species, local ecologists fear that crucial wildlife habitats will face the pressures of this more recent threat to the landscape. In 2019, the Forest Department estimated that around 20 hectares of forests in the core area of the tiger reserve had become overrun with Senna spectabilis . In the following years, it’s feared that the species could have doubled its coverage area. Godwin Vasanth Bosco, a member of the Madras High Court-appointed expert committee on invasive species management and a Nilgiris-based ecologist, agreed that the species was spreading quickly. “One of the most concerning facets of the spread of this species is that it seems to be taking over moist-deciduous forests, which have a huge variety of native biodiversity,” he said. Mr. Bosco said the area taken over by invasive species like Senna spectabilis and Lantana camara, quickly lose the native species of flora on which wildlife in the reserve depend on. Shiny Mariam Rehel, programme co-ordinator for the Biodiversity Restoration Programme at Keystone Foundation, said that the profuse flowering of the species as well as other factors, lead to its quick spreading. “We need to study the impacts this species has on ecology. At this point in time, we can only theorize about the potential negative impacts,” she said. “Unless managed, large parts of the reserve could become populated by this species,” added Mr. Bosco. When contacted, D. Venkatesh, Field Director of MTR, said the Forest Department awaited policy-level decisions on how to manage and eradicate all invasive species from The Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve. “Once we get a clear roadmap, we will phase out invasive species of flora over a period of time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ornamental-tree-species-relentlessly-spreads-in-mudumalai-tiger-reserve/article37891677.ece
08 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Man held for murder||A 28-year-old man was murdered along the Boat House Road in Udhagamandalam on Monday. The police identified the deceased as R. Siva of Vivekananda Nagar here. He was running a private cottage along the Boat House Road. The accused, U. Bharath (26), ran a canteen in the area and supplied food to the cottage. The two men picked a quarrel when Bharath attacked Siva with a knife. Siva succumbed to injuries. Bharath was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-murder/article37891674.ece
08 December 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||80-year-old woman, daughter murdered in Kandamangalam||An 80-year-old woman D. Saroja and her daughter T. Poongavanam, 60, were found murdered at their home in Kandappan Chavadi near Kandamangalam on Tuesday. Police said neighbours found the front door of the house ajar and the two women lying in a pool of blood in the house. On information, senior police officers, including Deputy Inspector General of Police (Villupuram Range) M. Pandian and Superintendent of Police N. Shreenatha, visited the spot and conducted enquiries. Police said the victims had sustained injuries on their heads caused by a blow from a heavy object. The motive behind the murder is not clear. The jewellery worn by the victims was missing. “We are probing various angles, including murder for gain and sexual assault. Six special teams have been formed to nab the culprits,” a senior police officer said. The bodies were sent to the Government Villupuram Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem. A case has been registered and further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/80-year-old-woman-daughter-murdered-in-kandamangalam/article37892019.ece
08 December 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||20 school students injured||Twenty school students were injured when the government bus in which they were travelling overturned at Mugaiyur near Villupuram on Tuesday. Police said the bus carrying 50 students was going from Arakandanallur to Villupuram. When the vehicle neared Mugaiyur, the driver of the bus swerved to the left apparently to avoid hitting a two-wheeler coming in the opposite direction. He lost control of the vehicle and the bus overturned. On information, the police shifted the injured to Government Villupuram Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-school-students-injured/article37892020.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||122 new cases reported in Coimbatore district||A total of 122 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday. The Health Department said 129 persons recovered from the disease on Tuesday and the district had 1,265 active cases. The district’s toll increased to 2,474 after an 85-year-old man died of COVID-19. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.5 % on Monday when it reported 120 cases. Tiruppur district reported 52 new cases on Tuesday. The district had 646 active cases as 52 persons recovered. No new deaths were reported on Tuesday and the toll remained at 1,001.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/122-new-cases-reported-in-coimbatore-district/article37891671.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Prices of plots in industrial estates slashed||At Kumbakonam, the price has been brought down from Rs. 3.04 crore an acre to 81.98 lakh an acre, following a 73% reduction, and at Nagapattinam, from Rs. 2.39 crore to Rs. 85.35 lakh, after a 65% reduction. At Kurichi in Coimbatore district, the price of an acre at the SIDCO industrial estate has been reduced from Rs. 9 crore to Rs. 4.2 crore, at Vinnamangalam in Tirupattur district from Rs. 4.8 crore to Rs. 2 crore, at Alathur in Chengalpattu district from Rs. 6 crore to Rs. 3.5 crore and in Erode from Rs. 6.4 crore to Rs. 3.8 crore. At industrial estates in Karaikudi, Pidaneri and Rajapalayam, where over 400 plots remain vacant, prices have been reduced by 30%-54%, while Virudhunagar, Arakkonam and Bargur are seeing a price reduction by 40%-50%. In 19 other estates, prices have been reduced by 5%-25%. Apart from these, the government has retained the prices prevailing in 2016-17 in 12 industrial estates, including the ones in Ambattur and Tirumazhisai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prices-of-plots-in-industrial-estates-slashed/article37891624.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Kongu Arts and Science College: Department of Computer Science, two-day training-cum workshop on Computer Hardware and Networking for first year students, T. Manikandan, proprietor, Sridharan Infotech, Erode, resource person, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article37891765.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: Session on Career Advancement in construction real estate, infrastructure and project, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37891667.ece
08 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Working of gram panchayats will be revolutionised: Bommai||“The State Government is taking several steps to revolutionise the functioning of the gram panchayats,’’ Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Tuesday. He was speaking at a campaign meeting in support of his party candidate in the Legislative Council polls. “This year, we have introduced several development and welfare programmes in 750 gram panchayats in the State under the AMRUT scheme. If this is successful, then it will be extended to the whole State. Under this scheme, we are going to strengthen the panchayat institutions by digitising record documentation and service delivery. This will ensure that all the homeless residents of the villages selected will get sites or houses. Village residents will no longer need to go to taluk or district headquarters to get copies of government records,” the Chief Minister said. “Digitisation will help improve education, health and governance. Schools will get better content and governance will be fast and transparent. Rural hospitals will function better with specialist doctors giving directions to doctors in primary health centres via teleconferencing. I am sure gram panchayat members and the people will support us,’’ he said. Later, he told journalists that there was no doubt about the winter session being held in Belagavi. “We will have discussions on various issues, including the losses suffered by farmers during the floods and the steps taken by the government to provide relief. They are getting relief within 24 hours of sending details of their loss to the State Government. We have paid out around Rs. 422 crore till now to farmers across the State. Every day, we are releasing around Rs. 50 crore-Rs. 80 crore to farmers. Agriculture Department officers have been directed to supply farmers with plans of alternative cropping and a contingency plan to reduce losses. They include cultivation of short-term crops that can be harvested in 90 days, the Chief Minister said. “Successive Congress governments had failed to increase the relief amounts under National Disaster Relief funds. Prime Minister Narendra Modi increased the amounts. Now, farmers are getting over Rs. 2,700 per acre. Earlier, it was very low. Of course, the demand that it should increase further is justified,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/working-of-gram-panchayats-will-be-revolutionised-bommai/article37891779.ece
08 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Ramesh Jarkiholi is working for BJP victory’||“Ramesh Jarkiholi is campaigning for the victory of the BJP candidate. He is not working against the BJP’s interests. There is absolutely no doubt about it,’’ Balachandra Jarkiholi said in Belagavi on Tuesday. He was speaking at a campaign rally for Mahantesh Kavatagimath, party nominee in the Legislative Council polls. “There are some rumours against Ramesh Jarkiholi, across the district. Some people are questioning his campaign. But let me tell you, he is working for the party. He is asking voters to support the BJP and defeat the Congress. What is wrong with it?’’ Balachandra Jarkiholi said. He was referring to Ramesh Jarkiholi’s open support to Lakhan Jarkiholi, his brother and Independent candidate. “I would like to remind everyone that Mangala Angadi would not have won the bypolls if Ramesh Jarkiholi had not provided a lead of 28,000 votes in the Gokak Assembly constituency. In doing so, Ramesh Jarkiholi caused the defeat of his own brother. In fact, the only two MLAs who provided a lead in their constituencies are Ramesh Jarkiholi and Abhay Patil. We should not forget it,’’ Balachandra Jarkiholi said. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and most of the other senior BJP leaders were present in the rally. Ramesh Jarkiholi. however, was not present. Mr. Bommai. who reacted to the absence of Ramesh Jarkiholi, said that it was a minor issue. What is important is that he is working for the party, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ramesh-jarkiholi-is-working-for-bjp-victory/article37891778.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||One killed, seven injured in serial accident in Indiranagar||A high-end car, allegedly being driven recklessly, caused a serial accident that claimed the life of a restaurant employee in Indiranagar on Tuesday afternoon. The driver of the speeding car, and six others, were also injured, while at least three vehicles were damaged. Two were in the ICU, while five others sustained minor injuries and are said to be out of danger. The incident occurred on Indiranagar 80-feet road. The deceased has been identified as Hari Mahanth, 36, who hails from Assam and was working as the valet parking driver of a restaurant. He was residing in Dhoopasandra. He was an employee in the restaurant for the last ten years. The police found that the accused driver is Suvidh, 40, a businessman and a resident of Defence Colony. According to the police, the incident occurred around 3.15 p.m. when Suvidh, who was allegedly overspeeding in the high-end car, crashed into another car, which rammed into an autorickshaw and a goods vehicle. Mahanth, who was taking out the car from the parking lot, died on the spot, while the drivers of the other vehicles sustained injuries. Passersby who noticed the mishap helped the victims before alerting the Halasuru traffic police. They also helped the police remove damaged vehicles from the road to clear the traffic. Mahindra, an eyewitness, said, “I was riding my bike when the speeding high-end car rammed into a series of vehicles and I suddenly stopped. I went to help the drivers of the cars and found the driver who was taking out the car died on the spot and others were screaming. They were rushed to a nearby hospital before the police reached the spot.” The police are awaiting the recovery of the accused driver to question him. They are also waiting for the medical report to ascertain whether he was drunk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-killed-seven-injured-in-serial-accident-in-indiranagar/article37891564.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||INSACOG directed to approve four genome sequencing labs||Nearly six months after Karnataka proposed to set up six genome sequencing labs in the State, the Union Health Ministry has written to the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG) to approve four labs in government medical colleges in Kalaburagi, Mysuru, Belagavi, and Bengaluru. Sources said Union Additional Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) Arti Ahuja on Tuesday wrote to the Department of Biotechnology, under which INSACOG has been set up, to expeditiously approve the four labs in Karnataka. During the peak of the second wave in June, the State Government had proposed to set up six genome sequencing labs in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Shivamogga, Hubballi, Mangaluru, and Vijayapura. However, the process of seeking approval began only recently following the growing concern over Omicron. The need for seeking approval became all the more important following a recent communication from the Centre to Karnataka stating that genome sequencing can be conducted only in labs approved by INSACOG. Sources in the State Health Department said the proposal had been lying in cold storage as “the COVID-19 situation was under control till two weeks ago.” “While the proposal was announced in June, nothing was being done till recently except procuring the equipment. But setting up the labs is not just about buying equipment. We need trained personnel including technicians, scientists and data entry operators to run the labs and that is a major requirement,” sources said. T.K. Anil Kumar, State Principal Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), told The Hindu on Tuesday that equipment for the four labs in Kalaburgi Institute of Medical Sciences, Mysore Medical College, Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences, and the Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute has been installed. “We are hopeful of getting the approval soon and these labs will start receiving samples by next week,” he said. Although only two labs in Karnataka - at National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) and NIMHANS - are INSACOG approved labs, two other government centres are involved in whole genome sequencing. “We have one lab at Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) that is attached to NIMHANS and another at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) that is attached to NCBS. While the load on these labs is not very high as of now, it is expected to increase as there is a need to test random RT-PCR positive samples from among clusters and among the fully vaccinated and children,” said V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka. U.S. Vishal Rao, member of the State’s Genomic Surveillance Committee, said setting up more genome sequencing labs will be an asset for the State as genomics will have a pivotal role to play both in detection of communicable and non-communicable diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/insacog-directed-to-approve-four-genome-sequencing-labs/article37891578.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Colleges get syllabus for compulsory course two months after opening||Degree colleges in the city are in a spot as they received a new syllabus for one of the ability enhancement compulsory courses on Monday. This has come two months after the lecturers began teaching the subject following the old syllabus. Many lecturers who are teaching the digital fluency course to first semester students of all streams said that they have already completed teaching more than half the syllabus. R. Parvathi, Principal, VET First Grade College, said that a meeting was conducted on Monday and lecturers were told to teach a new syllabus prescribed by NASSCOM. “We got a syllabus earlier this academic year under the logo of Bengaluru City University. Now the university says they never circulated any syllabus. How can lecturers start teaching all over again,” she asked. The course has to be taught on the lines of the National Education Policy. B.G. Bhaskara, president of Federation of University and College Teachers’ Association in Karnataka, said they wanted the university to revert to the old syllabus. “Many teachers also say that the new syllabus is tough to grasp for students who do not have knowledge of computers,” he said. He also said that the first semester students are expected to write the examination in the first week of February 2022 and it was too late to tweak the syllabus. The Karnataka State Higher Education Council authorities said that they had collaborated with NASSCOM to develop the content and modules. Lingaraja Gandhi, Vice Chancellor, Bengaluru City University, said they had not circulated any syllabus for the subject earlier and NASSCOM conducted the orientation on Monday. “We had only sent the titles and the user manuals for it earlier,” he said. He also added that the syllabi for the course was uniform and could even be considered a self-learning module.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/colleges-get-syllabus-for-compulsory-course-two-months-after-opening/article37891571.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 testing capacity increased at KIA||The COVID-19 testing capacity at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) in Bengaluru has been enhanced with the addition of 50 machines. The move is expected to reduce wait time for air passengers. “Auriga Research Private Limited, which was operating eight Express PCR test machines, has added 50 machines, increasing its hourly test capacity. BIAL is also working with TATA MD-Aster Labs, another COVID-19 lab partner at Bengaluru airport, towards enhancing the capacity with advanced Tata Express PCR technology,” according to a statement from Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) on Tuesday. Priority is ensured to senior citizens, passengers with reduced mobility, and mothers with infants through a dedicated testing counter. They are the first to be tested from the arriving batch. “In order to decongest the arrival area, swab tests are collected as much as possible before immigration/customs screening so that passengers receive their reports even before they collect their baggage. All efforts are geared to reduce inconvenience by improving speed and efficiency,” according to the statement from BIAL. BIAL is bearing the testing cost for 2% of international passengers coming from non-risk countries who will be randomly chosen for testing. International passengers, who do not have a local SIM card to access the internet, can now avail the wi-fi at Kempegowda International Airport for free for four hours. The time period has been upgraded from 45 minutes to four hours for the convenience of air passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-testing-capacity-increased-at-kia/article37891575.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka reports 299 new infections, six fatalities||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 299 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,98,699, Bengaluru Urban reported 215 cases and three deaths. With six deaths, the toll rose to 38,243. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 260 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 29,53,327. The State now has 7,100 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.36%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2%. As many as 81,194 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 61,041 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,39,96,839.   COVID-19 in Karnataka on December 7  Cases: 299 Deaths: 6 Discharges: 260 Tests: 81,194 Vaccinations : 4,44,837 Test Positivity Rate: 0.36% Case Fatality Rate: 2% /////////////////////////////////////////////////||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-reports-299-new-infections-six-fatalities/article37891581.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC declines to interfere with final land acquisition notification||Observing that the apex court has specifically ordered the implementation of Dr. Shivarama Karanth Nagar Layout project by upholding the scheme and the preliminary notification issued in 2008, the High Court of Karnataka has declined to interfere with the final notification issued by the BDA in 2018 acquiring 3,546 acres 12 guntas of land for the proposed layout. The apex court in its August 3, 2018 verdict, has “in unmistakable terms, has directed the State Government and BDA to issue a Final Notification without excluding any portion of land from acquisition by coming to the definite conclusion that there was no scope for exclusion of any land in the ultimate final notification,” the HC said. Justice S.R. Krishna Kumar passed the order while dismissing petitions filed by several land owners questioning the legality of the final notification issued by the BDA in November 2018. The apex court has not only restored, revived and upheld the entire scheme and the preliminary notification “but has also unequivocally, unambiguously, clearly and definitely directed the State Government and BDA to implement the entire scheme and issue the final notification within three months in respect of the entire extent of 3,546 acres 12 guntas notified in the preliminary notification without excluding, deleting or dropping any portion of land from the final notification.” The HC noted that the apex court is supervising and monitoring not only the implementation and execution of the entire scheme, but also all its earlier orders, and has been addressing all grievances ventilated by all persons claiming rights over portions of the layout land, passing suitable orders and issuing appropriate directions in this regard. Despite being fully conscious and aware that the petitions challenging the final notification are pending before this HC, the apex court continued to pass several orders and issue various directions safeguarding and protecting only certain types of categories of cases, thereby indicating that except the said categories enumerated by it, the final notification in respect to the remaining lands is perfectly legal and proper and does not warrant interference by this court, said Justice Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-declines-to-interfere-with-final-land-acquisition-notification/article37891569.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSIC to get 192 power looms||To cater to the rising demand for Mysuru Silk saris, the State Government has decided to provide 192 additional power looms to the Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation Ltd. (KSIC). A Government Order said 192 power loom machines had remained unused with Karnataka Silk Development Centres in Hassan, Tumakuru, Ballari, Vijayapura, and Belagavi. These machines would be shifted to KSIC facilities in Mysuru and Channapatna to increase production of silk saris. Government-owned KSIC, which has obtained the Geographical Indication (GI) tag for Mysore Silk, produces about 70,000 metres of silk saris monthly from its existing power looms. The additional looms would enable KSIC to step up its monthly production, said Sericulture Minister K.C. Narayan Gowda. Currently, KSIC has 159 power looms at Mysuru Old Mill, 60 at Mysuru New Mill, and 30 in Channapatna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksic-to-get-192-power-looms/article37891591.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSLSA to launch legal services clinic in BBMP||The Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) will soon start a Legal Services Clinic in Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to resolve grievances related to property khata and other issues by offering free legal assistance to citizens. Addressing mediapersons here on Tuesday, Justice B. Veerappa, a judge of the High Court and Executive Chairperson of the KSLSA, said that civic agency has accepted the initiative to redress grievances of citizens and similar clinics are also in pipeline to resolve issues in other civic agencies like the BWSSB, etc. He said that advocates from the panel of the KSLSA and the para-legal volunteers, including young advocates and law students, would be roped in to assist the citizens to get their grievances redressed. A large number of petitions pending against the BBMP on issues related to khata could also be resolved by referring them to this clinic, he added. Justice Veerappa said that a Lok Adalat will be held in each taluk and district in the State on December 18 and so far around 2.15 lakh cases of the total 20.99 lakh pending in various courts have been identified for amicable settlement. He also said that the legal services authority will continue to accept request for referring the pending litigations to the ensuing Lok Adalat from the litigants and their advocates. As many as 9.4 lakh cases were already settled in the three Lok Adalats held in the State this year in March, August and September resulting in payment of compensation to the tune of Rs. 2,542 crore to the litigant public in motor vehicle accident, land acquisition and other case and collection of Rs. 53.2 crore to the State exchequer in the form of fine by compounding of minor offences, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kslsa-to-launch-legal-services-clinic-in-bbmp/article37891568.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Register vehicles as per earlier rules for now: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State Government to register new non-transport vehicles and fully-built transport vehicles on first sale as per the rules that existed prior to enacting a new rule, which allowed authorised dealers of such vehicles to register vehicles with effect from October 31. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, passed the interim order on a petition filed by M/s Rosmerta Technologies Ltd, Gurugram which has a contract of issuing smart card with the State Transport Department till the year 2024. It has been contended on behalf of the petitioner company that the new rule, which was notified on October 31, had done away with the system of registering the new vehicles by the RTOs and this system would impact its contract with the Transport Department for issuing registration certificate in the form of smart cards. The petitioner has also claimed that the draft rule was notified on October 26, 2021m giving five days for the public to give objections and suggestions within five days but the final notification was issued on October 31 itself without providing complete five days for the public to submit objections and suggestions as notified in the draft rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/register-vehicles-as-per-earlier-rules-for-now-hc/article37891577.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Look into problems of ex-servicemen’||Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot on Tuesday asked Chief Secretary P. Ravikumar to look into pending problems of ex-servicemen in the State, including the extension of exemption in property tax by 50% in rural areas. “I have asked the Chief Secretary to convene a meeting of officials with representatives of armed forces and ex-servicemen to solve the pending issues,” he said at the Armed Forces Flag Day functione. His direction came after Major Gen. Harish Shanbhag (retd.) pointed out issues related to ex-servicemen. Maj. Gen. Shanbhag pointed out that approximately 2,500 defence personnel from Karnataka are released from service every year, and they are in the age group of 32 to 50, with a majority of being in their early thirties. “Private companies and PSUs can hire ex-servicemen as part of their corporate social responsibility,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/look-into-problems-of-ex-servicemen/article37891588.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for beating up on-duty police team||The Yelahanka New Town police arrested two persons, including the staff of a food delivery company and an engineer with a private firm, for allegedly assaulting a police team over road rage on Monday night. The accused, driving a car, confronted a police vehicle on a narrow road. The PSI asked them to move their car back to allow them to pass, but they refused to do so. Heated arguments ensued, following which the accused allegedly assaulted the police team. The accused were later arrested and charged for assaulting police personnel while on duty. The accused have been subjected to a medical examination to ascertain whether they were under the influence of alcohol. The duo was remanded to judicial custody, while further investigations are on. Meanwhile, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, reacting to the incident, said that attacks on police will not be tolerated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-beating-up-on-duty-police-team/article37891566.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Post office staff booked after camera goes missing from parcel||The staff of the foreign post office have been booked for theft after a BDS student from Iran realised that a camera and two other items from the international parcel she received from the Netherlands were missing. Based on the complaint by Katayoon Mousavi, the Kempegowdanagar Police registered a theft case against the staff on Saturday. In her complaint, Ms. Mousavi said that the parcel was sent by her sister in the Netherlands, containing a camera and a few other items worth $100. After receiving the parcel, she noticed that it was opened by someone and the camera and other items were missing. She complained to the Chamarajapet foreign postal office, who informed her that the parcel was opened for inspections and did not give her the required details. She then approached the police. Police said postal staff and other central agencies conduct regular inspections and checks at the post office to lookout for banned items, and suspect that in one of these instances, someone could have taken away the goods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/post-office-staff-booked-after-camera-goes-missing-from-parcel/article37891567.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man found dead in drain||A construction worker was found dead in a drain in Karimsab Layout in Rajgopalanagar on Tuesday. The deceased, identified as Sharavana, 42, from Tamil Nadu, used to stay at construction sites he worked at, the police said. A probe revealed that he was a chronic alcoholic and on Monday night, under the influence of alcohol, he lost his balance, slipped into the drain, sustained severe head injuries and succumbed, the police said. The police have registered a case of unnatural death and are awaiting a post mortem report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-found-dead-in-drain/article37891565.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New guidelines for residential schools sought||After COVID-19 clusters were detected in residential educational institutions, the Primary and Secondary Education Minister has asked the Department of Health and Family Welfare to issue a separate set of SOPs for them. B.C. Nagesh, in his letter to the Principal Secretary of the Health Department, said that these institutions need to have more stringent rules as hundreds of students are residing on the same campus. Officials of the Department of Public Instruction pointed out that almost all clusters were so far reported in residential schools and the highest number of cases were detected in the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Chikkmagaluru. Meanwhile, data collated by the DPUE states that 21 students and six staff members have tested positive for COVID-19 over the past ten days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-guidelines-for-residential-schools-sought/article37891572.ece
08 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cancellation of midterms demanded||The National Student Union of India, along with many PU students, staged a protest on Tuesday outside the Department of Pre-University Education demanding that the offline examinations be cancelled due to the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases. The second year PU mid-term examination is scheduled to be held from December 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cancellation-of-midterms-demanded/article37891573.ece
08 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Polls: Candidates count on gods to win loyalty||Candidates contesting the Legislative Council polls on December 10 are said to be engaged in wooing voters with money and gifts. What’s more, a few candidates are distributing silver coins with images of deities or posters of gods so that “god-fearing voters” do not “cheat” after accepting gifts. BJP candidate for Chitradurga seat K.S. Naveen is said to have distributed to the voters posters with images of Lord Rama and the Rama temple being constructed at Ayodhya. Congress candidate B. Somashekhar has taken exception to the distribution of such posters. In Hassan, the JD(S) leaders are said to have been distributing silver coins with the image of Lord Manjunatha of Dharmasthala. A party worker, campaigning for a candidate in Hassan, said the coins or posters with images of gods will play a major role in ensuring loyalty of voters. “If they make a promise to vote for a particular candidate after accepting such gifts, they normally do not go against it,” he said. Cash to voters Recently, a senior leader of a party is said to have distributed cash to voters in a meeting in Sakaleshpur taluk. The voters were allowed inside the meeting hall only after surrendering their cell phones outside to make sure cash distribution is not caught on camera. While one candidate has started distributing Rs. 40,000 per voter, another candidate is said to have assured Rs. 25,000, besides a coupon for a gift. In Chitradurga, candidates from both the BJP and the Congress are said to have distributed gifts, during familiarisation exercise. Women voters have got sarees, while men were invited for a feast. The cash would be delivered by supporters of candidates on the eve of elections, it is said. “If one party offers Rs. 40,000, another is expected to increase it by another Rs. 10,000 per vote,” said a voter in Chitradurga. Viral clip An audio clip of a telephonic conversation purportedly of Arsikere JD(S) MLA K.M. Shivalinge Gowda and another person, in which both spoke about cash and other offers, has gone viral in Hassan. One of the speakers in the viral video is heard saying that the party lost the Hassan seat in the last election because it offered only Rs. 10,000 per vote, while the opposite candidate offered more. This time, the party would be offering cash and a silver coin, one of the speakers is heard stating.  BJP candidate for Chitradurga seat K.S. Naveen is said to have distributed to the voters posters with images of Lord Rama and the Ram temple being constructed at Ayodhya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/polls-candidates-count-on-gods-to-win-loyalty/article37891585.ece
08 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Tusker electrocuted||A wild tusker aged about 35 years was electrocuted at Malligenahalliin Tarikere taluk on Monday night. It came in contact with an electric fence put by a farmer to protect his maize farm from wild animals. The place is close to Tyagadabagi Reserve Forest. The local people informed the Forest Department. A team of officers including Deputy Conservator of Forests K.P. Gamanagatti, and Assistant Conservator of Forests S.O.Dinesh visited the spot on Tuesday and conducted the post-mortem. The Forest Department has booked a case against Raghu, farmer, and his mother, who cultivate the land. They are absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tusker-electrocuted/article37891959.ece
08 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KVGB ties up with Liberty to offer low-cost insurance||Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank (KVGB), a leading regional rural bank with 629 branches, has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Liberty General Insurance Co. Ltd. for selling general insurance products through its branches. In a formal ceremony held in Dharwad on Tuesday, General Manager of KVG Bank Chandrashekar D. Moro and Senior Vice-President of Liberty General Insurance Manish Kotian signed and exchanged the MoU in the presence of Chairman of the bank P. Gopi Krishna. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Gopi Krishna said that considering the huge potential in the general insurance sector, the bank had entered into an MoU with Liberty General Insurance. “As per the MoU terms, the company will provide a variety of general health insurance products such as personal accident, car and two-wheeler insurance, employee compensation insurance, commercial insurance, fire and engineering insurance and health and other miscellaneous insurance products with reasonably affordable cost. The bank is consistently enhancing its portfolio to meet the diverse financial needs of its customers and this alliance is a step in that direction,” he said. Mr. Manish Kotian said that KVG Bank termed the MoU as an important milestone in the company’s journey of offering its leading products through a trusted partner to a crucial segment. The alliance with the bank will spearhead the company’s expansion in the State, he added. Bank officials P. Srinivas Rao, S.S. Manur and Praveen T.S. and Kalyan Revanur of Liberty General Insurance and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kvgb-ties-up-with-liberty-to-offer-low-cost-insurance/article37891787.ece
08 December 2021||HUBBALLI/BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Lakhan a Congress rebel: CM||In a statement that has raised many eyebrows, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai described Lakhan Jarkiholi a “Congress rebel”. The statement comes at a time when his brothers and BJP MLAs Ramesh Jarkiholi and Balachandra Jarkiholi have openly expressed support to Mr. Lakhan, who is contesting as an Independent candidate, and are even canvassing for him. BJP’s candidate in Belagavi is Mahantesh Kavatagimath. Mr. Lakhan, who had contested as Congress candidate against his elder brother Mr. Ramesh in the byelections and lost, later parted ways with the Congress. In fact, he switched to the BJP by aligning with former Minister and brother Mr. Ramesh during the Lok Sabha byelection in which BJP’s Mangala Angadi won defeating his other brother Satish Jarkiholi. However, while Mr. Lakhan has made it clear that he will not go with the Congress, he has not officially joined the BJP. When Mr. Bommai visited Belagavi on Tuesday, Mr. Balachandra sought to know what wrong they had done by campaigning for the brother and giving a call to defeat the Congress. “His loyalty to the BJP cannot be questioned as he canvassed against Mr. Satish during the Lok Sabha election,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lakhan-a-congress-rebel-cm/article37891587.ece
08 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘BJP is against decentralisation of power and is undermining local bodies’||Terming the BJP as a party against decentralisation of power, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesperson Priyank Kharge appealed to voters of local bodies constituency to defeat the BJP in the Legislative Council elections as that party, according to him, has been doing everything to undermine the local bodies of governance such as municipalities in urban areas and panchayats in rural areas. “It was through the efforts [73rd and 74th amendments to the Constitution] of the Congress government at the Centre that the local bodies of governance came into existence as a means to empower marginalised and unprivileged sections by involving them in the decision-making process. The Panchayat Raj Institutions and the urban local bodies have since then brought about a tremendous positive transformation in the lives of these oppressed sections. It should not be forgotten that BJP parliamentarian Rama Jois had challenged the Constitution amendments and certain sections of the Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act that had made provisions to reserve 84% of seats in panchayats and municipalities for backward classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and women,” Mr. Kharge said, addressing a media conference here on Tuesday. In contrast Putting the Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act, which was enacted by the last Congress government in the State by incorporating the K.R. Ramesh Kumar Committee recommendations, in contrast with the Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Bill tabled by the current BJP government and later passed by the Legislature, Mr. Kharge said that the former was to strengthen the Panchayat Raj Institutions and latter to weaken them. “The Congress had made many provisions to strengthen the Panchayat Raj Institutions in terms of economic and political stability. Right to recall elected members, allowing panchayats to have their own annual budgets, entitlement to various grants such as performance grants and establishment grants and increasing the term of presidents and vice-presidents of gram panchayats to 30 months are some of the revolutionary provisions made in the Act. The BJP has, however, reversed it by passing the Amendment Bill that has diluted the Act and weakened the Panchayat Raj Institutions,” Mr. Kharge said. Mr. Kharge also took serious exception to the indefinite postponement of the elections to the zilla and taluk panchayats by terming it a gross violation of the Constitution and the Panchayat Raj Act. Objections “In the past also, some objections were raised on the reservations and delimitations of constituencies in the Panchayat Raj Institutions. However, they were quickly addressed and the elections were held on time. The current BJP government is, on the pretext of there being issues in delimitation and reservations, trying to indefinitely postpone the elections violating the Constitutional provisions. The BJP is basically against the local bodies of governance and there is no point in members of the local bodies electing BJP candidates in the imminent elections to the Legislative Council,” Mr. Kharge said. Congress candidate for Kalaburagi-Yadgir local bodies constituency of the Legislative Council Shivanand Patil, District Congress Committee president Jagdev Guttedar, the former MLCs Allamprabhu Patil and Tippannappa Kamaknur and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-is-against-decentralisation-of-power-and-is-undermining-local-bodies/article37891781.ece
08 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Students to get concession on bus pass through Chalo cards||Moving forward with its Chalo bus cards for cashless travel on city buses, the Dakshina Kannada Bus Operators Association has decided to offer the facility at 60% concession in fares to students instead of issuing them regular bus passes. “Henceforth, we will not issue regular students concession passes. Instead, Chalo bus cards will be issued while students will continue to get 60% concession in fares,” association president Jayasheela Adyantaya told reporters here on Tuesday. The cards with validity for 20 days, one month and two months duration will be issued through educational institutions, he added. 20,000 passes Mr. Adyantaya said that about 20,000 students apply for concession bus passes every year and operators bear about Rs. 12 lakh a year towards fare concession. Operators have given concession worth Rs. 14.74 crore to students in the last 41 years with no reimbursement from the government, he added. Taking a step towards cashless transactions, the association worked with Chalo Mobility Private Limited to launch Chalo bus cards two years ago. The holder of Chalo cards will get 10% concession on fares per trip. Chalo’s Operational Manager Amrut Mayya said that about 4,000 Chalo cards were issued in the city with about Rs. 30 lakh collection a month from recharges made by commuters. He said that conductors of buses on Route No 27 [Mangaladevi-State Bank] carry electronic ticketing machines (ETMs) through which commuters can buy tickets by tapping Chalo cards on the machine. Such ETMs will be extended to other city buses soon, he said and added that the movement of about 200 buses is being tracked on real-time basis through GPS, he said. Tickets Asked about conductors on some routes not issuing tickets to commuters, Mr. Adyantaya said that frequent orientation programmes are being conducted for conductors. “We are trying to rectify the issue,” he said and added that most of the bus conductors are issuing tickets. When asked about non-operation of city buses on some routes, Mr. Adyantaya said that COVID-19 has affected many city bus operators. They are forced to cut down some of the routes in view of the reduced patronage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-to-get-concession-on-bus-pass-through-chalo-cards/article37891941.ece
08 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Airport in city to start online booking for RT-PCR test slots||The Mangaluru International Airport will shortly start a facility for online booking of slots for RT-PCR test at the airport. In addition, QR codes will be placed at strategic locations inside the airport that will enable passengers to book the slot as they come towards the testing area, it said. In a press release, the airport said that after the Union Government’s guidelines for international passengers in view of the COVID-19 variant Omicron, arrangements are being made at the airport to implement them. A waiting area to accommodate 123 passengers has been set up. The area has four registration counters, four sampling booths and 70 Rapid PCR machines. The Rapid PCR machines provide results in 30 minutes. The waiting area has adequate washrooms, food and beverage facility, Wi-Fi and foreign exchange service. Dedicated passenger service executives will be available in this area to assist passengers. Sanitisation and deep cleaning will be carried out at regular intervals in the testing area. Seating arrangements have been made for passengers at the arrival lounge, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/airport-in-city-to-start-online-booking-for-rt-pcr-test-slots/article37891944.ece
08 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Blue Angels Choir releases Christmas Carols Medley||Blue Angels Choir, Mangaluru, on Tuesday released its ninth project, Christmas Carols Medley 2K21, on its YouTube channel, https://www.youtube.com/c/blueangelschoir. A release here said that the medley consists of songs in Konkani, English, Kannada, Hindi, Latin, Spanish and Malayalam. Christmas Carols Medley 2K21 consists of traditional as well as recent songs. The team producing the Medley comprised Anisha Dsouza, Neel Coelho, Valentino Mascarenhas, Dealle Dsouza and Ashel Dsouza on the Soprano, Prithuma Monteiro on the Alto and Hansel Rego on the Bass. Team coordinator Denzil Pereira has rendered the vocal arrangements and sung tenor, while Dolwin Kolalagiri arranged and produced music. The project has been mixed and mastered by Srikanth Srinivas of Chennai at Daijiworld Audio Visual Pvt. Ltd. The vocals were recorded by Shinoy V. Joseph at CAD Studio, Mangaluru. The video has been shot and edited by Carmel Studio, Mangaluru. Promo Posters and YouTube Thumbnail were designed by Ashish Joseph Carvalho.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/blue-angels-choir-releases-christmas-carols-medley/article37891952.ece
08 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Private bus fares revised in Udupi||The Regional Transport Authority, Udupi, has revised fares on private express and shuttle stage carriage buses with retrospective effect from November 10. A communication from RTA member-secretary and regional transport officer J.P. Gangadhar here said that all private bus operators should collect the fares fixed by the authority. Besides, the destination boards/ route information should be displayed in Kannada and COVID-19 appropriate behaviour should be followed. With the revision, the minimum fare has been fixed at Rs. 12 for a chargeable distance up to 6.5 km, followed by Rs. 19 for up to 13 km, Rs. 25 for up to 19.5 km, Rs. 32 for distance up to 26 km, Rs. 40 for 32.5 km, Rs. 49 for up to 39 km, Rs. 55 for 45.5 km, Rs. 63 for 52 km, Rs. 70 for up to 58.5 km, Rs. 78 for 65 km, Rs. 85 for up to 71.5 km and so on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-bus-fares-revised-in-udupi/article37891940.ece
08 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 patient dies in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada reported one COVID-19 death and 14 new cases on Tuesday. With 18 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 133. Test positivity rate was put at 0.25%. A fine totalling Rs. 1,08,60,270 has so far been collected in 89,663 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported three new cases. All the three patients are from Udupi taluk and they are under home quarantine. With 10 patients discharged, there are 68 active cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-patient-dies-in-dakshina-kannada/article37891942.ece
08 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi Mission Hospital gets new oxygen plant||A new oxygen generation plant was installed at the Lombard Memorial (Mission) Hospital in Udupi on Monday. In a press release, the hospital said that the new plant estimated at Rs. 40 lakh has a capacity to produce 30 jumbo cylinders of oxygen per day. The plant also has an automatic changeover system if more oxygen is needed for additional cylinders, the release said. The new plant was imported from Portugal with funding from Azim Premji Foundation. About preparedness to provide good treatment to COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients, the hospital said that oxygen pipelines have been laid to all wards, including casualty, intensive care unit, high dependency unit, labour theatre and operation theatre. Oxygen back-up has been made available for ICU beds. In addition, the hospital has 10 small individual oxygen concentrators and two high flow nasal oxygen systems, the release stated. General Manager of Badagabettu Credit Cooperative Society, Udupi, Jayakar Shetty inaugurated the plant. Assistant Drug Controller K.V. Nagaraj, Udupi CMC councillor Amrita Krishnamurthy, president of Indian Medical Association, Karnataka Chapter, Suresh Kudva and Mission Hospital Director Sushil Jathanna were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-mission-hospital-gets-new-oxygen-plant/article37891946.ece
08 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Train timing revised||Vijayapura-Mangaluru Junction-Vijayapura Express Special timing have been revised. Train No 07377 will run till January 14, leaving Vijayapura at 6.15 p.m. Train No 07378 will leave Mangaluru Junction at 2.50 p.m., till January 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-timing-revised/article37891784.ece
08 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah claims ‘Congress wave’||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah said in Mandya on Tuesday that there is a direct fight between the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) in Mandya although the BJP is in the fray. The JD(S) had won the Council poll last time in Mandya and the Congress candidate Dinesh Gooli Gowda will romp home this time, he said, adding that 4,025 voters will be casting their ballot. Arguing that there is an anti-BJP wave in the State, Mr. Siddaramaiah said political polarisation has begun as the common people and elected representatives are fed up with the BJP-led Central government and the BJP government in the State because of “anti-people” governance. “The BJP governments have failed to fulfill promises made to the people. There is a Congress wave in the State.” he claimed, while addressing press persons in Mandya. Mr. Siddaramaiah, who campaigned for the party candidate, said only Congress believes in decentralisation of power while other parties did very little for taking power to the villages. “It is Congress that gave strength to panchayat raj institutions as it believed in Ram Manohar Lohia’s vision on decentralisation of power. The BJP government at the Centre did little on this issue,” he maintained. Lashing out at the NDA government, Mr Siddaramaiah asked, “What have the Modi Government and the BJP government in the State done for the empowerment of villages? It was former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh who introduced MGNREGA, making way for the flow of grants to GPs.” He accused the government of not releasing funds for making payment to those working under MGNREGA. These workers had faced a lot of problems when they had no work under the programme during the post-COVID-19 phase. Housing Claiming that his government had constructed 15 lakh houses in five years, the former CM said the BJP government, in the last one-and-a-half years, has not constructed a single house for the poor. ‘No relief yet to farmers’ He said farmers are in distress owing to floods last year and untimely rains this year. But no survey has been done and no relief has been released so far. “The relief announced during the tenure of B.S. Yediyurappa has not been released yet. The issue was raised in the House on two occasions and will once again be raised in the ensuing session. The people must understand that this government is anti-people and anti-farmer.” Attacks Bommai Mr. Siddaramaiah accused Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai of lying on the distribution of PDS rice. The Chief Minister had said that the Siddaramaiah government gave 7 kg rice a month only for one year which is a lie. “If the BJP claims that free rice distribution is the Centre’s programme, why is it not given to the poor in BJP-ruled States,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-claims-congress-wave/article37891967.ece
08 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CFTRI launches special nutrition programme||The CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI), Mysuru, has launched a nutrition intervention initiative aimed at improving the nutritional status of Severely Acute Malnourished (SAM) children in Mysuru district. The project has been launched in collaboration with the Department of Women and Child Development, Government of Karnataka, and Spirulina Foundation, Tumakuru. About 140 SAM children identified by the district administration will be given weekly packs of nutrition supplements such as spirulina chikki, high protein biscuits, high protein rusks, energy food along with sesame paste (burfi), fortified mango bar etc., for a period of six months. The children will be served with one of these supplements every day to enhance their macro and micronutrient status.  The programme was launched by distributing weekly packs of supplements to children by the chief guest, Yogeesh, CEO, Mysuru Zilla Panchayat, on the CFTRI premises on Monday. In his address, he said the programme is a right step in addressing malnutrition in the district. He also sought intervention in the case of Moderately Acute Malnourished (MAM) children whose numbers are around 5,000 in the district, in the days ahead. Sridevi A. Singh, Director, CSIR-CFTRI, outlined the implementation of a similar kind of nutritional intervention by the institute for 250 anganwadi children in Nanjangud taluk in 2016-17. Mahesh, Founder Director, Spirulina Foundation; K H Prasad, DHO, Mysuru; M S Jayanth, RCHO, Mysuru; Basavaraj, Deputy Director, Women and Child Development Department; and Alok Kumar Srivastava, Chief Scientist, CSIR-CFTRI, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cftri-launches-special-nutrition-programme/article37891963.ece
08 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘BJP does not need JD(S) support in Council polls’||Former Minister and BJP MP representing Chamarajanagar Lok Sabha constituency V. Srinivas Prasad on Tuesday said the BJP does not need the support of JD(S) in the ensuing elections to the Legislative Council. Fielding reporters’ queries during a press conference here, Mr Prasad said the BJP had proved its worth by becoming the only party other than Congress to come to power at the Centre on its own. The support of JD(S) is not inevitable. He referred to the alliance JD(S) had with the Congress during the Lok Sabha elections of 2019. “How many seats did you win? You could win only one seat each”, he remarked. When his attention was drawn to former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s request for JD(S) support in constituencies where the latter had not fielded its candidates, Mr. Prasad said the BJP high command will take a decision on the proposed understanding between the two parties. Also, Mr. Prasad said there was no need for former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy to repeatedly criticise the RSS. “I can understand him criticising the BJP, which is a political party. But, what is the need to criticise the RSS, which is a cultural organisation”, he said, asking Mr Kumaraswamy to stop trying to achieve political growth by making such statements. When his attention was drawn to the growing political proximity between former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and JD(S) MLA representing Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency G.T. Deve Gowda, Mr. Prasad said he finds the political development ‘comical’. For, it was Mr Siddaramaiah, who swore against Mr. Gowda before the last Assembly elections, but lost to him miserably. He said he finds it “funny” that the two leaders were now joining hands. He said Mr. Siddaramaiah had displayed “political weakness” by contesting from two constituencies as a Chief Minister. There was no need for him to abandon the constituencies from where he had been elected five to six times and enter the fray from Badami. Mr Prasad also referred to the statements by former Badami MLA and Congress leader B. Chimmankatti, who had asked Mr. Siddaramaiah to return to either Varuna or Chamundeshwari for the next elections. ‘Improved strength’ With regard to the party candidate Raghu Kautilya’s chances in Mysuru-Chamarajanagar Lok Sabha seat, Mr. Prasad said the Congress and JD (S) were traditional rivals in the region, but the BJP’s strength has improved since the last elections when the party nominee had lost narrowly. He expressed confidence that the party will win the election from the dual-member seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-does-not-need-jds-support-in-council-polls/article37891966.ece
08 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Students seek food supply in hostel||Students of Maharani’s Science College on Tuesday staged a demonstration at the Deputy Commissioner’s office seeking supply of food in hostels that is yet to resume despite physical classes commencing from October. Thy said water supply was also scarce, causing unhygienic conditions in the hostel and added that no action was taken on addressing the problems faced by them despite petitions to the college principal and the authorities concerned. The students are forced to get food from outside, causing financial burden to them. Some students hailing from places near Mysuru get food from their homes twice or thrice a week unable to bear the cost, they said. They urged the Deputy Commissioner to intervene and get their problems addressed on priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-seek-food-supply-in-hostel/article37891965.ece
08 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||At Rs. 770 per kg, cocoon price reaches historic high||Sericulture farmers, who were in distress due to the sharp fall in prices of cocoon during the lockdown last year, now have reason to cheer. The government cocoon market in Ramanagaram, one of the largest in the State, is witnessing prices regularly breaching the Rs. 700 per kg-mark since the last two weeks and reaching a historic high Rs. 770 per kg for the bivoltine variety earlier this week. An official of the Sericulture Department told The Hindu that the prices of both varieties of cocoons – the cross breed and bivoltine – had begun increasing in the last two to three weeks. While the cross breed variety was fetching between Rs. 410 to Rs. 600 per kg, the bivoltine variety got between Rs. 550 to Rs. 770 per kg. The highest-ever price of Rs. 770 was realised on Monday, according to an official at the government cocoon market in Ramanagaram. Bivoltine cocoon Assistant Director of Sericulture Department Venkatesh said the highest price on Tuesday was Rs. 761 for a kg of bivoltine cocoons. He attributed the high price to growing demand for raw silk, whose price had reached Rs. 5,200 per kg. “Besides, the quality of cocoons we receive in the market is good,” he said. The market is receiving around 25 to 30 tonnes of cocoon every day, which is normal during the season, he added. President of Sericulture Farmers Welfare Association of Ramanagaram Gautham Gowda said cocoon prices had never reached Rs. 750 per kg earlier. However, he said the output of cocoons had come down due to unprecedented rains in the last couple of weeks destroying mulberry plantation. Good quality Meanwhile, former Deputy Director of Sericulture, Government of Karnataka, N.Y. Chigari, said the quality of cocoons is generally good during the winter months of November, December, and January. The quality of bivoltine cocoons is particularly good in this climate because their parental race is from the temperate countries of China and Japan. The reelers including the automatic reeling machine owners, who require good quality cocoons in bulk, may be buying and stocking up the good quality cocoons whenever available. Mr. Chigari said the production of cocoons also dips during the winter season when mulberry trees are hit by powdery mildew disease and the silkworm cocoons are affected by a fungal disease called muscardine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/at-rs-770-per-kg-cocoon-price-reaches-historic-high/article37891590.ece
08 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Auto drivers in Mysuru demand hike in fares||Several autorickshaw drivers held a demonstration in front of Deputy Commissioner’s office in Mysuru on Tuesday demanding a hike in fares. The demand comes close on the heels of implementation of revised fares in Bengaluru recently. Against the minimum of Rs. 25 and Rs. 13 for every additional kilometre, the autorickshaw drivers in Mysuru have urged the authorities to increase the minimum fare to Rs. 30 and fix Rs. 15 for every additional kilometre of travel. They said fares were last revised several years ago and they were finding it difficult to make ends meet not only in view of the rising prices of essential commodities, but also on account of the spiralling cost of gas, which they use as fuel for their vehicles. They also submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham seeking immediately steps to revise the fares. Meanwhile, Chamaraja MLA L. Nagendra, who visited the spot of demonstration, spoke to the Transport Department officials over the phone and asked the officials to convene a meeting of the Mysuru District Road Transport Authority under the chairmanship of Deputy Commissioner after the poll code of conduct concludes and take a suitable decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auto-drivers-in-mysuru-demand-hike-in-fares/article37891960.ece
08 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||DCC banks warned against issuing notices to families of COVID-19 victims||Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar on Tuesday warned District Central Cooperative (DCC) banks in the State against issuing notices to families of debtors, who had died of COVID-19. Making it clear that the government had decided to waive the loans outstanding in DCC banks of COVID victims, he said the government will take action against officials of the DCC banks if they were found to be issuing notices to families of such persons. When his attention was drawn to a reported incident in Davangere, Mr. Somashekar said he had spoken to the officials of the DCC bank in Davangere and they had denied issuing notices for recovery. “However, I will check the matter after returning to Bengaluru. If they are found to have issued such a notice, action will be taken”, Mr. Somashekar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dcc-banks-warned-against-issuing-notices-to-families-of-covid-19-victims/article37891961.ece
08 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘No change in stand on defectors’ re-entry’||Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Tuesday reiterated that the doors of Congress are permanently shut to those who defected to the BJP. “I have said this on the floor of the House and my stand will not change,” he clarified. Speaking to reporters in Mandya, Mr. Siddaramaiah, who campaigned for the party candidate contesting the Legislative Council polls, said some leaders of other parties have expressed their wish to join the Congress. “I cannot say who they are. It will be known in the days ahead.” “I have no hatred against leaders such as H.D. Deve Gowda, H.D. Kumaraswamy, B.S. Yediyurappa or Basavaraj Bommai. I oppose them as I have political and ideological differences. I am also against bringing caste into politics as I believe in secular principles,” the former Chief Minister said. Replying to questions on dynastic politics, Mr. Siddaramaiah said, “I am not saying it’s not there. But, the JD(S) is seen as the party of one family. My son is also an MLA. If people wanted, others could have been made the legislator. It’s wrong to impose a candidate belonging to a family against the people’s wish.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-change-in-stand-on-defectors-re-entry/article37891968.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Awareness through art||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/awareness-through-art/article37891949.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In devotion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-devotion/article37891783.ece
08 December 2021||Hyderabad,KERALA||Fighter wing prototype built in Hyderabad||Lockheed Martin on Tuesday formally recognised Tata-Lockheed Martin Aerostructures Limited (TLMAL) as a potential future co-producer of fighter wings. Telangana Minister for IT and Industries K.T. Rama Rao and senior officials of Lockheed Martin Aeronautics, TLMAL leadership and others attended a ceremonial event marking the first fighter wing prototype built at the TLMAL facility here, a press release from the Tatas said. “Lockheed Martin partnered with TLMAL to build one of the most technologically complex aerostructures — a fuel-carrying 9G, 12,000 hour, interchangeable/replaceable fighter wing,” Aimee Burnett, vice-president of strategy and business development, Lockheed Martin Integrated Fighter Group, said. Lockheed Martin is one of the only aerospace and defence companies with a complex aerostructure capability for advanced fighters in India, he said. Make in India goals A joint venture between the Tata Advanced Systems Limited and the Lockheed Martin Aeronautics, the TLMAL exemplifies the Centre’s Aatmanirbhar Bharat “Make in India” goals and serves as the single global source of C-130J empennage assemblies that are installed on all new Super Hercules aircraft. The TLMAL recently reached the milestone of manufacturing and delivering the 150th C-130J empennage.“The successful completion of the fighter wing shipset prototype project is another achievement added to the partnership,” Sukaran Singh, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, TASL, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fighter-wing-prototype-built-in-hyderabad/article37891491.ece
08 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki reservoir sets December record in storage||As the northeast monsoon is slowly withdrawing from Kerala, the Idukki reservoir, one of the largest in Asia, has record storage for the month of December. The water level reached 2,401.58 ft on Tuesday. As per official data, the highest water level in December earlier was in 1981 and 1992. On December 1, 1981 the water level was 2,401.37 ft and in 1992, 2,401.23 ft. However, during these two years, the water level was receding after reaching the highest level in November. On Nov. 13, 1981 The Idukki reservoir recorded the highest water level on November 13, 1981 at 2,403.12 ft and on November 17, 1992 at 2,402.88 ft. (The full reserve level is 2,403 ft). The storage was 98.29% in the reservoir on Tuesday. “If the heavy rain spell was continuous, the water level might have increased suddenly and water would have been released to keep the upper rule level set by the Central Water Commission (CWC) in accordance with the progress of the monsoon. Had there been heavy rainfall for a short period as happened in August 2018, water would have been drained out as the upper rule curve was below the present level of the FRL,” says M.P. Saju, Assistant Engineer, Dam Safety, Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). This year, the rainfall was in a phased manner and the rise in water level in Idukki occurred over an extended period. The CWC has fixed the rule curve to avoid chances of sudden opening of the dam resulting in a flood situation. The power generation at Moolamattom was also at the maximum during a monsoon season. The long spell of both southwest and northeast monsoons also helped in keeping the storage level high during the end of the monsoon period. The water year starts on June 1 as per the KSEB calendar and the water level usually peaks in October or early November and will start to decline by December. The intermittent water release from the Mullaperiyar dam also contributed to the high storage level as it was not a discharge of water at once. Withdrawal period Mr. Saju says high rainfall during the withdrawal period of the northeast monsoon has also resulted in the high storage level in December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-sets-december-record-in-storage/article37891901.ece
08 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Books on Wheels chugs towards Wayanad||The Wayanad District Library Council, in association with the Self-Improvement Hub, an online collective, is planning to set up 100 libraries in the tribal hamlets of Wayanad. The Books on Wheels project aims to inculcate reading habit in tribespeople, especially tribal children, says P.K. Sudheer, secretary, Wayanad District Library Council. The council will provide infrastructure and the online collective as many as 1,00,000 books for the project, he says. “A few years ago we had organised a programme, Clothes on Wheels, to provide free dress material to the needy in remote hamlets of Wayanad as a part of our social responsibility project. The project was a success and we could supply dress material to 3,500 people,” says Anto Michael, director, Self-Improvement Hub. A few members of the hamlets recently informed us of the dearth of library facilities in their hamlets, says Mr. Michael. “When we contacted the office-bearers of the library council, they agreed to provide the infrastructure if we can provide books for the purpose. Hence, we decided on the Books on Wheels project to cater to the needs of the tribal people,” says Mr. Michael. As per needs “In the first phase, we will provide 1,000 books each to 25 newly set up libraries in the hamlets. We will provide books as per needs as and when the council opens more libraries,” says Mr. Michael. V.T. Omanana, 82, a neo-literate, flagged off the programme at Neyyanttinkara in the capital on Monday night. The journey commenced at 3 a.m. on Tuesday with more than 25,000 books. The Books on Wheels vehicle will reach the district on Wednesday collecting books from well-wishers and members en route. The council will accord a reception to the vehicle at Kurisinkal, near Mananthavady, on Wednesday. T.B. Suresh, president of the Wayanad Library Council, will receive the books from Mr. Michael. K. Kuruman, chieftain of the Kurisinkal tribal hamlet, will inaugurate the first library under the project. The collective has decided to adopt the hamlet for the development of the members, says Mr. Michael.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/books-on-wheels-chugs-towards-wayanad/article37891918.ece
08 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||CPI(M)-CPI war of words heats up in Kannur||An internecine rift between the CPI(M) and the CPI over the latter’s decision to give membership to rebel leaders expelled by the former has emerged in Kannur. Several CPI(M) activists at Taliparamba have left the party and joined the CPI, leading to a war of words between leaders of the partners in the ruling Left Democratic Front. The differences emerged after Kommath Muraleedharan, a former area committee member and former municipal council Opposition leader who was expelled from the party, joined the CPI along with 18 members and 57 workers. Mr. Muraleedharan levelled an array of allegations against the CPI(M) leadership and joined the CPI stating that it was not possible to continue with the CPI(M) any more. Following this, CPI(M) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan openly targeted the CPI during a meeting held at Taliparamba recently. ‘Backstabbing’ Criticising the CPI, Mr. Jayarajan said the party has become a den for people expelled for their wrongs. Though they have been maintaining that they are not against the CPI(M), they have been backstabbing. Mr. Jayarajan said he felt sorry for the CPI which is taking people ousted from the CPI(M) for committing financial frauds and working against the interest of the party. Kanam’s response However, this did not go well with the CPI and the party State secretary Kanam Rajendran responded with a reminder that the CPI(M) was formed by those who had left the CPI in 1964. Mr. Rajendran said that there was nothing odd in expelled CPI(M) members joining his party. “The CPI(M) should not forget that 33 National Council members left the CPI to form the CPI(M). Members from both the parties have joined one another and that is quite usual,” he said. Kannur CPI district secretary P. Santhosh said that the CPI would continue to accept people from other parties who wish to join them. Those joining the CPI(M) are considered holy, while those deciding to join other parties are mentioned as culprits. The CPI does not take the statements made by Mr. Jayarajan seriously, said Mr. Santhosh.  M.V. Jayarajan, CPI(M) Kannur secretary, openly targets CPI during a meeting at Taliparamba||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-cpi-war-of-words-heats-up-in-kannur/article37891914.ece
08 December 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||One held on graft charge||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau on Tuesday arrested P.T Ajit, an agriculture officer working at Chengala in Kasaragod, on charge of taking bribe. The Vigilance team arrested the officer while he was allegedly taking bribe to release the honorarium given every month to select farmers. The action was based on a complaint lodged by farmer M. Govindanath of Chengala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-on-graft-charge/article37891850.ece
08 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Handloom Village project gets a fresh lease of life||The Chendamangalam Handloom Village project, linked to promotion of handloom products through a series of steps that include product diversification, diversified designs, research, dyeing facilities, improved marketing and tourism promotion and creation of awareness about traditional skills, has received a new lease of life with a meeting led by the Industries department on Tuesday deciding to go ahead with acquiring sufficient land for a road to the site of the proposed Handloom Village. A.P.M. Mohammed Hanish, Secretary, Department of Industries, said the meeting concluded on a positive note and the project would now move ahead fast. The project’s revival has seen a special interest taken by Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, he added pointing out that the decision on acquiring land for the road would be a major step towards realising the project. Chendamangalam panchayat president Divya Unnikrishnan said the local body would be instrumental in facilitating the acquisition of land for about a 3.6-metre wide road and including the land thus acquired in the assets of the panchayat before the road is built. T.S. Baby, president of the yarn bank and a member of the State Handloom Council, said the new project would be a big help in reviving the handloom sector in the State as a whole. The handloom sector has been under serious trouble following the epic floods of 2018 in the State and subsequent crises created by the pandemic over the past two years, Mr. Baby added. Central aid  The Chendamangalam Handloom Village will get substantial assistance from the Union government. Around 1.5 acres have been acquired in Kizhakkumpuram in Chendamangalam for the project. Exhibitions, regular visits by tourists, including schoolchildren, and popularisation of weavers’ skills are among the possibilities, Mr. Baby added. The boost to the handloom village project comes at a time when there is significant shortage of raw materials like yarn and dyes and a sharp fall in sales.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/handloom-village-project-gets-a-fresh-lease-of-life/article37891865.ece
08 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||All eyes on Gandhi Nagar as bypoll result to be declared today||The Gandhi Nagar Division will have a new civic representative by 10 a.m. on Wednesday. The results of the bypoll, which was held on Tuesday, will be out during the morning hours of Wednesday. It was estimated that 68.34% of the voters in the division exercised their franchise on the polling day. During the last polling, 52% of the voters had cast their votes. In the Edapallichira division of the Piravam municipality, 85.62% of voters exercised their franchise. It was the death of CPI(M) councillor K.K. Sivan that warranted the bypoll in the division. Though the outcome of the poll would not have a direct bearing on the balance of power in the Kochi Corporation, a win would help the ruling LDF assert itself in the 74-member council. A win would also help the LDF and the CPI(M) shrug off the political setback following the shifting of the loyalty of one of its councillor M.H.M. Ashraf to the UDF. The LDF had fielded Bindu Sivan, the wife of Sivan, to retain the seat. Peeved at the CPI(M) leadership for its reluctance to consider him for the post of chairman of the Town Planning Standing Committee, Mr. Ashraf had moved over to the UDF and won the election to the post of the chairman of the Comittee with the support of the UDF councillors. At the same time, a win in the Gandhi Nagar division, which has long been treated as a stronghold of the CPI(M), will provide enough ammunition for the UDF in its battle to come back to the power. Though the UDF had put up an impressive performance in the last civic polls in the district, it had lost the Kochi Corporation by a slender margin. A win will also mark the return of P.D. Martin, the general secretary of the District Congress Committee, to electoral politics, which suffered a set back during the last election when he suffered a defeat at the hands of Sivan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-eyes-on-gandhi-nagar-as-bypoll-result-to-be-declared-today/article37891874.ece
08 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||After facing flak, police step up probe into death of mother, son||The police will investigate the call detail records of the 44-year-old person who was arrested in connection with the death of a mother and her son in mysterious circumstances at Nayarambalam on Sunday. Dileep, a resident of Punchepadi, Nayaramabalam, was held under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) under the Indian Penal Code. Athul, 17, and his mother Sindhu, 42, had sustained serious burn injuries and were admitted in a private hospital here on Sunday night. Both had succumbed to the burn injuries following a fire at their home under mysterious circumstances. The police said that the verification of the call records of the accused will help in getting a clear picture about his role in the incident. The investigating officials will take a call on whether other charges had to be imposed on him based on the interrogation and further probe, they said. Sindhu, who was working in a private hospital here, had reportedly named Dileep as the person responsible for her condition while she was being taken to the hospital. She was found injured along with her son in the room that had caught fire around 6 a.m on Sunday. Relatives and family friends rushed them to the hospital after seeing smoke coming out of their room. The family members of Sindhu had blamed the police for not taking timely action on the complaint filed by her against the accused. She had complained that Dileep had been harassing and stalking her for long. Her husband had died 15 years ago. The District Congress Committee had alleged laxity on the part of the local police in the probe into the death of the mother and her son. They had stated that the police failed to take timely action against the accused despite receiving the complaint lodged by Sindhu as informed by the family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/after-facing-flak-police-step-up-probe-into-death-of-mother-son/article37891878.ece
08 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Edappally railway underpass to be opened on Dec. 11||The railway underpass at Edappally will be opened by Hibi Eden, MP, at 4 p.m. on December 11. The closure of the railway gate when the overbridge was opened for traffic in 2012 practically created a geographic division in the neighbourhood, causing people to travel long distances to reach nearby places. This gave rise to the demand for an underpass and in 2017-18, legislators Hibi Eden and P.T. Thomas granted Rs. 1.18 crore and Rs. 1.25 crore from development fund for the same. K.V. Thomas, who was MP, then, offered Rs. 1 crore. The underpass has a height of 2.5 metres and width of 4 metres. T.J. Vinod, MLA, will preside over the inaugural event in which Mayor M. Anilkumar will take part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/edappally-railway-underpass-to-be-opened-on-dec-11/article37891870.ece
08 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||The art of going with the flow||Filmmaker Sudevan Peringode watched water keenly and continuously for three years. Chronicling every ripple, drop and swell on camera, Sudevan now has a collection of over 3,000 images and 200 videos. Sixteen of the photographs are now on show at ‘Lokame Tharavadu’, a contemporary art exhibition on at Alappuzha. The series of images are for Sudevan an exploration of his own relationship with water. He took to photographing it after the 2018 Kerala flood. While the deluge ravaged the State, it also brought ‘water’ to the forefront of public imagination. “It prompted me to look at water more closely. It revoked memories of a time when water was an integral part of existence,” says Sudevan. “Our lives were governed by the lack or abundance of it. During summers, we had to collect water from neighbouring wells when our own dried up and during the rains, our roof leaked.” Gradually, as the groundwater levels in his village improved, the wells continued to have water through the year and his house got a concrete roof insulating them from the monsoon’s fury. Water ceased to become a matter of concern. “I began to take it for granted, I stopped paying attention,” he says. In the series, Sudevan follows water through its many courses, over various surfaces and in stagnation. He photographed three ponds, a well, a stream and a field near his home in Peringode, documenting the natural seasonal changes these waterbodies underwent. “During summers, the density of the water in the pond changes and it taken on the colour of the vegetation around it,” Sudevan says. Fascinated by the play of light and movement, he photographed water through the day. “It greatly changes in colour and character. Soon after sun rise, it is a shade of yellow, but towards midday, it changes to green or blue depending on the mood of the sky. By nightfall, it takes on an inky opacity.” The filmmaker, whose film CR No:89 won the 2014 Kerala State Award for Best Film, says he took a conscious break after his 2017 film Akatho Puratho. “I discovered the meditative quality of photographing water. It helped me enjoy the passage of each moment,” he says. Sudevan has used natural lighting and an ordinary lens to capture the images. He plans to showcase the works online after the show at Lokame Tharavadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-art-of-going-with-the-flow/article37891876.ece
08 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||State without Chief Wildlife Warden||An unprecedented legal crisis has gripped the Kerala Forest Department with the statutory post of the Chief Wildlife Warden (CWW) lying vacant for close to one month. The post has been vacant since November 11 following the suspension of the incumbent Bennichan Thomas for permitting the cutting of trees near the baby dam of Mullaperiyar Dam. Though a senior officer of the department can act as a link officer to another one in his absence, no one can stand in for the CWW unless notified by the government as the post is a statutory one defined in Section 4 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, point out forest officials. Range of powers The Act confers a wide range of powers on the CWW, including the protection, conservation and management of wildlife and wildlife sanctuaries. Only the CWW can order hunting, capturing, tranquillisation or translocation of wild animals. The permit for hunting of animals and protected species of plants for education, scientific research, collection of specimen, derivation, collection and preparation of snake venom for manufacturing life-saving drugs and cultivation of specified plants can be issued only by the official.  Acting as link Though P.K. Kesavan, Head of Forest Force, has been acting as a link officer for the CWW since the suspension of Mr. Thomas, the former has been confining himself to managing the day-to-day affairs of the office of the CWW. The State government is yet to make its mind regarding the appointment of the CWW though Mr. Kesavan had reportedly highlighted the statutory requirement to fill the slot. The file is pending with the office of the Chief Minister, say sources in the Forest Ministry. The State government may have to choose the CWW from among the pool of four Principal Chief Conservators of Forests, Ganga Singh, Prakrithi Srivasthava, D. Jayaprasad, and Noyal Thomas, after excluding Mr. Thomas. Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran was not available for comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-without-chief-wildlife-warden/article37891858.ece
08 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Substantial rise in students attending offline classes||About 90% of the students in schools under the Department of General Education in Ernakulam have started attending offline classes in batches, as per the latest official estimates. There has been a substantial increase in the number of students reaching schools compared to the attendance recorded in the first week after the schools reopened on November 1. Only one-third of the total number of students had joined offline sessions in the initial weeks. “Almost 90% of the students in schools under the department are participating in offline classes. They are coming in batches as decided from the start of the physical mode of learning from November 1 onwards,” said Honey G. Alexander, Deputy Director of Education, Ernakulam. About three lakh students are attending offline classes in the district in batches, according to the estimates by the General Education Department. About 100 students were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 after the schools reopened. The corresponding number of teachers was around 50. No clusters have been reported from any school as on Tuesday. The authorities pointed out that the strict implementation of the bio-bubble model had helped in checking the spread of the corona virus in clusters. Bio-bubbles help in ensuring physical distancing. Each bio-bubble consists of six to 10 students. One class may have two to three bio-bubbles. Only the students in a bio-bubble are permitted to interact with each other. On no account should the students in a bio-bubble interact with others in another bubble. The Health Department had suggested that the entire bio-bubble may go into quarantine after either a student or a teacher in the bubble test positive for SARS-CoV-2. The school managements concerned have to record it and inform Health officials as part of the standard operating protocol prescribed by the government. Teachers and students are permitted to join the bio-bubble only after they are tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 and complete the mandatory quarantine period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/substantial-rise-in-students-attending-offline-classes/article37891881.ece
08 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC admits NSS plea against survey||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday admitted a writ petition by the Nair Service Society (NSS) challenging the State government’s sanction for conducting a random sample survey to ascertain backwardness among forward communities. Justice N. Naragesh issued notice to the State government and the Kerala State Commission for Economically Backward Classes Among Forward Communities. In the petition, NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair said the government had given administrative sanction for conducting the sample survey as recommended by the present commission. As per the recommendations, enumerators shall collect details through a mobile application from five economically backward families from each ward. Scope for detriment He said the NSS opposed the sample survey as it would bring out only a truncated and sketchy picture of economically weaker sections of forward communities. Besides, there was a greater chance of the government acting on such truncated data to the detriment of forward communities in future. Mr. Sukumaran Nair pointed out that the earlier commission, headed by A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai, had recommended a socio-economic-community survey of alle communities in the State and to take population census of all the communities. The recommendation of the present commission was contrary to the recommendations of its predecessor. Databank In fact, if the socio-economic-community survey and population census were conducted, it would provide a databank for implementation of reservation and other welfare measures to bring the marginalised and the downtrodden to the mainstream. The attempt of the present commission was to sabotage the recommendation of the erstwhile one. The government was yet to take a call on the recommendations of the Ramakrishna Pillai commission, the petitioner pointed out. When the petition came up for hearing, the judge asked the government to inform the court about its stand on the recommendations of the Ramakrishna Pillai commission. The petition also sought a directive to conduct a socio-economic-community survey of the entire population of the State and to take a census of all communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-admits-nss-plea-against-survey/article37891913.ece
08 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Boat owners seek govt. help in licence renewal issue||The Fisheries department, which notified life span for fishing vessels of various makes about six months ago, has come under criticism from boat owners for the department move on renewing licences for 12-year-old wooden vessels, 15-year-old steel boats and 18 year-old fibre boats. While the All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators’ Association, representing the non-traditional sector, in a submission before the State government alleged the norms were being stringently implemented in Ernakulam alone, Fisheries department sources said the norms were applicable to fishing vessels across Kerala. They said the norms were brought out to ensure the safety of fishers, who always faced constant threat to their lives because of weather and sea conditions. Joseph Xavier Kalapurackal of the Boat Operators’ Association alleged that the norms were being implemented only in Ernakulam and that the new norms had made marine fishing ventures almost impossible, plunging thousands of boat owners, most of them comprising ordinary fishers, into a struggle to earn a livelihood. He also alleged that the Fisheries department did not have sufficient personnel to provide fitness certificates for sea-going vessels and also claimed that traditional fishing boats were being spared from the purview of fitness checks. Allegations denied The Fisheries department sources said the representation by boat owners was being considered with due seriousness but denied allegations of attempts to disrupt fishing operations or bias against any group of fishing operators. Mr. Kalappurackal said it would be best to test the sea-worthiness of fishing vessels by competent personnel, who could be drawn from the Ports Department. This is is the easiest way to solve the problem, he added. He said most of the fishing boats under the department inspection were owned by groups of five to six ordinary fishers, who formed a group to earn a living out of their fishing ventures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boat-owners-seek-govt-help-in-licence-renewal-issue/article37891864.ece
08 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Moderation for Class 12 term-1 exams sought||The National Council of CBSE Schools has requested the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to consider awarding moderation for the Class 12 English and Mathematics Term-1 board examinations held on December 2 and 6 respectively as the papers were from out of syllabus and really tough for the students. In a letter sent to Manoj Ahuja, chairman of the CBSE, the council stated that majority of the questions were from out of the textbook. The pattern was not familiar to the children. It was difficult for the average and below average children, they said. Indira Rajan, secretary-general of the council, pointed out that the English paper had ambiguous questions, especially in the written section. There were same and similar questions, with completely different set of options, she said. The letter said that these kind of question papers will add to the misery of the parents and they would prefer State boards in future. Retaining the students in grade 11 and 12 has always been a challenge as parents feel that the students will not be able to get the desired marks to even qualify for higher education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/moderation-for-class-12-term-1-exams-sought/article37891879.ece
08 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Police to collect hair, nail samples of accused||The Ernakulam District Crime Branch has plans to collect the hair and nail samples of Syju Thankachan, who was arrested in connection with the death of two models and a youth near Palarivattom on November 1. The samples will be examined at the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory here to ascertain whether the accused had consumed drugs in the past six months. Syju was charged for drug peddling by the investigating team. The police will approach the court seeking permission to collect his hair and nail samples from the jail based on their inference that the accused is a drug addict and an active member of rave parties held in the city. The digital evidence recovered from his mobile phone had revealed the details of rave parties in various hotels, apartments and resorts in Kochi since last year. The investigating team questioned Roy J. Vayalat, owner of Hotel No 18 in Fort Kochi, for the third time on Tuesday. The victims had reportedly partied late into the night at the hotel just before speeding to their deaths. He was taken to the hotel as part of the investigation. The police said that Roy will be arraigned as an accused in the case registered at Fort Kochi police station against Syju for organising rave parties at the hotel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crime-branch-to-collect-hair-nail-samples-of-syju/article37891882.ece
08 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Antiques’ at Monson’s house to be re-examined||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will constitute a special team to re-examine a few suspected antiques found at the rented house of the alleged conman and self-style antique dealer Monson Mavunkal at Kaloor here. It will be set up by the ASI’s Zonal Director, Chennai. Sleuths of the State Crime Branch, who are probing the cheating case registered against Monson, said that the ASI and the State Archaeology Department had examined the fake antiques at the house after he was taken into custody. Even though most of the items were fake, the team had stumbled upon a few antiques, which needed detailed examination. The Crime Branch is likely to file the charge sheet against the accused after receiving the report from the ASI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/antiques-to-be-re-examined/article37891854.ece
08 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Move to open Sabarimala trekking path, says govt.||The State government has informed the Kerala High Court that the opening of the traditional trekking path to Sabarimala for pilgrims was under its active consideration. The submission was made by the State government when a report by the Sabarimala Special Commissioner regarding the arrangement made for medical facilities at Sabarimala came up for hearing before a Division Bench of Justice Anil K. Narendran and Justice P.G. Ajithkumar on Tuesday. The State government further submitted that an appropriate decision shall be taken at the joint meeting of Devaswom board officials and those from other departments. Traditional path Counsel for the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) also told the high court that the board had already requested the State government to open the traditional trekking path for pilgrims. The senior government pleader informed the high court that steps had already been taken to post sufficient number of doctors and other medical personnel and that an official statement to that effect shall be placed on record within two days. Meanwhile, the Bench initiated a suo motu case on a report regarding effective management of funds allotted to the Mathapatasala in the budget of the Travancore Devaswom Board on the basis of a report of the Devaswom Ombudsman. Complaint The Ombudsman had submitted the report after looking into a complaint by Mathra Sundareshan about the underutilisation of the fund earmarked for religious study centres. The complainant had alleged that a major chunk of the annual allocation in the budget would soon lapse due to official apathy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/move-to-open-sabarimala-trekking-path-says-govt/article37891884.ece
08 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Church row: HC asks govt. to clarify on legislation||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the Chief Secretary to file an affidavit explaining whether the State government is proposing to enact any legislation on the management and administration of the disputed Malankara churches as recommended by the State Law Reforms Commission. The Bench passed the order on an appeal filed by the State government against a single judge’s directive to the CRPF, Group Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, to take over the Kothamangalam Marthoman church if the Ernakulam District Collector did not implement the court’s order. When the appeal came up for hearing, the Bench observed that it wanted to see that a concrete decision of the government was placed before it. The court noted that the issue pertains to law and order and the rights asserted by the writ petitioners based on the judgment of the Supreme Court on the church dispute. The court posted the appeal to December 21 for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/church-row-hc-asks-govt-to-clarify-on-legislation/article37891857.ece
08 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||BPCL Kochi Refinery gets new head||Ajith Kumar K. has taken over as the head of BPCL Kochi Refinery. He is a mechanical engineer from College of Engineering, Thrissur, and an an MBA holder from Indira Gandhi National Open University. He began his career at the erstwhile Cochin Refineries in 1989, said a communication here. He has worked in inspection, safety, projects and maintenance departments of the refinery. He also had a brief stint at the Bharat Oman Refineries in Bina, Madhya Pradesh, and at the Kuwait National Petroleum Corporation, Kuwait. Projects Prior to taking over the present position as Chief General Manager in charge of Kochi Refinery, he was holding the post of chief general manager (Projects) of the refinery. He was responsible for implementation of the Integrated Refinery Expansion Project (IREP) and Motor Spirit Block Project (MSBP) of the refinery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bpcl-kochi-refinery-gets-new-head/article37891867.ece
08 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Supplyco mobile store||As a part of market intervention and price regulation of essential commodities, the Civil Supply Corporation’s mobile Maveli store will tour various parts of Kanayannur taluk on December, 8 and 9. It would be flagged off by Mayor M. Anilkumar on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supplyco-mobile-store/article37891868.ece
08 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Garment, textile dealers seek GST rollback||The Kerala Garments and Textile Dealers Welfare Association (KTGA) State council, which met here, demanded immediate rollback of the GST increase on ordinary textiles and all garments priced below Rs. 1,000. GST rate on fabrics has been increased to 12% from the present 5% with effect from January, 2022. Family budget The meeting said, according to a press release, that this would lead to collapse of small and medium businesses and would also have an impact on the family budget of the common man. The meeting pointed out that in addition to the sharp rise in prices, the increase would also lead to bureaucratic corruption. “As the garment sector goes through more than 20 value-added stages, the final tax of 12% is tantamount to robbing people,” it said. Concessions The meeting sought all concessions given to industries to be extended to the business sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/garment-textile-dealers-seek-gst-rollback/article37891877.ece
08 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC admits petition of Olympian||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday issued a notice to the State government on a petition filed by Olympian Mayookha Johny seeking to quash the First Information Report (FIR) lodged against her for allegedly raising false rape allegations against C.C. Johnson, former trustee of the Emperor Emmanuel church. Justice K. Haripal issued the order. Mayookha said the case was registered to pressure her into withdrawing her support to a friend who was allegedly raped by Mr. Johnson. He had also taken nude photos of the survivor and used them to blackmail her, she said. The police registered the case based on a complaint by Sabu Sebastian alleging that she and others hatched a conspiracy and fabricated documents to file a false rape case against Mr. Johnson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-admits-petition-of-olympian/article37891912.ece
08 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC(M) MPs’ protest in Parliament||In protest against the abrupt opening of the Mullaperiyar dam in Idukki, Members of Parliament of the Kerala Congress (M) staged a sit-in at the entrance of Parliament House in New Delhi on Tuesday. KC(M) chairman and Rajya Sabha member Jose K. Mani sought urgent intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the issue. Despite it becoming a matter concerning the human rights of people in Kerala, the Centre has chosen to remain a mute spectator, he said. Earlier in the day, KC(M) member of the Lok Sabha Thomas Chazhikadan moved a submission urging the Prime Minister to direct Tamil Nadu to issue prior warnings before the opening of the spillway gates and to convene a meeting of the supervisory committee. Political parties have said that people downstream of the Mullaperiyar wake up regularly to midnight flooding and sudden inundation of homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcm-mps-protest-in-parliament/article37891903.ece
08 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Bypolls in three wards held||Voters turned out in huge numbers during the byelections held in two wards of the Kanakkary and Manjur grama panchayats in Kottayam on Tuesday. As per official estimates, the Manjur Central ward in Manjur recorded a voter turnout of 73.79% with 1,222 out of 1,656 voters exercising the franchise. The Kalarippadi ward in Kanakkari recorded a polling percentage of 72.85% with 966 out of 1,326 voters casting their votes. The counting of votes will take place at 10 a.m. on Wednesday at the respective grama panchayat hall, sources said. Alappuzha The byelection in the Aroor division of the Alappuzha district panchayat registered a moderate voter turnout on Tuesday. As much as 60.88% of the 67,070 voters exercised their franchise when polling closed at 6 p.m. The polling was peaceful and largely incident-free. The counting of votes will be held at TD Higher Secondary School, Thuravoor, on Wednesday. The fate of four candidates - Anandu Rameshan (CPI(M)/LDF), K. Umeshan (Congress/UDF), K.M. Manilal (BDJS/NDA), and Krishnakumar (Independent) have been sealed in electronic voting machines. ( With contribution from bureau in Alappuzha )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bypolls-in-three-wards-held/article37891905.ece
08 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Prevent dismantling of Indian secular democracy: Chomsky||Voicing his concern over a perceived rise in efforts to dismantle the Indian secular democracy and establish a Hindu ethnocracy, eminent thinker Noam Chomsky has called for efforts to prevent it. “India had been a flourishing democracy and a model to the world in many ways. To see that destroyed is a real human tragedy and every effort should be made to prevent it,” he said. He was interacting with the audience after delivering online the CA Sheppard Memorial Lecture, organised by the Department of English, St.Berchmans College, Changanassery, on Monday. To a query on the attempt to use Hindi to establish a hegemonic system while degrading all non-Hindi languages, Prof. Chomsky said the rich variety of languages in India should indeed be regarded as a “cultural treasure, something to be respected, admired and used to enrich society”. “From a scientific point of view, it’s nonsense, from a human point of view, it’s deplorable,” he quipped. “If we were all like, life would be impossible. The richness, variety, excitement of life comes from the differences among us. From a biological point of view, the differences are extremely slight, humans are virtually identical. From a human point of view, these differences among us are what make life worth living. We should make them develop and flourish in any way we can,” noted Prof. Chomsky. Elaborating on how the twin properties of language and thought distinguished humans from other species, Prof. Chomsky noted that these characteristics were in a relationship of identity and therefore language generated thoughts and thoughts anchored in language. “This rich and inventive capacity of the humans should help us avert the environmental catastrophe that’s waiting for South Asia immediately and other parts of the world later,” he said. “As happened in Glasgow meeting hall, where political leaders met with no decisions taken but decided to meet again next year when the world is burning. But outside, tens of thousands of people demonstrated calling for a commitment to avert the catastrophe for the sake of their children. This action, which is the result of language and thought, is necessary for the survival of the human species and also of other species we destroy in our blindness,” he added. Fr. Reji P. Kurien, Principal, delivered the welcome speech while P.J. Thomas, head, Department of English, presided over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prevent-dismantling-of-indian-secular-democracy-chomsky/article37891899.ece
08 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Waqf row brings Samastha closer to LDF?||The row over the move to entrust Waqf Board appointments to the Public Service Commission (PSC) seems to have drawn the Indian Union Muslim League-backed Samastha Kerala Jamiyathul Ulema closer to the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government with leaders of the Sunni faction directly holding talks with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on the issue on Tuesday. Much to the IUML’s embarrassment, Samastha general secretary K. Alikutty Musliyar and others held discussions with Mr. Vijayan and he assured them that the status quo would be maintained till a final decision was taken. IUML U-turn IUML leaders claimed that the talks remained inconclusive and demanded withdrawal of the decision. Meanwhile, the Muslim Coordination Committee, which includes the IUML, took out a rally in Kozhikode in protest against the move on Waqf Board recruitments. In fact, the parley between the influential Samastha leaders and Mr. Vijayan on Tuesday was not the first one. On earlier occasions too they had held direct talks with CPI(M) leaders on various issues pertaining to the Muslim community. The rival Sunni faction led by Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliyar already has a cordial relationship with the CPI(M). Political agenda The CPI(M) State leadership has a bigger political agenda on its cards as the Muslim community has traditionally been the bulwark of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) base in the State. Incidentally, Samastha president Syed Mohammed Jifri Muthukoya Thangal, who had announced at a meeting of Muthavallis (managing trustees of waqf) and office-bearers of Mahal Madrasas in Kozhikode last week that the Chief Minister had called him over phone to discuss the issue, had clarified that the talks should not be construed otherwise. As an emissary of the Chief Minister, CPI(M) Central committee member Elamaram Karim, MP, also had deliberated with the Samastha leaders. Love-hate relationship Quite often, the IUML and the Samastha leadership are caught in a love-hate relationship though IUML State president Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal is also the vice president of the Mushwara (supreme body) of the Samastha. After Jifri Muthukoya Thangal came to the helm of the organisation, the Samastha reaffirmed its political independence from the IUML. Notably, the Samastha had lashed out at the CPI(M) for ‘creating a communal divide in the State’ when party leaders stated that the IUML was taking over the leadership of the UDF before the Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waqf-row-brings-samastha-closer-to-ldf/article37891856.ece
08 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Shifting of HPCL depot: forum to move court||The protest against the the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation’s shunting yard and fuel depot in Elathur has strengthened with the protest committee planning to move the High Court demanding that the depot be shifted to Kannur district as HPCL had assured them years ago. Chandrasekharan Mattuvayal, the chairman of the reconstituted protest committee, said the residents of Elathur had no resort other than the court as the authorities including the Kozhikode Corporation, the district administration, and the State government had failed them by allying themselves with the petroleum giant. “The authorities have turned a blind eye towards the problems faced by the local people of Elathur because of the shunting yard and the depot. They have also paid no heed to the rampant destruction of mangrove forest and filling of wetlands in over 10 acres near the depot,” he added. HPCL set up the depot and shunting yard in Elathur 34 years ago, on the pretext that it was opening a petrol pump. The depot is located between the highway and the railway line over 3.75 acres of land. “This space is inadequate for such a depot which actually needs over 10 acres. Hence, it poses a danger to the local people,” said Mr. Chandrasekharan. However, the biggest complaint of the local people is connected to the imminent closure of the railway gate that links a large part of Ward 2 of the Kozhikode Corporation to the highway. They said the railway underpass that was built to resolve the problem was too narrow and no fire engine could pass through it. “The gate is closed for the convenience of the shunting yard. Even now it is closed for the major part of the night. The wagons to the depot are often parked across the gate, preventing traffic through the road during the day. We have had several accidents here when people tried to crawl under the wagons to get to the other side of the railway line,” said the chairman of the protest committee. The HPCL authorities had assured the local people that the depot would be shifted to Payyanur in Kannur district a few years ago. But the attempt to shift failed due to technical reasons. The protest committee had gone on a hunger strike recently demanding that the depot be shifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shifting-of-hpcl-depot-forum-to-move-court/article37891838.ece
08 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Urgent steps needed to save Kallai bridge, say greens||A group of environmentalists has called for the immediate intervention of authorities to save the bridge across the Kallai river in Kozhikode. They found the bridge weak due to lack of care and repair during the first phase of a study tour organised on Tuesday, under the banner of the All Kerala River Protection Committee. The group of around 70 persons, including locals, fishermen, students and environmentalists, travelled upstream, starting from the Kothi bridge at the river mouth up to Kaduppini, assessing the condition of the river and analysing the extent of damage to the bridge. A report prepared by the group will soon be submitted to the District Collector. The concrete from the bridge had fallen off in most parts and banyan saplings had grown in every crack, weakening the structure, said T.V. Rajan, general secretary of the committee, who led the group. The fishing boats in which the group travelled encountered hurdles in the form of garbage deposited in the river, building waste and plastic. “The remains of the old Kallai bridge is still present underneath the water. At Kaduppini, there are tree stumps obstructing the flow of water,” said Mr. Rajan. He said such obstructions and the large mangroves in the middle of the river were causing the formation of mud bunds that gradually turned into land mass, affecting the natural flow of water. “There is a bund at Kunnathu Palam, which is not needed any more because there is no paddy cultivation here at present. But, encroachers do not want it to be removed as it protects them from the high tide as well as several Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) norms,” he said. Water quality The quality of the river water is also being studied. The water, which is mostly black in colour, is so polluted that people depending on the river for their livelihood were found to have developed skin allergies. Environmentalist T. Shobheendran inaugurated the study tour. He said various water sources that originated from the Cherukulathur hill ranges should be protected while the Kallai river and its banks should be measured and protected based on litho maps. Irrigation department Executive Engineer Mohan G. flagged off the tour. The second phase of the study tour will be held from Kaduppini to Kunnathupalam after a week and the third phase will be from Kunnathupalam to Kannaochinnam bridge. A tour on foot will also be undertaken to the source of the river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/urgent-steps-needed-to-save-kallai-bridge-say-greens/article37891846.ece
08 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Medicos to boycott emergency services at MCH from today||Patients coming to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode, may have to prepare for more hardships as postgraduate medical doctors have declared that they will boycott emergency services from Wednesday. Functionaries of the Kerala Medical Post Graduate Association (KMPGA) said on Tuesday that they would not attend services such as intensive care unit, casualty, and labour wards. But, they will participate in COVID-related work. Resident doctors in the super-speciality block too are joining the strike from Wednesday. These doctors have been on an indefinite strike for more than a week seeking fast culmination of NEET-PG allotment. KMPGA members had not been attending outpatient departments, operation theatre, and ward duty. Scheduled surgeries were being postponed for the past five to six days because of the strike. Patients are not being admitted to wards from the OP section and only those who are referred from the casualty wards are admitted. Doctors are also reportedly discharging non-serious patients from wards. The Kozhikode MCH principal has written to the government saying that the strike has affected the hospital. PG doctors in other States had already boycotted essential services from Monday. KMPGA representatives said they were yet to get any communication from the government on talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medicos-to-boycott-emergency-services-at-mch-from-today/article37891848.ece
08 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Expedite land acquisition for road project: action panel||The Mananchira-Vellimadukunnu Road Action Committee has requested Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas and MLA Thottathil Raveendran to expedite steps to acquire the remaining land for four-laning the road. Acquisition of 3.4621 hectares of land is pending even after negotiable purchase was completed. The action committee also requested the CSI Church, BEM School at Mananchira and Malabar Christian College School to give up parts of land to support the development of the road. It has also requested the departments concerned to take adequate steps to demolish buildings on the DDE office compound at Mananchira and the water tank on the NGO Quarters premises at Vellimadukunnu and to cut down trees on the premises of the ADM Bungalow at Malaparamba for the project, said committee general secretary M.P. Vasudevan. It also demanded expediting the transfer of Rs. 134.5 crore that the State government announced in January from the Finance Department to the Kerala Road Fund Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expedite-land-acquisition-for-road-project-action-panel/article37891847.ece
08 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Bypoll results to be declared today||The results of the by-elections held in three segments of local bodies in Kozhikode on Tuesday will be declared on Wednesday. The trends will be available on the website of the State Election Commissionlsgelection.kerala.gov.infrom 10 a.m. onwards. The bypolls were held to Nanmanda ward of Kozhikode district panchayat, Kumbara ward of Koodaranji grama panchayat, and Valliyoth ward of Unnikulam grama panchayat. The voter turnout on Tuesday at Nanmanda, Kumbara and Valliyoth was 62.54% , 87.21% and 83.99% respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bypoll-results-to-be-declared-today/article37891844.ece
08 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CJM court acquits Rema||The Kozhikode Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Court on Tuesday acquitted Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) leader K.K. Rema, MLA, in a case filed by CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan against calling CPI(M) leader P. Jayarajan a ‘killer’ on the eve of the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. Writing the judgement, CJM A. Fathima Beevi ruled that the charges against Ms. Rema would not stand. The case was based on a remark made by Ms. Rema at a news conference held on March 17, 2019. Then Mr. Balakrishnan had lodged a complaint with the Chief Electoral Officer alleging that Ms. Rema’s statement that her party was supporting the UDF candidate in the Lok Sabha elections to defeat the ‘killer Jayarajan’ would adversely affect his chances of winning the polls. The complaint had been sent to the State Police Chief (SPC) and the Director General of Police. Following this, the State Police Chief had asked the Town police to register a criminal case against Ms. Rema. Not substantiated However, the CJM found that the charges against Ms. Rema were not substantiated. The court also observed that the alleged offence would remain only when a statement was made against a candidate who was legally nominated. At the time of making the statement, Mr. Jayarajan was not a candidate from the Vadakara Lok Sabha constituency. Thus the court terminated the proceedings against Ms. Rema under Section 258 (power to stop proceedings in certain cases) of the Code of Criminal Procedure without a trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cjm-court-acquits-rema/article37891843.ece
08 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Bid to improve CU’s grade not linked to Atal ranking’||Calicut University authorities have claimed that the ongoing efforts to improve the institution’s ranking by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council has nothing to do with the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements. Reports misleading Sources in the Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) of the university said on Tuesday that media reports linking both those were misleading. The Atal ranking is an initiative of the Union Ministry of Education to “systematically rank all major higher educational institutions and universities” in India on indicators related to “innovation and entrepreneurship development” among students and faculty members. The University of Calicut has registered with the initiative. But, since it is only beginning to launch schemes for innovative ventures, such as start-ups and other entrepreneurship projects, the institution cannot take part in the ranking process. The university has very few technology-related courses or institutions within its ambit as well. “It is, however, wrong to say that we have not done anything on this front. Efforts are on to launch innovative ventures here,” said an academic who is part of the IQAC. The NAAC accreditation process and Atal ranking were not linked, he added. A section of the media reported recently that the University of Calicut was yet to set up an Institution Innovation Council, which was necessary for the Atal ranking. The council is supposed to hold seminars, workshops, interactions between investors and entrepreneurs and professionals, and help students find mentors. Kerala Vidyarthi Janatha, a student organisation, too had issued a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bid-to-improve-varsitys-naac-grade-not-linked-to-atal-ranking/article37891849.ece
08 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Station masters to go on hunger strike from Dec. 10||Railway station masters in the Southern Railway will go on a 72-hour hunger strike from December 10 midnight, demanding easing of their work pressure. Hundreds of station masters will join the agitation to be held under the banner of the All India Station Masters Association. On duty or not The station masters, irrespective of being on duty or not, will join the hunger strike at their respective stations for three days from December 10. “We have chosen December 10 for our agitation as it is the World Human Rights Day. We are protesting against the policy of reducing the number of station masters in such a way as to seriously affect the safety of the Railways,” said Venugopal, Palakkad Railway Division president of the All India Station Masters Association. More than 2,000 station masters in six divisions will join the strike in the Southern Railway, said V.K. Babu, zonal president of the Association. As many as 20% of station masters posts were lying unfilled in all divisions of the Southern Railway, and those vacancies were adding to the work pressure. They said that the Railway Recruitment Board had not made any appointments in the last four years. R.G. Pillai, joint general secretary of the Dakshin Railway Employees Union, said that there were 570 station masters’ vacancies in the Southern Railway. As many as 78 of them are in Palakkad Railway Division, he said. They said the station masters were being forced to do continuous duty, even without a weekly off, at several stations in the country. The workload for station masters has increased considerably, they said. Among the demands raised by the station masters are sanctioning of inter-divisional transfer, sanctioning of modified assured career progression (MACP) without delay, appointment of station supervisors at all stations, and setting up of rest rooms for station masters. The station masters said that their night duty allowance was stopped over a year ago. e-pass The introduction of the e-pass system for railway employees has denied rail journeys for many of them, they said.  More than 2,000 station masters in six divisions will join the strike in the Southern Railway||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/station-masters-plan-stir/article37891839.ece
08 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||CPI(M) accuses Attappady hospital chief of graft||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) local unit at Attappady on Tuesday came out against the Government Tribal Specialty Hospital Superintendent, raising allegations of corruption against him. The CPI(M) accused hospital superintendent R. Prabhudas of large-scale irregularities at the hospital. The CPI(M) allegations against Dr. Prabhudas were in retaliation for the charges he levelled against the hospital management committee members. Dr. Prabhudas had alleged that the management committee members had turned against him because he did not support their proposals for kickbacks and commission. CPI(M) Attappady area secretary C.P. Babu and Pudur local committee secretary Rajesh alleged on Tuesday that the hospital superintendent was trying to shift the blame of irregularities on to the managing committee members. They said they would not permit the blame to be shifted on to CPI(M) leaders. They alleged that the superintendent had taken bribes in connection with canteen and computerisation work and various construction works at the hospital were executed in the name of another person close to him. They said they had approached the government to investigate the allegations against Dr. Prabhudas. Probe welcomed Dr. Prabhudas, however, welcomed any kind of investigation. He said he would prefer an inquiry by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-accuses-attappady-hospital-chief-of-graft/article37892001.ece
08 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||ABVP meet in Palakkad||The Akhila Bharathiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) will hold its 37th State conference here on December 10, 11 and 12. Subhaiah Shanmugham, former national president of the organisation, will inaugurate the conference at Fort Maidan. A student rally will also be held as part of the conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abvp-meet-in-palakkad/article37892006.ece
08 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Probe into gemstone mining in Palode forests||The Forest department has instituted an inquiry into the suspected mining of semi-precious gemstones in the interior forests of Palode. The investigation got under way after forest watchers reportedly discovered an over 10-ft-deep pit in Manachala in Kallar under the Palode forest range some days ago. The region, located close to the Braemore estate, is known for its natural deposits of gemstones including Chrysoberyl, Cat’s eye, and Alexandrite. Rain fury In spite of a camp shed established by forest authorities nearly one-and-a-half kilometres away from the Manachala area, various quarters alleged that the forest personnel might have lowered their guard in the wake of the recent rainfall and mud-slides in the area and the racketeers could have exploited the situation to embark on the illegal mining operation. Sources said pump sets and other items that could have been used to extract the stones were found in the vicinity of the pit. While residents nearby claimed that gemstones worth lakhs of rupees could have been mined, forest officials maintained that the chances were remote since the pit was not dug deep enough to extract the reserves. Operation foiled They also suggested that their intervention could have foiled the operation midway. Similar attempts had been made in the past to mine gemstones. A group of Bharathannoor natives were apprehended by the Forest department following the last-such unauthorised excavation that was reported in 2014. Natives Officials suspected a similar involvement of those who hailed from the region and those well-versed with the topography and the difficult terrain. The presence of gemstones were found during explorations conducted by various agencies in parts of the district including Andoorkonam, Aruvikkara, Balaramapuram, Bonacaud estate, Pirappancode, Venjaramoodu, Vembayam, Nedumangad, and Pothencode, besides river stretches including the Kallar-Vamanapuram river.  The presence of gemstones has been found during explorations conducted by various agencies in parts of the district||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-into-gemstone-mining-in-palode-forests/article37892040.ece
08 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CBSE Term 1 exam papers give students the blues||The CBSE Class X and XII Term I board examinations are proving to be quite a challenge for students. The examinations are being held as per a new two-term pattern, with the Term 1 Board examinations having objective multiple-choice questions and Term 2 examinations slated to have subjective questions. The Class 12 Term 1 English paper, said the head of an institution, was complicated enough, but the Mathematics examinations had sent students’ confidence plummeting. “The maximum marks the students hope to secure is 30 out of 40,” she says. Concerns aired Students and teachers alike said the paper was tricky and lengthy. Some questions were very time-consuming, and even then, a student could not be sure they would arrive at the right answer if they attempted it. “The time provided was not enough to solve such lengthy problems. Questions that were marked out of two or four marks earlier have been included as one-mark questions. Students were unable to identify a notation in a question on determinants and could not answer it,” says a teacher. Another subject teacher said there were very few direct questions, and even bright students found the paper difficult. Many questions required lengthy calculations. Some short-cuts could have saved time, but not many students would be able to attempt these, he said. One teacher said questions from deleted portions were included. Students even struggled with the English paper. The question paper had no connection with the sample paper introduced to students. They found all the three sections in the paper challenging, one student said. The teachers said that at a time when classes had been held online and a good number of students struggled to absorb what they had been taught, questions with such a high difficulty level should have been avoided. Not all students would be able to pull themselves up and give the remaining examinations their best. Authorities of a school said Class 10 students too had not fared much better, with Mathematics (Basic), English, and Science papers being very tough. “Even students who had opted for standard Maths found the Basic Maths paper difficult.” New pattern difficult They said Class 10 students sitting for the first offline examinations in a year-and-a-half were finding it very difficult to mark answers on OMR sheets as per the new pattern since they not only had to darken the bubble for the right answer, but also write the choice in a separate box, and then mark the unanswered questions in a separate column. “Students have committed many mistakes while filling in the OMR sheet.” It did not help that some questions were ambiguous or there were discrepancies in answer keys. “The answers that the board is looking for may not be what students mark. Students who think they have done well realise after checking the answer keys that they will not get the expected marks. This is putting them and their parents under much mental stress.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbse-term-1-exam-papers-give-students-the-blues/article37891840.ece
08 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Keralotsavam gets under way in capital||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has reiterated the government’s resolve to elevate the standards of higher education in the State. Inaugurating the State-level Keralotsavam programme organised by the Kerala State Youth Welfare Board here on Tuesday, Mr. Vijayan said efforts were being made to reform the higher education sector in tune with the changing times, similar to the manner in which the general education sector witnessed a change in the last five years. Low ranks Remarking on the inferior positions secured by universities in the State in global rankings, the Chief Minister said programmes would be launched to enhance infrastructural facilities and introduce new-generation courses in high demand. Libraries There was also the need for well-equipped libraries, laboratories and hostels. Such initiatives were crucial to realising the State’s dream of enabling its universities to figure in the top10 positions in the country and top 100 globally. Job prospects The government had also set its sights on improving job prospects in the State, he said. An ambitious programme to generate 40 lakh job openings would soon get under way, Mr. Vijayan said. The proposed Work near Home scheme, envisaged on the lines of the work from home system that was prevalent, would also be operationalised, he added. Youth Affairs Minister Saji Cherian presided over the function. District panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar, Youth Welfare Board vice chairman S. Satheesh, and composer Stephen Devassy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keralotsavam-gets-under-way-in-capital/article37892036.ece
08 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State govt. launches Kerala Kaithari brand||Providing a collective identity to handloom products manufactured in the State, the government has launched the Kerala Kaithari brand for handcrafted fabrics. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan formally launched the logo at a function held here on Tuesday. He expressed confidence that the brand would popularise hand woven products and ensure greater visibility in markets across the globe. Project The Directorate of Handlooms and Textile, functioning under the Industries Department, had recently embarked on a project to brand value-added handloom products. The National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT), Kannur, which had conducted a study, presented a framework to the government for its implementation. The institution has been designated the knowledge partner for the endeavour. The programme is being executed in association with the Indian Institute of Handloom Technology, Weavers Service Centre, Hantex, and Handweave. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve said steps were afoot to market handwoven products online. K.K. Shibin, who designed the Kerala Kaithari logo, was felicitated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-launches-kerala-kaithari-brand/article37891853.ece
08 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||One lakh MSMEs to be set up||The government has initiated steps to establish 1,00,000 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the State during 2022, which will be observed as Industrial Year. At a function organised here on Tuesday to declare the Kerala Institute of Entrepreneurship Development (KIED) as a centre of excellence in entrepreneurship development, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve said the government was focussing its efforts on transforming Kerala into a centre of responsible investment and industries. Clusters The Minister said the industrial development envisaged by the government was one that recognised the limitations imposed by the need to protect the Western Ghats, coastal areas and wetlands. The plan was to set up more MSME clusters and common facility centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1-lakh-msmes-to-be-set-up/article37891841.ece
08 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local body bypolls log 75.06% voter turnout||Byelections held in 32 local body wards across the State on Tuesday registered a voter turnout of 75.06%, the State Election Commission has said. The polling, which opened at 7 a.m. and closed at 6 p.m., progressed peacefully and was held in line with the COVID-19 norms, the commission said. The counting of votes will begin at 10 a.m. on Wednesday across various centres. Results will be uploaded on lsgelection.kerala.gov.in and the ‘Trend’ portal of the commission. A little over 2.82 lakh voters, including two transgender electors, had figured in the electoral rolls of the 32 wards spread over 12 districts. Capital district The wards and polling percentages in the capital district are as follows: Corporation ward: Vettucaud in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation (57.65%) Block panchayat wards: Edacode in Chirayinkeezhu (62.18%) and Pothencode ward in Pothencode (60.12%) . The by-election was also held for Ponnamchundu in Vithura panchayat (72.7%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-body-bypolls-log-7506-voter-turnout/article37892045.ece
08 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Farook Training College awarded A+ SAAC grade||Farook Training College, Kozhikode, has been awarded A+ grade by the State Assessment and Accreditation Centre (SAAC) in its first cycle. The decision was taken by the executive body of the Kerala State Higher Education Council which met on Tuesday. The college has been accredited by SAAC with a CGPA (cumulative grade point average) of 3.39. The grade was conferred on the basis of a peer team visit led by former director of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) Renganath H. Anne Gouda. Kerala Council for Historical Research (KCHR) Director Michael Tharakan and former director of the State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) M.A. Khader were the other members of the panel. Bishop Moore College, Mavelikara, the first higher education institution to be accredited by SAAC, was awarded A grade two months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farook-training-college-awarded-a-saac-grade/article37891851.ece
08 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man gets 7-years’ RI for sexual assault on minor||A fast track court here on Tuesday sentenced a 40-year-old man to seven years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) for sexually assaulting a minor mentally challenged boy in the city five years ago. Thiruvananthapuram Fast Track Special Judge R. Jayakrishnan, who pronounced the verdict, found Rajan, 40, of Kunnathukal guilty of the crime that had occurred on February 27, 2016. Having found the convict guilty under Section 9(k) (relating to sexual assault after taking advantage of the child’s mental or physical disability) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, the court also imposed a fine of Rs. 50,000, the default of which would lead to an additional sentence for a year. The fine amount will be given to the victim as compensation. According to the prosecution led by special public prosecution Vijay Mohan R.S., the convict sexually abused the victim who was then 16 years old in a bathroom of the latter’s house when his mother had gone for work. He was later arrested by the Thampanoor police on November 21, 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-gets-7-years-ri-for-sexual-assault-on-minor/article37892038.ece
08 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||10 injured in post-poll violence at Pothencode||Nearly 10 people including police officers were injured after CPI(M) and BJP workers clashed shortly after a byelection in Pothencode on Tuesday. The incident occurred at the Government Higher Secondary School in Ayirooppara where the byelection was held in the Pothencode division in the Pothencode block panchayat. An objection raised by a group of BJP workers after some members of the CPI(M) brought a voter to the polling station during the dying moments of polling paved the way for a full-blown confrontation. Both sides hurled stones at each other and inflicted injuries on several party workers. A few police officers attached to the Pothencode station also sustained injuries in the melee. Soon, the situation was brought under control by a team led by Nedumangad Additional Superintendent of Police Raj Prasad. A heavy police contingent has been stationed in the area in anticipation of further violence during the counting of votes. The election was necessitated by the death of development standing committee chairman M. Sreekantan, who represented the LDF in the block panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-injured-in-post-poll-violence-at-pothencode/article37892043.ece
08 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Five arrested for attack, abduction||The Kadakkavoor police on Tuesday arrested five persons in connection with the alleged assault on and abduction of a person a day ago. The police identified the accused as Girish (40) of Kulamuttam, Vishnu (27) of Velloorkkonam, James, alias Unni, (30) of Manamboor, Arun Kumar (33) of Alamcode, and Vishnu (28) of Kallara. They have been accused of assaulting Sudheer of Kulamuttam near Kadakkavoor after abducting him in a car. He sustained grievous injuries after being purportedly attacked using weapons by the gang. On being alerted, the police intercepted the car and apprehended the accused shortly after the incident. Girish has been involved in a murder case, while the others have been accused in assault and ganja cases, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-arrested-for-attack-abduction/article37892044.ece
08 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM: State to be higher education hub||The State government intends to transform Kerala into a hub of higher education, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after the State-level inauguration of the ‘Padhna Likhna Abhiyan’ inauguration on Tuesday. Mr. Vijayan said the government would pay special attention to activities aimed at transformation of the education sector in tune with changing times. After the Public Education Rejuvenation Mission, transformation of the higher education too was under way. The gains on the education front were what paved the way for the State’s social and financial development. A person who learnt to read and write became linked to the world of knowledge and science. This led to social progress. More than 6% of the State’s population was yet to become literate. The Padhna Likhna Abhiyan would help them become literate, he said. The project’s objective was to make 2 lakh people in Wayanad, Idukki, Malappuram, Palakkad, and Thiruvananthapuram literate. It had been directed that a majority of them should belong to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and minorities, and 75% should be women. The project could accordingly be cast into one for empowering the poorest sections and minorities, particularly women, Mr. Vijayan said. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-be-higher-education-hub-pinarayi/article37891880.ece
08 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Unvaccinated teachers will have to pay for treatment: CM||Unvaccinated teachers who fall ill will have to bear the cost of their treatment, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking at the inauguration of Keralotsavam 2021 on Tuesday. Mr. Vijayan said some felt vaccination was not important. Even as efforts were on to exert social pressure, it came to light that quite a few schoolteachers were not vaccinated. They were asked to take the vaccine or get an RT-PCR test done every week at their expense to show they did not have COVID-19. The government will also not pick up the tab for the treatment of unvaccinated teachers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unvaccinated-teachers-will-have-to-pay-for-treatment-cm/article37891916.ece
08 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||50.5% of new cases in fully vaccinated||Kerala logged 4,656 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 67,437 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Exactly 50.5% of these new cases have been reported in fully vaccinated individuals, according to the Health department, while the proportion of new cases amongst unvaccinated individuals (those who are eligible for vaccination, age-wise) has been 31.6%. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 51,73,854 cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 41,902 as on Tuesday, with the State adding 134 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on the day. These includes 28 deaths that occurred in the past few days and 106 deaths that have now been accepted as COVID deaths. The number of deaths added to the official COVID fatality list after the death reconciliation exercise now is 12,267. The State’s active case pool dipped further to 40,072 patients on Tuesday. A total of 5,180 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. On Tuesday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 271. Though the hospitalisations showed a spike on Monday, it declined slightly on Tuesday.  Only 8% of the active cases are admitted in hospitals or field hospitals like COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/505-of-new-cases-in-fully-vaccinated/article37891922.ece
08 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||162 teachers promoted as HSS principals||The General Education Department in Kerala on Tuesday promoted 162 teachers as higher secondary school (HSS) principals. They include 108 higher secondary schoolteachers and 54 headmasters/headmistresses. Promotions for principals are given in the 2:1 ratio to higher secondary senior teachers and high school headmasters. High school headmasters are currently designated as vice principals. The HSS principal post is the sole promotion post for HSS teachers. Organisations if higher secondary teacher have been protesting against high school headmasters/headmistress getting promoted as principals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/162-teachers-promoted-as-hss-principals/article37891883.ece
08 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bus route to Kochuveli: SHRC seeks report||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation to examine the demand for a bus route to the Kochuveli railway station and take action accordingly. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic issued the direction to the KSRTC managing director on a complaint by human rights activist Raham Rahim. The complaint said a bus should be allowed in the evenings to benefit people working at Vikas Bhavan and commuting to Kochuveli to board train for Kollam and Kayamkulam. The chairperson sought a report by December 27. The case will be considered on December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-route-to-kochuveli-shrc-seeks-report/article37892037.ece
08 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Bypolls peaceful in Thrissur||The byelections in three wards in the district on Tuesday were peaceful. No untoward incidents were reported. The byelections were conducted in 18th ward (Chalampadam) in the Irinjalakuda municipality; 10th ward (Azhikode) in the Mathilakam block panchayat; and 16th ward (Lighthouse) in the Kadappuram grama panchayat. Moderate polling was recorded in all the wards - Kadappuram (75.31%); Irinjalakuda (75.2%); and Azhikode (66.24%). Tight police security was arranged at all booths. Counting of votes will be held on Wednesday. The election to the Kadappuram panchayat was following the death of ward member T.K. Raveendran of the Left Democratic Front (UDF). The death of United Democratic Front (UDF) member Jose Chakkola, following COVID-19, led to election in the Irinjalakuda municipality. The result of the byelection is crucial for both fronts in Irinjalakuda as the UDF has 17 seats and the LDF 16 in the 2020 election. The byelection to the Azhikode division was held following the death of Shayi Ayyaril of the LDF following COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bypolls-peaceful-in-thrissur/article37892003.ece
08 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU convocation on Dec. 9||The Convocation-2020 of the Kerala Agricultural University will be held at the KAU central auditorium Vellanikkara, Thrissur, on December 9. Governor and KAU Chancellor Arif Mohammed Khan will inaugurate the event and confer degrees and awards to meritorious students in the presence of Agriculture Minister P Prasad and Revenue Minister K. Rajan. Trilochan Mohapatra, Director General, ICAR, New Delhi, will deliver the Keynote address. A total of 30 students will receive their degrees in person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kau-convocation-on-dec-9/article37892002.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Govt. back-pedals on PSC Waqf Board recruitments||Hence, the government was flexible about the matter, he said. Mr. Vijayan also dispelled the propaganda to appoint non-Muslims in Waqf institutions. The IUML had alleged the government had plotted to open the door for religiously non-observant Muslims and those from other religions to dabble in Waqf matters, including administration of wealth, trusts, endowments, institutions and properties, by leaving appointments to the PSC. The IUML had also pointed out that the NSS and SNDP Yogam had opposed the move to leave Devaswom Board appointments to the PSC to keep the administration of publicly owned temples and allied institutions within the fold of the Hindu community. It demanded parity of law. Opposition charge Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan said wisdom appeared to have dawned late on the government. The PSC could not notify appointment tests exclusively for job aspirants from a particular community. Such a move was patently unconstitutional, Mr. Satheesan e said. Hence, the United Democratic Front had demanded the constitution of a Special Recruitment Board on the lines of the Devasom Recruitment Board to make Waqf Board appointments transparent and just. The UDF had aired the grievances of Samastha and other Muslim social organisations in the House. However, the government chose to turn a blind eye. It tried to demonise the IUML on the issue. Like farm laws The CPI(M) pushed to portray the IUML as a divisive outfit. Mr. Satheesan said the government’s retreat on Waqf appointments was akin to the Centre’s repeal of the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-back-pedals-on-psc-waqf-board-recruitments/article37891910.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Diving to the occasion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/diving-to-the-occasion/article37892005.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Traders’ protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-protest/article37892008.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Soulful rendering||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/soulful-rendering/article37891872.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Art for life’s sake||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/art-for-lifes-sake/article37891920.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rush of devotees||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rush-of-devotees/article37891909.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For their due||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-their-due/article37892047.ece
08 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A challenge in Kurnool, Anantapur districts||The production and distribution of gutkha and pan masala continues in Karnataka, which poses a major threat to the implementation of the ban orders in Anantapur and Kurnool districts that share a long border with it and that is a major challenge, according to J. Rammohan, Additional Superintendent of Police of the Special Enforcement Bureau. The responsibility of checking transport, sale, storage or these banned products was given to the SEB recently and with Monday’s orders extending the ban for one more year, a bigger responsibility is on the sleuths, he said. Mr. Rammohan said there was no ban on these products in northern States. The printed value of the gutkha packets and other banned products seized was found to be Rs. 1.19 crore. The majority of the consignments cross the Karnataka border into Kurnool and Anantapur in the guise of transporting the material to northern State, or Telangana and in that process, 248 vehicles were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gutkha-enters-kurnool-anantapur-during-transit/article37891976.ece
08 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clamour for repeal of CPS||The members of APJAC and Amaravati JAC on Tuesday held dharnas wearing black badges demanding immediate repeal of Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) and implementation of the Pay Revision Commission recommendations at various places in Anantapur and Kurnool districts. Teachers, affiliated to Andhra Pradesh Primary Teachers’ Association (APPTA), sat through a training programme meant for headmasters wearing black badges in Kurnool. In Anantapur city, the JAC members gathered at the District Medical and Health Office and raised slogans seeking an early resolution of their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/clamour-for-repeal-of-cps/article37891974.ece
08 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||288 students get placed||As many as 288 students of JNTU College of Engineering (Autonomous), Anantapur, got placed during the recent campus placement drive, according to a release from the training and placement cell of the JNTU here on Tuesday. A meeting was organised on Tuesday to felicitate the students on their achievements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/288-students-get-placed/article37891977.ece
08 December 2021||ANANTAPUR / KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||High alert in Anantapur, Kurnool to check spread of Omicron variant||A high alert has been sounded in Kurnool and Anantapur districts against the possible spread of Omicron variant of the COVID-19 from Karnataka and Maharashtra, where a number of cases have been reported. Roads and Buildings Minister M. Sankaranarayana held a review meeting in Anantapur with District Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan, Joint Collector A. Siri, and DMHO Y. Kameswara Prasad on Tuesday. The average positive cases have been in either single-digit or not exceeding 15 per day in Anantapur district, and literally ‘0’ cases in Kurnool district on most of the days in the month. “These histricts have a long border with Karnataka and entry of the primary and secondary contacts of the Omicron positive persons is possible, hence people should be on high alert adhering to all COVID-19 protocols like wearing mask and avoiding large gatherings,” the Minister said. People in the villages must be vigilant and inform the officials about any new person arriving from these States, he added. Ms. Nagalakshmi asked officials to enforce protocols and impose penalties to ensure compliance. Testing at least 5,000 samples a day must be ensured and vaccinating everyone with two doses must be high on priority, she added. . Kurnool scenario Kurnool district registered entry of 267 people and a similar number in Anantapur district with recent foreign travel. “Efforts were on to locate and test them,” Kurnool Collector P. Koteswara Rao said at a review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-alert-in-anantapur-kurnool-to-check-spread-of-omicron-variant/article37891988.ece
08 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jumbo electrocuted in Chittoor; 10th in 2 years||A sub-adult male elephant was electrocuted in the fields abutting the Koundinya Wildlife Sanctuary, near Vepanapalle village of Bangarupalem mandal, 35 km from here, in the early hours of Tuesday, forest officials said. According to information, the elephant, said to be aged around 5, had reportedly got separated from its mother. It was moving around in the forest fringe area for the past few days in search of food. Some farmers reportedly sighted the elephant while moving close to the village tank during their night vigils. The jumbo was found dead in the fields close to the fence connected to a live wire, meant for preventing wild animals from raiding the crops. Senior forest officials of the Chittoor West division reached the spot and inquired about the incident with the villagers. The landowner, identified as Subramanyam, was being questioned. After an autopsy, the carcass was cremated in the fields. Further investigation is on. This is the 10th jumbo casualty due to electrocution in Chittoor district in two years, forest officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jumbo-electrocuted-in-chittoor-10th-in-2-years/article37891541.ece
08 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gutkha ban: border check-posts under surveillance||The extended ban on the manufacture, sale, distribution, and transport of gutkha and other chewable tobacco products in Andhra Pradesh has prompted the police to intensify surveillance at all border check-posts with neighboring Karnataka. Chittoor district shares a lengthy border with Karnataka from Palamaner to Kuppam and from Punganur to Madanapalle. Apart from national and state highways, the border area is crisscrossed by a number of rural roads. In spite of the round-the-clock vigil at all vulnerable entry points, the contraband continues to flood the district. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy said that about 100 known offenders allegedly involved in smuggling of the gutkha and chewable tobacco products were identified across Chittoor district. “Of them 10 offenders are known for regularly procuring bulk stocks from Karnataka and distributing in large-scale in Chittoor district,” he said. The Deputy SP said that though gutkha and other chewable tobacco products were not prohibited in Karnataka, the dealers there were not permitted to transport the goods to Andhra Pradesh, and the sale of bulk stocks was also prohibited in that State. “We are also getting information about those in Karnataka who supply the contraband to Chittoor district,” Mr. Reddy said. The official said that in the last one and half years, the Chittoor police had seized gutkha and other contraband goods worth over Rs. 15 crore, and arrested about 20 accused at various places. The petty shops and kiosks were also raided as part of the drive against the contraband goods. Special teams formed “In order not to cause any inconvenience to the passengers on the buses operating between Chittoor and Bengaluru, we have formed special teams to identify the gangs using RTC buses for transporting the stocks,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gutkha-ban-border-check-posts-under-surveillance/article37891979.ece
08 December 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||One fever and two dengue cases detected at Bodigudem||Joint Collector (Development) Himanshu Shukla has said only two mild dengue cases and a seasonal fever case were detected at Bodigudem of Koyyalagudem mandal. “We have collected 405 blood samples from the students of Bodigudem ZP High School and Mandal Parishad High School, and from the neighbouring hamlets and sent them for laboratory. Two students have tested positive for dengue, while one villager has been identified with normal fever,” he said. The two students and the fever patient were admitted in Koyyalagudem Primary Health Centre (PHC). Three fever patients, who were undergoing treatment in the PHC, were discharged on Tuesday, Mr. Shukla told The Hindu . The officials were continuing the medical camp at Bodigudem, and the schools would remain closed on Wednesday as a precautionary measure. “Instructions have been given to the doctors and the paramedical staff to camp in the village for a few more days. Two ambulances have been kept ready in the village,” he said. The Revenue, Panchayat Raj and other departments were chlorinating water tanks and taking up anti-larval operations in the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-fever-and-two-dengue-cases-detected-at-bodigudem/article37891986.ece
08 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court summons Finance Secretary||The High Court of Andhra Pradesh has ordered that the Finance Secretary should appear in the court on December 13 and explain as to why there was delay in payments to the National Cooperative Consumer Federation Limited for work done in supplying stationery kits to ward/village secretariats in Visakhapatnam. After hearing a petition by the federation, a Division Bench of the High Court asked the Secretary, Finance, to explain the reasons for delay in payment. The petitioner submitted that the federation was a society and was the successful bidder for supply of stationery kits to the doorstep of each village secretariats of Visakhapatnam and was later given the work order by the District Panchayat Officer. The petitioner also said that the federation had completed the supply of goods and has raised bills. The bills had been uploaded on CFMS. On January 17, 2020, the petitioner made a representation seeking payment of Rs. 1.29 crore, but there was no progress. The CFMS status showed “Closed-year end activity”. The petitioner then filed a petition and the High Court passed orders in August 2021, directing that payments should be made to the contractor. After realising that the payments had not been made, the petitioner filed a petition seeking the court’s intervention in ensuring payments to the contractor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-court-summons-finance-secretary/article37891989.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KRMB urged to treat Jurala, its components as completed projects||Telangana government has requested the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to include the components of Jurala project placed in Schedule 1 and 2 (ongoing) to Schedule 3 (completed/operational) of the gazette notification issued on the purview of the river board on July 15 this year stating they were included in 1 and 2 due to the deliberate actions of the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh government. In a letter addressed to Chairman of the KRMB M.P. Singh, Engineer-in-Chief (Irrigation-General) of Telangana C. Muralidhar explained to the former that Jurala and the lift irrigation projects based on them — Nettempadu and Bhima were included in Schedule 1 and 2 although they were solely serving Telangana and have nothing to do with A.P. He further explained that the erstwhile Hyderabad (State) government had proposed three projects — Bhima. Tungabhadra Left Canal and Upper Krishna — to serve the needs of combined Mahabubnagar by utilising 174.3 tmc ft water with gravity. However, after formation of A.P. in 1956, the projects were shelved by it denying water to the drought-prone area and necessitated lift schemes later. Although Jurala project stage-one with 23 tmc ft (gravity) and stage-two with 28.8 tmc ft (lift) were proposed to give water to Mahabubnagar after the 1969 movement for statehood to Telangana, the then A.P. government had submitted to Bachawat Tribunal in 1973 to give preference to the projects serving the A.P. areas. As a result, Jurala project was constructed with a storage capacity of 11 tmc ft from the initially proposed 30 tmc ft. Later, instead of gravity scheme Bhima lift was taken up with surplus water in addition to some assured water given under the Left Canal of Jurala. Similarly, Nettempadu was taken up on the right side of the project also with surplus water. He brought to the KRMB Chairman’s notice that Telangana had been pleading before the Brijesh Kumar Tribunal (KWDT-II) for allocation of assured water to all projects proposed by Telangana to undo the injustice heaped on it from the beginning in the matter of river water allocation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krmb-asked-to-treat-jurala-as-completed-project/article37891821.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fighter wing prototype built in Hyderabad||US aerospace and defence major Lockheed Martin has formally recognised Tata-Lockheed Martin Aerostructures Ltd (TLMAL) as a potential future co-producer of fighter wings. Paving the way for manufacture of the fighter aircraft wings, the move follows TLMAL, a joint venture between Tata Advanced Systems Ltd and Lockheed Martin Aeronautics, building the first prototype here. Lockheed Martin and TLMAL had in 2018 entered into an agreement to develop a fighter wing prototype. “Through this prototype project, TLMAL demonstrated the capability to perform detailed part manufacturing and delivery of a fully compliant representative fighter aircraft wing shipset,” Lockheed Martin said in a release on an event marking the first fighter wing prototype built at the JV facility here. Telangana Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao, senior leadership of Lockheed Martin, Tata Advanced Systems and TLMAL participated in the event. Vice-president (Strategy and Business Development) of Lockheed Martin Integrated Fighter Group Aimee Burnett said Lockheed Martin has partnered with TLMAL to build one of the most technologically complex aerostructures — a fuel-carrying 9G, 12,000 hour, interchangeable/ replaceable fighter wing. This effort represents Lockheed Martin demonstrating to India, and to the world, the degree of confidence that exists in relationships with our partners in India, she said. The prototype development further strengthens Lockheed Martin’s partnership with India and supports its F-21 offering exclusively for India and the IAF. While expressing its interest in supplying 114 new fighter aircraft, the firm has committed to enhancing additional indigenous production capability. Mr. Rama Rao said Telangana has the most active and well supported aerospace and defence ecosystem in the country. The sector has witnessed unprecedented growth during the past five years, anchored on the progressive policies and infrastructure support provided by the government here. Govt. support assured He assured support of State government for the current and future programmes of the firm. In a tweet, he said, “the successful certification and delivery of F-16 wing is a great testimony to the heights Hyderabad aerospace and defence ecosystem has grown to in a relatively short span of time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fighter-wing-prototype-built-in-hyderabad/article37891518.ece
08 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||SI ‘commits suicide’||A sub-inspector of police allegedly committed suicide on Tuesday by consuming poison reportedly depressed by lack of promotion for a very long time. A 1991 batch sub-inspector Raghava Reddy, who is working in the Cyber Cell, reportedly did not get promotion since his joining, while many of his batchmates had already become Deputy Superintendents of Police. Some domestic problems also seem to be the cause for the extreme step. He allegedly consumed liquor laced with poison in his apartment. According to the police, the actual reason behind the extreme step was not yet known, but the cause of death was being ascertained. The body was shifted to Kurnool Government General Hospital. Helpline Those with suicidal tendencies can call 100 for counselling and guidance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/si-commits-suicide/article37891975.ece
08 December 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constable wins award for midnight bust of robbers||A constable, T. Siva Kumari, attached to Kanchikacherla police station in Krishna district, received the ‘Best Performance Certificate’ for arresting three robbers on the National Highway in the middle of the night. Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal presented the certificate of commendation to Ms. Siva Kumari, and appreciated her for showing courage in nabbing the thieves at midnight. On November 30, the Police Control Room received a call that three thieves had intercepted a lorry at around 11.45 p.m. on the National Highway near Paritala. They thrashed the driver and fled with cash and valuables. Ms. Siva Kumari, who received the alert call at the police station, began conducting vehicle checks on the National Highway. She finally intercepted the three accused on a two-wheeler and interrogated them. Finding their replies evasive, Ms. Siva Kumari clicked their photographs and forwarded them to the investigating officers. Upon being shown the pictures, the lorry driver confirmed that the trio were the same persons who had attacked and looted him. Immediately, Ms. Siva Kumari took them into custody and shifted them to the police station, thus resolving the case within a few hours, Mr. Kaushal said. “I appreciate Ms. Siva Kumari who arrested three highway robbers for her courage. She recovered the booty,” the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/constable-wins-award-for-midnight-bust-of-robbers/article37891537.ece
08 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati farmers’ march enters Chittoor district||Farmers from Amaravati bid an emotional farewell to Nellorians by kneeling down and kissing the land as their Mahapadayatra entered Chittoor district on Tuesday. “We only received bouquets, not brickbats, during the march in SPSR Nellore district,” Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti leader Rayapatti Sailaja said. The ‘Nyayasthanam to Devasthanam Mahapadayatra’ began from the handloom town of Venkatagiri after offering prayers to the chariot of Lord Venkateswara. Activists of the Telugu Desam Party, Communist Party of India, CPI(Marxist), Bharatiya Janata Party and the Jana Sena Party extended support to the farmers on the 37th day of the long march, which ended at Chintalapalem for night halt after covering a distance of 15 km. Samiti convenor A.Siva Reddy urged the police to grant permission for holding a public meeting on December 17 in Tirumala to explain their stance to the people in the wake of the State Government taking back the three capital law two years after announcing the capital trifurcation decision. The Samiti had replied to a barrage of questions put by the Chittoor police, he added. Samiti co-convenor G.Tirupati Rao pleaded with Tirupati Tirumala Devasthanams Chairman Y.V.Subba Reddy to arrange for darshan of Lord Venkateswara for 157 farmers and their families in batches. “We will follow all COVID norms,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-farmers-march-enters-chittoor-district/article37891991.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,ANDHRA PRADESH||TRS to boycott winter session over Govt.’s ‘anti-farmer attitude’||Accusing the Narendra Modi Government of being anti-farmer, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi on Tuesday said it was boycotting the remaining part of the winter session of Parliament. It said despite waiting patiently, the Government has failed to resolve the deadlock over paddy procurement from the State. TRS Parliamentary Party leader K. Keshav Rao told reporters that no elected representative likes to boycott Parliament but the TRS is being forced to do so. The party’s nine Lok Sabha MPs and seven Rajya Sabha MPs will not attend the rest of the session. “This is an anti-farmer Government, insensitive to the demands of the farmers. Today piles of grains are rotting on the roads in Telangana for the simple reason that the FCI is not lifting the produce,” he said. He also accused the BJP leaders and Ministers of making contradictory statements. Minister of Tourism Kishen Reddy gave the assurance that every single grain will be procured while Food Supplies Minister Piyush Goyal says parboiled rice will not be picked up, he said. “We got contradictory and ambiguous replies from the Government on the paddy procurement policy. For a week and a half we waited for a comprehensive response. But there is no point talking to a wall. So we are boycotting the entire session.” Party’s Lok Sabha floor leader Nama Nageshwar Rao said for nine days straight the TRS gave notice each day in both Houses to flag the issue but was denied the opportunity. “On November 24, we had a meeting with Mr. Goyal. We told him that the Centre had procured 94 lakh tonnes last year from the State and this time because we have had a bumper crop, they should increase it to 100 lakh tonnes. He said the Centre can procure only 85 lakh tonnes. During our second round of meeting on November 26, Mr. Goyal took a somersault and said the Centre can procure only 40 lakh tonnes,” Mr. Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trs-to-boycott-winter-session-over-govts-anti-farmer-attitude/article37891493.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||EC warns two officers for violation of election code||The Election Commission on Tuesday said it had cautioned the Telangana Chief Secretary to be careful during the ongoing Legislative Council polls and issue formal warnings to two officers for violating the Model Code of Conduct. “The Election Commission of India has cautioned the Chief Secretary, Government of Telangana, to exercise due care in the conduct of ongoing biennial elections to the Telangana Legislative Council as expected from the officer of his stature,” an EC statement said. The EC also directed the Chief Secretary to issue formal warnings and “displeasure of the Commission” to Municipal Administration and Urban Development Secretary C. Sudarshan Reddy and Special Chief Secretary for MA&UD Aravind Kumar “for clear violation of MCC”. “The said officers had issued a Government of Telangana order dated November 18 for enhancement of honorarium, including conveyance allowance, to mayors, chairpersons, deputy mayors, vice-chairpersons, corporators, ward members, co-option members of urban local bodies in Telangana, who are precisely the electoral college for elections to the Telangana Legislative Council. The Commission took cognisance of the violations in observing Model Code of Conduct,” the EC said. The elections from nine Local Authorities constituencies for 12 seats were announced by the EC on November 9. “The Model Code of Conduct had come into force with immediate effect on November 9 itself.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ec-warns-two-officers-for-violation-of-election-code/article37891490.ece
08 December 2021||Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stop merger of primary schools with high schools, says APTF||Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation(APTF) State president K. Bhanumurthy and State General Secretary Paruchuri Panduranga Varaprasad on Tuesday asked the State government to stop merger of primary schools with high schools since the Union government had not insisted for it under the National Education Policy. Speaking to the media here, Mr.Bhanumurthy said that the move would make schoolchildren of Classes 3 to 5 to travel at least one kilometre to reach high schools. He has also feared closure of primary schools and loss of jobs for many teachers in the State. Mr. Varaprasad said that the merger of schools would lead to denial of primary education to students since there would not be bus facility for government schools. He asked the State government to rethink on its decisions. APTF senior leader N.Chandra Sekhar was present in the media conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stop-merger-of-primary-schools-with-high-schools-says-aptf/article37892022.ece
08 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD warns FMS agencies||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy underscored the need for immediate revival of the Facility Management Services (FMS) at Tirumala. At a meeting with representatives of FMS agencies on Tuesday, Mr. Dharma Reddy said that the devotees were being subjected to hardships with the sanitation workers going on a protest demanding their absorption into the TTD, and exhorted them to deploy adequate staff to clear the garbage and maintain hygiene atop the town. “The TTD will initiate action against the agencies should they fail to address the issue within three days,” Mr. Dharma Reddy warned, and said that it would be compelled to hand over the responsibilities to a new body both at Tirumala and Tirupati in the interest of the pilgrims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-warns-fms-agencies/article37891542.ece
08 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD calendars and diaries, now available on Amazon||The famous diaries and calendars of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) for the year 2022 can be booked by devotees in India and abroad on the popular e-commerce company ‘Amazon’. The much-sought-after 12 sheet calender is priced at Rs. 130 and the diaries at Rs. 150 (big) and Rs. 120 (small). The selling price for the other products are pegged as follows: tabletop calender Rs. 75, Srivari big calendar Rs. 20, Sri Padmavathi big calendar Rs. 15, Srivaru and Ammavaru calendar Rs. 15 and Telugu Panchangam Rs. 30. The TTD’s new year special releases can also be booked on its website www.tirupatibalaji.ap.gov.in under the ‘Publications’ option. The TTD has made delivery available to even the NRI devotees through India Post on payment of prescribed charges to be delivered on a specified date. The products are already made available at the TTD publications stalls and information centres across the country. The age-old system is also available, whereby one can take a demand draft from a nationalised bank in the name of ‘Executive Officer, TTD’, payable at Tirupati, and send the same with a covering letter to ‘The Special Officer, Publications and sales wing, Press compound, Kapila Theertham Road, Tirupati – 517 501’. The package will be sent to the devotee on ‘To Pay’ system (towards postal charges). For more details, the Publications department can be contacted at 0877-226 4209.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-calendars-and-diaries-now-available-on-amazon/article37891544.ece
08 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discontent simmers among staff over TTD’s ‘indifference’||The protest tents that stand pitched in front of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) administrative office for nearly a fortnight are indication over the simmering discontent among the employees over the management’s alleged indifference. On one hand, the contract employees are protesting against the decision to get them into a newly-formed corporation, while on the other, the workers in the Facility Management Services (FMS) wing are raising their voice demanding implementation of time scale. Following the TTD’s decision to float Sri Lakshmi Srinivasa Manpower Corporation to bring all the outsourced employees working under different societies and agencies under one roof, the latter are insisting on payment on time scale basis, including DA and HRA. On the eleventh day of their protest on Tuesday, the FMS workers stood on their knees and offered ‘harathi’ to the image of Lord Venkateswara, seeking his intervention to settle their pending issues. Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) State vice-president Ajay Kumar, who addressed the workers to express solidarity, appealed to the TTD to stop bullying or harassing the workers and in turn, look at the issue in a humanitarian angle. SC directive Recalling the Supreme Court’s directive on ‘Equal pay for equal work’, he not only wondered how the TTD management could ignore the ruling, but also on the manner it was insisting the contractor to replace the agitating workers. T. Subramanyam, general secretary of TTD Contract Employees and Workers Union, said their agitation would continue till the time scale assurance was met.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/discontent-simmers-among-staff-over-ttds-indifference/article37891983.ece
08 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||As ‘deadline’ ends, government employees launch agitation||Government employees went on protest on Tuesday demanding that the State government address their 71-point list of grievances at once. As part of their agitation, the employees turned up to work wearing black badges across the State. Government employee associations had set a deadline of December 7 to the government to meet their demands. Stating that the government’s response to their demands was lukewarm, the employees went ahead with their agitation as announced a week ago. AP-JAC State president Bandi Srinivasa Rao said that they were only demanding that the government fulfil their 71 genuine demands. “The government announced only two dearness allowance (DA) payouts out of the pending seven DAs. The agitation will not stop even if the government invokes the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act, 2019. The government should have announced the PRC with 55% fitment. The government was being requested to address the employees’ issues since July but in vain. Never in my service did I see employees having to ask for their salaries to be paid on the first of every month. The government is indifferent,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. Bopparaju Venkateswarlu said that they have been requesting the government to make the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) report public. “The government was also requested to announce the DAs. The promises made to the employees were not kept. Hence, the employees were forced to launch the protest. The black badge protest would continue till December 10,” Mr. Venkateswarlu said, adding that they would participate in lunch-hour demonstrations at all offices, schools, and APSRTC depots on December 10. Protest rallies On December 13, protest rallies would be organised. On December 16, dharnas would be conducted from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Divisional-level conferences would be conducted at Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, Eluru and Ongole on December 27, 30, January 3 and 6 respectively, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/as-deadline-ends-government-employees-launch-agitation/article37891994.ece
08 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB arrests Atreyapuram Joint Sub-Registrar||ACB officials conducted raids on Atreyapuram Sub-Registrar Office and the properties of Joint Sub-Registrar, J. Venkata Varaprasada Rao, in East Godavari district on Tuesday. The sleuths unearthed properties valued about Rs. 2.5 crore, of which assets worth about Rs. 1.4 crore were reportedly identified as disproportionate assets. The ACB teams conducted raids on the house of Varaprasada Rao in Rajahmundry, Y. Ramavaram, Kakinada, Vijayawada (Gunadala), Nizampet, Medchal and Malkajgiri in Hyderabad. They found two flats, one three storied building, two plots, a four-wheeler, a bike, some bank balances, gold and silver jewellery and electronic gadgets, all worth about Rs. 2.5 crore. A native of Visakhapatnam, the accused officer joined in Stamps and Registrations Department as section writer in 1982 on compassionate grounds.  The accused is being arrested and would be produced in the ACB Special Court. The case is under investigation, authorities said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-arrests-atreyapuram-joint-sub-registrar/article37891538.ece
08 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja plantations razed||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) has destroyed ganja plantations worth Rs. 4,000 crore in 6,410 acres, in Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts under ‘Operation Parivarthana’, said Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials. As part of the operation, marijuana plantations were destroyed in 253 hamlets in 11 mandals in Andhra Odisha Border (AOB) and in East Godavari district. Bind over cases were booked against 476 NDPS offenders and history sheets were opened against the smugglers, mediators and suppliers. In all, 313 teams participated in the raids in the tribal hamlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-plantations-razed/article37891539.ece
08 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP sees fraud in plan to pool land for the poor in layouts||The TDP has accused the State government of hatching a plan to impose a burden of Rs. 2,500 crore on people under the pretext of 5% land for the poor in the layouts. The TDP is reacting to the gazette notification issued by the government making it mandatory for the owners or developers to earmark 5% of the layout to the poor. Addressing the media on Tuesday, TDP national spokesman K. Pattabhi Ram said the government was trying to pool 1,000 acres under this pretext, and questioned the need for it when it had already pooled 68,000 acres for the purpose of giving house sites to the poor. “The 1,000 acres will be about 50 lakh sq yards. If each sq yard costs Rs. 5,000 on an average, the realtors will have to pay Rs. 2,500 crore to the government. In some places, the sq yard rate may be more than Rs. 15,000,” he said. “The YSRCP government is selling government lands in the name of Build AP on the one hand and pooling lands from layouts on the pretext of housing on the other,” he alleged. The TDP leader accused the government of giving the owners or developers the option of paying money for the earmarked extent with a mala fide intention. “The government knows that the realtors prefer to pay money rather than give land in the layouts. It is therefore clear that the immediate intention of the YSRCP government is to collect money,” Mr. Pattabhi Ram alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-sees-fraud-in-plan-to-pool-land-for-the-poor-in-layouts/article37891992.ece
08 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four booked for threats||Police registered a case against four persons for allegedly threatening Mandal Parishad Development Officer (MPDO) K. Raja Vijaya, working in Inavalli mandal in East Godavari district. Following a complaint lodged by the MPDO that the accused entered her office and threatened her, police on Tuesday registered a case against Inavilli ZPTC member G. Srinivas Rao, N. Pedda Palem former sarpanch N. Tataji, Krapa Sankarayagudem former sarpanch K. Ramakrishna and another person K. Jagannadhapuram. The accused were booked under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-booked-for-threatening-ap-official/article37891481.ece
08 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM donates to Flag Day Fund||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has made a donation to the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund. A delegation led by A.P. Sainik Welfare Director Brigadier V. Venkata Reddy, VSM ( Retired) paid a courtesy visit to the Chief Minister at the camp office on Tuesday. Brigadier V. Venkat Reddy presented a memento to the Chief Minister. Home Department Principal Secretary Kumar Vishwajeet, Sainik Welfare Department assistant director V. Venkata Raja Rao, Placement Officer Bakthavatsala Reddy and Superintendent Eshwara Rao were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-donates-to-flag-day-fund/article37891545.ece
08 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR bags four awards for energy conservation||The South Central Railway (SCR) has received four National Energy Conservation Awards from the Bureau of Energy Efficiency, Ministry of Power, Government of India, for taking energy conservation measures during the year 2021. The National Energy Conservation Awards would be given every year to recognise the efforts of various industrial units, establishments and organisations that have shown exemplary performance in conservation of natural energy and effective utilisation of available energy. In SCR, the Divisional Railway Hospital in Vijayawada won first prize in the hospitals sector of the buildings category. Kacheguda Heritage Building won first prize in CPWD, State PWD and PHD sector of institutions category. Electric Traction Training Centre, Vijayawada bagged second prize in CPWD, State PWD and PHD sector of institutions category. Snahlan Bhavan (Secunderabad Divisional Headquarters Building) got the certificate of merit in CPWD, State PWD and PHD sector of institutions category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-bags-four-awards-for-energy-conservation/article37892057.ece
08 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. creating hurdles for padayatra: TDP leader||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Polit Bureau member K. Kala Venkata Rao has accused the State government of “creating hurdles” for the ongoing ‘maha padayatra’ being taken out by farmers from Amaravati region. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Mr. Venkata Rao said, “Suppressing the padayatra is highly condemnable. The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) is misusing the police machinery.” The TDP leader and former MLA lauded the farmers for continuing the padayatra for the last 37 days with courage and determination despite the hurdles. A day would come when Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would repent his three-capital decision, the TDP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-creating-hurdles-for-padayatra-tdp-leader/article37892060.ece
08 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Stir will continue till Centre drops proposal to sell VSP’||The agitation against the proposed 100% strategic sale of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) will be completing 300 days on Wednesday. The struggle committee, Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee, which was formed by the employees and trade union members, will be staging a ‘mega dharna’ on the occasion at Gajuwaka on Wednesday. Speaking to The Hindu on Tuesday, Ch. Narasinga Rao, one of the chairmen of the committee, said the struggle would be intensified in the days to come, and continue till the BJP-led Union government dropped the proposal to privatise the VSP. He pointed out that the proposal to float Expression of Interest (EoI) for coke oven batteries 3 and 4 indicated that the government was unable to get a suitable bidder for the strategic sale. The government had tried this with the Steel Melting Shop -2 and the thermal plant, and failed. “This time too we will not allow the sale to happen. The plant cannot be sold either in full or in pieces,” said Mr. Narasinga Rao. Thanking all the employees and members of the trade unions for their support to the agitation, JMS Union general secretary V. Srinivasa Rao said the BJP had been against public sector units since the beginning. The Centre should withdraw the proposal to sell the VSP as it had done in the case of the farm laws, he said. Addressing a meeting at the GVMC office, where members of the struggle committee had been staging a relay hunger strike for the last 250 days, AIDWA State president B. Prabhavathi said Visakhapatnam had grown due to the public sectors such as the VSP, and many families depended directly or indirectly on the PSUs for a living. “Employment is the key driver for societal growth, and VSP has provided that for the north Andhra region,” she said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had come to power saying he would provide employment for two crore youths. Now, instead of providing employment, his government is bent on taking away the existing jobs,” she alleged. Human chain Earlier, the women’s wing of the struggle committee organised a human chain near Jagadamba junction. Members of the wing pointed out that the Centre’s National Monetisation Policy was a ploy to privatise all core sectors such as power, Railways, telecommunication, airports and roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stir-will-continue-till-centre-drops-proposal-to-sell-vsp/article37891997.ece
08 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engineers recommend dry rubble bund as a temporary measure||A team of experts have recommended to the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) to construct a dry rubble bund as a temporary measure to check coastal erosion near the Children’s Park at Rama Krishna Beach in Visakhapatnam. According to a senior official from the Engineering Department of the GVMC, a team of experts from the Engineering Department of the GVMC, Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) and others had visited the site on Monday, where a part of the park on Beach Road caved in on Sunday. “We will be submitting a report to the higher-ups, recommending the construction of a dry rubble bund to distribute or reduce the wave energy, before they reach the shores. However, this will be a temporary measure. Unless beach nourishment is done in that area, the problem will prevail. However, it is up to the senior officials to decide whether they want a temporary arrangement or a better idea,” said the official. The coastal erosion is not new to Visakhapatnam coast. After Cyclone Hudhud that hit the city in the year 2014 and again in the year 2015, the coastal belt from Kursura Submarine to Naval Coastal Coastal Battery was affected due to erosion. After Hudhud, Andhra Pradesh Disaster Recovery Project (APDRP) was sanctioned to the cyclone hit Visakhapatnam district to take up steps to arrest the erosion along the coast.  Coastal erosion The main idea of the project was to arrest the erosion and come up with a suitable scheme to mitigate coastal erosion and prepare a shoreline management plan. The GVMC had then entrusted the responsibility to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) to a Netherlands-based company. However the project was not taken forward. A senior official of the GVMC said that issue of funds and approval from the Union Ministry of Environment & Forest (MoEF) have been the reasons for the delay in pushing the project forward. Sources in the GVMC said that after the erosion at Children’s Park, the project is likely to move ahead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/engineers-recommend-dry-rubble-bund-as-a-temporary-measure/article37892059.ece
08 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bad roads, OTS scheme to come up for discussion at GVMC meet||Repair works of roads, ward development funds, One Time Settlement (OTS) registration scheme, garbage collection taxes and a few other points are likely to come up for discussion at the fourth council meet of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) to be held on December 10. The GVMC has already prepared a 26-point agenda for the meeting. Ahead of the council meeting, corporators from the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) organised a meeting at the party office here on Tuesday. The meeting was headed by former MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao. TDP floor leader and corporator of Ward 96, Peela Srinivasa Rao, said that the council should hold discussion on OTS house registration scheme and how the GVMC’s shops and commercial establishments were reopened despite lease rents not being paid.The TDP is also likely to seek a discussion on bad condition of roads, TIDCO house allotment, apart from a few other issues in the GVMC limits. The party leaders have also submitted a representation to the GVMC Commissioner G. Lakshmisha at his office on the issues. Meanwhile, members of the CPI(M) demanded that the officials allot funds for taking up repair works of the damaged roads. Addressing the media on Tuesday, CPI(M) leader and Corporator of Ward 78, B. Ganga Rao, said that the condition of the city roads has gone worse and the corporation which promised to take up repair works in November should start them immediately. He alleged that the GVMC has proposed ward development plan for development of all the zones, but funds are not being released. The council is allotting most of the funds to Ward 6, as the corporator of that ward is the daughter of the Tourism Minister, he alleged. He said he would seek withdrawal of user charges for garbage collection from the citizens, in the coming meet. Meanwhile, members of Visakhapatnam Apartment Resident Welfare Association (VARWA) also demanded that the GVMC scrap the decision to collect fee for garbage collection in this council meet. “We have met Mayor a couple of times regarding the issue. The VARWA also requested the GVMC to take up repair works for damaged roads in all the zones,” said General Secretary of VARWA, B.B. Ganesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bad-roads-ots-scheme-to-come-up-for-discussion-at-gvmc-meet/article37892063.ece
08 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Additional Vistadome coach to be attached||An additional Vistadome coach will be attached to the 18551/18552 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul-Visakhapatnam train between Visakhapatnam and Araku from December 8 to 31 to meet extra rush of tourists visiting Araku. Similarly, one third AC (3 AC) coach will be attached to 17016 Secunderabad- Bhubaneswar express from December 1 to 31 and to 17015 Bhubaneswar-Secunderabad Visakha Express from December 3 and February 1, 2022 to meet the rush of passengers during the festival season, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. One Third AC ( 3AC) coach will be attached to 12740 Secunderabad-Visakhapatnam Garibrath from December 1 to 31, and to 12739 Visakhapatnam- Secunderabad Garibrath express from December 2 to January 1, 2022 Those intending to travel have been asked to note the changes and act accordingly. They have also been advised to adhere to COVID-19 protocols, while undertaking their journey. They can dial 139, the integrated helpline number, for basic enquiries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/additional-vistadome-coach-to-be-attached/article37892058.ece
08 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoists warn former members and public representatives||The banned CPI (Maoist) have issued a stern warning to former members of the party who have surrendered and were reportedly acting as informers to the police, through a letter released on Tuesday. The letter addressed by East Division secretary Aruna stated that many of the surrendered Maoists have turned into police informers, and the police with their help and other local informers were illegally arresting innocent tribals after branding them as Maoists. She warned that if they do not mend their ways they will have to face the consequences from the people. The Maoist leader also warned the public representatives to stand up to the alleged police atrocities or end up with the same fate as suffered by Araku MLA Kidari Sarveswara Rao and former MLA Siveri Soma. It may be remembered that both were alleged killed by the Maoists in September 2018 near Livitiput village in Dumbriguda mandal in Visakha Agency. The Maoists in the letter alleged that the police have increased their atrocities against the tribals in Visakha Agency and were illegally detaining and arresting innocent tribals. They alleged that the police were doing this to facilitate the entry of private companies into the mineral rich regions of Visakha Agency. They pointed out that the police repression will not suppress the Maoist movement but would only strengthen the resolve of the tribals to stand up to the atrocities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoists-warn-former-members-and-public-representatives/article37892025.ece
08 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Top anthropologists to attend AU conference||Anthropological Association for the Humankind (AAH), in collaboration with the Department of Anthropology of Andhra University and American Corner, is holding its first National Applied Anthropology Congress - Anthropology for India (NAACAFI) conference at Andhra University in Visakhapatnam from December 8 to 10. The theme of the conference is ‘Bringing Anthropological Applications to address the Contemporary Issues’ and a number of leading anthropologists from the United States and India, will be participating. Renowned anthropologist Prof. Arjun Appadurai will deliver the keynote address, while David Moyer of American Corner will speak at the inaugural session. The conference will be inaugurated by Prof. P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy, Vice- Chancellor of AU. Others who would be delivering talks include Prof. Bartholomew, Dean of Kansas University, Prof. Ravindranath Duggirala of UTRGV, San Antanio, Texas and Dr. Kiran Jayaram of University of South Florida, USA, Prof. Padmanesan from Sri Lanka and Dr. Don Borno from Nigeria, said Prof. P.D. Satyapal, former HoD of Department of Anthropology, AU, and convener of the conference. The conference will be held at the seminar hall, Platinum Jubilee guest house, Andhra University and will be inaugurated at 4 p.m. on Wednesday. For more details, visit websitewww.aafh.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/top-anthropologists-to-attend-au-conference/article37892066.ece
08 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book released||A book on the development of north Andhra ‘Inkaennalu e venukabatu ? - Uttara Andhra Abhivrudhi Vyuham’, penned by the general secretary of Forum of Development of North Andhra A. Aja Sarma, was released here on Tuesday. The book was released by the former V-Cof Dravidian University, K.S. Chalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-released/article37892067.ece
08 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,400 foreign returnees under scanner||The District Medical and Health Department is monitoring about 1,400 foreign returnees amid concerns of spread of the new variant of COVID-19, Omicron. The department has also started a help desk at the airport for the convenience of the returnees. According to District Medical and Health Officer S. Tirupathi Rao, the foreign returnees are being monitored since November 27. “There are no international flights running directly to Vizag. Those who are coming from high-risk countries are being quarantined, and those who are coming from other countries are being tested for COVID-19 at the respective international airports. After their arrival in Visakhapatnam, we are monitoring their health condition for a period of one to two weeks,” he said. “We collect their details at the airport. On their request, we will also conduct COVID-19 test on the spot. Their details will be uploaded into an app of the department, which alerts the ANM concerned in the mandals. The ANM will further check the health condition of the foreign returnee for two weeks,” the DMHO added. 20 new cases The district recorded 20 COVID-19 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. Thirty-four persons had recovered during the period. The total number of cases and recoveries reached 1,59,055 and 1,57,731 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1400-foreign-returnees-under-scanner/article37891995.ece
08 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Come clear on PRC report: APNGOs||Members of the APNGOs’ Association have demanded that the government come clean on the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) report and initiate a discussion with the stakeholders at the earliest. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, association State president and APJAC chairman Bandi Srinivasa Rao said the PRC was last implemented in 2018. Though the Commissioner had submitted a report on the 11th PRC about a year ago, there had been no response from the government so far. As per norms, a copy of the report is usually given to the president of the APNGOA so as to discuss any issue with the government. “But this time, thought the report has been submitted about a year ago, we have not received the copy. Even if the government initiates a discussion, we do not know what is there in the report, and so we cannot have any meaningful discussion,” he said. “The Chief Secretary has been dilly-dallying the discussion on the issue for the last two months,” he alleged. K. Eswar Rao, district president of APNGOA, recalled that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised during his padayatra that he would scrap the Contributory Pension Scheme (SCS) immediately after coming to power and revive payment of DA that had been stopped by the previous government. “It has been over two years since Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy came to power. He has neither scrapped the CPS nor revived payment of DA,” he said. Mr. Srinivasa Rao also pointed out that payment of salaries was being deferred by over 10 days every month. Disbursal of pension was being made in two or three instalments. “This is causing difficulty to the salaried class,” he said. The government had gone back on its promise on regularisation of contract workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/come-clear-on-prc-report-apngos/article37891998.ece
08 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP raises issue in LS||Member of Parliament M.V.V. Satyanarayana has urged the Union government to drop the proposal to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). Raising the issue in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, Mr. Satyanarayana pointed out that the State government had already adopted a resolution against privatisation of the VSP. He said VSP was the only steel plant in the country to get four-star rating in exports by the DG-Foreign Trade. He pointed out that VSP had made huge investments in OMDC, Odisha, but till date no raw material had reached the plant. In spite of VSP being a Navratna company, no permission had been given to it mobilise funds from public or private banks, he said. Mr. Satyanarayana also pointed out that the permission for construction of the sixth coke oven battery was pending with the Center, which was hampering its expansion plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-raises-issue-in-ls/article37891999.ece
08 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 e-bikes destroyed in fire||Around 15 e-bikes and some property were gutted when fire broke out in an e-bike showroom at Old Gajuwaka area here on Tuesday. According to reports, a short-circuit near the battery charging unit in the showroom is suspected to be the reason for the fire accident. Fire tenders rushed to the spot and doused the flames.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-e-bikes-destroyed-in-fire/article37892062.ece
08 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight-year-old girl run over by lorry||An eight-year-old girl died after being hit by a lorry while she was crossing a road at Old Pendurthi Junction here on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Malla Bhavani, a resident of Pendurthi and a Class II Student. According to Inspector of Pendurthi Police Station Ashok Kumar, the accident occurred when she was crossing the road to buy something. A lorry which was heading towards Pendurthi from Kottavalasa reportedly hit her and she died on the spot. The body was sent for post-mortem. The driver has been taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-year-old-girl-run-over-by-lorry/article37892064.ece
08 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die as bike hits median on flyover||A 22-year -old man and a 17-year-old girl died, when the two-wheeler on which they were travelling hit the median on the Telugu Thalli Flyover near Assilmetta here on Tuesday. This is the second road accident on the flyover in the last 18 days. According to Inspector of II Town, K. Venkat Rao, the incident allegedly occurred when the duo were heading towards Railway Station Junction from Assilmetta, at around 6.30 p.m.. Prasanth (22), a native of Bobbili and resident of Visakhapatnam, was working in a shop. As per the primary investigation, pillion-rider Radhika (17) had asked for a lift. The details of the girl are yet to be ascertained. In another accident, a 15-year-old girl died while two others reportedly suffered injuries when the two-wheeler on which they were travelling was hit by a speeding van, at Kotturu area under G.Madugula Police Station in Visakhapatnam Agency. The girl Varshini was identified as a Class X student. Police are investigating the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-die-as-bike-hits-median-on-flyover/article37892065.ece
08 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former AU Assistant Director passes away||Former Assistant Director, Physical Education, Andhra University, Meesala Kondala Rao (79), died here on Monday, after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife and four sons. Kondala Rao represented AU in hockey in the inter-university tournaments. He was also the secretary of the District Hockey Association. A. Prassana Kumar, former rector AU, and others condoled his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-au-assistant-director-passes-away/article37892068.ece
08 December 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Class IV student bags best model award||Former Vizianagaram MLA Meesala Geeta on Tuesday said that parents should identify hidden talent among the youngsters. She congratulated and felicitated an eight-year-old boy Mutchi Rayappa Nithish Raaj, who got the first prize in the Junior Model International Contest organised in Dubai recently. Earlier, he won a bronze medal in India International Grrovefest, a dance competition held in Bangkok. Ms. Gita hailed the boy’s grandparent M. Ramalinga Swamy and parents Naresh and Anusha for identifying the talent in Nithish Raaj who won many prizes in chess competition also. Mr. Raaj, studying fourth class, said that he would wake up at 4.30 am every day to do yoga and dance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/class-iv-student-bags-best-model-award/article37892024.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-first/article37892070.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ready, aim, fire!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ready-aim-fire/article37891547.ece
08 December 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Father-son duo electrocuted||A father-son duo were killed when they came in contact with a live electric wire allegedly laid by suspected poachers at a mango orchard located on the fringes of forests at Ranguvarigudem in Dammapeta mandal in the wee hours of Tuesday. The police identified the duo as Prodduturi Daniel, 45, and his son Balu, 22, of Ranguvarigudem. The incident occurred only 70 metres away from the reserve forest area triggering suspicion that the duo accidentally stepped on an electric trap allegedly set up by poachers around the mango farm to kill wild boars at night. Another person, who accompanied the duo, to the mango orchard in search of their missing cows, sustained injuries in the incident, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/father-son-duo-electrocuted/article37892035.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS boycotts winter session of Parliament||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has decided to boycott remainder of the winter session of Parliament stating that justice is not being done to farmers of the State by the Centre, particularly in the matter of paddy/rice procurement. The decision was announced by the Floor Leaders of the party in Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha K. Keshava Rao and Nama Nageswara Rao, respectively, after boycotting Tuesday’s session mid-way. They stated that two Union Minister had given different replies on the issue in Parliament on Tuesday continuing their (Centre’s) indifference towards the problems of Telangana farmers. “There’s no meaning sitting in Parliament when our farmers’ genuine concerns which are purely in the control of the Centre are not addressed. It’s better we continue our fight outside Parliament and explain to people the anti-farmer attitude of the Centre,” the two leaders said speaking to newspersons later in New Delhi. Mr. Keshava Rao alleged that the Centre was unmoved on farmers’ issues in spite of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) giving notices for adjournment motions in the two Houses seeking national policy on procurement of foodgrains and ensuring minimum support price to the produce of farmers in addition to seeking clarity on the issue of paddy/rice procurement in Telangana. He explained that they had decided to boycott the session as time was running out fast for paddy cultivation in the Rabi season in Telangana and appealed to the farming community not to go for the crop since the Centre had made its intension of not procuring parboiled rice, only which could be produced in Rabi in Telangana. “We have clearly asked the Centre whether it would procure parboiled rice produced in Rabi or not or what is the quantity of rice it wants to lift from Telangana in a year, even it it’s raw rice so that our State Government could guide the farmers appropriately,” Mr. Keshava Rao said. Mr. Nageswara Rao said they had been raising the issue for the last 9 days in Parliament but the Centre was unmoved. “Our concerns have fallen on deaf ears. Since we have won with the support of Telangana farmers, as also MPs of other parties in the State, we suggest them to take a stand in support of farmers”, he said and appealed to people to keep in mind the MPs who have failed to at least raise their issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-decides-to-boycott-winter-session-of-parliament/article37891824.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NIMS to get 200 ICU beds, 120 ventilators by mid-January||The struggles of finding an ICU bed at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), Panjagutta, is widely known. Now, the dearth of emergency beds has been acknowledged by none other than Health Minister T. Harish Rao, who has directed the institute administration to add 200 beds to its existing 155-bed intensive care facility. What’s more, another 120 mechanical ventilators would be provided to NIMS, which currently has 89 ventilators. The shortage of beds has been a grouse among common citizens who rely on the semi-autonomous institute for emergency medical services. Private hospitals charge anywhere around Rs. 40,000 to Rs. 1 lakh a day for ICU services. Viral spike expected Stating that the decision to provide additional medical resources was taken by the Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, the Health Minister has directed NIMS officials on Tuesday to make arrangements for the facilities by January 15 next year. Since COVID-19 cases are estimated to surge again from mid-January, the resources would be crucial. Prior to announcing the 40-day deadline for arrangement of 200 more ICU beds and 120 ventilators, Mr Harish Rao inaugurated a genetics laboratory (for detection of hereditary diseases and congenital anomalies), a Multi Disciplinary Research Unit, endoscopic equipment, a block for physiotherapy department, and some more equipment, including a bone densitometer. Head of the Physiotherapy department J. Sravan Kumar said they attend around 70 patients a day. “Now, we can attend 150 patients,” said Dr Sravan. A 200-bed Mother and Child Health Centre attached to the institute would also be opened to attend high-risk pregnancy cases. Currently, the pregnant women undergo treatment at government maternity hospitals in Sultan Bazaar, and Petlaburj. Equipment sought After inaugurating the medical resources, the Health Minister held a meeting with heads of various speciality and super speciality departments, including radiology, pathology, biochemistry and nephrology. They have asked for additional equipment to be able to provide efficient services. Mr Harish Rao said the equipment costs Rs. 153 crore, and the amount has been approved. The Minister also visited the eight-bed bone marrow transplantation unit where services are provided free of cost under Aarogyasri Health Scheme. Five patients who underwent the procedure are recovering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nims-set-for-major-infra-boost/article37891800.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Drunk driving: Hyderabad’s mix of celebration and tragedy||A taxi driver’s celebration turned out to be tragic curse for a couple at Narsingi on the capital’s outskirts. And a young businessman’s drive for food after midnight partying killed two workers at Banjara Hills in the city centre. Both taxi driver Ch. Sanjeeva and businessman Rohit Goud were ‘driving under the influence of alcohol’. Now they are facing charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. In the two instances, reported at Narsingi around 1 p.m. and the Banjara Hills around 1 a.m, police invoked Indian Penal Code Section 304 Part-II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder). Family members broke the ‘good news’ of the birth of a baby girl to Sanjeeva after Sunday midnight at Mokila village in Shankarpally of Ranga Reddy district. The overjoyed taxi driver plunged into a liquor party with his near and dear soon after hearing the news. “Looks like Sanjeeva continued the midnight celebrations and boozed till 9 a.m.,” Narsingi police said. However, he had tense moments when the newborn child developed complications after 9 a.m. and had to rush to the city to find a doctor. Milk vendor couple Durgam Raju and Mounica were riding a two-wheeler when the speeding SUV being driven by Sanjeeva rammed them. Death was instant for the couple. It is said the couple was heading to their destination in wrong direction and they were not wearing helmets. This is being verified, the investigators said. Rohit Goud was driving his Porsche Cayenne, a luxury SUV, which was bought five months ago on Banjara Hills road No. 2. He was accompanied by a friend. Investigators said both were in an intoxicated condition. Kumar Das and Ayodhya Rai were returning home after work when the overspeeding SUV ploughed into them. Death was instantaneous for them too. Breath Alcohol Concentration levels of Sanjeeva and Rohit were said to be 148 and 70 respectively. Speeds of both the vehicles at the time of accident are pending for examination by motor vehicle inspectors and evidence such as of eyewitnesses and CCTV footage are being collected, say police. Blood samples of the accused drunk drivers too were sent for diagnosis. And post-mortem of the accident victims have been completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-deadly-mix-of-celebration-and-tragedy/article37891812.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Properties under construction taxed by GHMC||Online mutation of property at the time of registration for the purpose of property tax assessment may have resulted in unfair taxation for several citizens in the city, sometimes even without their knowledge. A number of properties which have been brought under tax assessment in the current year are still under construction, and hence unoccupied. GHMC officials on the condition of anonymity share that instructions have been issued for assessment of even properties for which Occupancy Certificates have not been issued. “According to the changed system, PTIN (Property Tax Identification Number) is generated at the time of registration, which is forwarded to us. As soon as we get the number, we bring the property under the assessment,” an official informed. Though the bill collectors are to do the ground verification before assessment, in case of apartments, the tax is calculated based on the square footage mentioned in the sale deed, he said. Several property owners go for registration of the property even before construction is completed in all respects and occupancy certificate is issued. PTINs are being generated even for such properties resulting in their assessment for payment of property tax, the official shared. In the earlier system, it was the job of the bill collectors and tax inspectors to bring in the new assessments in their respective purviews. Assessment would be done only for properties which were complete in all respects, and for which occupancy certificates had been issued. However, the system gave scope for corruption in unimaginable proportions, with bill collectors harassing the property owners, and condoning a large number of illegal constructions in return for bribe. The newly introduced system, while not removing the bill collectors’ role altogether, has created a new set of problems for the owners, by taxing them ahead of completion of construction. This year, up to now, a total of 47,559 properties have been brought under assessment, garnering more than Rs. 77 crore for the civic body by way of property tax and penalties. Serilingampally circle has the highest number of assessments at 7,943, followed by Chandanagar at 4,111.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/properties-under-construction-taxed-by-ghmc/article37891818.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Mallanna’, Vittal join BJP||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has invited those who had participated in the agitation for the separate state and 'disheartened' with the TRS rule to join the party. On Tuesday, it was the turn of freelance journalist Ch. Naveen Kumar alias 'Teenmaar' Mallanna to be welcomed into the party by general secretary Tarun Chugh, TS party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, former MLC N. Ramchander Rao and others at New Delhi. "Mr. Mallanna is a true blue agitator for Telangana and targetted by the TRS government for unearthing scandals. He was put behind bars based on false non-bailable cases foisted on him. Yet he stuck to his principles and our party decided to stand by him. Neither he nor Mr. Vittal have a personal agenda but wished to put an end to this tyrannical rule. We welcome all the agitators to participate in this quest to defeat the TRS and bring in BJP rule," said Mr. Sanjay Kumar. Mr. Chugh said the TRS Government was a ‘corrupt and single family dominated government’. "I am joining the BJP to ensure that the KCR Government is defeated and solace is provided to the families of the martyrs. The Chief Minister has vowed to bury the media deep, but he will pay a price for such arrogance soon. What did the CM achieve by sending me to jail?" said Mr. Mallanna. The previous day, it was the turn of former employees union leader and ex-TS public service commission member Ch. Vittal to join the BJP. Mr. Vittal claimed there was no ‘respect’ for those who had participated in the Telangana agitation any morewith those opposing it enjoying the top posts including becoming ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mallanna-vittal-join-bjp/article37891830.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Martyrs’ kin honoured on Armed Forces Flag Day||Families of martyred servicemen from the State were honoured on the occasion of Armed Forces Flag Day. The event, organised by the Directorate of Sainik Welfare at its 10 regional offices in Telangana, was inaugurated by Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and witnessed the participation of ex-servicemen, their families, and cadets of the National Cadet Corps. The Armed Forces Flag Day is observed to commemorate the sacrifices of brave servicemen. According to a statement issued from the Directorate, the Governor ‘donated generously’ to the Armed Forces Flag Day fund. She said that India’s citizens are safe due to the relentless efforts of soldiers who are guarding the borders in hostile terrain and weather conditions, it added. Home Minister Mohammad Mahmood Ali also donated to the fund and appealed to citizens to look after ex-servicemen and their families. Director of Sainik Welfare Col. Ramesh was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/martyrs-kin-honoured-on-armed-forces-flag-day/article37891808.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSCSC blames FCI for slow lifting of last Rabi rice||Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation (TSCSC) Chairman M. Srinivas Reddy has alleged that the Centre (Food Corporation of India) has been creating problems in paddy procurement exercise and lifting of the custom milled rice pertaining to the last rabi season. He said here on Monday that movement of railway rakes had come down by 23% during the 2020-21 marketing season as against the arrangements of 1,476 rakes by November last year. The rakes arranged during the same period this year was only 1,096. Similarly, in the name of verification of stocks in some districts, the FCI had also stopped milling, told millers to stop processing paddy pertaining to the last rabi into custom milled rice (CMR) for 39 days across the State during the last two years. Further, the FCI was reducing the period of lifting the CMR from the State every year although the production of paddy had been on the rise. Citing examples, Mr. Srinivas Reddy told newspersons that in 2018-19, FCI had lifted 37 lakh tonnes of rice over 13 months and in 2019-20 it had reduced time to 12 months for lifting 64 lakh tonnes of rice. However, about one-lakh tonnes of rice was left with the State in spite of taking the matter to FCI notice explaining the COVID-19 lockdown, shortage of ‘hamalis’ and increased procurement. For 2020-21 rabi, the FCI had initially agreed to lift 56.63 lakh tonnes rice but had lifted only 28.98 lakh tonnes so far. Handing over rice to the agency was getting delayed inordinately due to lack of cooperation such as arranging storage space for CMR. On Monday (December 6) alone, about 720 lorries with CMR load were stranded at FCI godowns in 11 districts, Mr. Srinivas Reddy explained. The FCI is repaying only two months storage rent to the State while the latter is bearing the costs for six months. Similarly, the FCI is paying only Rs. 5.65 per quintal as hamali charges to Telangana, while it is paying Rs. 24.25 per quintal to Punjab and Haryana, the TSCSC chairman alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tscsc-blames-fci-for-slow-lifting-of-last-rabi-rice/article37891822.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Encroachments by Jamuna Hatcheries’||S. Harish, Collector, Medak, has reiterated that there are encroachments by Jamuna Hatcheries at Achampet village in Masaipet mandal of Medak district they have enough evidence to show that. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Mr. Harish said that in survey number 130 of Achampet total extent is 18.35 acres and it was declared as ceiling surplus land on 11-07-1990 and phodi was prepared in 1990 itself. Informing that the land was assigned to 11 landless poor, including the Ac 3 acres illegally registered on 25-03-2019, and in this survey number there is no patta land, the Collector said that the the land in survey number 130 purchased by Ms. Jamuna was illegal document as Ramarao who sold the land does not have any title on the land. The Collector said that the entire extent in Survey number 130 is ceiling surplus land and is prohibited from registrations since 2007 itself. He furnished the name of land assignees and the land was purchased on white paper transaction and records are available. “During the entire survey of the lands, representatives of Jamuna Hatcheries were present and signed in panchanama. Hence the statement made by Eatala Jamuna, wife of E Rajender is not correct,” said Mr. Harish in the statement. Referring to survey number 81 of Achampet village, the Collector said that the total extent is 16.91 acres out of which 14.05 acres was declared as ceiling surplus land and subsequently prepared phodi and was assigned to seven landless poor on 22-08-1994. The 5.36 acres of in survey number 81 purchased by Ms. Jamuna is illegal document as the same is assigned land, he added. The Collector said that an extent of 14.05 acres land is illegally occupied by laying pillar structures and roads by Jamuna Hatcheries in the land belonging to assignees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/encroachments-by-jamuna-hatcheries/article37891826.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Farmers’ interests pawned at Centre’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and Lok Sabha member A. Revanth Reddy alleged that the farmers’ interests were compromised at Centre by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to avoid issuance of notices by Enforcement Directorate (ED) in land dealing involving his son and Minister K. T. Rama Rao. He wondered whether any of the farmers’ issues were addressed and why the TRS members in Parliament stopped their agitation. He called upon people to ‘attack’ TRS leaders with eggs, stones and sticks. “Like I predicted yesterday, the TRS members have boycotted the winter session of Parliament. This was done as part of an agreement between Mr Chandrasekhar Rao and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Chief Minister came back empty- handed from Delhi despite all his huge claims. Let the Chief Minister tell what he achieved from his Delhi tour,” said Mr. Revanth Reddy while speaking to reporters at New Delhi on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-interests-pawned-at-centre/article37891828.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New cases over 200 for second time in 3 days||The daily COVID-19 caseload in Telangana crossed 200 on Tuesday, the second time this month. Of the 40,730 samples examined, 203 turned up positive for coronavirus. It was on December 4 that 213 infections were recorded. With this, the gradual spike in new cases continues. The new 203 infections on Tuesday included 87 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 19 from Rangareddy, and 12 each from Medchal-Malkajgiri and Karimnagar. No infection was recorded in five districts. The State’s case tally now stands at 6,77,341. One more person died on the day, taking the death toll to 4,001.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-cases-over-200-for-second-time-in-3-days/article37891803.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Expedite paddy procurement, Kishan Reddy tells TRS govt.||Union Minister for Tourism, Culture and Northeast States Development G. Kishan Reddy urged the TRS Government to end the paddy farmers’ distress in Telangana and immediately expedite paddy procurement as more than 15 lakh metric tonnes remained to be purchased this season. “The Central government is committed to lifting any amount of raw rice or boiled rice produced this agriculture season. The Central and State officials will meet again in February to discuss about the procurement for the forthcoming season. This has been made clear time and again by my colleague Piyush Goyal and myself umpteen times, therefore it is not fair to put the farmers under duress any more,” he said on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference at the party office in New Delhi along with general secretary Tarun Chugh, the Minister charged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his government of resorting to a ‘deliberate and pre-planned vicious propaganda’ against the Centre on paddy procurement related issues as soon as the Huzurabad bypoll result came in, to ‘mislead’ the Telangana people and ‘divert the attention’ from the government’s own failures,” he claimed. Mr. Reddy said the paddy procurement was to the tune of Rs. 27,000 crore last year and no one can say the BJP led Government is against the paddy farmers or will take decisions to hurt them. “We can take up adequate technology upgrades in the rice mills and use better quality seeds to ensure raw rice is only produced and not boiled rice. Farmers need not be penalised for this as they do not grow boiled rice,” he maintained. The TRS Party and Mr. Rao in particular have been resorting to ‘vile abuses’ against the Centre, obstructing the Parliament proceedings and holding protests at Indira Park, while protest is a democratic right, the Government should not delay the procurement this season any more, he said. “It is unfortunate that the Chief Minister claims that the paddy procurement agreement with the Centre was forced upon him at knife point. Does it mean the central officers are wicked and officers from the state are hapless?,” he questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expedite-paddy-procurement-kishan-reddy-tells-trs-govt/article37891831.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Harish for completing online audit of all depts||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has directed the Finance department officials to complete online audit of all the departments ensuring that there are no objections in the next five to six months. The audit wing was entrusted with the responsibility of effective utilization of funds released by the government avoiding misuse of public money. The officials concerned should accordingly focus on conducting audit in a fool-proof manner to check whether there were instances of misuse. Instances of misuse, if any, should be brought to the notice of the government department-wise. The Minister reviewed the functioning of the audit wing of the department with senior officials on Tuesday. He recalled that the State won accolades from the Central Government by ensuring 100 per cent online auditing of Panchayat Raj department and said steps should be taken to resolve objections raised in panchayats, municipalities and municipal corporations to ensure total recovery. In this context, he appreciated the Ranga Reddy district administration for resolving 2,400 objections and ensuring Rs. 1.26 crore revenue to the State exchequer and wanted the other districts to emulate the process. The Minister exhorted the officials to take steps to ensure that all te departments were covered under online audit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-for-completing-online-audit-of-all-depts/article37891832.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Junior doctors end stir, to resume duty today||Junior doctors, who had boycotted non-emergency services for the past few days over delay in conducting NEET-PG counselling, called off their strike on Tuesday evening. Telangana Junior Doctors Association members said they were calling off the strike as COVID cases are on the rise in the State and the new strain, Omicron, with high infectivity rate is on the horizon. “To prevent hampering public access to healthcare services, we have decided to call off the strike and resume duties from Wednesday. However, we would continue to show our support for the cause by continuing protests through other means,” the junior doctors stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/junior-doctors-end-stir-to-resume-duty-today/article37891804.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dalit’s torture: two police officials suspended||Nalgonda Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath on Tuesday recommended suspension of two officials of Nalgonda Town-II police from service for torturing a Dalit man in custody. The recommendation came after inquiry officer SP (DTC) Satish Chodagiri presented facts collected from various sources, including the victim and the doctor who treated him, and stated that the station police officers were guilty. Mr. Ranganath, on Sunday, directed for the inquiry after posts and videos alleging police’s action went viral. He also stated that the victim, Royya Srinivas, was summoned to the police station on November 10 in connection with a cheating case filed against him on July 6. Based on Mr. Ranganath’s recommendations, Hyderabad Range DIG V.B. Kamalasan Reddy passed orders placing sub-inspector D. Narsimhulu and constable SK. Nagulmeera on suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dalits-torture-two-police-officials-suspended/article37892032.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Adopt geospatial tech for all-round development’||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Tuesday underscored the significance of deploying geospatial technologies in a number of areas, particularly for sustainable development. Inaugurating GeoSmart India Conference-2021, which had ‘Advancing the role of geospatial knowledge in Indian economy’ as its theme, the Governor said this, highlighting the transformational changes happening in geospatial technologies like mapping, surveying, remote sensing and geographical information systems. “It is time we need to explore and apply all these technologies for the all-round development of the country... for progress and sustainability,” she said. Better application of geospatial technologies and tools can promote sustainable development practices in agriculture, she said, listing transport, defence, internal security and infrastructure as the areas that are bound to benefit. Earlier, Adviser to the Prime Minister, Amit Khare virtually launched the India Geospatial “Artha” report. Currently valued at Rs. 38,972 crore, India’s geospatial economy has potential to touch Rs. 63,100 crore, at 12.8%, by 2025-end, the report said. Kiran Kumar, Vikram Sarabhai Professor-ISRO, was among those who addressed the conference. The Centre is in the process of finalising the draft National Geospatial Policy and the Indian Satellite Navigation Policy. It has already implemented Guidelines for Geospatial Data (Guidelines for acquiring and producing geospatial data and geospatial data services including maps) in 2021, Geospatial World, the organisers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/geospatial-tech-key-to-all-round-development/article37891805.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Decomposed body found inside public water tank||An unidentified body of a man in decomposed state was found inside the overhead public water tank at Ramnagar municipal division, under Musheerabad police limits, on Tuesday. The discovery was made by staff of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board at around 4.30 p.m., when they reached the tank top for periodic maintenance. The tank, located at Risalagadda of Hari Nagar, officials said has been in use. Musheerabad police said they were alerted by the cleaning staff, when after emptying the tank, they were preparing to descend into it and clean. “The man’s footwear was kept aside neatly, and his age is suspected to be between 25 and 30,” an official said, adding that the time of death could be at least one week ago. Police are looking at any CCTV footage leading to the incident and suspicion of suicide and murder are also not ruled out. A case of suspicious death was registered.Meanwhile, Water officials have declared that supply will be stopped over the next two days to complete required procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/decomposed-body-found-inside-public-water-tank/article37891813.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man gets lifer for POCSO offence||The First Addl. Metropolitan Sessions Judge at Hyderabad, B. Suresh, on Tuesday convicted one Pausula Pedda Phakirappais, a labourer hailing from Kodangal, of sexually assaulting a five-year-old girl in July 2019. Police said the accused was nabbed and the girl rescued based on CCTV footage, after she went missing from her school near Langer House. Phakirappais was awarded life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 28,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-gets-lifer-for-pocso-offence/article37891816.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Online teacher training launched||Minister for Education P. Sabitha Indra Reddy launched the online training classes for teachers of government schools in tune with the changing methods of imparting education/knowledge following the COVID-19 pandemic. She said the training classes were launched to help teachers improve their teaching skills. As most of the parents were keen on getting their children educated in English medium of instruction, the State Government had introduced English medium classes in government schools. As the teachers needed to scale up their skills for imparting education in English medium, the government was taking up training programmes in a phased manner, she said. Director of School Education A. Sridevasena was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/online-teacher-training-launched/article37891833.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress digital membership drive from tomorrow||The Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) would launch digital membership drive from December 9, on the birthday of party president Sonia Gandhi. This will also coincides the declaration on the formation of Telangana State by the then United Progressive Alliance (UPA) Government. Speaking at a press conference at Gandhi Bhavan on Tuesday, TPCC working president Mahesh Kumar Goud said that the digital membership in the state was taken up here as a pilot project in the country and they were targetting a membership of about 30 lakh and there will be around 34,000 workers enrolling the party members. Referring to paddy procurement, Mr. Goud alleged that TRS and BJP are playing drama at the cost of farmers. “ KCR has been telling lies that the government had already procured 30 lakh metric tonnes of paddy. We will chase the government till the last grain of paddy was procured,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-digital-membership-drive-from-tomorrow/article37892033.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC vacates stay order on CBI, ED probe||Telangana High Court has vacated the order staying investigation by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate against the bank accounts (which were declared fraud accounts by the Reserve Bank of India) of some private companies. This paved way for continuation of the probe by the CBI and the ED authorities into the bank transactions of noted companies like Coastal Projects, Ind-Barath, Transstroy, VNR Infra and VMC Systems. The stay vacation order was passed by a bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice N. Tukaramji. The RBI on July 1, 2016 issued a master circular under section 35-A of Banking Regulation Act declaring bank accounts of the companies as fraud. Challenging this circular, owners of the companies moved the HC. The petitioners’ counsel contended that issuing the circular without hearing the responses of the companies was against principles of natural justice. The RBI should have permitted directors of the companies to express their version on the matter, he argued. The lawyer said the RBI had claimed that forensic audit of the accounts of the companies was conducted. However, the said forensic audit report was not given to the company directors, he contended. Advocate General B.S. Prasad, appearing for State Bank of India made it clear that the RBI had issued circular about the fraud accounts only after conducting the forensic audit of the bank accounts of the companies. The companies secured hundreds of crores of loans from consortium of banks. Unable to pay back the loan amounts, they applied for liquidation. The matter was posted to April 7 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-vacates-stay-order-on-cbi-ed-probe/article37891825.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Contractual staff seek hike in salary||Ward boys employed at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences on a contractual basis have sought a hike in pay. In a representation submitted to Health Minister T. Harish Rao, they have stated that their monthly salary has remained around Rs. 14,700 for the past 20 years, and that it be raised to Rs. 21,000. The representation was submitted by NIMS Contract Employees Union. Around 1,300 ward boys are working on contractual basis at the institute. Some of them are assigned to emergency wards and operation theatres while others work as lab technicians, lift operators, and in other sections. Besides a hike in salary, they have also sought regularisation of jobs and assurance of free medical treatment post retirement age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contractual-staff-seek-hike-in-pay-job-regularisation/article37891801.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||44 women heading to Gulf ‘for work’ rescued||Timely action of the officials at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport prevented 44 women, who only had a temporary visa, from boarding a flight to Kuwait on Tuesday. The women were being taken to Kuwait and neighbouring countries as ‘employees and household helps’, an official said. All the women were in the age group of 20-45, said the RGIA police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/44-women-heading-to-gulf-for-work-rescued/article37891810.ece
08 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Medipally SI caught by ACB||Anti-Corruption Bureau officials on Tuesday trapped a sub-inspector of Medipally police while accepting a bribe of Rs. 10,000 for favour of an official duty. SI Yadagiri Raju was the investigating officer in an accident reported on November 28. Petitioner Prashant, son of Mr. Srinivas who fractured his leg in the accident, had approached ACB as the officer demanded money to clear a certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medipally-si-caught-by-acb/article37891815.ece
08 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Farmer dies of heart attack at paddy procurement centre||A 70-year-old farmer died of heart attack while filling his paddy produce in gunny bags at the paddy procurement centre in Abadi Jammikunta village in Jammikunta mandal on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Bitla Iylaiah of Abadi Jammikunta. The incident triggered widespread protests with the family members of the deceased staging a demonstration in front of the procurement centre. The grief-stricken relatives of the deceased blamed the alleged delay in procurement of paddy for the death of the farmer. Local BJP cadres joined the protests expressing solidarity with the aggrieved family members of the deceased farmer. Tension gripped the procurement centre as the protesters prevented attempts by the officials to shift the body of the deceased to the mortuary seeking action against those allegedly responsible for the incident. Heartrending scenes were witnessed at the centre when Lakshmi, wife of Iylaiah, cried inconsolably and narrated the ordeal suffered by her husband in disposing of the paddy produce, blaming “inordinate delay” in procurement of paddy for his death. The protesters relented following an assurance by the Revenue officials to order a detailed inquiry into the incident. Meanwhile, in a statement the Additional Collector Shyam Prasad Lal said Iylaiah died of a sudden heart attack while filling paddy in gunny bags at the procurement centre. Iylaiah brought around 50 bags of paddy to the procurement centre run by the Primary Agricultural Marketing Society at Abadi Jammikunta on December 4. He was issued a token for purchase of paddy on December 6, he said, adding that 40 gunny bags were given to him the same day. An inquiry conducted by a senior inspector of the office of the District Cooperative Officer on Tuesday afternoon found no fault of the in-charge of the procurement centre or the CEO concerned, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmer-dies-of-heart-attack-at-paddy-market/article37891797.ece
08 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha Assembly passes resolution on ‘Paika Bidroh’||A day after the Biju Janata Dal parliamentary party demanded acknowledgement of the ‘Paika rebellion’ as the first war of Indian Independence struggle, the Odisha Assembly on Tuesday adopted a resolution urging the Centre to reconsider its decision on the recognition. The Centre had refused to grant the ‘Paika rebellion’ the status of first war of Indian Independence. Responding to a question in the Upper House of Parliament on December 2, Union Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy said, “The matter was examined in consultation with the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) under the Ministry of Education. As per the comments received from the ICHR, Paika rebellion cannot be called the First War of Independence,” he said, adding that it had been decided to include it as a ‘case-study’ in the Class 8 history textbook of NCERT, which deals with the 1857 event. “The 1817 Paika Bidroh is a glorious chapter in Indian history. It helped accelerate subsequent long and organised freedom struggle,” reads the resolution passed by the Odisha Assembly on Tuesday. According to the resolution, the State Government has identified nine acres of land in Khordha district for building a memorial on the ‘Paika Bidroh’ and organised workshops and seminars for its publicity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/odisha-assembly-passes-resolution-on-paika-bidroh/article37891898.ece
08 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||CPI(M) rules out poll understanding with BJD||Terming the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) a “shadow of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)”, the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) on Tuesday ruled out any electoral understanding with the regional party for the upcoming panchayat and civic body polls. The CPI(M) held its 22nd State Committee meeting recently at Rourkela where the party’s national general secretary Sitaram Yechury attended as a speaker. Ali Kishore Pattnaik has been re-elected the party Odisha’s State secretary. “The biggest crisis being faced by Odisha now is the growth of the BJP in the State, and the BJD is solely responsible for installing the BJP here. The promotion of Hindutva and the communal division of society, which the BJP espouses, are also being witnessed in Odisha,” Mr. Pattnaik said. “The BJD is not ready to confront the BJP politically. The BJD has been working as an undeclared ally of the BJP in the State. The regional party has extended support to all the anti-people programmes of the BJP, including anti-farmer and anti-labour laws both inside and outside the Parliament,” he said. The CPI(M) leader said economic policies that suit the corporate world are being implemented in Odisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cpim-rules-out-poll-understanding-with-bjd/article37891895.ece
08 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. holds protest against ‘job scams’||The Haryana Congress leaders and workers on Tuesday staged a demonstration in Panchkula against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party government in the State, accusing it of patronising irregularities in jobs through the Haryana Public Service Commission and the Haryana Staff Selection Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-holds-protest-against-job-scams/article37891955.ece
08 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘Punjab Govt. patronising sand mafia’||Aam Aadmi Party convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday hit out at the Congress Government in Punjab, accusing it of patronising the “sand mafia” in the State. He alleged that the “sand mafia” runs an illegal business of over Rs. 20,000 crore annually. Mr. Kejriwal, who was on a one-day visit to the State, in Amritsar said there are allegations of direct involvement of the Congress MLAs, Ministers and close associates. “When the allegations of the involvement of Congress MLAs and Ministers, including the Chief Minister, in the sand mafia and many other illegal activities are being levelled, then who will protect the interests of the general public?” said Mr. Kejriwal. Mr. Kejriwal said earlier the ‘Badals’ and the BJP looted Punjab by patronising the mafia during their regime. In Kartarpur, Mr. Kejriwal launched the party’s ‘World’s Largest Women Empowerment Campaign’. He released a ‘missed call number’, saying that women can give a missed call and they would be given Rs. 1,000 per month after the formation of the AAP Government in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjab-govt-patronising-sand-mafia/article37891721.ece
08 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Muslim Council rejects clerics’ namaz deal||A day after the Gurugram Imam Sangathan in a meeting with right-wing groups and the administration agreed not to hold namaz at 20 designated places, the Gurgaon Muslim Council submitted a memorandum to the office of Deputy Commissioner on Tuesday, rejecting the proposal as “fraudulent”. It also demanded setting up of a committee for an amicable solution to the controversy over offering of namaz in the open. The council, in the memorandum, said the Muslims would continue to offer Jumma Namaz at all the 37 sites agreed upon in 2018, and demanded that the district administration ensure law and order was maintained. The delegation comprised members of the Gurgaon Muslim Council and several imams, including Mufti Mohammad Saleem Qasmi, president, Jamiat-Ulama-i-Hind, Gurugram, and  Muslim Ekta Manch chairman Hazi Shahzad Khan. “We have come in large numbers along with the imams to show that those who were part of the agreement yesterday [on Monday] were just a handful of people and not true representatives of the community,” said Gurgaon Muslim Council member Altaf Ahmed. Mr. Khan said those present in the meeting on Monday were not even residents of Gurugram. The memorandum said the meeting between the imams and Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti leaders was “absolutely fraudulent and illegal”, which was held “secretly and in a suspicious manner”. The document said the submission of the Gurgaon Muslim Council to the office of Deputy Commissioner that “Muslims in general do not trust Muslim Rashtriya Manch or a handful of maulvis, and they are not the voice of genuine and reasonable Muslim citizens of Gurugram, has once again been ignored”. The council, through the memorandum, demanded that the Chief Minister constitute a truly representative committee on the matter. Mr. Ahmed said Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg assured them to look into their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/muslim-council-rejects-clerics-namaz-deal/article37891708.ece
08 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||JJP looking to expand base beyond its bastion||Three years after the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) came into existence, breaking away from the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), the party is gearing up to commemorate its third foundation day on December 9 by holding a rally. In fact, it is for the first time that the party is celebrating its foundation day on a large scale, with the first two occasions marred by different reasons. But it is the choice of the venue for the foundation day celebration by the party — with a majority of its support base among the Jats across the rural belt of Jind-Hisar-Kaithal — that has a political message for its opponents with a hint to expand its base beyond its bastion. The rally’s venue, Jhajjar, a south Haryana district, is considered a stronghold of the Hoodas and also shares border with Gurugram-Rewari-Mahendragarh-Ahirwal belt that swears by BJP Lok Sabha MP and Minister of State for Statistics and Programme Implementation Rao Inderjit Singh, the scion of Rao Tula Ram. ‘Message for Hoodas’ “The rally has a message for the Hoodas about the growing popularity of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala among the youth in the State. Also, the JJP senses an opportunity in south Haryana with Mr. Singh, aged 70, being at the fag end of his political career and the youth in the region at political crossroads looking for a new young dynamic leadership,” said Yashesh Yadav, party’s Gurugram spokesperson. Meo Muslims-dominated Nuh, another south Haryana district with three Assembly constituencies, has been a traditional bastion of the INLD since Chaudhary Devi Lal days and Mr. Chautala has been active in the district for more than a year now holding rallies and meeting workers. Hooda criticised Responding to former Minister and Congress leader Geeta Bhukkal’s comment on the JJP’s choice of venue, Digvijay Chautala, general-secretary, JJP, had retorted saying that entire Haryana was the home-turf of the party unlike former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda who resorted to the politics of regionalism during the Congress rule. According to the party leaders, the JJP wants to shake-off its image of being a party of a particular community and region, and expand to the urban areas, aiming at the educated youth and the women. . The expansion plans for the party have also been necessitated by the erosion of its traditional support base among farmers and Jats. Having voted for the JJP against the BJP, a section of Jat voters was already alienated from the party after it extended support to the saffron party for government formation, and the party suffered further loss of face for failing to take a firm stand against the farm laws during the farmers agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jjp-looking-to-expand-base-beyond-its-bastion/article37891717.ece
08 December 2021||Haflong (Assam),||3 killed by militants||Three people were killed and eight others injured after being allegedly thrashed by DNLA militants in Assam's Dima Hasao district, police said on Tuesday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-killed-by-militants/article37891896.ece
08 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Infighting in Rajasthan BJP continues despite Shah’s visit||Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s emphasis on collective leadership and his reluctance to project anyone as the chief ministerial face for the 2023 Assembly election during his recent visit to Rajasthan is unlikely to end infighting in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s State unit. The power tussle among the rival factions is set to continue despite the attempts to reunite them. Mr. Shah visited Jaipur for a day on Sunday to address a ‘Jan Pratinidhi Sankalp Sammelan’ and a closed-door BJP working committee meeting after attending a function associated with the Border Security Force in Jaisalmer. This was his first visit to the State after the BJP was voted out of power in 2018. Two-third majority Amid the deepening divide between the supporters of former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje and those opposing a bigger role for her within the party, Mr. Shah exuded confidence that the BJP would win the 2023 election with two-third majority. He declared that the party would contest the Assembly poll under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The faction led by BJP State president Satish Poonia, expecting Mr. Shah to pass some remarks on Ms. Raje’s recent tour to southern Rajasthan apparently to assert her dominance in the party, was left disappointed. On the contrary, Mr. Shah described Ms. Raje as a ‘yashaswi’ (illustrious) former Chief Minister in one of his speeches. The BJP workers in the State are a demoralised lot after the rout faced by the party in the recent Assembly by-elections at Udaipur division’s Dhariawad and Vallabhnagar seats. Ms. Raje, who did not join the election campaign despite being named as one of the star campaigners, later went on a yatra to the same region to pay obeisance at some prominent temples and meet the families of the departed party leaders. Dismisses accusations Mr. Shah dismissed accusations that the BJP had tried to topple the Congress Government in the State last year and dared the ruling party to hold early elections to confirm if it enjoyed people’s support. He also ensured the presence of all senior leaders with him on the dais in an attempt to depict unity in the party. Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who represents the Jodhpur constituency in the Lok Sabha, accompanying Mr. Shah in both Jaisalmer and Jaipur, was also seen as the latter’s attempt to send across a political message. Ms. Raje had effectively stalled Mr. Shekhawat from being appointed the State party chief in 2018 despite him having Mr. Shah’s backing. Mr. Shah later appointed Madan Lal Saini as a compromise candidate. Cong. ridicules attempts Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra ridiculed the BJP’s attempts to show unity when it was clear that each of the senior leaders had “high ambitions”. Mr. Dotasra said the way the Home Minister has accorded importance to Mr. Shekhawat and ignored others had indicated that he would be the face for the Chief Minister in the run-up to the election. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot also took exception to some of Mr. Shah’s remarks about the handling of the COVID-19 pandemic in the State. He said Mr. Shah’s charge that the State Government had not provided sufficient relief to the people was wrong, as special packages had been released and financial assistance provided to different sections in addition to making “outstanding arrangements” for treatment of infected persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/infighting-in-rajasthan-bjp-continues-despite-shahs-visit/article37891724.ece
08 December 2021||Kolkata,||‘No Central forces for Kolkata municipal corporation polls’||There will be no deployment of Central forces for elections to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation ( KMC). The West Bengal State Election Commission (WBSEC) has informed Raj Bhawan that they are holding polls with deployment of personnel of the State police and the Commission is not in favour of requisitioning Central Amed Police Forces (CAPF). Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had sought details from WBSEC about deployment of forces for the civic polls. Officials of the WBSEC had earlier held discussion with the Kolkata Police and the State Home Department officials on deployment of personnel of State police for the civic polls. Polling for the 144 ward of Kolkata Municipal Corporation is scheduled for December 19. According to sources, WBSEC is likely to deploy 23,000 personnel for the polling. State’s Assembly poll was held earlier this year in eight phases with huge deployment of Central forces. Meanwhile, the West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wrote to the WBSEC, recalling the situation in 2013 when the State Election Commission had approached the Supreme Court for deployment of Central forces for local body elections. “On few earlier occasions we have approached the Commission for deployment of CAPF, each time we have been told this will be decided once the State government submits the policing plan. We seek your confirmation that the Commission is taking steps to deploy CAPF,” a letter by BJP leaders addressed to the Commissioner of WBSEC, said. The BJP has also approached the Supreme Court seeking deployment of Central forces for polls to KMC. In the letter addressed to WBSEC, the BJP has sought Electronic Voting Machines used for the civic polls should be supported by VVPATs. BJP leaders led by Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari first visited the office of WBSEC and later met the Governor on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-central-forces-for-kolkata-civic-body-polls/article37891722.ece
08 December 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra EC stays polls for OBC seats in local bodies||A day after the Supreme Court scrapped the Maharashtra Government ordinance giving 27% reservation to OBCs in the local body polls, the State Election Commission on Tuesday stayed the election process on seats reserved for OBCs in the local civic bodies that are going to polls on December 21. A total of 106 municipal panchayats, Bhandara and Gondiya zilla parishad and 15 panchayat samitis under these ZP are going for polls on December 21. In addition, bypolls for four municipal corporation seats and 7,130 vacants posts in grampanchayats are also going for polls. State Election Commissioner U.P.S. Madan said that elections on seats reserved for OBCs have been stayed as per the Supreme Court order. “However elections on general seats and those reserved for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe will continue as per the schedule,” he said. Elections on 23 seats in Bhandara and Gondiya ZP, 45 seats in panchayat samitis, 344 seats in municipal panchayats and one seat in municipal corporation have been stayed. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Minister and senior OBC leader from Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Chhagan Bhujbal, on Tuesday said that 54% community not getting electoral representation is nothing but injustice. ‘Battle will continue’ “The State Government has formed the backward class commission. At a time when census is not being conducted due to the pandemic, collecting empirical data is an herculean task. However the State Government will continue the court battle and we are in constant touch with senior lawyers regarding this,” he said. Mr. Bhujbal pointed out that the file concerned to the backward class commission should not be kept pending in the administration. “No representation to the 54% community in local bodies is nothing but injustice and one needs to sort this out,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-ec-stays-polls-for-obc-seats-in-local-bodies/article37891720.ece
08 December 2021||Mumbai,||Bail pleas of Deshmukh aides rejected||A special court on Tuesday rejected the bail pleas filed by the personal secretary and personal assistant of Maharashtra’s former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in a money laundering case. The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court rejected the pleas of Sanjeev Palande (personal secretary) and Kundan Shinde (personal assistant). Arrests under PMLA They were both arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on June 26 under Section 3 (offence of money laundering) and 19 (power to arrest) of PMLA and sent to judicial custody on July 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bail-pleas-of-deshmukh-aides-rejected/article37891954.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||After SC rap, efforts stepped up to control air pollution in Delhi||Since the Supreme Court started coming down heavily on the Delhi and the Central Governments over air pollution in the city in the first half of November, there has been a jump in actions in this regard, especially in the checks on polluting vehicles, data accessed by The Hindu shows .  The average number of inspections carried out by the Delhi Transport Department every day to check visibly-polluting vehicles and ones without a Pollution Under Control Certificate has increased by 248.1%. From November 1 to 15, a total of 1,97,973 such inspections were done, while between November 26 and December 6, i.e. 11 days, 5,05,468 inspections were carried out. On November 17, hearing a case of air pollution, Chief Justice N.V. Ramana said, “In the entire country, what I have observed as a judge, and earlier as Advocate General, is that the bureaucracy has developed an inertia, an apathy... They wait for the court to pass an order even on things like how to stop a car or a fire by using a bucket or a mop.” The court on December 2 gave the Government 24 hours to find a way or make way for the Supreme Court to act on air pollution. There is also an increase in actions ranging from checks at construction sites to the length of road covered by mechanical road sweepers and the length of road on which water sprinkling has been done. Between November 17-25 and November 26-December 6, the number of km of roads cleaned by mechanised road sweeping machines daily jumped by 23.9%. Also, the number of km of roads on which water sprinkling was done went up by 34.8%, as per the data. The jump is mainly due to increased monitoring and daily reports on actions taken by departments, which are sent to the Chief Secretary, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/after-sc-rap-efforts-stepped-up-to-control-air-pollution-in-delhi/article37891711.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Riot accused shared common object of unlawful assembly’||In the first conviction in the 2020 Delhi riots cases, a local court has noted that even though the evidence did not point to the accused entering and vandalising the complainant’s house, the fact that he, armed with a wooden rod, was present in the mob which resorted to violence against Muslims, “indicates that he shared the common object of the unlawful assembly”. The order convicting Dinesh Yadav alias Michael, which was delivered by Additional Sessions Judge Virender Bhat on Monday, was made available on Tuesday. Seven public witnesses (PWs) deposed before the court. In its order, the court noted that the statements of two public witnesses clearly indicated that the accused was part of an unlawful assembly of 200-300 rioters on February 25, which indulged in large-scale riots in the E-Block of Chaman Park in Bhagirathi Vihar. Four witnesses The court also stated that four public witnesses had deposed that the rioters comprising an unlawful assembly, belonged to the Hindu community, whereas the victims who were beaten and whose houses and shops were vandalised, looted and burnt belonged to the members of the Muslim community. Further noting that the accused was part of the mob and shared the common object of unlawful assembly, the court said: “The mere fact that he was not seen entering the complainant’s house or vandalising or looting or putting it on fire, does not mean that he was a mere bystander”. ASJ Bhat stated that there was nothing on record to show that the accused had disassociated himself from the unlawful assembly and he did not share the common object of the assembly. Held guilty Hence, the court noted that even though the evidence on record does not indicate that the accused had directly committed the offences involved in this case, yet he is to be held guilty of all those offences which have been committed by the members of the unlawful assembly “for the reason that he shared the common object of other members of the assembly and knew that these offences are likely to be committed in prosecution of the common object of the assembly”. The accused was convicted for the offences, including IPC sections pertaining to rioting, vandalism and unlawful assembly. The arguments on sentencing will take place on December 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/riot-accused-shared-common-object-of-unlawful-assembly/article37891703.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man kills three-month-old boy after quarrel with wife||A three-month-old boy was murdered by his father in outer north Delhi’s Bhalswa Dairy, the police said on Tuesday, adding that the accused has been arrested. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Brijendra Yadav said a PCR call was received on December 3 at 10.30 p.m. when the caller said a man had killed his child. When the police reached the spot on Mangal Bazar Road, they found the accused, Ravi, 26, in an inebriated state. The child was found unconscious and injured in the house. He was taken to Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. “According to the medico legal certificate, the child’s skull was found broken,” Mr. Yadav said. ‘Drinking problem’ Neighbours said that the couple had been living on rent for the last one month and they were both labourers. They used to fight regularly and both of them had a “drinking problem”, a neighbour said. “Because of the constant drinking and fighting, the owner of the house had also asked them to leave, after which they had apologised and continued to stay,” she said. On December 3, neighbours said they heard the couple fighting after which one of them knocked on the door asking them to stop. “The woman then came out shouting that her child had been killed by her husband. When we peeped inside, the child was lying unconscious,” the neighbour said. A senior police officer said that during interrogation, it was revealed that both were under the influence of alcohol. They used to often fight over keeping the child because the wife was working in Azadpur and Ravi was unemployed. Therefore, he had to take care of the child, which frustrated him. On the night of the incident, Ravi threw the child on the floor, the officer said. The police have registered a case.  The woman came out shouting that her child had been killed by her husband Neighbour||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-kills-three-month-old-boy-after-quarrel-with-wife/article37891697.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vagabond found dead||A vagabond was found dead in outer north Delhi’s Narela, the police said on Tuesday. The police said that a PCR call was received around 9 a.m. stating that a 40-year-old man was found dead. “He was identified as Hari Narayan Yadav of Darbhanga. There was no visible injury marks on his body. His Aadhaar card and mobile phone were found in his possession,” a senior police officer said. Those known to him and living close by on the roadside said that he had not been feeling well for the last few days. “His body has been sent for post-mortem at Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital. We don’t know whether he died of cold or he was suffering from a disease,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/vagabond-found-dead/article37891704.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘BJP-ruled civic body is trying to seal temples’||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday alleged that the BJP-governed East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) is trying to seal temples in Delhi and forcing them to pay property tax. “It is the first time since the rule of Aurangzeb that someone has dared to seek taxes from temples. The BJP’s lust for money knows no bounds and after looting every citizen of Delhi, the BJP-ruled civic body is trying to extort from the pandit’s dakshina thaali too,” AAP leader Atishi said. The AAP leader said that till now, the BJP was preying on the money of the common man, but now it seems its “hunger has not been satisfied”. Notices issued “The East Delhi Municipal Corporation has sent notices to several temples saying that you must pay house tax. Otherwise these temples will be sealed. In my opinion, this is the first time since the rule of Aurangzeb that somebody has dared to send such a notice to a temple. This is the real face of the BJP. What kind of a Government asks temples to pay property tax?” Ms. Atishi asked. She said that AAP has been constantly exposing the ‘rampant corruption’ in the BJP-governed corporations and claimed that every resident of Delhi is witness to the fact that BJP leaders care only about doing extortion and corruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-ruled-civic-body-is-trying-to-seal-temples/article37891696.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||1984 riots: former MP charged with murder||A Delhi court has framed charges of murder against former Congress MP Sajjan Kumar in connection with the death of a father-son duo during the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. The order was passed by Special Judge M.K. Nagpal, who framed charges against Kumar under provisions for murder, attempt to culpable homicide, and rioting, among others. The deceased were identified as Jaswant Singh and Tarun Deep Singh. The court, however, dropped the charges under attempt to murder and destruction of evidence. According to the family of the deceased, a mob led by Kumar burnt the two men alive, and also set their house on fire, on November 1, 1984. Kumar is already lodged in jail after he was convicted in another murder case pertaining to the 1984 riots. The judge noted that there was sufficient evidence to show that Kumar was not only a participant in the mob, but was also leading it. The court said that its view regarding Kumar’s participation in the mob was much stronger and the allegations, along with the material, gave rise to “grave suspicion”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/1984-riots-former-mp-charged-with-murder/article37891700.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Private school finds novel way to beat air pollution||Frequent closure of schools in the Capital due to bad air quality and the risk it poses to children has made schools come up with ways to ensure that children continue to learn in a healthy environment by rethinking the architecture. The Ardee School in New Friends Colony has created a micro-environment where filtered ambient air is pumped into the central atrium that makes its way to the corridors and classrooms to provide a pollution-free oxygen-rich environment. Partnering with Nirvana Being, a company that provides solutions for clean air technology, the school has a system in which filtered air is pumped into the school through vents, ensuring that the air quality is maintained at steady levels irrespective of the air quality outside. Health, safety The school said that there was a need to reimagine and re-engineer educational institutions to drive health and safety. Shefali Varma, chairperson of The Ardee Schools, says: “School designs of yesteryear’s don’t work in today’s environment. Large sprawling campuses with open corridors are hazardous to our children’s health. Like everything must keep changing according to the environment, the way school buildings are designed, will have to be re-imagined if we want to mitigate infections.” The school administration says that it has written to the Delhi Government requesting permission to open the school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/private-school-finds-novel-way-to-beat-air-pollution/article37891705.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC allows officer to seek instructions on CIC order||The Delhi High Court on Monday allowed the Central Public Information Officer (CPIO) to seek instructions with regard to a petition challenging a Chief Information Commissioner order which had upheld a decision by the Prime Minister’s Office over a list of high-profile bank fraud cases. A Single-Judge Bench of Justice Rekha Palli noted in the order that the counsel for the respondent, represented by Additional Solicitor General Chetan Chauhan, has sought time to obtain instructions. The case has been listed on December 27. The plea was filed by Prasenjit Bose, represented by advocate Prasanna, who filed an RTI plea with the PMO on September 12 seeking information on the list of high-profile bank fraud cases submitted by former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan. However, as per the petitioner, the CPIO and the PMO withheld information on the list of frauds citing Section 45E of the RBI Act and Section 8(1)(h) of the RTI Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-allows-officer-to-seek-instructions-on-cic-order/article37891709.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||BJP questions AAP claim on 1.5 lakh membership||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Tuesday challenged the Aam Aadmi Party’s claim that the party had enrolled 1.5 lakh members in a single day. Calling it “a white lie”, Mr. Bidhuri questioned how a membership drive based on giving missed calls on a phone number could lead to 1.5 lakh new members on the very first day. “This is really a miracle. There is a total of 86,400 seconds in 24 hours even if it is to be assumed that the people of Delhi were engaged in becoming a member for 24 hours continuously,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “It would have taken at least three to four seconds to give a missed call. Accordingly, not more than 20,000-25,000 missed calls can be received even after calling 24 hours a day, but AAP has made a fictitious claim of 1.5 lakh,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-questions-aap-claim-on-15-lakh-membership/article37891713.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||BJP talks tough on liquor vends in residential areas||The BJP on Tuesday warned the Delhi Government against opening new liquor shops in residential areas and demanded closing down of the existing ones, failing which the BJP-led municipal corporations would take strict action. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said that in view of the reports on opening of liquor shops in residential areas or near schools or religious places, all three corporations have already been instructed to ensure that not a single liquor unit is allowed to operate in violation of MPD 2021 guidelines. “If a shop is found to be operating in violation of these laws, it would be sealed within three days,” he said. ‘Liquor city’ Addressing a protest against new liquor shops in residential areas under the new excise policy at Patel Nagar, Mr. Gupta said while Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal talks of prohibition in Punjab, back here he is hell-bent on making Delhi a liquor city. He also thanked the market association of Patel Nagar for having two such liquor shops closed down and said Mr. Kejriwal was doing what he was for the party funding as well as his own self.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-talks-tough-on-liquor-vends-in-residential-areas/article37891715.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||Three arms suppliers held in separate operations||The Delhi Police Special Cell on Tuesday said that it has arrested three arms smugglers, including a professional DJ and a wrestler, in two separate operations and has seized 27 sophisticated semi-automatic pistols from them. The police said they received information on December 3 that arms trafficker Nilesh would come to Sarai Kale Khan to deliver arms and ammunition to some criminals in the city. A team was formed and a trap was laid, following which he was nabbed. The police seized a bag containing 12 pistols of .32 bore from him. He allegedly disclosed that he worked as a professional DJ. In the second operation, information was received on December 6 that two arms suppliers would be coming from Uttar Pradesh with a large consignment. Following this, a trap was laid and both Pankaj Kumar and Jitender were arrested near Rohini, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-arms-suppliers-held-in-separate-operations/article37891701.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||Resident doctors boycott work for second day||About 3,000 resident doctors of Central Government-run Safdarjung Hospital, RML Hospital, and Lady Hardinge Medical College (LHMC) boycotted work on Tuesday, including COVID-19 duty, as a protest against delay in PG NEET counselling, said the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA). The doctors started boycotting work on Monday. “We will continue the protest on Wednesday. We request the authorities to take action as soon as possible to start the counselling of PG NEET,” said Kulsaurabh, general secretary of FORDA. Safdarjung Hospital has reduced timings of different services due to the strike and special clinics in the afternoon have been suspended. “The OPD registration timings has been revised from 8.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. Afternoon nephrology OPD will be held only on Mondays,” a document from Safdarjung Hospital said. The RDA of AIIMS said that they will work wearing black ribbons, protesting the delay in counselling. Meanwhile, the Federation of All India Medical Association has called for an emergency meeting to take a call on further protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/resident-doctors-boycott-work-for-second-day/article37891706.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC adjourns Rajiv Gandhi case convict’s petition||The Supreme Court on Tuesday scheduled for January a hearing on a plea for early release by Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict A.G. Perarivalan. Perarivalan has already spent three decades in jail. The cardinal question raised in court was about the Governor’s decision to refrain from taking an independent decision on Perarivalan’s release. The Governor had referred the convict’s case for release to the President. This was despite the fact that the Council of Ministers of the Tamil Nadu Government recommended his release way back on September 9, 2018. “After sleeping over for five years in the Article 161 [pardon] petition and sitting over the recommendation of the State Cabinet to release the petitioner for more than a good two-and-a-half years, the Union of India, on February 4, has filed an affidavit [in the Supreme Court] stating that the Governor has sent the petition to the President, whereas the law is clear that the Governor does not have independent discretion,” Perarivalan, represented by senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan and advocates Prabu Ramasubramanian and K. Paari Vendhan, had contended in the Supreme Court recently. Perarivalan had argued that the “stalemate” over his release from prison was “completely political”. The court on Wednesday said it could not, on the grounds of immunity, ask the Governor not to pass any order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sc-adjourns-rajiv-gandhi-case-convicts-petition/article37891718.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||Case against advocate for forgery||An advocate forged a bail order issued by a Delhi court, the police said on Tuesday, adding that a case had been registered. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Benita Mary Jaiker said that Magistrate Vivek Kumar Aggarwal informed Saket police station on December 2 that a forged bail order had been produced. In the order, the court had said that bail bonds had been furnished on behalf of accused Karan Raj along with a photocopy of an order dated November 26 passed by the court. On perusal, it was found that manipulation had been made in the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/case-against-advocate-for-forgery/article37891698.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||City sees 51 new COVID-19 cases||The Capital reported 51 new COVID-19 infections and no deaths in 24 hours and the total number of deaths stood at 25,099, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Tuesday. The Government did not release the daily bulletin on Monday. It was later released on Tuesday and no reason was given. One COVID-19 death was reported as per the bulletin dated Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-sees-51-new-covid-19-cases/article37891707.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||CAQM orders closure of industries||The Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas has issued directions for “immediate closure” of all industries in areas where PNG infrastructure and supply are available, but they have still not switched over to PNG. “As per the directions of the Commission, these violating industries/industrial units will not be permitted to schedule their operations till December 12, and the position will be reviewed for further decisions,” an official statement said. Delhi’s air quality was in the “poor” category on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/caqm-orders-closure-of-industries/article37891712.ece
08 December 2021||Washington,||Biden holds talks with Putin, warns against Ukraine invasion||Joe Biden and Vladimir Putin held a two-hour video summit Tuesday in which the U.S. president said he would warn of painful sanctions and increased military support for Eastern Europe if Russia invades Ukraine. “Greetings, Mr. President,” Mr. Putin said in a brief video clip released by the Kremlin. Mr. Biden said it was “good to see” his Russian counterpart, adding that he hoped their next session would be in person. Despite the friendly opening scene, the summit, lasting just over two hours, was steeped in tension. Russia denies planning to invade Ukraine, but with satellite pictures showing massive troop concentrations on the border, fears are growing of war in Europe. The United States says it doesn’t know for sure what Russia intends to do in Ukraine, but is alarmed at the deployment of some 1,00,000 battle-ready Russian troops to the border. Moscow calls invasion talk “hysteria.” Instead, Mr. Putin intends to tell Mr. Biden he sees Ukraine’s growing alliance with Western nations as a threat to Russian security. Even though Ukraine is nowhere near being able to join the U.S.-led military alliance, Mr. Putin wants a “legal” guarantee this will never happen. “Russia has never planned to attack anyone,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Tuesday. “But we have our own red lines.” ‘Real cost’ The White House says Mr. Biden will instead lay out a range of economic sanctions that will impose “real cost.” Ahead of the summit, the Biden administration has also stressed that its posture has been worked out in unison with European partners. Mr. Putin was also planning to reach out to Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky after his virtual summit. The United States says it has options short of military confrontation to pressure Mr. Putin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-holds-talks-with-putin-warns-against-ukraine-invasion/article37891509.ece
08 December 2021||Washington,||U.S. to boost troops presence in Europe if Russia attacks Ukraine||The United States will impose “severe economic harm” on Russia and boost its military presence in Eastern Europe should Moscow invade Ukraine, the White House warned on Monday, laying out the high stakes on the eve of talks between Presidents Joe Biden and Vladimir Putin. The U.S. President will also quickly inform his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky of the details of his discussion with Mr. Putin, taking place by videoconference on Tuesday, as tens of thousands of Russian troops were positioned near the Ukraine border, a senior U.S. official told reporters. The official said the White House does not know if Mr. Putin has made a decision to launch his military forces against Ukraine — and stopped short of threatening direct intervention of American military force should he do so. But Mr. Biden will make clear that there “will be genuine and meaningful and enduring costs to choosing to go forward should (Russia) choose to go forward with a military escalation,” the official said, on grounds of anonymity. The U.S. and European allies are prepared to take “substantial economic countermeasures... that would impose significant and severe economic harm on the Russian economy” if Russia attacks, the official said. In addition, Mr. Biden will make clear that if Mr. Putin “moved in, there would be an increasing request from eastern flank allies and a positive response from the United States for additional forces and capabilities and exercises,” they said. Coordinated response Underscoring the close coordination between Washington and Kiev, Mr. Biden will brief Mr. Zelensky after the call, the official said. Ukraine has estimated that Russia has around 1,00,000 troops near its border. Moscow denies any bellicose intentions and accuses the West of provocation, particularly with military exercises in the Black Sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-boost-troops-presence-in-europe-if-russia-attacks-ukraine/article37891303.ece
08 December 2021||Beijing,||‘U.S. will pay the price for Olympics diplomatic boycott’||China warned on Tuesday the United States would “pay the price” for a diplomatic boycott of the Beijing Winter Olympics over human rights concerns. The move drew fiery opposition from Beijing, which threatened unspecified counter-measures, warning the U.S. would “pay the price for its wrongdoing”. “Stay tuned,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters at a daily press briefing. “The U.S. attempt to interfere with the Beijing Winter Olympics out of ideological prejudice, based on lies and rumours, will only expose (its) sinister intentions,” Mr. Zhao said. “The Winter Olympics are not a stage for political shows and political manipulation,” he added, accusing the U.S. of “actions that interfere in and undermine the Beijing Winter Olympics.” Reactions evoked But Washington’s move was broadly welcomed by rights groups and politicians in the U.S.. The International Olympic Committee called it a “purely political decision for each government, which the IOC in its political neutrality fully respects.” “Our position is that the Olympic Games should be free of politics,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters, but said it was positive that participants were not impacted by the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-will-pay-the-price-for-olympics-diplomatic-boycott/article37891298.ece
08 December 2021||Dubai,||UAE moves to 4.5-day week, Saturday-Sunday weekend||The United Arab Emirates said on Tuesday its official workweek will move to Monday to Friday, a significant change that brings the Islamic nation home to major financial institutions in line with Western schedules. The decision, which is to take effect next month, makes the Gulf Arab federation one of the few countries in West Asia to operate on Western hours instead of on a Sunday through Thursday week. Lebanon and Turkey also follow a Monday-Friday workweek. The long-rumored shift comes as the UAE, home to the coastal emirates of Dubai and Abu Dhabi, seeks to bolster its business and tourist appeal while emerging from crisis of the coronavirus pandemic and facing stiffer regional competition, particularly with Saudi Arabia. Closer alignment Skyscraper-studded Dubai has attracted a variety of Western multinational firms over the years. “The new working week will also bring the UAE’s financial sector into closer alignment with global real-time trading and communications-based transactions,” the government statement said, adding that the new schedule aims to “boost not only trading opportunities but also add to the flexible, secure and enjoyable lifestyle the Emirates offers its citizens and residents.” Government employees would work a half-day on Friday, the traditional Muslim holy day, and then take Saturday and Sunday off, the announcement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uae-moves-to-45-day-week-saturday-sunday-weekend/article37891304.ece
08 December 2021||Paris,||Billionaires thrived during pandemic||The share of global wealth of the world’s richest people soared at a record pace during the Covid pandemic, a report on inequality showed on Tuesday. Since 1995, the slice held by billionaires has risen from 1% to 3%, according to the World Inequality Report. “This increase was exacerbated during the COVID pandemic. In fact, 2020 marked the steepest increase in global billionaires’ share of wealth on record,” the document said. The club of the richest 1% has taken more than a third of all additional wealth accumulated since 1995, while the bottom 50% captured just 2%. “After more than 18 months of COVID-19, the world is even more polarised,” Lucas Chancel, co-director of the World Inequality Lab at the Paris School of Economics, said. “While the wealth of billionaires rose by more than $4 trillion, 100 million more people joined the ranks of extreme poverty,” Mr. Chancel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/billionaires-thrived-during-pandemic/article37891299.ece
08 December 2021||Beirut,||Israel strike targets Iran weapons in Syria port||An Israeli air strike hit a shipment of Iranian weapons in the Syrian port of Latakia on Tuesday, in the first such attack on the key facility, a war monitor said. The Israeli raid “directly targeted an Iranian weapons shipment in the container yard,” the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said. The Observatory, a U.K.-based organisation with a wide network of sources on the ground across Syria, said the raid triggered a series of explosions. It reported “huge material losses” but added there were no immediate reports of casualties. Photos and footage published by SANA showed a fire in the yard but state television said later that firefighters had brought the blaze under control. Israel rarely comments on the air strikes it carries out in Syria but has said repeatedly it will not allow its archfoe Iran to extend its footprint in Syria. Tuesday’s strike came as Syrian Foreign Minister Faisal Mekdad wrapped up a visit to Tehran, where he met with top officials to discuss deepening ties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-strike-targets-iran-weapons-in-syria-port/article37891300.ece
08 December 2021||Paris,||Khashoggi murder suspect held||The French police on Tuesday arrested a suspected member of the hit squad that murdered Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi in 2018 at the kingdom’s consulate in Istanbul and who is wanted by Turkey to face justice over the killing. Khalid Alotaibi, 33, was detained by border police on the basis of an arrest warrant issued by Turkey as he was about to board a flight to Riyadh from Paris’s Charles de Gaulle airport, judicial and airport sources said. He is due to appear before prosecutors on Wednesday. He is one of 26 Saudis charged in absentia by Turkey over the killing in a trial that got underway in October 2020. If convicted, he could face life imprisonment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/khashoggi-murder-suspect-held/article37891510.ece
08 December 2021||Riyadh,||Saudi Arabia, Oman sign 13 MoUs worth $30 billion||Saudi Arabia signed deals with Oman valued at $30 billion, as Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman began a tour of Gulf countries, including former rival Qatar. Saudi and Omani companies “signed 13 memoranda of understanding”, the official Saudi Press Agency reported. The MoUs range from cooperation in the energy and tourism to finance and technology.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/saudi-arabia-oman-sign-13-mous-worth-30-billion/article37891301.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||A monumental mistake fomented by impunity||There are no words to express the outrage and grief over the killing of 14 civilians (the toll so far) in Mon district of Nagaland, home of the Konyak Nagas. They lost their lives in firing by para commandos of the Indian Army based in Jorhat. According to information available, this was intended as an ambush on what Army intelligence had indicated was a group of insurgents moving in the area. This intelligence, or the fact that the Army commandos would be responding to it, was not communicated to either the local police or the Assam Rifles based in the area. It was in this sense, a continuance of the culture of ‘surgical strikes’ hyped up after the Pulwama incident in Jammu and Kashmir, and in the context of the North-east, the ambush by a combined group of militants led by the National Socialist Council of Nagaland-Khaplang (NSCN-K) in Chandel district of Manipur in 2015. The NSCN-K then was not as fragmented into factions as it is now. While the earlier ‘surgical strikes’ are understandable — though their success has been disputed — the Mon ambush is completely beyond comprehension. First, unlike the earlier strikes, which were in response to grave provocations, and the targets were outside Indian territory, the scenario was markedly different in the present. The ambush was unprovoked, and the target was well within India. This would have meant assault resources were much more in abundance. Again, an ambush — as those in the North-east with a history of violent insurgencies will understand — is the combat tactics of an inferior force against a far superior one; for this reason it is also often summarised as hit-and-run warfare. Options that were missed The important question is, even if there was intelligence available about the movement of insurgents, why was this tactic resorted to? Why was no attempt made to have the targeted men who were in a single pickup truck, surrender to be captured alive, even if these men were insurgents and armed? From a superior pre-mediated position, and force strength precalculated to overwhelm, there should not have been much difficulty to block off the truck making its way along a winding narrow hill road, put the men in it in a hopeless position and force them to surrender. The intent obviously was to destroy and eliminate as would be done to hated enemies. But, as it turned out tragically, the victims were all innocent unarmed villagers; six of them were killed on the spot. More casualties resulted after outraged Konyak villagers attacked the ambushers first and then an Assam Rifles post later. One army trooper was also killed in the violence. The truth is that long decades of violent insurrections and draconian counterinsurgency laws, in particular the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) 1958, have ensured a climate of impunity among those fighting insurgency. In neighbouring Manipur, this became evident even in a pocket where AFSPA had been removed after public agitation following another atrocious rape and murder of a woman insurgent suspect in 2004. Fake encounter killings soared in the area in the years that followed. The intuitive understanding of those tasked with counterinsurgency duty has come to be that action towards this cause will have little or no legal consequence. What happened at Mon is new evidence of this. It too reeked of the attitude that in these wild lawless territories, mistakes, even if they spell immense losses to civilian life, are part of the game. There must be ownership In an invisible way, this mindset seems to have pervaded among a larger section of the population nationwide, other than just the combatants directly engaged in counterinsurgency duty. Hence, there have been a flood of expressions of anguish. These include messages from Parliament, the Prime Minister, the Home Minister and more. But many have also brushed off the tragedy as collateral damage — an inevitable part of any conflict scenario. Obviously, it was a mistake, but an unpardonable one that culminated out of the uniquely oppressive climate of impunity which has been allowed to normalise. What is called for then is something beyond the expression of anguish or condemnation. It must instead be about repentance and ownership of responsibility for the tragedy. Therefore, it is about sharing the tragedy, represented by deeds and sacrifices that also pinch the giver; not just about buying truce at affordable prices. According to a report from Kohima, the central government has agreed to pay Rs. 11 lakh as ex gratia to each family of those killed. The State government is to pay Rs. 5 lakh each. Though commendable, this gesture would hardly make for a true language of repentance. If for instance the gesture was for Rs. 11 crore each, that would have been closer to saying sorry. It would also have sent out the message to those likely to commit them again that such mistakes come at immense costs. Saying sorry could have also been accompanied with a gesture such as declaring AFSPA, which has come to be seen as a symbol of oppression across the region, abrogated. The ceasefire structure What is also intriguing is the nature of the intelligence which led to the ambush. Almost all insurgent factions that matter in Nagaland are in ‘ceasefire agreement’ with the Government of India and engaged in peace talks. If there were still perfidies committed by these groups, such as extortion and intimidation, they should have amounted to breaches of ceasefire ground rules; not challenges to the Indian state. Obviously then, the Naga underground faction noted in this report must have been one which had still to enter into the ceasefire agreement. Reports indicate this is the faction led by Yung Aung, the nephew of NSCN-K founder, the late S.S. Khaplang. But Yung Aung’s support base is in Myanmar. So could he still have been seen as a threat to India’s integrity? In a nutshell, when insurrection began in Nagaland, there was only one group — A.Z. Phizo’s Naga National Council. This group entered into a peace agreement with the Government of India in 1975 as the Shillong Accord. A group calling itself the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN), broke away in protest, in 1980. But the NSCN also split into two, violently, in 1988, with S.S. Khaplang, a Myanmar Naga, leading one faction and the other led by Thuingaleng Muivah and Isak Chishi Swu. While the latter remains more or less cohesive, the Khaplang faction splintered a number of times. Road to peace The pattern of these splits is also interesting. In all cases, the separations were broadly between the Indian and the Myanmar Nagas; the Indian Naga factions end up entering the ongoing ceasefire making observers suspect the influence of the Indian intelligence to be behind these splits. This is understandable too, for India could not have entered into any truce with Myanmar nationals. The last of these splits, in 2018, followed this pattern. After Khaplang’s death in 2017, the leadership mantle of the NSCN-K passed on to Khango Konyak, an Indian Naga. Then, in a bloodless coup in 2018, Khango Konyak was impeached and Yung Aung took over leadership. The former returned to India and entered the ongoing ceasefire. The question now is whether the tragic development would have any lasting impact on the ongoing peace talks now presumed to be in its final stage. Considering the combat fatigue of the Nagas, maybe not. But this would also depend greatly on the Indian state’s ability to say sorry from the heart and not just bargain for just another quid pro quo truce in the present tragedy. Pradip Phanjoubam is Editor: Imphal Review of Arts and Politics and the author of ‘The Northeast Question: Conflicts and Frontiers’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-monumental-mistake-fomented-by-impunity/article37891286.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Mediation Bill: Not getting the Act together||Over the last 15 years, the dispute resolution landscape in India has undergone significant change with the advent of mediation. To house this consensual creature in the same stables as thoroughbreds of adversarial litigation and arbitration was a challenge, and even more to ensure that they got on reasonably well, working in tandem in inventive ways like arbitration-cum-mediation and vice versa. It seems to be the way of the world that when something becomes prominent, there must be a law to regulate it. And so with mediation. While scattered mention was made of its use in several statutes, including commercial and consumer disputes, there was no comprehensive statute providing for all dimensions of the mediation process and its practice. Such a need was articulated in several quarters, notwithstanding doubters and dissenters who insist that regulation will kill the free spirit that mediation embodies. A group of senior mediators was set up by the Supreme Court Committee in charge of court-annexed mediation process, and over a period of several months, a draft Bill emerged which then started to make its way through the labyrinthine processes of governmental and legislative mandarins. The resultant Bill titled the Draft Mediation Bill 2021, slated for presentation now to Parliament, bears no resemblance to the original in some crucial places. It reminds the mediation community of an old Clint Eastwood film — the Good, the Bad, and the Sad (tweaked). The good The Bill recognises that mediation has come of age and needs to be treated as a profession, which is a huge improvement over the part-time honorarium basis it has in the court-annexed mediation schemes. The Bill acknowledges the importance of institutes to train mediators, and service providers to provide structured mediation under their rules. It provides for pre-litigation mediation. This is quite a remarkable step, but is designed to be easy to implement. Parties are required to have at least one substantive session with the mediator where the process is explained to them. Thereafter they are free to continue or terminate the mediation and follow the litigation path if they so decide. Further, if any urgent interim order is needed, they can bypass mediation at the first stage and return to it after resolving the interim relief issue. Another plus is that the Bill does away with the confusion emanating from using both expressions “mediation” and “conciliation” in different statutes by opting for the former in accordance with international practice, and defining it widely to include the latter. It recognises online dispute resolution, a process that is going to move mediation from the wings to centre stage in a world that COVID-19 has changed. It provides for enforcement of commercial settlements reached in international mediation viz between parties from different countries as per the Singapore Convention on Mediation to which India was a notable signatory. The Convention assures disputants that their mediation settlements will be enforced without much difficulty across the world, unlike the fresh headaches that the litigative decree or arbitration award present at the time of enforcement. The bad Leading in from the last point, it is expected that this Bill would make India a hub for international mediation in the commercial disputes field, and indeed institutions are being opened for this purpose. Exactly the reverse may happen. This is because the Bill unwisely treats international mediation when conducted in India as a domestic mediation. The settlement under the latter is given the status of a judgment or decree of a court. Now, that is excellent for cases between Indian parties, but disastrous when one party is foreign. The reason is that the Singapore Convention does not apply to settlements which already have the status of a judgment or decree. Ergo, if you conduct your cross-border mediation in India, you lose out on the tremendous benefits of worldwide enforceability. In sum, go to Singapore or Sri Lanka or anywhere else other than India to conduct your mediation. If this drafting mismatch is not remedied, dreams of our robust hubs and ease of doing business in India are neatly nipped in the bud. Then comes the governing mechanism, the Council. It has three members: a retired senior judge, a person with experience of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) law and an academic who has taught ADR. This is an all-powerful body which regulates, certifies, accredits, plans, governs, etc., and it doesn’t have a single mediator. Judging from the fact that these are full-time members, it is clear that none of them will be active practitioners. Most likely we are looking at sinecures for the bureaucratic and academic world. Certainly this Bill will be unique where a profession is being regulated without a single professional on the regulator. Try doing that to lawyers, doctors and accountants. And one more lapse — this is the field of dispute resolution, the judiciary’s domain, so how come the Chief Justice of India is not in the picture for making appointments? Then there is a long list of disputes which should not be mediated. Some of them look understandable at first sight but unnecessary at second. Fraud, for example. It is standard practice in litigation to make as many and as serious charges as possible; that doesn’t prevent parties from settling, and these accusations are disposed of by retraction or apology or simply ignored. In cases involving minors or persons of unsound mind, the law provides for the court to pass orders to protect them. All that is necessary is to provide that any settlement of disputes involving them needs the court’s approval, not to deny the possibility of a beneficial mediated settlement. Patents and copyright cases settle on commercial terms leaving untouched the validity of the grant, so why deny this possibility and consign the parties to litigative longevity? In the case of telecom, why can’t manufacturers and service providers and consumers be allowed to talk and resolve issues? The sad Why can’t we get our act together to get the Mediation Bill in good shape? Why can’t all the stakeholders get this Bill together? Mediators, lawyers, judges have applied their minds to a considerable degree. To be fair to the government, it did call for comments on the draft Bill. What is missing is the element of focused and engaged discussion after comments are sent. It is as though a wall has been erected and no one knows what is going to emerge. We all have a common purpose: to place mediation strongly in our legal landscape, and place India prominently in the world’s mediation landscape. Even if it takes more discussion and consideration amongst all stakeholders, let that be done. It is for Parliament now to do the needful. We should not settle for less. Sriram Panchu is Senior Advocate and President, Mediators India. Email: srirampanchu@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mediation-bill-not-getting-the-act-together/article37891294.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Health account numbers that require closer scrutiny||Low public spending on health in India has meant that people depend heavily on their own means to access health care. It causes rich-poor, rural-urban, gender and caste-based divides in access to health care, pushes people to poverty, and forces them to incur debt or sell assets. As a result, our health outcomes are worse than in many neighbouring countries. In this context, the National Health Accounts (NHA) report for 2017-18 is being celebrated widely as it shows that total public spending on health as a percentage of GDP has increased to a historic high of 1.35% of GDP, finally breaking through the 1%-1.2% mark of GDP. Out-of-pocket expenditure as a share of total health expenditure has come down to less than 50%. An increase in public spending and decline in out-of-pocket expenditure, if actually realised, are welcome steps forward to achieve greater financial protection. However, the NHA numbers need to be carefully scrutinised before jumping to conclusions. The NHA capture spending on health by various sources, and track the schemes through which these funds are channelised to various providers in a given time period for a given geography. Multiple data sources are combined to produce the estimates. Out-of-pocket expenditure, the biggest part of NHA estimates is captured using "Household Social Consumption in India: Health" survey of National Sample Survey Organisation. Public spending on health by various departments of the Union and State governments, major urban local bodies, and social security schemes are captured from Budgets. Various sources are also used to capture insurance premiums, expenditure estimates from firms, non-governmental organisations and foreign entities. Various sources are also used to capture insurance premiums, expenditure estimates from firms, non-governmental organisations and foreign entities. Spending is one of the lowest India’s total public spending on health as a percentage of GDP or in per capita terms has been one of the lowest in the world. There has been a policy consensus for more than a decade now that public spending has to increase to at least 2.5% of GDP. However, there has not been any significant increase so far. Despite several pronouncements, it has continued to hover around 1%-1.2% of GDP. The Union government traditionally spends around a third of the total government spending whereas the majority is borne by the States. The increase shown in NHA 2017-18 is largely due to increase in Union government expenditure. For 2017-18, the Centre’s share in total public spending on health has jumped to 40.8%. However, if we study the spending pattern of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Ministry of AYUSH, we see that expenditure increased to 0.32% of GDP from 0.27% in 2016-17 — insufficient to explain the overall jump. Much of this increase has actually happened on account of a tripling of expenditure of the Defence Medical Services (DMS). Compared to an expenditure of Rs. 10,485 in 2016-17, it increased to Rs. 32,118 crore. During this period, expenditure on the National Health Mission increased only by 16% to Rs. 25,465 crore. Though the increasing spending for the health of defence personnel is a good thing, such spending does not benefit the general population. Clearly, the health of women in the reproductive age-group and children below five years, who constitute a third of our population, have been accorded lesser priority compared to the around 64 lakh families covered under the DMS. The other thing to note is that the share of current health expenditure has gone down to 88% of THE compared to 92.8% in 2016-17. Within government expenditure, the share of current health expenditure has come down to 71.9% compared to 77.9% a year ago. This essentially means, capital expenditure has increased, and specifically in defence. Capital expenditure There is a problem in accounting capital expenditure within the NHA framework. Equipment brought or a hospital that is built serves people for many years, so the expenditure incurred is used for the lifetime of the capital created and use does not get limited to that particular year in which expenditure is incurred. Counting the capital expenditure for a specific year leads to severe over-counting. Considering this, the World Health Organization proposes to leave out capital expenditure from health accounts estimates, instead focus on current health expenditure. However, in NHA estimates in India, in order to show higher public investment, capital expenditure is included; thus, Indian estimates become incomparable to other countries. If we take out the capital expenditure, current health expenditure comes down to only 0.97% of GDP. This is only a marginal increase from 0.93% in the previous year. More a sign of distress The NHA estimate also shows that out-of-pocket expenditure as a share of GDP has reduced to less than half of the total health expenditure. Over the last few years, the share of out-of-pocket expenditure has been declining. For the year 2017-18, out-of-pocket expenditure has declined not only as a share of total health expenditure but also in nominal and real terms. Is it a welcome development? Does it mean improved financial protection? Has it declined because public spending has increased? NSSO 2017-18 data suggest that during this time period, utilisation of hospitalisation care has declined compared to 2014 NSSO estimates for almost all States and for various sections of society. The decline in out-of-pocket expenditure is essentially due to a decline in utilisation of care rather than greater financial protection. The experience of various developing countries suggests that as public spending on health increases, utilisation of care increases because there is always a lot of latent demand for health care which was hitherto unrealised as people could not afford health care. With increased public investment as health care becomes cheaper, people tend to access care more. Since it is very unlikely that peoples’ need for health care has declined, and current government health expenditure has not increased much, a decline in out-of-pocket expenditure could be due to lower utilisation of care — a sign of distress rather than a cause of celebration.  Actually, the NSSO survey happened just after six months of demonetisation and almost at the same time when the Goods and Services Tax was introduced. The disastrous consequences of the dual blow of demonetisation and GST on the purchasing power of people are quite well documented. As purchasing power declined, health care would have become more unaffordable, forcing people to forgo care. Though more people have moved towards subsidised public services to some extent, this has not been enough to offset the decline in utilisation. Another plausible explanation is linked to limitations in NSSO estimates. The NSSO fails to capture the spending pattern of the richest 5% of the population (who incur a large part of the health expenditure). Thus, out-of-pocket expenditure measured from the NSSO could be an under-estimate as it fails to take into account the expenditure of the richest sections. To sum up, one may argue that much of the increased public spending is not going to benefit the common people as it is mostly a one-time investment for defence personnel. The reduction of out-of-pocket expenditure is a sign of distress and a result of methodological limitations of the NSSO, rather than a sign of increased financial protection. Indranil is a Health Economist and Associate Professor with O.P. Jindal Global University, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/health-account-numbers-that-require-closer-scrutiny/article37891288.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Being free of old waste||The recently released Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) 2.0 guidelines continue to take forward the aims of the SBM launched in 2014, but add an important dimension focused on solid waste management. This goes beyond the efficient collection and transportation of waste and brings focus on processing all types of waste like plastic, construction and demolition waste, as well as providing budgetary support for remediating old waste disposed in all dumpsites across 4,372 cities in India before March 2023. Its components include source segregation; door-to-door collection of waste; separate transportation of different types of wastes; processing of wet waste, dry waste, and construction and demolition waste. Urban local bodies (ULBs) in several States had prepared detailed project reports (DPRs) for setting up waste processing systems for wet and dry waste as part of SBM which were approved, but the process of setting up these facilities was delayed due to lack of funding and techno process knowledge, and delayed DPR approvals. This resulted in unprocessed waste being dumped in several sites, which needs to be processed through bioremediation before space can be created for new waste processing plants. Bioremediation of old waste is the process of dismantling old waste heaps, sieving the material to recover bio earth (enriched soil) and refuse-derived fuel which can be used as heating material in cement kilns. As per the SBM 2.0 guidelines, the total quantity of waste generated by urban areas in India is about 1.32 lakh tonnes daily. This adds up to 4.8 crore tonnes per annum. Of this only about 25% is being processed; the rest is disposed of in landfills every year. Given that the waste dumpsites have been operational since the early 2000s, more than 72 crore tonnes of waste need to be processed. In Karnataka, all the 200-plus municipalities had planned to take up bioremediation over the last two years, but the projects did not kick off due to lack of funds. This is where SBM 2.0 could be an important intervention. Funding from SBM 2.0 The total funding dedicated for implementation of SBM 2.0 is Rs. 1.41 lakh crore of which about Rs. 39,837 crore is set aside for solid waste management. This mission commits to providing financial assistance to set up fresh waste processing facilities and bioremediation projects across all the ULBs. Financial assistance to to set up construction and demolition waste processing facilities is limited to a chosen 154 large cities such as Bengaluru, Mysore, Davanagere, Hubli, and Kalaburagi which have a population of over 5 lakh. The financial assistance committed by the mission varies by State. The commitments made by the Government of India (GoI) for solid waste management projects are as follows: 90% for ULBs in the Northeastern and Himalayan States; 100% for ULBs in Union Territories without legislature; 80% for ULBs in Union Territories with legislature; 25% for other ULBs with more than 10 lakh population; 33% for other ULBs with more than 1 lakh but less than 10 lakh population; 50% for other ULBs with less than 1 lakh population. The remaining project cost will be paid from the 15th Finance Commission grants. SBM was providing 35% funding from the GoI irrespective of the population size of cities. About 23.3% of the project cost was funded by the State governments and the remaining 41.6% was to be funded by the ULBs. The funding was provided to buy efficient vehicles for door-to-door collection and transportation of waste, provide bins for segregation of waste at source, and set up waste processing facilities. SBM 2.0 allocates funding only to set up waste processing facilities; requests for buying vehicles for collection of waste, issuing bins for source segregation or modernising the collection and transportation system are not in its scope. Achieving the target Lack of funds was one of the main reasons for the partial success of SBM in solid waste management. Now, since SBM 2.0 is committing to paying a significant portion of the project cost, the ULBs are likely to take up projects by matching the shortfall with their reserved funds, thereby hoping to achieve the GoI target of waste disposal sites being free from old waste by March 2023. Also, the transformation of waste disposal sites to processing sites is likely to produce 72 lakh tonnes of organic compost per annum from 4.8 crore tonnes of waste generated across all ULBs in the country. Organic compost recovered from the wet waste, which is 60% of the total waste, can be used to enrich the soil quality and can meet about 10-12% of the country’s fertilizer demand. That will reduce the amount of chemical fertilizer imported and save about Rs. 2,600 crore of subsidy paid by the government. Pushkara S.V. is with the Indian Institute for Human Settlements||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/being-free-of-old-waste/article37891296.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Surveillance as governance||In many public places in Hyderabad, there are signboards that read: ‘Big boss is watching you’. It is unclear what this implies: whether it is a warning from the state that people must abide by the law or an assurance that the citizenry is safe under the watch of the state or an ominous message that the movements of citizens are constantly being monitored. While there have been protests in Hyderabad against surveillance and in support of the right to privacy, it was only after Amnesty International raised concerns that “extensive surveillance of Hyderabad is putting human rights at risk” that surveillance was brought to the fore. Surveillance in Hyderabad largely follows a three-pronged approach: there is a wide web of CCTV cameras, facial recognition technology, and cordon and search operations. Amnesty, the Internet Freedom Foundation and Article 19 mapped the CCTV coverage in Kala Pathar and Kishan Bagh, neighbourhoods of the Old City, and found that as much as 53.7% of Kala Pathar and 62.7% of Kishan Bagh was covered by private and government-maintained CCTV cameras. It is pertinent to point out that Telangana’s Nenu Saitham project aims to transform the Hyderabad City Police into a Global City Police. To help achieve this aim, the public has been encouraged to install CCTV cameras and share footage when required. Outcomes of this project include preventing crime and monitoring ‘high-risk areas’. Further, the construction of a Command and Control Centre, Amnesty International says, has the capability to support the processing of 6 lakh CCTV cameras from the tri-commissionerates. Amnesty says facial recognition technologies can bring under a cloud the right to peaceful assembly as they can act as a tool of mass surveillance and pose a risk to disadvantaged communities. Two cases of the alleged violation of privacy by the police were reported recently. S.Q. Masood, an activist, said the police stopped him during the lockdown, instructed him to remove his mask and clicked photos of him. Similarly, during a crackdown against ganja, the Telangana Prohibition and Excise Department teams checked the phones of people to verify if the word ‘ganja’ was used in their chats. Following these incidents, Srinivas Kodali, another city-based activist, sent a legal notice to the Hyderabad City Police Commissioner seeking an immediate end to surveillance activities. These incidents underscore crucial issues: the need for a data protection law and the concept of informed consent. Cordon and search operations have been gaining momentum in Telangana. A fact-finding team from Hyderabad which probed cordon and search operations in some areas recently underscored the vulnerability of residents. The team stated that cordon and search operations project such areas as “criminal areas”, target “lower rungs of society, and are an infringement of privacy”. Another lesser-known facet of policing and surveillance is Operation Chabutra. Chabutra is a raised surface outside houses where people gather for social interactions. The police say they have stopped and “counseled” youths who were whiling away the hours. They have done this even when no prohibitory orders were in force. The police maintain that they are well within the provisions of the law to embark on such operations. In some cases, they say, they act on specific inputs and complaints of nuisance from locals. While upkeep of law and order is paramount, the right to privacy and informed consent cannot be compromised; they need to be protected by a law that defines the limits of use of citizen’s data by the state. The unequal power dynamic between security agencies and the common man who has no choice but to comply cannot be ignored. syed.mohammed@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/surveillance-as-governance/article37891291.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||At home||India’s domineering cricketing aura, especially in its backyard, was further reiterated at the conclusion of the Test series involving New Zealand at Mumbai’s Wankhede Stadium on Monday. The emphatic 372-run triumph in the second Test helped Virat Kohli’s men clinch the series at 1-0. This climax emerged after New Zealand mounted a stirring resistance in the opening drawn fixture at Kanpur when Ajinkya Rahane led India in Kohli’s absence. The Indian template at home — runs on the board and wily spinners on the mark — was in vogue and there was nothing much the Black Caps could do, especially after regular skipper Kane Williamson missed the final Test with an injury. The latest victorious outing in the longest format was India’s 14th consecutive Test series win at home since 2012 December when the visiting England squad ambushed the host riding on Kevin Pietersen, Graeme Swann and Monty Panesar. Since that stumble, India at home has been invincible. Batters obviously feeling at home, seamers adept at swing — both conventional and reverse — and spinners headlined by a remarkable R. Ashwin, have all contributed in nursing India’s blinding halo in a familiar environment. Perhaps it was prescient of former Australian skipper Steve Waugh to refer to India as the Final Frontier two decades ago. And as the last fortnight revealed, the fortress remains intact. The sparkling performance at Mumbai and the earlier 3-0 sweep in the Twenty20 Internationals against the same rival, also helped new coach Rahul Dravid step in on a winning note. But as Dravid pointed out, New Zealand competed hard at varying points, especially in Kanpur. Even if the unit got overwhelmed in the subsequent clash, left-arm spinner Ajaz Patel’s Perfect Ten in the first innings, following in the footsteps of Jim Laker and Anil Kumble, was a splendid feat. The Mumbai-born New Zealand-immigrant’s excellence reflected the Indian diaspora’s increasing sporting clout across shores. This was the return of the prodigal, but with a twist. And as the pandemic throws up variants while India looks ahead at the imminent tour of South Africa, it is not essentially a perfect slate. A series may have been won despite the absence of Rohit Sharma and Jasprit Bumrah, and the excellence of Ashwin, Shreyas Iyer, Mayank Agarwal and Axar Patel to name a few, augurs well. Yet, the poor yields from Rahane, Cheteshwar Pujara and even Kohli by his exalted standards, are a cause for worry. Having won his bouts against poor form during a storied career, Dravid understands the challenges that his core group of batters are grappling with. A turnaround is needed as a crucial overseas tour beckons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/at-home/article37891282.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||A robust friendship||Russian President Vladimir Putin has concluded a short summit meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi, highlighting the “all-weather” partnership between the two countries despite trying global circumstances. Not only does the President’s visit come as the world faces the grim prospect of the Omicron variant of the COVID-19 pandemic, but it also follows years of growing proximity between New Delhi and Washington, a potential irritant to Moscow. Simultaneously, the China factor has been steadily pulling the India-Russia bilateral tango in all the wrong directions. While Russia relies on cordial ties with China to stabilise its interests in an unstable Afghanistan post the U.S.’s exit, New Delhi and Beijing have scarcely seen eye-to-eye on border tensions and geo-political rivalry across the Asia region. Notwithstanding these reasons for possible strategic dissonance, India and Russia reaffirmed the strength of their abiding deep, multi-decade ties, building further confidence in each other through substantive defence agreements. Moscow has agreed on a 10-year military-technical plan that includes technology transfer to India. And trade received a fillip through an agreement for India to produce more than 600,000 Kalashnikov assault rifles. For India’s part, despite resistance from Washington through its Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, New Delhi will proceed with purchasing the S-400 missile defence system from Moscow. The challenges facing Mr. Modi and Mr. Putin in terms of maintaining this momentum in bilateral exchanges are multidimensional. First, and most imminently, the pandemic has periodically crippled the growth of both economies and the threats to public health remain despite considerable progress with vaccinations. Second, Russia-U.S. ties are showing signs of fraying yet again, this time over U.S. President Joe Biden’s intention, reportedly, to warn Mr. Putin that Russia will face “economy-jarring sanctions” if it seeks to occupy Ukraine, a fear that has grown in the U.S. as Russian troops massed near the Ukraine border. India has so far held firm to its mantra of ‘strategic autonomy’ in a multipolar world, but South Block will have to work hard to manage the tightrope act between Moscow and Washington. Third, India and China have forged an uneasy truce across their Himalayan border in the aftermath of the Galwan valley exchange in 2020, yet there are numerous potential flashpoints that could send ties into a spiral again, including China’s historically provocative actions in the South China Sea and its thinly veiled insecurity about India joining the Quad for Indo-Pacific security. Moscow has adroitly managed to remain friends with both its mega-neighbours, but it will require a robust focus on confidence-boosting cooperative initiatives if India and Russia are to safely navigate the complex geopolitical landscape that they occupy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-robust-friendship/article37891281.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||U.N. Assembly debates Indo-Pak issue||United Nations, Dec. 7: Somalia and seven other countries laid before the General Assembly to-day a resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire in the India-Pakistan war. The move came moments after the 131-nation Assembly took over the problem from the deadlocked Security Council. The Council decided by a 11-0 vote just before midnight last night to put the problem before the veto-free Assembly in the hope that it would produce an overwhelming appeal to the warring nations. The United States and China joined nine other countries in the action. The Soviet Union, Britain, France and Poland abstained. The resolution also urged a withdrawal of all troops to their own side of the India-Pakistan borders. Tunisian Ambassador Rachis Driss said that “it is a crime to speak while war is threatening mankind. We should remain here until we reach a decision.” The Assembly scheduled additional meetings in the afternoon and evening. And, in an effort to speed up action, Assembly President Adam Malik placed a 10-minute timelimit on all speeches except those of India and Pakistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/un-assembly-debates-indo-pak-issue/article37891289.ece
08 December 2021||Beijing,||China’s export growth slows, imports quicken on demand||China’s exports rose 21.4% to $325.5 billion in November but growth slowed, while imports accelerated in a sign of stronger domestic demand. Export growth decelerated from October’s 27.1% pace, customs data showed Tuesday. Imports surged 31.7% to $253.8 billion, faster than the previous month’s 20.6% rate. China’s exports have been boosted by foreign demand at a time when other global competitors are hampered by anti-coronavirus controls. Stronger imports suggest consumer and other demand is rebounding after a dip brought on by a government crackdown on debt in the real estate industry. Economic growth sank to an unexpectedly low 4.9% over a year earlier in the three months ended in September. Factory activity also was hampered by power shortages that started in September and the global shortage of semiconductors used in products from cars to smartphones. An earlier survey of manufacturers showed activity rebounded in November as power supplies returned to normal. “Exports and imports beat expectations last month thanks to stronger demand and easing semiconductor shortages,” said Julian Evans-Pritchard of Capital Economics in a report. “In the near-term, the emergence of the Omicron variant is likely to support demand for China’s exports,” said Mr. Evans-Pritchard. “But its impact further ahead is still uncertain.” China’s global trade surplus fell 4.9% to $71.7 billion. Exports to the U.S. rose 5.3% over a year earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/chinas-export-growth-slows-imports-quicken-on-demand/article37891272.ece
08 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘Domestic air passenger traffic crossed 10-mn mark in Nov.’||Continuing a recovery, domestic air passenger traffic crossed the 10-million mark in November for the first time since the pandemic hit the aviation industry in March 2020, but the new Omicron variant has the potential to disrupt, according to rating agency ICRA. After recording 1.23 crore domestic passengers in February 2020, domestic air travel demand dipped to 19.84 lakh passengers in the first month (June 2020) of the resumption of flight services on local routes. The recovery in domestic traffic continued till March this year when the second wave hit the country, resulting in domestic travel demand nosediving to 21.15 lakh passengers in May 2021. In the second phase of the recovery, domestic travel demand rose to 10.04-10.05 million (1.004 crore-1.005 crore) in November as against 63.54 lakh passengers in the year-earlier period, a robust 64% growth, ICRA said in a statement. The month-on-month growth, however, stood at 15-16% in November over about 8.98 million passengers in October, ICRA said. “Though the recovery continued in November, demand continues to be subdued from the corporate traveller segment as reflected by the passenger traffic being lower by around 19% in November compared to pre-COVID-19 levels,” said ICRA Vice-President and Sector Head Suprio Banerjee. “The new variant... has the potential to derail the domestic recovery too, if it becomes a source of a fresh round of restrictions,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/domestic-air-passenger-traffic-crossed-10-mn-mark-in-nov/article37891271.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hyundai plans 6 EVs by 2028, to invest Rs. 4,000 cr.||Hyundai Motor India plans to invest about Rs. 4,000 crore for research and development over the next seven years as it looks to roll out six new electric vehicles in India by 2028. “We will be investing Rs. 4,000 crore for R&D towards expansion of our Battery Electric Vehicle line-up to six vehicles for the Indian Market by 2028,” S.S. Kim, MD and CEO, Hyundai Motor India Ltd., told The Hindu , hinting that the first vehicle may be introduced as early as next year. ‘Preference for SUVs’ Asked about the segment in which the first EV product would be unveiled, Mr. Kim said market trends clearly indicated customers’ preference for SUVs in both electric vehicles and ICE vehicles, so “we are very seriously considering this for our product plan and preparations”. However, he added that the six products would also include sedans and crossover utility vehicles, and would cater to mass market as well as mass premium segments in India. Of the six products, three would be ‘unique’ products for India, while three would be global products that would be tweaked for the India market. “Hyundai will also introduce its dedicated BEV Platform — E-GMP in India as well as modified platforms for battery electric vehicles in India,” Mr Kim said, adding that all the products would be produced locally in India. However, the extent to which the products can be localised will depend on the volumes. “In India, the EV market is not very mature right now…for a few initial years we might need to import some parts and components… but we are working on localisation for those parts and components… we are also currently finding a competitive partner in some areas such as batteries,” Mr. Kim said. He pointed out that while the company would try to narrow the price gap between ICE vehicles and EVs, government support in the form of subsidies and tax relief to private car buyers would spur demand for EVs. “There will be some price gap between the normal ICE vehicle and EV; in many countries customers pay a small premium for the EV, but net ownership and maintenance cost for such vehicles is low,” he said. He added that India could become a global production hub for EVs but there was a need to develop a strong local supplier base for that.  “Our export business is based on very strong support from our tier 1 and tier 2 suppliers…for us to have a global production hub for EV in India, we should have some strong supplier. “I think that task can be achieved if we have strong support from the government, because you know the supplier base cannot be made overnight. There needs to be investments in R&D and training,” the Hyundai India chief added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hyundai-plans-6-evs-by-2028-to-invest-rs-4000-cr/article37891263.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘New premium income of life insurers rises 42%’||The new premium income of life insurance companies jumped by almost 42% to Rs. 27,177.26 crore in November, data from regulator IRDAI showed on Tuesday. The insurance behemoth LIC — the only state-owned life insurer in the country — witnessed a more than 32% rise in the first-year business premium in November at Rs 15,967.51 crore. The remaining players belonging to the private sector registered a spike of 58.6% in their collective first-year premium income at Rs. 11,209.75 crore. LIC held the largest share at 63.4%. Among private players, SBI Life had the highest share at 8.77%, followed by HDFC Life at 7.86%; ICICI Prudential Life 4.91%; Max Life 2.36% and Bajaj Allianz Life at 2.62%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/new-premium-income-of-life-insurers-rises-42/article37891266.ece
08 December 2021||New Delhi,||SEBI recasts delisting rules to make M&A easier||SEBI has amended rules pertaining to delisting of shares of a company following an open offer as part of efforts to make mergers and acquisitions for listed firms more convenient. Under the new framework, the acquirers need to disclose their intention to delist the firm via an initial public announcement, according to a notification. If the acquirer wishes to delist the target company, the acquirer must propose a higher price with suitable premium over the open offer price. In the existing framework, if an open offer is triggered, compliance with takeover norms could take the acquirer’s holding to above 75% or even 90%. However, to ensure compliance with the Securities Contract (Regulation) Rules, the acquirer would need to first bring his/her stake down to 75% as the norms would not let the acquirer even to attempt delisting unless the holding is lowered. Such contradictory transactions pose complexity in the takeover of listed firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-recasts-delisting-rules-to-make-ma-easier/article37891269.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,||CUB unveils payment ‘keychain’||Private sector lender City Union Bank (CUB), in collaboration with the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) and manufacturing partner Seshaasai, has unveiled ‘On-the-Go’ contactless wearable keychains for debit cards. The device would enable customers to make fast payments up to Rs. 5,000 in all RuPay enabled point-of-sale devices without entering a PIN, the lender said in a statement. For payments above Rs. 5,000, customers would need to tap and then enter the PIN, CUB added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cub-unveils-payment-keychain/article37891260.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Citroen SUV to get pricier by up to 3%||Citroen India has announced a price increase of up to 3% for the C5 Aircross SUV from January 1, 2022, due to rising commodity and international ocean freight costs. The price increase will be on the existing ex-showroom prices of the Feel and Shine variants, the company said in a statement. Citroen is offering the SUV with benefits such as insurance at just Rs. 1, complimentary smart care package, and EMIs starting from Rs. 33,333 a month, along with a 30-minute guaranteed trade-in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/citroen-suv-to-get-pricier-by-up-to-3/article37891261.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nestlé sets up India-based IT services arm||Swiss firm Nestlé S.A. on Tuesday announced it had set up Nestle Global Services India (NGSI) in Bengaluru to provide IT services to its entities in more than 45 countries across Asia, Oceania and Africa and to complement its network of IT hubs across the globe. NGSI will enable Nestlé’s growth by facilitating direct access to technology skills in business solutions, digital, data analytics and artificial intelligence, the company said, adding that it would also support the implementation and operations of IT solutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nestl-sets-up-india-based-it-services-arm/article37891264.ece
08 December 2021||Mumbai,||RIL, Ta’ziz JV to set up $2 bn petchem unit||Abu Dhabi Chemicals Derivatives Company RSC Ltd. (Ta’ziz) and Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL), have agreed to set up ‘Ta’ziz EDC & PVC’, a chemical production joint venture (JV) at the TA’ZIZ Industrial Chemicals Zone in Ruwais. The JV would construct and operate a chloralkali, ethylene dichloride (EDC) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) production facility, with an investment of more than $2 billion, the firms said in a statement. “India’s need for PVC to propel growth, and the value from the abundantly available feedstock in UAE, provides a win-win partnership,” said RIL CMD Mukesh Ambani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ril-taziz-jv-to-set-up-2-bn-petchem-unit/article37891267.ece
08 December 2021||Hyderabad,||MedPlus IPO opens Dec. 13||MedPlus Health Services Ltd. said on Tuesday its IPO will open on December 13 at a price band of Rs. 780-796 per equity share (face value of Rs. 2 each). The IPO consists of a fresh issue of shares up to Rs. 600 crore and an offer for sale by selling shareholders aggregating up to Rs. 798.29 crore. The issue will remain open till December 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/medplus-ipo-opens-dec-13/article37891257.ece
08 December 2021||MUMBAI,||IL&FS arm to transfer road asset to Axis Trustee||IL&FS Transportation Networks, a part of the IL&FS Group, said it had entered into a share purchase agreement with Axis Trustee Services to transfer 85.50% of the paid-up capital of its subsidiary Moradabad Bareilly Expressway Ltd. for an initial consideration of Rs. 373.58 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ilfs-arm-to-transfer-road-asset-to-axis-trustee/article37891259.ece
08 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Delhi has the firepower to progress||Shikhar Dhawan, Yuzvendra Chahal, Harshal Patel and Jaydev Unadkat are some of the top names featuring in Group C of the Vijay Hazare Trophy beginning here on Wednesday. Led by the seasoned Pradeep Sangwan, Delhi has a formidable line-up and Dhawan’s presence will bolster the batting department that already has Nitish Rana, Dhruv Shorey and Anuj Rawat. Delhi begins against Jharkhand at the I.S. Bindra Cricket Stadium in Mohali. With Ishank Jaggi and Saurabh Tiwary spearheading the batting unit, Jharkhand has the firepower to stun fancied sides. The bowling department looks promising, too, with Varun Aaron and Anukul Roy around. Haryana has three India internationals — Chahal, Harshal and Mohit Sharma — in its ranks. Both Harshal and Chahal come into the tournament after a successful stint with the Indian team in the T20I series against New Zealand. Haryana has a perfect blend of experience and youth with the likes of Chaitanya Bishnoi, Himanshu Rana and Nitin Saini in the team. However, with the group stage promising to be tough, Haryana needs to play aggressive cricket to make the knockouts. Led by Tanmay Agarwal, Hyderabad comes with the largest squad — 25 — to the tournament. After falling in the semifinal to Tamil Nadu in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy recently, Hyderabad will be keen to do better. Lack of experience could, however, hurt the side. Lot to play for After failing to progress past the group stage in the Mushtaq Ali Trophy, the Unadkat-led Saurashtra has a lot to play for. The skipper, along with the promising Chetan Sakariya, will lead the bowling department. There is depth in batting, thanks to the presence of Sheldon Jackson, Arpit Vasavda, and Harvik Desai. Saurashtra will start against Uttar Pradesh. Coached by former India player Vijay Dahiya, Uttar Pradesh has promising players like Rinku Singh, Akshdeep Nath and Priyam Garg, but needs a spirited show to progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delhi-has-the-firepower-to-progress/article37891688.ece
08 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||High-profile clash between Mumbai-TN||All-rounder Washington Sundar’s comeback will be the focal point in the high-profile clash between Tamil Nadu and defending champion Mumbai in the Vijay Hazare Trophy at the St. Xavier’s College ground here on Wednesday. In all probability, Washington, who has been sidelined with a hand injury since July, will play the opener against Mumbai. His and veteran Dinesh Karthik’s return will give a boost to Tamil Nadu, which is coming into the competition fresh from the title triumph in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy. Captain Vijay Shankar will hope for more game-changing knocks from his trump card Shahrukh Khan, whose cameos largely led to Tamil Nadu’s victory in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy. However, Tamil Nadu will be wary of Mumbai, which despite missing several key top players, is not a push over. Led by all-rounder Shams Mulani, Mumbai has a few match-winners in the young Yashasvi Jaiswal, Shivam Dube and the experienced Siddhesh Lad and Dhawal Kulkarni, who will again spearhead the bowling attack. Group of death Both teams would want to start the campaign on a winning note in the group of death which also has former champion Karnataka, Bengal, Baroda and Pondicherry in the fray. Karnataka meets Pondicherry Karnataka starts its campaign with a relatively easy outing against Pondicherry while Bengal will lock horns with Baroda. The teams will have one eye on the weather as the city has been receiving intermittent showers for the last couple of days. Though it remained sunny on Tuesday, the forecast is for more rain in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/high-profile-clash-between-mumbai-tn/article37891554.ece
08 December 2021||MUMBAI,||India has a lot to ponder before the Boxing Day Test in SA||New Zealand’s omission of Mitchell Santner and Neil Wagner was no doubt baffling, but when it came to India, the last fortnight proved to be a mixture of comebacks and question marks with an eye on the future. The fact that the list of memorable comebacks was much longer than expected underlined India’s success in Rahul Dravid’s maiden assignment as the head coach for a Test series. Days before the start of the opener in Kanpur, Mayank Agarwal and Shubman Gill would not have thought about opening the innings in both the Tests and Shreyas Iyer would have been far from being assured of a much-awaited Test cap. Had K.L. Rahul not been injured, Mayank would have continued to be on the bench and Gill likely to have replaced Kohli in the middle-order. Grabbing the chance Rahul’s injury meant the trio got a chance in their preferred roles and all of them grabbed the opportunity. Mayank and Shreyas remained the talking points of the series, thanks to their scintillating performances. In the bowling department, the spin trio of R. Ashwin, Axar Patel and Jayant Yadav underlined their utility. Ashwin emerged the Player of the Series with valuable contributions with both the ball and willow. Axar and Jayant ensured India didn’t miss Ravindra Jadeja in the second Test while Mohammed Siraj virtually sealed his place over Ishant Sharma for the South Africa tour with a fiery spell in Mumbai. Question marks Despite all these gains, the team management and the selectors will have more than a few question marks heading into the Boxing Day Test. Whether to persist with Ajinkya Rahane and Cheteshwar Pujara in the playing XI is the biggest conundrum. Since the start of 2020, Rahane, Pujara and captain Virat Kohli have averaged a meagre 24.39, 26.04 and 27.38, respectively. With the likes of Mayank, Gill and Shreyas having made a strong case for themselves, it will be interesting whether India decides to move on from either Rahane or Pujara, if not both, in South Africa. Mysterious injury Rahane’s mysterious injury that was cited as the cause of his exclusion for the second Test may just be a start. But Dravid definitely hasn’t given up on the senior batter. Before India’s departure to South Africa, Dravid is set to work with Rahane and Rohit Sharma for three sessions over the next five days. Will that help Rahane regain his mojo? The questions will persist for the next fortnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-has-a-lot-to-ponder-before-the-boxing-day-test-in-sa/article37891505.ece
08 December 2021||BENGALURU,||KSLTA to host two ATP Challengers||The Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association (KSLTA) will host two back-to-back ATP Challenger 80 events, starting February 7, 2022, here. The events will come as a welcome relief for Indian players who last played in a Challenger at home back in February 2020, just before the COVID-19 pandemic, the $162,480 ATP Bengaluru Open. The tournaments will follow the ATP 250 Tata Open Maharashtra in Pune (Jan. 31 to Feb. 6) and provide Indian players a three-tournament swing to garner much-needed ATP ranking points, in familiar conditions. Guarantee points Each tournament will guarantee a minimum of 80 points for the singles winner and will have a total prize purse of around $53,000. “Our initial idea was to host one tournament like always,” said KSLTA joint-secretary Sunil Yajaman. “But the ATP motivated us and assured assistance if we hosted two. So we agreed. “We will soon be approaching the government and corporate organisations for support.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kslta-to-host-two-atp-challengers/article37891550.ece
08 December 2021||Brisbane,||Series may revolve around contest between Cummins, Root||One particular contest between bat and ball could shape this Ashes series. Pat Cummins is set to lead the home team, putting a fast bowler’s perspective on Australia’s Test captaincy for the first time since the 1950s. Joe Root is primed to lead England with the bat again in a series he thinks may define his career. “A bowling captain for Australia and a batting captain for England — two captains going toe to toe will be great,” England wicketkeeper Jos Buttler said on the eve of the first Test. Feeling the pressure Root was already feeling some pressure before it was confirmed that Jimmy Anderson will miss the first Test starting on Wednesday at the Gabba. Buttler said the senior players in the team were ready to step up to support Root, and the return of inspirational all-rounder Ben Stokes would also help. “We know he’s our best player, we want to support him, help him, share that load,” Buttler said of Root. Root heads into this series as the leading Test batsman in the world, having scored 1,455 runs in 12 matches in 2021 at an average of 66. But England has lost nine of the 10 Tests it has played in Australia since its drought-breaking series win in 2010-11, mostly by big margins. Root has been on the last two tours, and was captain during the 0-4 loss in 2017-18. And then there’s England’s record at the Gabba, where it hasn’t won a Test since 1986 and has recorded only two victories since 1946. Buttler said England was only looking back as far as January, when India clinched a series win by ending Australia’s unbeaten record at the Gabba that dated to 1988. England released a 12-man squad later on Tuesday, leaving most speculation over the formation of the bowling attack. Stuart Broad, Chris Woakes, Mark Wood and Ollie Robinson were included as specialist pace bowlers, and left-arm spinner Jack Leach was also in the mix.  The teams:   Australia: Pat Cummins (Capt.), Marcus Harris, David Warner, Marnus Labuschagne, Steve Smith, Travis Head, Cameron Green, Alex Carey, Mitchell Starc, Nathan Lyon, and Josh Hazlewood.   England (from): Joe Root (Capt.), Stuart Broad, Rory Burns, Jos Buttler, Haseeb Hameed, Jack Leach, Dawid Malan, Ollie Pope, Ollie Robinson, Ben Stokes, Chris Woakes, and Mark Wood.   Match starts at 5.30 a.m.   Live on Sony Six (SD & HD).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/series-may-revolve-around-contest-between-cummins-root/article37891498.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Nepo slips, Carlsen punishes him again||After a day’s rest, a new look and a new opening choice did not alter Ian Nepomniachtchi’s fortunes. His reputation of being prone to committing blunders in the least expected stage of a game came true as he suffered another confidence-crushing loss in 39 moves. Playing white, a desperate Nepo blundered on the 27th move with a pawn-push on the queen’s side and eventually lost a bishop to hand over champion Magnus Carlsen a third win in four games for a 6-3 lead in their World chess championship match in Dubai on Tuesday. With five games to go in this best-of-14-game title-match, Carlsen needs just 1.5 points to keep the title. Asked about his view on what possibly caused this game-deciding blunder in a World championship game, Carlsen said, “I think it’s the tension for sure. Ian is probably a bit more prone to blundering than some other opponents. It happened to Vishy (Viswanathan Anand) as well (in the 2013 world title match). He also made some uncharacteristic errors at the end. Pressure gets to everybody.” Nepo turned up for the game having gotten rid of the man bun. He opted for the English opening, where he looked very well prepared and did have Carlsen thinking a bit longer in the initial phase. In an equal position, at a point where even a possible draw was not being contemplated, Nepo allowed Carlsen to trap his bishop with a gentle pawn-push and capture it on the 31st move to take a firm grip on the game. Eight moves later, Nepo gave up. On whether the match was almost decided now, Carlsen said, “ It’s not 100% accurate. But it’s obviously looking great now.” As Nepo put it, “Two one-move blunders in a row is a bit too much... a lack of concentration combined with not the best luck.”  The moves: Game 9: White: Nepo; Black: Carlsen   1. c4 e6 2. g3 d5 3. Bg2 d4 4. Nf3 Nc6 5. O-O Bc5 6. d3 Nf6 7. Nbd2 a5 8. Nb3 Be7 9. e3 dxe3 10. Bxe3 Ng4 11. Bc5 O-O 12. d4 a4 13. Bxe7 Qxe7 14. Nc5 a3 15. bxa3 Rd8 16. Nb3 Nf6 17. Re1 Qxa3 18. Qe2 h6 19. h4 Bd7 20. Ne5 Be8 21. Qe3 Qb4 22. Reb1 Nxe5 23. dxe5 Ng4 24. Qe1 Qxe1+ 25. Rxe1 h5 26. Bxb7 Ra4 27. c5   c6 28. f3 Nh6 29. Re4 Ra7 30. Rb4 Rb8 31. a4 Raxb7 32. Rb6 Rxb6 33. cxb6 Rxb6 34. Nc5 Nf5 35. a5 Rb8 36. a6 Nxg3 37. Na4 c5 38. a7 Rd8 39. Nxc5 Ra8. Nepo resigns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nepo-slips-carlsen-punishes-him-again/article37891503.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||BFC, HFC look to return to winning ways||Bengaluru FC and Hyderabad FC will both look to return to winning ways when they lock horns at the Bambolim stadium on Wednesday. The situation is especially grave for BFC, which is coming off a 1-3 defeat against Mumbai City FC and has collected just one point from the last three matches. Hyderabad, also on four points but having played a game less, will hope to build on a lucky 1-1 draw against Jamshedpur FC in its last match. All eyes on Gurpreet After the Mumbai City game, BFC coach Marco Pezzaiuoli said Gurpreet Singh Sandhu ought to organise his defence better and eliminate individual mistakes. So all eyes will be on the India No.1 goalkeeper, who has had a forgettable start to the season. Centre-back Yrondu Musavu-King has not played the last two matches while fellow defender Sarthak Golui has left the ISL bio-bubble because of a family emergency. There are also fitness concerns over winger Udanta Singh. Off-colour Chhetri Talisman Sunil Chhetri has been off-colour, and, uncharacteristically, missed two penalties. But such is his class and quality that he is sure to get a longer rope. For Hyderabad, the match presents an opportunity to calm the waters. Manolo Marquez’s side was excellent in its win over Mumbai City, but played an underwhelming first-half against Jamshedpur, which the coach himself called “the worst since he became manager” in 2020. Bartholomew Ogbeche’s second-half strike saved the day but the side needs to be more consistent. Marquez can bank on the wisdom of centre-back Juanan, who was a defensive mainstay for BFC for five years and even worked with Pezzaiuoli until June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-hfc-look-to-return-to-winning-ways/article37891549.ece
08 December 2021||CHANGANASSERY,||Thrissur boys stave off Kozhikode’s challenge||Thrissur staved off a strong challenge from Kozhikode at 60-54 in a thriller and entered the boys final of the 45th Kerala State junior basketball championship at the St. Berchmans College indoor stadium here on Tuesday evening. Thrissur had beaten the same side by a 21-point margin in the league phase earlier but the semifinal was a close affair. C.K. Abhinav, the Thrissur captain and point guard, found his way through the rival defence with his dodgy runs and scored frequently. He was also good with longrangers too, hoisting three threes. Thrissur also put up a strong defence and harried the Kozhikode boys early. But Kozhikode had an answer in its dancing dribbler Nithin Baby. The youngster kept the Thrissur boys guessing as he swayed from side to side before rushing through the crowd suddenly to score baskets. Rinilal, Kozhikode's ball handler, came up with smart play shaking off his markers nicely kept the score board ticking nicely. The third quarter was the turning point. With Karthik Jayasankar also joining in and scoring some quick baskets along with Deepak Vettikattu, Thrissur was able to keep Kozhikode at bay for a major part of this session which it took at 20-9. And though it lost its star Abhinav with five fouls two minutes into the last quarter, Thrissur was able to hang on to its lead till the end. Thiruvananthapuram girls, the defending champions, entered the final earlier with a comfortable 63-32 victory over Kozhikode. Meanwhile Kottayam, riding on fine performances from P.S. Jesly and K. Sreelakshmi, defeated Thrissur 76-56 and entered the girls final where it will play Thiruvananthapuram.  The results (semifinals): Boys: Thrissur 60 (C.K. Abhinav 17, Deepak S. Vettikattu 17, Karthik Jayasankar 12) bt Kozhikode 54 (Nidhin Baby 17, A.N. Rinilal 15, K. Adhwyth 11); Girls: Thiruvananthapuram 63 (Chinnu Koshy 14, R. Abhirami 13) bt Kozhikode 32; Kottayam 76 (P.S. Jesly 29, K. Sreelakshmi 21, Irin Elsa John 13) bt Thrissur 56 (Aleena Antony 25, Ashlin Shiju 10) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thrissur-boys-stave-off-kozhikodes-challenge/article37891860.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||We aim to qualify by topping group: Yohannan||It may be a while before domestic cricket returns to its pre-pandemic glory, but things are certainly getting better. The Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament, which opens on Wednesday, offers another opportunity for the fringe players, who have even more to look forward to this season with the IPL’s mega auction coming up, that too for an expanded tournament. Many of Kerala’s youngsters will be hoping to catch the talent scout’s eye over the next one week at Rajkot, where the team will play all its five matches in the league phase of India’s premier domestic one-day tournament. After a training session at the Madhavrao Scindia Cricket Ground on Tuesday afternoon, coach Tinu Yohannan said the team was in a confident frame of mind. “The boys had done well to reach the knock-out stage at the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament in New Delhi last month and our training sessions at Krishnagiri (Wayanad) also went well,” Tinu told The Hindu . “Our aim is to qualify for the knock-out stage in this tournament, too.” He added the team would love to do it by topping the group. “We certainly have the team to come on top of this group,” said the former India seamer. “It is a strong group though, and there are no pushovers.” He singled out Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh as the toughest opponents. “They both are excellent sides with proven, in-form players in their line-up,” he said. “We expect strong challenges from the other teams — Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand — too.” Ideal for batting Tinu said the wickets at Rajkot could be ideal for batting. “And that could work in our favour,” he said. “Our top-order was amongst the runs in the Mushtaq Ali Trophy and here I feel batters in the middle and lower order would get more chances as it’s a 50-over tournament.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-aim-to-qualify-by-topping-group-yohannan/article37891863.ece
08 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Hope it inspires children from the Asian community, says Ajaz||Ajaz Patel, who performed the rarest of rare feats with a Perfect-10 in the Wankhede Test against India, hoped his heroics would inspire the Asian community in New Zealand to take up the sport and aspire to become spin bowlers. “Every time you go out there, you’re hoping to be a role model for the new generation. For me, being a spinner is one of the most difficult jobs while playing cricket in New Zealand... hopefully, after my achievement, there are going to be more kids in New Zealand who would pick up the ball and want to become great spinners,” said Ajaz at a videoconference with the Indian media on Tuesday. “I hope it inspires children from the Asian community. I hope it inspires parents from the Asian communities to say ‘yes there’s a pathway here’. If they work hard, really commit to it and have that drive, it’s really possible. There’s nothing stopping them. I guess my story is an example. “It’s really about hard work and dedication. To do that you need the support, your family first and foremost and you need good people around you, which I’ve been fortunate to have had.” Being a regular to India as his paternal family is based in Mumbai, Ajaz loves chicken lollipop and schezwan sauce. “I love chicken lollipop and feel scheczwan sauce is India’s No. 1 food item. But on this tour, I have been conscious about my eating habits as I have been looking after my body with an eye on giving my best on the field. When I come down for a vacation next time, I will make up for it. “You have to be serious nowadays to ensure you are eating right to suit your performance and recovery.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hope-it-inspires-children-from-the-asian-community-says-ajaz/article37891497.ece
08 December 2021||PUNE,||Madhurima turns the tables on Vaishnavi||Madhurima Sawant played well at the crunch to beat Vaishnavi Adkar 4-6, 6-3, 7-5 in the girls’ first round of the Aryan Pumps ITF Asian junior tennis championship at the Deccan Gymkhana on Tuesday. Vaishnavi fought back from 2-5 in the decider to make it 5-5, but could not capitalise on three breakpoints when Madhurima served at 0-40 in the 11th game. In the pre-quarterfinals, Madhurima will face fifth seed Sandugesh Kezhibayeva of Kazakhstan who had an equally tough time, finding her way past Lakshmi Prabha after losing the first set 1-6.  The results:   Boys (first round): Woobin Shin (Kor) bt Shivam Kadam 6-4, 6-2; Aman Dahiya bt So Ogiri (Jpn) 7-6(5), 6-1; Vineeth Mutyala bt Dhananjay Athreya 6-4, 6-2; Nishant Dabas bt Wyatt Obrien 6-2, 6-2.   Girls (first round): Aruzhan Sagandikova (Kaz) bt Veda Rajju Prapurna 6-0, 6-0.   Madhurima Sawant bt Vaishnavi Adkar 4-6, 6-3, 7-5; Sanjana Sirimalla bt Asmi Adkar 6-3, 6-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/madhurima-rallies-to-beat-vaishnavi/article37891655.ece
08 December 2021||KOCHI,||Neeraj Chopra lands in US for training||Olympic champion Neeraj Chopra landed at the Chula Vista Elite Athlete Training Centre in California on Monday for a three-month training period ahead of next year’s Commonwealth Games, Asian Games and World Athletics Championships. “It is one of the top training centres in the US, he will be there for 90 days and it’s only for general preparation,” Radhakrishnan Nair, the chief National athletics coach, told The Hindu on Tuesday. “He will return to India in the first week of March and will take part in domestic competitions.” His coach Klaus Bartonietz and physio Ishaan Marwaha have also accompanied the javelin thrower to the US. Neeraj was sent to the US, with the Sports Authority of India clearing the Athletics Federation of India’s proposal in a matter of hours, after the earlier plan to send him to South Africa was cancelled owing to fears over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neeraj-chopra-lands-in-us-for-training/article37891596.ece
08 December 2021||Chennai,||Sabari crowned WBC India champion||J. Sabari from Chennai was crowned as the first-ever World Boxing Council India champion at the Hell’s Bay Pro Boxing Fight Night at Gachibowli Stadium, Hyderabad on Sunday. Hailing from Tamil Nadu, Sabari was pitted against Akashdeep Singh from Patiala for the first-ever WBC India Title fight in the Welterweight division in an eight-round contest. It was an extremely close fight with the bout decided on points scored by the three judges. The final scores were 76 -76, 73-79, 73-79. The first judge scored the fight as a draw while the second and third judges scored the fight in favour of Sabari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sabari-crowned-wbc-india-champion/article37891600.ece
08 December 2021||London,||Do-or-die for Barca||Barcelona’s first Champions League campaign without Lionel Messi in nearly two decades may come to an end in the group stage if it doesn’t find a way to beat Bayern Munich on Wednesday. It would be the first time since the 2003-04 season that the Catalan club didn’t play in the knockout stage of the competition. Barcelona is second to Bayern in Group E, and two points ahead of third-place Benfica. But a draw or a loss in Germany would allow Benfica to advance with a home win against already eliminated Dynamo Kyiv. Villarreal can advance in Group F on Wednesday if it avoids defeat at Atalanta, which will move on with a win. Swiss team Young Boys only has a slim chance of finishing third, needing a win at group winner Manchester United on Wednesday and hoping for a favour from Villarreal. In Group G, Lille, Salzburg, Sevilla and Wolfsburg can still advance, with Lille and Salzburg needing draws. Lille is at Wolfsburg and Salzburg plays Sevilla. Titleholder Chelsea will be looking to clinch first place in Group H, which is more likely to secure an easier match in the last 16. Chelsea is tied on points with Juventus and is ahead courtesy of a superior head-to-head record, so a win at Zenit St. Petersburg on Wednesday will guarantee top spot for the defending champion. Juventus finishes group play at home to Malmo, which won the Swedish league on Saturday to retain its title.   Wednesday’s matches  Zenit vs Chelsea, Juventus vs Malmo (11.15 p.m) Barcelona vs Bayern, Benfica vs Dynamo Kyiv, Atalanta vs Villarreal, Manchester United vs Young Boys, Wolfsburg vs Lille, Salzburg vs Sevilla (1.30 a.m. Wednesday)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/do-or-die-for-barca/article37891604.ece
08 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,||It’s Manipur vs Railways again in the final||The women from Manipur maintained their enviable record intact on Tuesday, but only just. They made it to the final of the National senior women’s championship for the 24th time in 26 editions. They needed a penalty shoot-out to get past a resolute Odisha at the Corporation Stadium, though; the teams were tied 1-1 at the end of extra time in the second semifinal. Earlier, the first semifinal in which Railways beat Mizoram, was also decided in the shoot-out after the 1-1 draw. That match went even further — to sudden death. After a goalless opening half, Railways took the lead in the 70th minute through Mamta. She finished off a lovely move down the left flank, orchestrated by Tara Khatoon and herself. Mizoram equalised in injury time through an error from the Railways goalkeeper Swarnamayee Samal, who failed to gather the ball after a cross from Elizabeth Vanlalmawii into the box. Lalnunsiami drove the ball calmly into the empty corner.  Swarnamayee, however, redeemed herself by bringing off a superb save off the first kick in the shoot-out, taken by Grace Lalrampari Hauhnar. That would prove crucial. In the second semifinal, the defending champion was rattled early on by an own goal by Yumlembam Pakpi Devi — the Manipur defence panicked following an Odisha counter-attack — but her teammate Yangoijam Kiranbala Chanu put one into the right goalpost with a brilliant corner-kick that beat the goalkeeper and everybody else, in first half injury time. In the shoot-out, Odisha failed to score even once. The final — a repeat of the tournament’s last edition — will be played on Thursday.   The results (semifinals): Manipur 1 (Yangoijam Kiranbala Chanu 45+3) drew with Odisha 1 (Yumlembam Pakpi Devi 11-og). Manipur won 3-0 on penalties.   Railways 1 (Mamta 70) drew with Mizoram 1 (Lalnunsiami 90+4). Railways won 6-5 in sudden-death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-manipur-vs-railways-again-in-the-final/article37891555.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Ten for ten and other tales of near perfection for admirers and trolls||Cricket statistics can be tantalisingly imperfect. Perhaps this is in keeping with the nature of sport itself: the essence is in the striving for perfection, not necessarily perfection itself (which is why there was some disappointment when the Romanian gymnast Nadia Comaneci scored a perfect 10 at the 1976 Olympics. Perfection can be a dampener). Bradman’s Test average of 99.94 has the power and romance that a round 100 might not. For long the First Class batting record was Hanif Mohammad’s 499 for Karachi against Bahawalpur, a score at which he was run out. Admiration and poignancy were thus wrapped in a single package. Ajaz Patel’s 10 for 119 in the Mumbai Test is a reminder that perfection is possible — he is the 84th bowler in First Class cricket (11-a-side) to achieve the feat. Another left arm spinner, Hedley Verity, whose 10 for 10 for Yorkshire against Nottinghamshire stands out as much for its brevity as for its symmetry has the best figures in First Class cricket, a record that has stood for nearly nine decades. In his charming book 10 for 10 , Hedley Verity and the Story of Cricket’s Greatest Bowling Feat , Chris Waters suggests that part of the explanation was that Verity was helped by a drying surface after torrential rain (this was in 1932, wickets were uncovered). When they batted again, Percy Holmes and Herbert Sutcliffe added 139 to give Yorkshire a ten-wicket win. “The wicket was never the vexatious proposition the Notts’ batsmen made it out to be,” reported the Nottingham Evening News . Verity, who dismissed Bradman eight times, more than any other bowler, later said, “Do not praise me when I have taken eight for 20 on a sticky wicket, but when I have got two for 100 on a perfect wicket.” Waters thinks that the 10 for 10 might not have meant more to Verity than some of his less remarkable analyses. But Verity’s record, as almost every record in the game can be broken. The uber-perfect (although perfection does not admit of degrees) is 10 for zero. That is a record impossible to beat. The best by an Indian is Premangsu Chatterjee’s 10 for 20 (Bengal v Assam). Before Patel, the man who came closest to taking ten in a Test innings was the great Muttiah Muralitharan in 2002. He had nine Zimbabwe wickets at Kandy his home ground on the first day of the Test, and would have had his tenth had Russell Arnold not dropped Travis Friend first ball at short leg the next day. Next over Chaminda Vaas, who like the others had been bowling carefully to avoid taking a wicket, found Henry Olonga in the mood to take a swipe at him and edging the ball. Wicket keeper Kumara Sangakkara took the snick, there was a muted appeal and Olonga had to go, leaving Murali with nine for 51. The previous evening Murali had nearly sabotaged his own chances when he dived to catch Olonga off Samaraweera at square leg, and dislocated his finger in the process. Cricketers play on instinct and deliberately going against the grain is well nigh impossible as both Muralitharan and Sangakkara showed. Self sabotage A bowler who did succeed in sabotaging his own chances was Richard Hadlee who, after claiming the first eight wickets against Australia in Brisbane, then ran backwards to catch Geoff Lawson to give the off spinner Vaughan Brown his only Test wicket. Hadlee returned to take the tenth wicket (caught by Brown) to finish with figures of nine for 52. And what of Jim Laker himself, the off spinner who twice took all ten against the Australians on the 1956 tour, the first time for his county Surrey? When a reporter asked him if his partner, the left arm spinner Tony Lock eased up to let him get to his ten in the Manchester Test, Laker replied, “Lockie? No way! He was appealing for lbw when he hit the batsmen in the chest!” Down to destiny So many things have to fall in line for a bowler to take ten that you can understand why the lone Indian to do it in a Test, Anil Kumble (10 for 74 against Pakistan in New Delhi) put it down to “destiny.” Amazingly, when he tweeted welcoming Ajaz Patel into the exclusive club of three, Kumble was trolled by some fans suggesting in effect that he didn’t deserve to be in the club himself! And that’s putting it politely. He is in good company, though. When Verity picked up his ten for ten, a letter writer in a newspaper calling himself ‘Disgusted’, wrote: “Verity may be a competent bowler, but he is not in the same class (as his predecessors in Yorkshire). The Notts ‘batsmen’ simply gave themselves to him.” But like those who trolled Kumble, “Disgusted” was in a minority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ten-for-ten-and-other-tales-of-near-perfection-for-admirers-and-trolls/article37891274.ece
08 December 2021||Surat:,||Athish, and Sachin hammer hundreds||Tamil Nadu openers S.R. Athish (115, 177b, 20x4), and B. Sachin (102, 190b, 19x4) helped Tamil Nadu take a four-run lead with eight wickets in hand on day two of its Cooch Behar Trophy match against Goa here on Tuesday. The two left-handers added 212. Earlier, Goa was bowled out for 251 after resuming at 222 for six.  The scores: Goa 251 in 102.1 overs (Kaushal Hattangadi 96, Udit Yadav 64, C.V. Achyuth 3/41, P. Vignesh 3/72) vs Tamil Nadu 255/2 in 75 overs (S.R. Athish 115, B. Sachin 102).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/athish-and-sachin-hammer-hundreds/article37891594.ece
08 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hyderabad in dire straits||Hyderabad was struggling at 98 for five in reply to Andhra’s 403 in the first innings on the second day of the Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) four-day Group D match at the Arun Jaitley Stadium on Tuesday.  The scores: Group D: Andhra 403 in 131.5 overs (S.V. Rahul 111, M.K. Datta 57, G. Chandi 31, B. Punnaiah 3/97, M. Abhishek 3/90) vs Hyderabad 98/5 in 39 overs (A. Avinash 47).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hyderabad-in-dire-straits/article37891789.ece
08 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Photo that went viral||Ajaz Patel has revealed the story behind the photograph that has gone viral on the social media. “The beauty of that photo is that it came through a few wise heads — our media guys back home and here, and also myself and a few of the Indian guys. A lot of us thought on the same page and thought it would be a pretty cool photo,” Ajaz said. “That photo speaks a lot about the sporting world and what sports can do. Sport has the ability to bring people together, not only here but around the world. So it was quite special to be able to take a photo like that.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/photo-that-went-viral/article37891500.ece
08 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Meharin headlines Kerala gymnastics||A few years ago a petite nine-year-old girl walked in nervously with her mother at the D.J. Sports Club where her younger brother Mihraj was doing gymnastics training. It became a daily routine for Meharin S. Saj and over a period of time she was fascinated by the acrobatics and tricks performed by her brother and other gymnasts. Sensing talent Coach D. Jayakumar sensed Meharin had talent and managed to convince her orthodox parents to send their daughter for training. Six years later, Meharin became the first gymnast from Kerala to win a gold medal in junior nationals. Meharin won two gold medals — allaround and vault — and a bronze in floor exercise in the 56th Junior National Artistic Gymnastics held in Jammu and Kashmir recently. “I came to the nationals hoping for a medal in vault which is my strongest event. I had entered the finals of vault and floor exercises in the previous nationals. I never expected to win the allaround gold and it certainly came as a surprise,” said the 15-year-old, who is a big fan of Russian gymnast Aliya Mustafina. Persistence pays “I saw a spark in her and her keen interest in the sport convinced me to talk to her parents. But it was not easy to get their consent. However, I persisted and they finally agreed to send Meharin for training. “She is hard working and what she achieved is a bench mark for Kerala gymnastics. She trained with limited facilities at the club and got the opportunity to use modern equipment at the Jimmy George indoor stadium only for two days and that put her in good stead in the nationals. Can improve “She can definitely improve and can win medals for India if she is given a chance to train regularly with modern equipments,’’ said Jayakumar, a former national medallist. The 10th standard student of Government Cotton Hill High School has set her eyes on the Khelo India games next year. “My aim is to repeat this performance in Khelo India games and to win medals for India. I am working hard for that,’’ she said.  I saw a spark in her and her keen interest in the sports convinced me to talk to her parents Jayakumar Meharin’s coach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/meharin-headlines-kerala-gymnastics/article37891606.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||FC Goa edges SCEB in seven-goal thriller||FC Goa registered its maiden win in ISL Season 8, defeating SC East Bengal 4-3 in a match of fluctuating fortunes at the Tilak Maidan Stadium, Vasco. Goa had the better of the exchanges initially and found the lead in the 14th minute off a rasping pile-driver from Alberto Noguera. It could have doubled the lead in the 17th, but Jorge Ortiz sent his shot wide with just an open goal staring at him. East Bengal clawed back into the contest through Antonio Perosevic, whose left-footed strike found the target in the 26th minute. The Croatian’s free kick had rebounded to him off the Goan wall and he made no mistake the second time. East Bengal goalkeeper Suvam Sen pulled off a good save off Devendra Murgaonkar’s attempt in the 28th minute. However, with his colleague Sourav Das committing a rash foul inside the box, Goa was awarded a penalty in the 32nd minute. Ortiz made amends, scoring from the spot. Goa’s joy was shortlived as East Bengal midfielder Amir Dervisevic curled a free-kick from the edge of the box to outsmart custodian Dheeraj Singh in the 37th minute. Goa continued to press and went ahead again in the 44th minute when Perosevic miscued a clearance into his own goal. In the second session, Perosevic made it 3-3 off a fine counter-attack. But Goa had the last laugh when Noguera rounded off the scoring with a 79th-minute strike.  The result: East Bengal 3 (Perosevic 26, 59, Dervisevic 37) lost to FC Goa 4 (Noguera 14, 79, Ortiz 32-pen, Perosevic 44-og)   Today’s match: HFC vs BFC, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fc-goa-edges-sceb-in-seven-goal-thriller/article37891504.ece
08 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||India-D rides on Pooja, takes on India-A in final||Captain Pooja Vastrakar missed a well-deserved century (96, 96b, 6x4, 4x6) but helped India-D score a 22-run win over India-A in the final round to remain unbeaten in three games and make it to the final of the BCCI Senior Women’s Challenger Trophy one-day championship at the Mulapadu Cricket Complex on Tuesday. India-A also made it to the title clash, scheduled for December 9, despite tying with four points with the other two teams — India-C and India-B — by virtue of better net run-rate.  The scores: India-D 219/7 in 50 overs (Ayushi Soni 47, Pooja Vastrakar 96, Renuka Singh 3/47) bt India-A 197/7 in 50 overs (Disha Kasat 51).   India-C 212 in 48.2 overs (Priya Punia 60, Anushka Sharma 63, Chandu V. Ram 5/40) bt India-B 187/8 in 50 overs (Harleen Deol 46, Tarannum Pathan 4/39).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-d-rides-on-pooja-takes-on-india-a-in-final/article37891507.ece
08 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Puducherry in control||Neyan Kangayan (180, 299b, 30x4, 1x6) and V. Nitin Pranav (84, 229b, 12x4) helped Puducherry score 320 for seven in reply to Jammu & Kashmir’s 204 in the first innings on the second day of the Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) Group E match at Kandukuri Cricket Academy here on Tuesday. The two put on a 207-run partnership for the third wicket which effectively pushed J&K on to the backfoot.  The scores:   At Vizag: Group E: J&K 205 in 52 overs vs Puducherry 320/7 in 116 overs (Neyan Kangayan 180, V. Nitin Pranav 84, Ranjit Singh 3/91, Mohammed Manzir 3/28) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/puducherry-in-control/article37891658.ece
08 December 2021||Vadodara:,||Kerala takes lead against Rajasthan||Kerala took the first-innings lead against Rajasthan in the Cooch Behar Trophy cricket match at the Motibaug Cricket ground here on Tuesday. A collective effort from Kerala bowlers saw Rajasthan dismissed for 175 in reply to Kerala's first innings score of 221. R. Amal Raj (3/28) and Vijay S. Viswanath (3/35) were the successful bowlers for Kerala, which was nine for no loss at stumps on the second day.  The scores: Kerala 221 & 9/0 in five overs v Rajasthan 175 in 82.3 overs (Harsh Wardhan 30, R. Amal Raj 3/28, Vijay S. Viswanth 3/35) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-takes-lead-against-rajasthan/article37891861.ece
08 December 2021||Johannesburg,||Aman wins in South Africa||Indian shuttler Aman Farogh Sanjay claimed a second successive men’s singles title with a hard-fought win over second seed Robert Summers in the finals of the South Africa International Future Series here. Aman, ranked 300, triumphed 15-21, 21-16, 21-12. The 21-year-old, who is the reigning Khelo India Youth Games champion, had claimed the Botswana International Future Series title last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aman-wins-in-south-africa/article37891598.ece
08 December 2021||DUBAI,||Warner nominated for ICC award||Australian opener David Warner, Pakistan batter Abid Ali and New Zealand fast bowler Tim Southee were on Tuesday shortlisted for the ICC men’s player-of-the-month award for November. Left-arm spinners Anam Amin of Pakistan and Nahida Akter of Bangladesh are in the running to scoop the women’s award, alongside West Indies all-rounder Haley Matthews. The nominations for the month of November were announced based on performances across formats and including matches from the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup in the United Arab Emirates and Oman. An independent ICC Voting Academy and fans around the world can vote to decide the winners, which will be announced next week. Fans are invited to cast their votes until Sunday. Warner, who was player-of-the-tournament at the T20 World Cup, had standout performances of 49 in the semifinal against Pakistan and 53 in the final against New Zealand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/warner-nominated-for-icc-award/article37891602.ece
08 December 2021||DHAKA,||Bangladesh fighting to save follow-on||Off-spinner Sajid Khan claimed a career-best six for 35 as Pakistan reduced Bangladesh to 76 for seven and produced a glimmer of hope of forcing a result in the second and final Test here on Tuesday. Pakistan resumed the fourth day from 188 for two and declared at 300 for four after lunch. Then spinners Sajid and Nauman Ali got to work until stumps was called an hour early because of bad light. Bangladesh trails by 224 runs and still needs 25 runs to avoid the follow-on.   The scores:   Pakistan 300/4 decl. in 98.3 overs (Babar Azam 76, Azhar Ali 56) vs Bangladesh 76/7 in 26 overs (Najmul Hossain 30, Sajid Khan 6/35).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-fighting-to-save-follow-on/article37891278.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Raheel to lead||Mohammed Raheel will lead the Karnataka State senior men’s hockey team at the 11th Hockey India senior men’s National championship to be held from Decemeber 11 to 22 in Pune. Karnataka is placed in Pool-C with Puducherry, J & K and Arunachal.  The squad:   Mohammed Raheel (Capt.), Sharath Somanna, S.P. Deekshith, Ansar Ali, K.R. Bharath Kumar, R. Punith, B.M. Likhith, B.P. Somanna, C.S. Shamanth, Harish Mutagar, N.D. Chiranth Somanna, Manikanth Bijwad, N.M. Surya, K.C. Bopanna, B. Yathish Kumar, A.C. Subramani, D.M. Acchaiah, and Pavan Madivalar.   Manager: G.R. Dharmendra; Coach: R.P. Pradeep Kumar .    Karnataka’s Varshaa Sanjeev will take on MP’s Amee Kamani in the ladies’ snooker final at the billiards & snooker Nationals being held in Bhopal. While Varshaa beat Arantxa Sanches of Maharashtra 3-1 in the last-four clash on Tuesday, Amee overcame Karnataka’s Chitra Magimairaj 3-1.     N. Shashank top-scored with 118 as Malleswaram United CC chased down a 311-run target with three wickets to spare against Duleep Cricketers in the KSCA (Group I) fourth division league.  The scores: Star Sports Club, Nelamangala 164 in 41.4 overs (C. Sanjith 53, Pradeep Kumar 40, P. Harshith Gowda 3/28, S. Abhirath 3/33) lost to Merchants (2) 165/6 in 42.3 overs (Sadiq Ahmed 29, S. Abhirath 62 n.o.).   Eleven Brothers, Magadi 231/8 in 50 overs (Shezan Khan 109, B. Rahul 65, C.B. Mani 3/31) bt Crescent (1) 175 in 46.4 overs (B. Sachin 36, R. Monesh Ajay 32, Siddhil Shah 4/15, Vishwanath Daivik 3/41); Palace Orchard 266 in 45.5 overs (Siddiqui Arfat 41, Anand Gowda 68, S.R. Srikanth Revankar 37, M.P. Samarth 47, G. Dhanush 3/33) lost to Sirur Park SC 269/6 in 42 overs (C. Aravind 57, Anish John 57, Venkata Sunil 48, C. Vinod 34, B. Srikanth 26 n.o.).   Jeevanbhimanagar CC 155 in 44.4 overs (Hemant Kumar 32 n.o., Darshan U.Jain 5/29, Deshbhandari Sadashiva Shyamsundar 3/13) lost to Maharana 160/6 in 24.0 overs (Shreyas Srinath 35, Darshan U. Jain 47, Suresh Ram 30).   Duleep Cricketers 310/8 in 50 overs (Naveen Shankara 110, Jayaprakash Casala 55, N. Chethan Kumar, Arya J. Gowda 4/73) lost to Malleswaram United CC 311/7 in 49.5 overs (N. Shashank 118, Prathap 88).            Bengaluru FC blanked ASC & Center FC 4-0 in the BDFA Super Division league on Tuesday.  The results: FC Bengaluru United 3 (Batskhemlang 8, Luke Majecin 24, 59) bt BUFC 0; Bangalore Eagles FC 1 (Vijay Thangavel 64) bt Kodagu FC 0; BFC 4 (Rahul Raju 44, Jagadeep Singh 65, Lalthanglina 84, Robin Yadav 88) bt ASC & Center FC 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/raheel-to-lead/article37891551.ece
08 December 2021||TIRUCHI:,||St. Joseph’s men and Amala women triumph||St. Joseph’s College and Amala Girls HSS won the men’s and women’s titles in the district volleyball championship, organised by the Tiruchi District Volleyball Association and Anbil Foundation, here recently.  School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi gave away the prizes.  The results (finals):   Men: St. Joseph’s bt Jamal Mohamed College 25-20, 25-16, 25-18.   Women: Amala bt SRC 25-21, 25-20 .    Star Chess Foundation will conduct a State-level chess tournament at the Seshasayee Institute of Technology in Tiruchi on December 26. Call P. Ismail on 90801 81709 for details.     The Coimbatore District Chess Association (CDCA) will conduct a selection tournament for under-15 and 19 boys and girls, and women’s open at the Sanmarga Sangam, near Devanga HSS, here on December 12. The top four finishers in each category will be selected for the forthcoming state chess championship. For details, contact K. Dhanasekar (9944898753), M. Vinod Kumar (9884403988) or Dr. G.G. Sathiesh (9842205003).   The fourth sub-junior and junior boys’ and girls’ open badminton tournament, jointly organised by Sri Jayakrishna Badminton Coaching Academy and MRC Sports and Garments, will be held at the JK indoor courts, Dharmaraj Nagar, on December 25 and 26. Contact 84285 99761 or 93423 81358 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/st-josephs-men-and-amala-women-triumph/article37891657.ece
08 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Anshul, Satish shine for Cavaliers||Anshul Gupta (79, 78b, 10x4, 1x6) and Satish (42, 48b, 2x4, 3x6) helped Cavaliers Cricket Club score a 123-run win over East Godavari District Cricket Association in the semifinals of the 24th The Hindu Trophy one-day cricket championship here on Tuesday. Batting first, Cavaliers scored 247 for eight in 42 overs with Anshul and Satish batting well. ]For EGDCA, P. Manikanta claimed three wickets. In reply, EGDCA folded up for 124 in 20.1 overs with Manikanta (45 n.o., 16b, 5x4, 4x6) being the top-scorer as the others found the bowling of U.A.V. Varma and U.M.R.K. Raju too good to handle.  The scores: Semifinals: Cavaliers 247/8 in 42 overs (Anshul Gupta 79, Satish 42, P. Manikanta 3/38) bt EGDCA 124 in 20.1 overs (P. Manikanta Gangadhar 45 n.o., U.A.V. Varma 4/45, U.M.R.K. Raju 3/32) .     M. Kondala Rao, former secretary of Visakhapatnam District Hockey Association and Assistant Director of Physical Education, Andhra University, passed away on Monday after a brief illness. He was 79 and survived by wife and four sons. Dr. A. Prasanna Kumar, former rector, AU, P.R. Narayanaswami, former secretary, AU sports board and N. Vijaya Mohan, secretary, AUSB and others expressed condolences.   Hyderabad was struggling at 98 for five in reply to Andhra’s 403 in the first innings on the second day of the Cooch Behar Trophy (u-19) Group D match at New Delhi on Tuesday.  The scores:   Group D: Andhra 403 in 131.5 overs (S.V. Rahul 111, M.K. Datta 57, G. Chandi 31, B. Punnaiah 3/97, M. Abhishek 3/90) vs Hyderabad 98/5 in 39 overs (A. Avinash 47).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anshul-satish-shine-for-cavaliers/article37891973.ece
08 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Swastik Cricket Promoters’ annual camp||Swastik Cricket Promoters will conduct its annual coaching camp in Porur from January 1, 2022. For details, contact 98412 96056 or 97910 34445.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/swastik-cricket-promoters-annual-camp/article37891597.ece
08 December 2021||Mysuru,||Adiga shines in FUCC’S big win||Opener Suhas Adiga (106, 11x4) helped FUCC register a facile 112-run win over Navajyoti CC in the KSCA Mysore zone II division league here recently.  The scores: II div.: FUCC 271 in 46.1 overs (Suhas Adiga 106, R. Hemanth 55, Nagarjun 39, S. Pradeep 32, Rajashekar Swamy four for 32, L. Sanjay three for 58) bt Navajyoti 159 in 33.4 overs (Somesh Raje Urs 28, S. Preetham three for 44, N. Nishanth three for 36) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adiga-shines-in-fuccs-big-win/article37891932.ece
08 December 2021||SYDNEY,||Djokovic named in Serbian team||Novak Djokovic has been named in the Serbian team for January’s ATP Cup, an indication that he could play in the Australian Open a week later despite controversy over his vaccination status. Organisers said on Tuesday that 18 of the world’s top 20 players will take part in the 16-country tournament in Sydney from Jan. 1-9.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-named-in-serbian-team/article37891280.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Narasimha avatar||The uniqueness of Narasimha avatara has been glowingly depicted in the Bhagavata Purana . The exchanges between Prahlada and Hiranyakasipu just before the Lord manifests from the pillar contain high philosophical and spiritual truths, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. Hiranyakasipu laughs in derision at Prahlada’s implicit faith and devotion since the child keeps asserting that the Lord is present everywhere. Hiranyakasipu asks him, if, as he claims, such a person exists everywhere, why is He not seen in the pillar? I see the Lord everywhere, says Prahlada. He not only sees the Lord in the pillar but as the indweller in all beings, including his father. Interpreters show that this is proof that the Lord is easily available to those who are devoted to Him and are able to experience His presence everywhere and in all objects. But He remains distant and unseen to the non-believers. So the demon keeps asking, “Where is He?” He then strikes a pillar and instantly the Lord manifests from the pillar, proving the Sukta Vakya, ‘Narayana pervades both inside and outside of everything’. The Lord’s pervasiveness is such that there is not a miniscule of space not occupied by Him. In this avatara, even the common and the unlettered can experience the Lord’s omnipresence, omnipotence and omniscience which the sastras themselves struggle to express adequately. It is no wonder the Bhagavata Purana extols this avatara as ‘Ati Atbhutam’ — the most extraordinary — and it goes on to unfold its many salient features.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/narasimha-avatar/article37891470.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 07:22 IST,||Sudoku — December 8, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-8-2021/article37892085.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||A senior citizen takes off||Thirty thousand feet above the ground, bored and hungry, if you are tucking into a cup of hot biryani or upma , you have Radha Daga to thank. This 79-year-old from Chennai started her ready-to-eat food business about a decade ago. Her brand, Triguni Eze Eats, is now available on IndiGo and Air Asia India flights, on Amazon and retail stores across the country, and in Singapore and Malaysia. “I don’t think like an entrepreneur. They look at generating revenues and profit and loss. I got into my business without thinking whether it will make money,” says Radha with a smile. While her current business came out of her love for cooking, she had got into her first business to help women. She set up her first business of textile import in 1987, in Chennai. “It was also started to create employment for women. It gave me pleasure to train people and to see that they were improving and living better, dressing better and eating better,” she says. By 2009, Radha was determined to get into the food business. On a holiday with her husband, in the US she stumbled upon a magazine that had an advertisement about ready-to-eat pasta. All one had to do was add hot water. The idea stuck with her. On her return to India, she thought: How about Cup-o-idli? She bought a dehydrating machine and found a chef who had worked with a flight kitchen. Together, they started working on idlis. But after months of trial and error, they realised some of the idlis were not hydrating properly with hot water. Instant hits Radha gave up on the idlis and tried other combinations. The lemon rice and biryani were instant hits and set the company soaring, literally and figuratively. Ready-to-eat tamarind rice and upma followed. “The food is cooked the way normal food is prepared, and then it goes through a process [for dehydration and preservation] that I can’t disclose,” laughs Radha. Around that time, a representative of IndiGo airlines came across Triguni Eze Eats’ biryani in a cup and was excited to see it is ready to eat just by adding hot water — eight minutes is all it took. In 2012, IndiGo expressed interest in Radha’s product for their in-flight meals, but wanted her to work on the packaging to make it convenient for the crew. The airline is now her biggest client, buying 85% of her total production. Triguni Eze Eats produces their products as per orders, as they are particular about shelf life. “We have the capacity to pack 16,000 to 18,000 tubs a day. Before the first lockdown we were dispatching 13,000 tubs a day between the airline and the domestic market,” she says.  Upma , dal chawal , rajma chawal and biryani are the hot favourites. Upma and biryani are produced every day.  Last September, as lockdowns eased, she turned her focus on trains. Her new line has pongal sambar, moong dal khichdi and masala upma , priced at Rs. 85 for 230 grams (and 250 grams after rehydration). Meanwhile, other experiments are constantly on at the Triguni Foods factory in Thiruverkadu. “When I started this business at the age of 69, I did not want any debts,” says Radha. Things were going smooth till the demonetisation happened in 2016. It took time to recover. She had just managed to get back on the saddle, when the pandemic and lockdown hit last year. With air travel almost nil, and people staying at home and cooking themselves, her ready-to-eat meals were not on retail customers’ shopping lists. “For most people, the priority was ordering groceries, fruits and vegetables.” This added to the setback. “Pre-pandemic (2019-2020) our turnover was 16 crore. February and March 2020 were negative. 2020-2021 we closed at around 5 crore because both airline and markets picked up only after December 2020.” But since November 15, things are getting back on track. “I am dispatching one lakh tubs a week now. These go to IRCTC”, airlines, and are also in demand by travellers, and students,” says Radha. The reason she believes is the convenience and the fact that this is the closest thing to home food. Radha is now upbeat about the future, especially because she believes, “I have a good product.”  We have the capacity to pack 16,000 to 18,000 tubs a day. Before the first lockdown we were dispatching 13,000 tubs a day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-senior-citizen-takes-off/article37891885.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||A fox in quarantine||After a long gap, the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP), Visakhapatnam, welcomed three new animals earlier this week as part of its animal exchange programme with National Zoological Park (NZP) in New Delhi. The Himalayan goral and Bengal fox are the new species that have arrived. Incidentally, the Himalayan goral is listed as ‘near threatened’ by IUCN due to habitat loss and hunt for its meat. Additionally, a male nilgai has been brought to pair with the female nilgai at the zoo for breeding. “The animals are doing well. All the basic needs of the animals are being met,” said Zoo Curator Nandani Salaria. The newly brought animals are kept in the quarantine facility of the zoo as per the regular procedure. After meeting the requirements mentioned in the animal exchange procedure, they will be released into their respective enclosures. Following the quarantine period, IGZP will announce the date from when visitors will be able to see the new entrants at Visakhapatnam zoo. This animal exchange programme was approved by Central Zoo Authority in April 2021. However, due to the second wave of COVID-19 and monsoons followed by recurring cyclones, there was a delay in the transportation of these animals. This exchange is being executed in two phases. IGZP will get one more hippopotamus from NZP. The remaining species, which are yet to be received are six pairs of sangai, two pairs of white ibis, one pair of silver pheasant, kalij pheasants (one male and two females), and one pair of swamp deer. In exchange, the Visakhapatnam zoo will spare two wild dogs, one striped hyena, one sacred baboon and 15 star tortoises to NZP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-fox-in-quarantine/article37891971.ece
08 December 2021||December 08 2021 00:00 IST,||When Italian meets Japanese||How about a classic Italian risotto made with native sticky black rice or an umami pasta with miso, served fresh in Coimbatore? “It’s a great fusion of Italian and Japanese flavours and tastes,” describes Siddharth Sethi, one of the founders of The Cloud Kitchen Project (@cloudkitchenproject), a community first cloud kitchen based in RS Puram. Three friends, Pavithraa Priya, Dhiren Khturia and Siddharth, who share a common passion for food, came together to start this venture and offer an intimate culinary experience for patrons as well as themselves. The trio is a part of a growing tribe that is thriving in the delivery and takeaway space with novel business ideas. The domestic cloud kitchens market is expected to grow from $400 million in 2019 to $2 billion by 2024, as per a report by RedSeer Management Consulting. Cloud kitchens, called ghost or dark kitchens that serve only food deliveries, are leading from the front to bring about this change. Unlike brick-and-mortar restaurants, cloud kitchens do not have a dine-in facility. They take orders via apps — in-house or Zomato or Swiggy — and operate single or multiple food brands. Dee’s Cookhaus (@deescookhaus), located at Ram Nagar, offers Thai, Indonesian, Italian, and Sri Lankan gourmet food for lunch and dinner. Started by Deepika Kumaran in September last year, it has added a sub brand Crumble and Cookies for gourmet cookies. “With restrictions in dining, the cloud kitchen peaked during the pandemic. I converted the terrace of my house into a kitchen.” While pursuing her MBA in London, Deepika worked part time at an Indo-Mexican restaurant there. “The exposure and research helped me curate an international menu. People here are game to try Thai, Chinese, sushi or anything new. We are planning to introduce Turkish chicken kebabs, falafel wraps, and African jollof rice too.” While Siddharth and Pavithraa have graduated in Hospitality from ITC School in Manipal, Dhiren is a passionate cook. They have jointly done a few projects on consultancy earlier. Adds Pavithra, “People here always wanted something new but didn’t have access to. We have never done a South Indian menu till now and every week our experimental food is a sell out.” At Cloud Kitchen Project, every dish has a story behind it, they add. The team has so far executed more than 100 orders over a span of 35 weekend menus. “We get inspiration from our travel experiences and enhance it like the umami pasta or something shared by our employees who are from across India. One of our chefs is from a village nearKolkata where they slice down brinjals, coat them withbesan, fry like bhajiyas. Later, they roast onions directly on the flame, chop them, add mustard oil, lemon, coriander, and mix the brinjal pakoras . You will see this on our menu soon,” explains Siddharth. They come out with a new menu every Wednesday on Instagram and deliver dinner orders on weekends. Personal touch Networking and community is priority. “You cannot place an order without chatting with one of the founders. To enhance the experience, we came up with a brunch menu where the QR code on the brunch box opens a list of music that they can listen to in the background while they enjoy food.” Their Instagram page is buzzing with behind-the-scenes videos of what goes on in the 2,000 sq.ft kitchen. Says Siddharth, adding, “We want to build a community; a friendly space for restaurants, small businesses, vendors, farmers, and organic players to grow and help each other.” Along with new players, restaurant owners like William Fan and Wilson Fan, who have run China Valley and Ninhao restaurants for over two decades, ventured aggressively into the online deliveries space during the pandemic. Their Wills Cloud Kitchen doles out manchow soup, lippen chicken, chilli garlic rice, Thai basil noodles, sea food platter, the works. “We wanted to keep the business afloat and the staff engaged. We cannot depend only on food aggregators. We roped in local delivery guys too. People can set up a cloud kitchen with a budget between Rs. 2 lakh and Rs. 15 lakh. A clean, hygienic kitchen space is a pre-requisite. And, passion.” Agrees Lalitha Gowtham, founder and admin of Kovai Foodies, an online forum that tracks food trends across the globe. It has over 20,000 members. “Though cloud kitchens have been around, large and small players like homemakers see a booming business opportunity now.” The bigger picture Ranjana Singhal, who has been in the industry for two decades, says food aggregators play an important role, especially when you have to meet orders from multiple locations. She had to shut down two of her cloud kitchens while the existing one offers parathas, sandwiches, pizzas and pastas. “Finger foods like tikkas and burgers, and maybe biryani work well, especially among youngsters. With stringent FSSAI norms, there is also a reality check among hoe chefs.” The Cloud Kitchen Project has added a sub brand Van Dough Pizzas (inspired by Van Gogh!) that makes artisanal pizzas. “One thing we really miss is serving people, watching them react to our food, and the hustle and bustle of a packed dining hall,” says Dhiren, adding, “Dishes, flavour profiles, cuisines that work well become a separate brand. Like Van Dough, there will be many more. We also want to act as a platform for restaurants to help gauge the market, experiment with menus and help them build a brand. Currently, trial runs are on for a shawarma brand in Chennai.”    A growing tribe is thriving in the takeaway space with novel ideas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/when-italian-meets-japanese/article37891886.ece
