10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India pays homage to first CDS, wife and 11 other crash victims||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday evening paid last respects to Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, wife and 11 defence personnel who were killed in the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. He was joined by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and the three Service Chiefs at the Palam Air Base. Earlier, the Defence Minister informed Parliament that the Indian Air Force (IAF) had ordered a tri-service inquiry headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Training Command, to investigate the crash. The mortal remains were moved by road from Wellington to Sulur around noon since the weather was not appropriate for air operations and from there were flown in an IAF C-130J transport aircraft to Delhi. The mortal remains of Gen. Rawat will be kept at his residence on Friday morning for members of the public to pay their respects and will be moved to the Brar Square Crematorium around 2 p.m., Army officials said. Identification process A defence official said the severity of air crash has led to difficulty in positive identification of mortal remains. “All possible measures are being taken for positive identification considering the sensitivities and emotional well-being of the loved ones,” the official said. Positive identification of only three mortal remains was possible till evening (Gen. Bipin Rawat, Madhulika Rawat and Brig. L.S. Lidder) and officials said their mortal remains will be released to the next of kin, for final rites. Process for positive identification of the remaining mortal remains is continuing, the official said adding, the remains will be kept at the mortuary of the Army Base Hospital till the completion of positive identification formalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-pays-homage-to-first-cds-wife-and-11-other-crash-victims/article37920139.ece
10 December 2021||MANGALURU,||All is set for Council polls today||Mustering process for the biennial elections to the Legislative Council from Dakshina Kannada-Udupi local bodies constituency got completed without any hitch in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Thursday. Officials concerned were provided with ballot boxes, ballot papers and other required material even as Deputy Commissioners of the districts K.V. Rajendra and M. Kurma Rao, respectively, visited mustering centres in the respective district headquarters. Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat CEO Kumara accompanied Dr. Rajendra in Mangaluru. The constituency has, in all, 6,040 voters — 2,916 male and 3,124 female. The lowest number of voters are in Booth No 358 (five) in Dakshina Kannada and Booth No 26 (four) in Udupi district, according to information shared by Dr. Rajendra, who is also the Returning Officer. The highest number of voters are in polling Booth No 211 (68 voters) in Dakshina Kannada and Booth No 1 (44 voters) in Udupi district. Of the 6,040 voters, 5,699 have received both the doses of COVID-19 vaccine, 300 one dose and 41 have not received any. In all, 1,284 polling officers, 428 Group D personnel, 389 videographers and 389 police personnel are being deployed at the 389 polling stations in the two districts. Ballot boxes will be kept in three strongrooms at the counting centre — Rosario College, Pandeshwar, Mangaluru, while counting will be taken up on 14 tables. Visiting the mustering centre in Udupi, Mr. Kurma Rao said that the administration has made all arrangements to ensure free and fair polling on Friday. Arrangements have been made to ensure polling as per the directions of the Election Commission of India, he said and added that the personnel have been given necessary training. As many as 158 polling booths have been opened in the district to facilitate 2,505 members of local bodies to cast their franchise between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. Udupi Tahsildar Pradeep Kurdekar was present. Minister for Social and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojari is contesting as the BJP candidate, KPCC vice-president Manjunath Bhandary as the Congress candidate and Shafi Bellare is contesting as the SDPI candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-is-set-for-council-polls-today/article37920538.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers declare victory, to start vacating protest sites||The thousands of farmers camped out on the borders of Delhi for over a year will start returning home on Saturday, with victory rallies to celebrate the achievement of most of their major goals. On Thursday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a coalition of unions spearheading the protests, called off the agitation, accepting the Central Government’s latest offer to resolve their pending demands. However, the political rewards the ruling BJP may have expected in conceding the farmers’ demands remain uncertain given the conflicting opinions on the SKM’s approach towards the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Rakesh Tikait, the unions’ best known face in U.P., told The Hindu a decision on whether or not to campaign against the BJP would be taken at the SKM’s next meeting on January 15. That meeting is meant to review whether the Government has kept its promises to unconditionally withdraw cases filed against protesters, provide compensation for the kin of farmers who died at the protests, and form a panel to ensure that all farmers can sell their produce at remunerative minimum support prices (MSP). “This is a historic victory for Indian farmers after a historic movement both in terms of size as well as the unity and peaceful nature of the protest,” All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) leader Hannan Mollah said. “After the repeal of the farm laws last month, and today’s proposal from the Government on the remaining demands, I feel we have achieved 95% of the SKM’s demands,” Krantikari Kisan Union leader Darshan Pal said. Victory celebrations have been scheduled for Saturday, out of respect for the cremation of Gen. Bipin Rawat on Friday. At the Singhu border site, a number of farmers have already begun packing up their temporary accommodations, although U.P. leader Rakesh Tikait said it could take a while for all protestors to vacate the protest sites, especially in his Ghazipur stronghold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-declare-victory-to-start-vacating-protest-sites/article37920141.ece
10 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Medicos to boycott emergency duties||Patient care in all government medical college hospitals (MCHs) in the State is likely to be affected from Friday as postgraduate medical students (junior residents) have decided to go ahead with their strike, boycotting all services, including emergency services, in protest against the government’s refusal to take any concrete measures to resolve the crisis in medical colleges. The striking doctors said that they would boycott all emergency duties, other than COVID-19 duty from Friday. They said that by threatening them the government had made it clear that it did not intend to resolve the issues faced by the doctors. By Friday evening, principals of Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, Thrissur and Ernakulam medical colleges issued orders expelling the striking junior doctors from PG hostels. Nationwide strike Junior residents in all MCHs have been on strike for the past nine days as part of a nationwide strike in protest against the inordinate and indeterminate delay in NEET-PG 2021 allotment, which had put the entire burden of patient care activities on them. The junior residents said that in the absence of their junior batch to share hospital duties, they were on continuous 48 and 96-hour shifts for the past several months, leaving them overworked and stressed. This was affecting the quality of care. Following discussions with the doctors, Health Minister Veena George had on Tuesday issued a press release that the PG doctors had decided to withdraw their strike, after they were given the assurance that non-academic junior residents (medical students who have finished house surgency and are waiting for PG entrance) would be recruited within two days. But the PG doctors had clarified then itself that they would resume their strike if the government did not follow through on these assurances and issued a order recruiting non-academic junior residents. On Thursday, Ms. George issued a warning to the PG doctors that the issues of NEET-PG allotment was not something that the State could resolve and that the doctors’ strike would be dealt with strictly. She threatened that action would be taken against them under the Epidemics (Prevention and Control ) Act. Meanwhile, the Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association said that the MCHs were already facing a huge human resource shortage as a chunk of the faculty have been shifted “on working arrangement” to the new medical colleges at Konni, Idukki and Paripally. In a statement in support of the junior doctors, the KGMCTA appealed to the public not to come to MCHs unless it was an emergency, as the hospitals were acutely short staffed to deal with OP and IP care, ICUs and COVID duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/medicos-to-boycott-emergency-duties/article37920431.ece
10 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Two centenarians get vaccine||The 101-year-old Rati Poojarthi from Nakre village and 100-year-old Koosu Sapaliga from Sachcharipete village, both in Karkala taluk, were among the 5,010 people who received COVID-19 vaccine in Udupi district on Thursday. Karkala Taluk Health Officer Krishnanand Shetty said that the two centenarians were among the several elderly in the taluk who are being vaccinated as part of the ongoing “Har Ghar Dastak” programme wherein health personnel visit houses to administer vaccine. Dr. Shetty said that the Health Department staff arranged several rounds of counselling for family members of Ms. Poojarthi and Ms. Sapaliga before the latter agreed to get their first dose of the vaccine. Kukkundur Primary Healthcare Officers Kumudavati and Anita and ASHA Suma administered the vaccine to Ms. Poojarthi, while Sachcharipete PHOs Vimala and Bharati and ASHA Shashikala administered the dose to Ms. Sapaliga. So far, 17,21,796 persons have been vaccinated in Udupi district. Of these, 9,49,880 have received their first dose and 7,71,916 their second. In Dakshina Kannada, 7,413 people were vaccinated taking the total number of recipients to 27,97,512. Of these, 15,85,613 have received their first dose and 12,11,908 their second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-centenarians-get-vaccine/article37920543.ece
10 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||For Naga talks, AFSPA must go: NSCN (I-M)||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (I-M), has said the “Indo-Naga” political talks will not be meaningful under the shadow of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958. The NSCN (I-M) is the key player in the peace process that has been hanging fire since 1997 when the extremist group had declared a ceasefire. Several factions of the rival Khaplang group came on board the peace process from 2001. Referring to the December 4 killing of 14 civilians by the armed forces at Oting village in Nagaland’s Mon district, the NSCN (I-M) said it has now been driven to the point of taking a stand on the draconian AFSPA. “This notorious AFSPA has given the Indian security forces the licence to shoot and kill anyone on mere suspicion... The Nagas have had the bitter taste of this act on numerous occasions and it has spilt enough blood. Blood and political talks cannot go together... No political talks will be meaningful under the shadow of the AFSPA,” the outfit said. “Let human dignity take control and be made an integral part of the Naga political peace process. Unfortunately, the Oting killing has become a threat to the Nagas’ longing for Naga political solution.” It said the Centre must immediately withdraw the AFSPA if it wants to do justice to the Naga people. The NSCN (I-M) said the soldiers, “emboldened by the Act beyond measure”, have been treating the Nagas like sub-human beings without the fear of any scrutiny of court of law. ‘Expecting swift justice’ “Therefore, this time around, the Naga people expect that the judgment [of the special investigation team probing the December 4 incident] must be transparent and must be swiftly delivered. This is the only way to establish absolute fidelity between the Naga people and the Government of India,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/for-naga-talks-afspa-must-go-nscn-i-m/article37920470.ece
10 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||MCHs to get non-academic junior residents||With the strike by postgraduate medical students (junior residents) threatening to derail the functioning of all government medical college hospitals (MCHs), the government issued an order late Thursday night giving permission to the principals to appoint non-academic junior residents in all MCHs. The lack of a formal government order (GO) acceding to this main demand by the PG doctors, that the acute human resource shortage be resolved, was one of the reasons why the junior residents had refused to withdraw from the strike. According to the GO, 373 non-academic junior residents would be appointed, of which the Thiruvananthapuram MCH will get 50, Kozhikode and Thrissur 72 each, Kottayam 75, Alappuzha 61, Ernakulam seven and Kannur 36. The persons so appointed would be paid a salary of Rs. 45,000, and the expense for the same would be met under the head ‘Stipend and Scholarship of PG doctors’, the GO says. Earlier, the postgraduate medical students had decided to go ahead with their strike, boycotting all services, including emergency services, from Friday in protest against the government’s refusal to take any concrete measures to resolve the crisis in the MCHs. The striking doctors had threatened to boycott all emergency duties, other than COVID-19 duty from Friday. Principals of the Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, Thrissur and Ernakulam medical colleges issued orders expelling the striking junior doctors from PG hostels. Junior residents in all MCHs have been on strike since the past nine days, as part of the nationwide strike to protest against the inordinate and indeterminate delay in NEET-PG 2021 allotment, which had put the entire burden of patient care activities on them. Long hours of work Normally, the PG allotments should have been over by May. The junior residents said that in the absence of their junior batch to share hospital duties, they were on continuous 48- and 96-hour shifts for the past several months, leaving them overworked and stressed. This was affecting the quality of patient care also. On Thursday, Ms. George issued a warning to the PG doctors that the issues of NEET-PG allotment was not something that the State could resolve and that the doctors’ strike, which was affecting the functioning of the MCHs, would be dealt with strictly. She threatened that action would be taken against them under the Epidemics (Prevention and Control ) Act. Meanwhile, the Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association said that the MCHs were already facing a huge human resource shortage as a chunk of the faculty have been shifted “on working arrangement” to the new medical colleges at Konni, Idukki and Paripally, violating all transfer norms, in anticipation of the upcoming inspection of new medical colleges by the National Medical Commission.  According to a GO, a total of 373 non-academic junior residents will be appointed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mchs-to-get-non-academic-junior-residents/article37920447.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,||1.74 lakh connections given under Ujjwala 2.0||Oil Marketing Companies (OMC) that have so far, provided 1.74 lakh free liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) connections under the Ujjwala 2.0 scheme in the State. are looking to increase these numbers by targetting districts with less than 90% LPG coverage. A total of 32.43 lakh beneficiaries were covered in the first phase of the Ujjwala scheme in Tamil Nadu. “We are using the Aadhaar and family card databases and correlating it with the 2011 Census data to ensure maximum coverage. We are concentrating on districts, including Villupuram, Pudukottai, Tiruvarur, Dindigul and Dharmapuri,” said an official source in Indian Oil Corporation, which has provided 1.16 lakh connections under the scheme. The scheme was launched in April 2021 to provide LPG connections to households under various categories, including island dwellers, SC/ST, most backward classes, forest dwellers, tea and ex-tea garden tribes. These houses should not posses any other LPG connection. The households should have some document such as family card or Aadhaar card and have a bank account linked to the Aadhaar. The beneficiaries would get a gas stove, Suraksha safety hose, regulator and one LPG cylinder for free. They would not have to pay any deposit amount as in regular connections. The cost is borne by the Central government.  Oil companies have provided LPG connections to over 95% of households in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/174-lakh-connections-provided-under-ujjwala-20-in-tn/article37920212.ece
10 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Coast Guard Commander calls on Governor, CM||Commander Coast Guard Region (West) Inspector-General S. Paramesh called on Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in Bengaluru on Thursday. According to a press release, Mr. Paramesh apprised the two of the action taken to strengthen coastal security and also the other facets of Coast Guards work. Mr. Paramesh is said to have mentioned saving the lives of 233 people, including several fishermen from the State, during search and rescue operations in the wake of Cyclone Tauktae and incessant rain. As a result of the prompt action, no lives were lost in sea amid cyclones in the Arabian Sea in recent times, the release said. The Coast Guard Commander called on Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar. Among the various issues that were discussed include the progress made in setting up the Indian Coast Guard Academy in Mangaluru. Mr. Paramesh also met Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Praveen Sood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/coast-guard-commander-calls-on-governor-cm/article37920539.ece
10 December 2021||Belagavi,||Following norms biggest challenge||Ensuring effective implementation of COVID-19 protocol is probably the biggest challenge before officers who are tasked with the peaceful conduct of the Winter Session of the State Legislature. The State Government has mandated that all participants in the session, legislators, officers, security personnel, spectators and media persons, need to be vaccinated and carry a fresh RT-PCR test negative certificate. Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar told officers in a meeting in Belagavi on Wednesday that this rule will be strictly implemented. He said that the unvaccinated will be vaccinated at a centre in the Suvarna Soudha. However, junior officers say that this is difficult to implement. “The session will last 11 days, that means a participant has to undergo RT-PCR tests four times. This is next to impossible,’’ a Health Department officer said. Officers of the district administration are making preparations to hold the Winter Session in the face of various challenges, including transport, housing, food and following VIP protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/following-norms-biggest-challenge/article37920356.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,||State tops in first dose vaccination||Karnataka has moved up to the first position among larger States in terms of first dose vaccination. Karnataka, which stood in the third position in first dose administration till a week ago, is now followed by Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh where 94.46% and 93.83% of the target population has been covered with one dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-tops-in-first-dose-vaccination/article37920567.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,||COVID-19: No guideline changes for now||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said it has been decided not to make changes to COVID-19 guidelines for now. He pointed out that the TAC had informed that there was no need to press the panic button as the number of cases in the State was not alarming. A decision on restrictions for Christmas, New Year’s celebrations, and night curfew would be taken after monitoring the situation over the next one week, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-no-guideline-changes-for-now/article37920568.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Govt. submits file on ICC inquiry to HC||The State Government on Thursday submitted before the Madras High Court the entire file related to an inquiry conducted by an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) against suspended special Director General of Police (DGP) Rajesh Das. The committee had found prima facie material to initiate disciplinary proceedings against him for allegedly making sexual advances towards a woman IPS officer. Justice V. Parthiban had called for the files to look at the procedure adopted by the ICC before recommending disciplinary proceedings. Accordingly, Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram submitted three volumes of documents and said the question of allowing the suspended DGP to cross-examine witnesses did not rise, since no punishment had been imposed on him on the basis of the ICC inquiry report. He said the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act of 2013, and the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules of 1969 permitted the ICC itself to conduct disciplinary proceedings. Therefore, the government had asked the ICC, headed by IAS officer Jayashree Raghunandan, to hold a disciplinary inquiry against the suspended DGP and submit a detailed report. “The disciplinary inquiry is under way. The petitioner herein will be given an opportunity to inspect the relevant documents, in consonance with the guidelines issued by the Government of India,” the A-G said. The submissions were made during the hearing of a writ petition filed by the suspended DGP, challenging the ICC inquiry on various grounds, including bias and non-adherence to the principles of natural justice. Denying the allegations, the A-G filed an affidavit, sworn on behalf of the Home Secretary, wherein it was stated that the charges framed against the suspended DGP, under Section 8 of the 1969 Rules, were served on him, along with a copy of the government letter, asking the ICC to conduct the disciplinary inquiry. The ICC had been following due process of the law, the affidavit stated, urging the court to dismiss the writ petition. The government also told the court that the writ petitioner was placed under suspension between August 20, 2002, and April 26, 2004, when he was serving as Superintendent of Police in Tiruvallur district. The charge against him then was that he prevented guardmen from presenting the guard of honour to the then Deputy Inspector General of Police, Chengalpattu Range. In 2006, he was let off with a warning not to give room to such complaints. It was also brought to the notice of the court that a few constables had approached the State Human Rights Commission, accusing the suspended DGP of having assaulted them. Accordingly, Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram submitted three volumes of documents and said the question of allowing the suspended DGP to cross-examine witnesses did not rise, since no punishment had been imposed on him on the basis of the ICC inquiry report. He said the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act of 2013, and the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules of 1969 permitted the ICC itself to conduct disciplinary proceedings. Therefore, the government had asked the ICC, headed by IAS officer Jayashree Raghunandan, to hold a disciplinary inquiry against the suspended DGP and submit a detailed report. “The disciplinary inquiry is under way. The petitioner herein will be given an opportunity to inspect the relevant documents, in consonance with the guidelines issued by the Government of India,” the A-G said. The submissions were made during the hearing of a writ petition filed by the suspended DGP, challenging the ICC inquiry on various grounds, including bias and non-adherence to the principles of natural justice. Denying the allegations, the A-G filed an affidavit, sworn on behalf of the Home Secretary, wherein it was stated that the charges framed against the suspended DGP, under Section 8 of the 1969 Rules, were served on him, along with a copy of the government letter, asking the ICC to conduct the disciplinary inquiry. The ICC had been following due process of the law, the affidavit stated, urging the court to dismiss the writ petition. The government also told the court that the writ petitioner was placed under suspension between August 20, 2002, and April 26, 2004, when he was serving as Superintendent of Police in Tiruvallur district. The charge against him then was that he prevented guardmen from presenting the guard of honour to the then Deputy Inspector General of Police, Chengalpattu Range. In 2006, he was let off with a warning not to give room to such complaints. It was also brought to the notice of the court that a few constables had approached the State Human Rights Commission, accusing the suspended DGP of having assaulted them. One of the injured constables had filed a writ petition in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court in 2016, and the case was still pending. “Therefore, no exemption can be shown to the petitioner from facing the present inquiry,” the Home Secretary’s affidavit read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-submits-file-on-icc-inquiry-to-hc/article37920233.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Red signal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/red-signal/article37920238.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Panel to look into patta for SIDCO land||Owners of around 3,500 acres of land belonging to Small Industries Development Corporation (SIDCO) are yet to get patta and the State government has formed a committee to look into this, Rural Industries Minister T.M. Anbarasan said while inaugurating ACMEE 2021, an international machine tools exhibition organised by the Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association (AIEMA). He said this land bank was spread across the State and a list had been prepared. “Over the next two or three months, the patta will be distributed to those who brought the land,” he said. While delivering his address, Industries Minister Thagam Thennarasu said that MSME’s had made enormous contribution to the State. Ford plant To a query on the Ford acquisition issue, Mr. Thennarasu said that many firms had evinced interest but nothing had been formalised yet. He said a team from Tata Motors visited the Ford plant in Chennai twice. On the defence corridor, the Minister said the State government had given proposals to the Defence Ministry. An elaborate meeting had been held with the Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. “We hope to get their clearance,” he said. A.N. Gireeshan, president of Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturing Association, said that around 30,000 visitors were expected at the exhibition and AIEMA was targeting a business of more than Rs. 500 crore during the event. “The exhibition will jump-start our economy that is still recovering from the pandemic,” he said. The exhibition, which concludes on December 13, has over 400 firms participating in it. Over 100 foreign firms have displayed their products through their Indian channel partners at the Chennai Trade Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-to-look-into-patta-for-sidco-land/article37920217.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Black box’ recovered||The Cockpit Voice Recorder and Flight Data Recorder of the IAF chopper that crashed with CDS Gen. Bipin Rawat and others were recovered on Thursday.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/black-box-recovered/article37920133.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Drones look for evidence||Amid foggy weather, investigators of the IAF and the Tamil Nadu police on Thursday flew drones at the site of the helicopter crash in Coonoor looking for evidence.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drones-look-for-evidence/article37920134.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Survivor sent to Bengaluru||Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor in the IAF Mi-17V5 crash, was airlifted to Bengaluru on Thursday for intensive treatment.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/survivor-sent-to-bengaluru/article37920135.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Separate property tax slab for industries in ULB limits||The State Cabinet on Thursday decided to create a separate slab of property tax to be levied on industries developed by KIADB and KSSIDC falling under urban local bodies (ULBs).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/separate-property-tax-slab-for-industries-in-ulb-limits/article37920157.ece
10 December 2021||Mumbai,||Sudha Bharadwaj out on bail from Byculla jail||Human rights lawyer and trade unionist Sudha Bharadwaj was released on Thursday from Byculla jail after spending over three years in prison in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon caste violence case of 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sudha-bharadwaj-out-on-bail-from-byculla-jail/article37920260.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||BJP MP pitches for Mathura temple||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election in early 2022, BJP MP Harnath Singh Yadav on Thursday called for the repeal of the Places of Worship Act to construct a Krishna temple in Mathura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-mp-pitches-for-mathura-temple/article37920261.ece
10 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||For Naga talks, AFSPA must go: NSCN (I-M)||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (I-M), has said the “Indo-Naga” political talks will not be meaningful under the shadow of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/for-naga-talks-afspa-must-go-nscn-i-m/article37920263.ece
10 December 2021||Chennai,||COVID-19 cases fall below 700 in T.N.||Fresh COVID-19 cases fell below the 700-mark in Tamil Nadu on Thursday, with 698 infections. Chennai logged 125 cases, Coimbatore 112. Fifteen people succumbed to the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-fall-below-700-in-tn/article37920541.ece
10 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||Polling today in Dharwad local bodies segment||All preparations have been made for polling in the elections to the Dharwad Local Authorities Constituency of the Legislative Council scheduled for Friday. Speaking to presspersons on Thursday, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad and Returning Officer Nitesh Patil said that everything has been put in place for polling to be held from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/polling-today-in-dharwad-local-bodies-segment/article37920358.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||BJP MP pitches for Mathura temple||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election in early 2022, BJP MP Harnath Singh Yadav on Thursday called for the repeal of the Places of Worship Act to construct a Krishna temple in Mathura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-mp-pitches-for-mathura-temple/article37920471.ece
10 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Prayagraj institute draws ire over vacant OBC posts||The Govind Ballabh Pant Social Science Institute, Prayagraj, is facing a storm for allegedly leaving posts designated for OBCs vacant under the ‘None Found Suitable’ category in its latest recruitment drive for teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prayagraj-institute-draws-ire-over-vacant-obc-posts/article37920472.ece
10 December 2021||Mumbai,||Sudha Bharadwaj out on bail from Byculla jail||Human rights lawyer and trade unionist Sudha Bharadwaj was released on Thursday from Byculla jail after spending over three years in prison in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon caste violence case of 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sudha-bharadwaj-out-on-bail-from-byculla-jail/article37920473.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,||9 varsity students test positive||After a person tested positive for COVID-19 on Anna University’s ACTECH campus hostel on Wednesday, 9 of the 300 students who were subjected to RT-PCR testing were found to have contracted the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/9-varsity-students-test-positive/article37920672.ece
10 December 2021||Chennai,||HC rejects IPS officer’s plea against Dhoni’s suit||The Madras High Court on Thursday rejected a plea filed by IPS officer G. Sampath Kumar to reject a Rs. 100-crore plaint in a civil suit, preferred by cricketer Mahendra Singh Dhoni in 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-rejects-ips-officers-plea-against-dhonis-suit/article37920192.ece
10 December 2021||COONOOR,||IAF, Tamil Nadu police begin probe into helicopter crash||Amid foggy weather conditions affecting visibility, investigators of the IAF and the Tamil Nadu police on Thursday flew drones at the site of the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash in Coonoor looking for evidence in the tragic incident. Chief of the Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 defence personnel were killed in the crash on Wednesday afternoon. According to police sources, the IAF’s Accident Investigation Board officials earlier in the day visited the site for field investigation. “Though we have registered a case and commenced inquiries with eyewitnesses and others, the IAF has the expertise to go into the technical aspects like aircraft forensics. They have the experience in probing in the past,” a senior police officer told The Hindu . The Upper Coonoor police have registered a case under Section 174 (inquest into death) of the Code of Criminal Procedure to inquire into the accident. Firefighters of the Tamil Nadu Fire & Rescue Services assisted the investigating officials by cutting damaged trees and clearing debris. The crash site nestled in a valley was cordoned off by the local police before the Army had stepped in. “Visibility has been poor with intermittent mist in the area since afternoon on Thursday. Drones are being deployed for aerial visuals as and when the situation is improving,” a forest official, who was part of the rescue operations, told The Hindu . The VIP helicopter crashed in between two mountains in a tea estate located some 100 metres below the village, forest officials said adding that the local people were initially too scared to run down to extinguish the flames that had engulfed the helicopter. The steep road leading to the village and the crash site in a narrow one-way lane are making it tough for rescue vehicles to operate with ease. A senior police officer said the post-mortem went on till late on Wednesday night because some bodies were charred beyond recognition. The officer said the Coonoor police inspector was the first to visit the crash site and he alerted all other agencies. The work of the Tamil Nadu police in the swift rescue operation came in for appreciation by top defence officers who conveyed it to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin when he visited the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington. Another senior police officer involved in the investigation said the weather conditions in the Nilgiris changed often, affecting visibility and aircraft operations. There were several instances when helicopters carrying VVIPs from Coimbatore to Udhagamandalam returned to base owing to inclement weather conditions. However, it is possible that the pilot of the ill-fated helicopter had visibility issues and flew at a lower altitude to stay below the clouds. “At times, it becomes difficult to judge the altitude while manoeuvring foggy weather conditions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iaf-tamil-nadu-police-begin-probe-into-helicopter-crash/article37919860.ece
10 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||No peace with AFSPA: NSCN(I-M)||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN(I-M), has said the “Indo-Naga” political talks will not be meaningful under the shadow of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958. The NSCN(I-M) is the key player in the peace process that has been hanging fire since 1997, when the extremist group declared a ceasefire. Several factions of the rival Khaplang group came on board the peace process from 2001. Referring to the December 4 killing of 14 civilians by the armed forces at Oting village in Nagaland’s Mon district, the NSCN(I-M) said it had now been driven to the point of taking a stand on the draconian AFSPA. ‘Licence to kill’ “This notorious AFSPA has given the Indian security forces the licence to shoot and kill anyone on mere suspicion... The Nagas have had the bitter taste of this act on numerous occasions and it has spilt enough blood. Blood and political talks cannot go together... No political talks will be meaningful under the shadow of the AFSPA,” the outfit said. “Let human dignity take control and be made an integral part of the Naga political peace process. Unfortunately, the Oting killing has become a threat to the Nagas’ longing for Naga political solution.” It said the Centre must immediately withdraw the AFSPA if it wanted to do justice to the Naga people. The NSCN(I-M) said the soldiers, “emboldened by the Act beyond measure”, had been treating the Nagas like sub-humans without the fear of any scrutiny of court of law. ‘Absolute fidelity’ “Therefore, this time around, the Naga people expect that the judgment [of the special investigation team probing the December 4 incident] must be transparent and must be swiftly delivered. This is the only way to establish absolute fidelity between the Naga people and the Government of India,” the statement said. The outfit accused the armed forces of stripping naked the bodies of the 14 victims and trying to wrap them in military fatigues to give the impression that they were militants. “They were caught red-handed by the villagers before they could succeed in their plan,” it said. Political maturity In a rebuttal to Home Minister Amit Shah’s statement in Parliament on the December 4 incident, it said that in a situation like this, Mr. Shah was expected to show political maturity and statesmanship to cool down the socio-political upheavals. However, he added fuel to the fire by standing behind the para commandos, which was like rubbing salt into the wounds of the Nagas, the outfit said. The NSCN(I-M) called the December 4 operation “a deliberate mission to kill and nothing to do with ‘credible’ intelligence of the NSCN movement in the area”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-peace-with-afspa-nscni-m/article37920119.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||States told to raise testing, surveillance||The five-fold strategy of “test, track, treat, vaccinate and adherence to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour” was highlighted as the mainstay of the public health response in managing the pandemic in the country by Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan as he reviewed India’s preparedness for the Omicron variant and progress in vaccination on Thursday. The States were urged to enhance testing and focus on surveillance to ensure early identification of suspected cases for prompt isolation and further clinical management. They were advised to ensure the availability of RT-PCR testing in all districts. Districts reporting higher case positivity rates are to monitor the case trajectory on a regular basis and promptly dispatch positive samples to the mapped INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium) labs for whole genome sequencing. At the meeting, close monitoring of new emerging hotspots/ clusters, breakthrough and re-infection cases, and prompt investigation of such events by rapid response teams were discussed. It was re-emphasised that all contacts of positive patients have to be traced and tested as per protocol as quickly as possible. Based on information provided by international travellers from ‘at risk’ countries in the Air Suvidha portal, district-wise monitoring of international passengers who have tested negative on arrival, with a focus on symptomatic cases, was highlighted. In view of the winter season, the States were advised to closely monitor prevalence of influenza-like illness (ILI), severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and respiratory distress symptoms.  “In order to ensure that all hospital infrastructure is ready for any possible surge in cases, States were advised to review their readiness for providing quality medical care,” said a release issued by the Ministry. The Health Secretary also urged the States to maintain an adequate buffer stock for the eight critical drugs identified in the clinical treatment of COVID-19; the guidelines for these were shared with States in July 2021. Door-to-door campaign Underscoring the critical importance of the vaccination drive, the States were advised to continue increasing the pace and coverage of the COVID-19 nationwide vaccination drive with a focus on the ongoing “Har Ghar Dastak (door-to-door)” campaign for ensuring full vaccination of all the eligible population, with regular monitoring at the village and district levels. In order to keep rumours at bay and address issues of vaccine hesitancy, the States were asked to organise evidence-informed awareness campaigns with regular media briefings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-told-to-raise-testing-surveillance/article37919880.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Women MPs raise multiple issues||Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha on Thursday saw Speaker Om Birla spontaneously deciding to allow as many women MPs as possible to raise their issues in the House. Out of a total of 62 speakers in the morning, 29 were women. Many asked to speak out of ballot and the issues ranged from when the Women’s Reservation Bill will be revived, to the Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Kalaben Delkar reminding the House of her late husband, Mohan Delkar’s (who died by suicide in February last) efforts to get an Assembly for the Union Territory. The ball was set rolling when DMK’s Kanimozhi raised the issue of the Women’s Reservation Bill, pointing out that it had been a long time coming and that the government should seriously explore the matter. Soon after Mr. Birla said that the 33% reservation for women issue was a serious one and asked as many women MPs as were present and willing to raise their issues in the House. Ms. Delkar was recently elected to the House in a bypoll. Before his death, Mohan Delkar had alleged harassment by the local administration. She fought on a Shiv Sena ticket, unlike her husband who was an Independent. She reminded the House about the sacrifices made by her husband and the struggle he waged for Dadra and Nagar Haveli to get a responsive local government, a “full Assembly”. Mr. Birla singled out BJD MP from Aska, Pramila Bisoyi, for praise as she raised the issue of challenges to employment for women during COVID-19. Ms Bisoyi, who runs many self-help groups in Ganjam district, had raised the issue of language hesitancy with the Speaker eight months ago, as she was fluent only in Odia. Mr. Birla had arranged for her to work with an Odia-to-Hindi language translator to make her interventions effective.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/women-mps-raise-multiple-issues/article37920069.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||Bills to extend tenure of ED, CBI chiefs passed in LS||Amid strong objection from the Opposition, the Lok Sabha on Thursday passed two Bills allowing the Centre to extend the tenure of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) chief and the CBI Director up to five years from the current fixed tenure of two years. The Bills replace the ordinances brought in last month. Congress members walked out in protest when the two Bills were put to voice vote in the Lok Sabha. Several Opposition MPs questioned the need to bring an ordinance days before the winter session of Parliament, and alleged that it was done to grant extension to one officer, ED chief S.K. Mishra. Accusing the Narendra Modi Government of ‘dismantling’ checks and balances, Manish Tewari of the Congress said the Government should not bring Bills that further the perception that the ED and the CBI were frontal organisations to harass the Opposition. Questioning the legality of the CBI, Mr. Tewari said it hangs by a stay granted by the Supreme Court to a Gauhati High Court judgment that had declared the CBI illegal. Replying to the debate on the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Jitendra Singh, Minister of State for the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), pointed out that posts such as that of the CBI Director is chosen by a high-level panel that not only included the Prime Minister and the Chief Justice of India but also the Leader of the Opposition or the single largest Opposition party. The Minister said the Modi Government respected the independence of agencies such as the CBI. Revolutionary Socialist Party member N.K. Premachandran, who had unsuccessfully moved a statutory resolution to disapprove the Bills, said they “undermine Parliament and takes it for granted”. “It has never happened that a Bill has been passed for one officer,” he said. A. Raja of the DMK said constitutional position was being destroyed and the President’s office undermined by the BJP. B. Mahtab of the Biju Janata Dal questioned the ordinance route but supported longer tenures for the CBI and ED chiefs. Trinamool leader Kalyan Banerjee pointed out the CBI had not started trial in the politically high profile cases like the Sharada Chit Fund scam even eight years after registering a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bills-to-extend-tenure-of-ed-cbi-chiefs-passed-in-ls/article37919875.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||BJP MP pitches for Mathura temple||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election in early 2022, Harnath Singh Yadav, BJP MP, on Thursday called for the repeal of the Places of Worship Act to construct a Krishna temple in Mathura. He is the second BJP MP from Uttar Pradesh to make this demand in the winter session of Parliament. On Monday, Balia MP Ravindra Kushwaha said if the farm laws could be repealed, this law too could go. In Uttar Pradesh, the BJP has started a campaign for the Krishna temple. The Places of Worship Act was brought in by the Narasimha Rao Government in 1991, which, while keeping the Ram Temple dispute outside the purview of this law, froze the status of places of worship as they were on August 15, 1947. Violation of right During Zero Hour in the Rajya Sabha, Mr. Yadav said the then Government provided legal cover to foreign invaders who captured the birthplace of Lord Krishna. The law, he argued, violated the right to equality and life enshrined in the Constitution. His statement was met with loud protests from the Opposition benches. But the Chair did not intervene and let Mr. Yadav continue. “This arbitrary, irrational and unconstitutional law impinges on the rights of Hindus, Jains, Sikhs and Buddhists,” he said. When the Opposition continued to protest questioning how this was permitted, Deputy Chairman Harivansh said Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu had approved this submission. Later, RJD MP Manoj K. Jha told presspersons that the Opposition would write a joint letter protesting against allowing members to deliver such divisive speeches. “Such issues, which have the potential to damage the social fabric further, should not be allowed during Zero Hour in Parliament. We should not forget the number of lives lost in the Ram Temple-Babri Masjid dispute,” Mr. Jha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mp-pitches-for-mathura-temple/article37919866.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tharoor, Nishikant Dubey spar in Lok Sabha yet again||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and Nishikant Dubey of the BJP had a verbal spat in the Lok Sabha on Thursday over personal remarks. It was reportedly made by the latter during the debate on the Judges Salaries and Conditions of Service Bill passed in the Lower House on Wednesday. Ideological warfare The spat occurred during Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha, when Mr. Tharoor objected to comments made on him during his speech on the Bill in the House which was brought to his notice later when he went through the proceedings verbatim later in the day. “It was said that I have a pending case against me in the court and so I should not participate in the discussion. The truth is that there is no case pending against me but even if there were, it cannot prevent any member from participating in the discussion,” he said. Mr. Tharoor has been discharged in the Sunanda Pushkar death case this year. Speaker Om Birla remarked that debates on Bills should stick to their subject and nothing else. Dubey’s claim Responding to Mr. Tharoor within the Zero Hour period, as it came to a close, Mr. Dubey said he had raised the issue precisely because the Speaker had asked all MPs to stick to the subject. “I raised a point of order under Rule 352,” he said, pointing that many Opposition MPs had been raising court-related issues pertaining to Chief Ministers of BJP-ruled States, Home Minister, BJP MPs of the Rajya Sabha. “If you raise one accusatory finger pointing here, four will point back at you,” Mr. Dubey said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tharoor-nishikant-dubey-spar-in-lok-sabha-yet-again/article37919873.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition suspends protest to mourn General Rawat||The Opposition parties suspended their sit-in outside Parliament for a day to pay tribute to General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others who died in a helicopter crash in Coonoor, Tamil Nadu, on Wednesday. Thursday was the ninth day of the protest against the suspension of 12 of its Rajya Sabha members for alleged misconduct in the monsoon session. The decision to suspend the protest for a day was taken in the morning meeting of floor leaders of the parties chaired by Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge. In the Rajya Sabha, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh read out a statement detailing the helicopter crash. Deputy Chairman Harivansh read an obituary reference. But despite demands, he did not allow any of the Opposition leaders to speak and the Trinamool Congress MPs walked out in protest. The Congress and the other Opposition parties continued to be in the House. Speaking to presspersons later in the day, Mr. Kharge described the events in the House as unfortunate. “We may have our political differences with the Government but this was not a political issue. We wanted to express our condolences and pay tributes to the country’s first Chief of the Defence Staff but the Opposition was not given the opportunity to do so. This is how the democracy is being run,” he said. He was accompanied by RJD leader Manoj K. Jha and T.K.S. Elangovan of the DMCK. As a mark of respect, Congress president Sonia Gandhi directed her party not to celebrate her birthday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-suspends-protest-to-mourn-general-rawat/article37919878.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC reserves judgment on Zakia Jafri’s appeal||The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved for judgment an appeal by Zakia Jafri, widow of Congress leader Ehsan Jafri who was killed in the 2002 Gujarat riots, for investigation into a “larger conspiracy” behind the violence. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, senior advocate Kapil Sibal reiterated that the Special Investigation Team (SIT) did not conduct a thorough probe into evidence which suggested a larger conspiracy of complicity in the highest echelons of the State’s power structure. Mr. Sibal, in his rejoinder, said the purpose of the plea was not to target anybody but only to seek a thorough investigation into materials indicating deeper involvement. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for the SIT, countered that the Supreme Court-appointed body had done a thorough investigation. “An SIT appointed by the Supreme Court investigated the cases... Now, what do they want? Scotland Yard?” Mr. Rohatgi asked. He said entertaining the plea would mean putting the clock back by 20 years. Allegations of a “larger conspiracy” was baseless, he said.  In an earlier hearing, the top court had observed that its September 12, 2011 order had merely directed the SIT to “look into” the material brought forth by Ms. Jafri and file a final report before the magistrate court concerned in Gujarat. The Bench had even said the September 2011 order appeared to restrict itself to the Gulberg Society case, which involved the killing of Ms. Jafri’s husband by a mob and not any “larger conspiracy”. Following the apex court order in 2011, the SIT filed a closure report in 2012. It had given a clean chit to then Chief Minister Narendra Modi and 63 others, saying there was “no prosecutable evidence” against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-reserves-judgment-on-zakia-jafris-plea/article37920066.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,||New paper offers ways to curb suicides||As India lumbers on with the formulation of its national suicide prevention strategy, in the works for some years now, The Lancet has published a broad and comprehensive policy paper offering a range of evidence-based solutions across sectors to reduce the very high suicide rate in the country. The paper titled ‘The national suicide prevention strategy in India: context and considerations for urgent action’ by Lakshmi Vijayakumar, Prabha S. Chandra, Munirathinam Suresh Kumar, Soumitra Pathare, Debanjan Banerjee, Tanmoy Goswami and Rakhi Dandona, hopes to propel India’s efforts to evolve a suicide prevention strategy as a rounded policy involving multiple sectors and implementation. “The suicide rate among Indian girls and women continues to be twice the global rate, though it has dropped in the last decade or so. We are also losing a large number of young lives to suicide, which accounts for most deaths in the 15-39 age group,” Dr. Vijayakumar said. “This is unacceptably high. Urgent action is required in India, one that will work across sectors,” she added. The paper records that India reports the highest number of suicide deaths in the world. Hanging is the most common method of suicide, followed by pesticides poisoning, medicine overdose, and self-immolation. Depression and alcohol use disorders, and social and cultural factors, appear to increase the risk of suicide. The authors say a “scaffolding approach across all domains that is available and accessible during vulnerable points over the life course could help individuals who might not be able to cope without help”. Besides advocating short and medium strategies across sectors, including agriculture, the judiciary, media, education and women’s health, apart from mental health, the paper calls for the constitution of a task force for suicide prevention research to create a road map. There is also a need for more robust and real-time data on suicides and attempted suicides, the paper says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-paper-offers-ways-to-curb-suicides/article37920121.ece
10 December 2021||Udhagamandalam/New Delhi,||Lone survivor Varun Singh airlifted to Bengaluru hospital||Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor in the IAF Mi-17V5 helicopter crash, was airlifted to Bengaluru on Thursday for intensive treatment. Mr. Singh, who suffered burns, had been admitted to the Military Hospital, Wellington on Wednesday. On Thursday, he was taken in an ambulance from Coonoor to the Sulur Air Base in Coimbatore, from where he was airlifted to Bengaluru for treatment at the Command Hospital. Group Captain Varun Singh, Directing Staff at Defence Services Staff College (DSSC), Wellington, had on Wednesday visited Sulur to receive General Rawat, who was to address the college staff. Former Congress MLA Akhilesh Pratap Singh, who is the lone survivor’s uncle, said, “If he has survived such a tragedy, I believe God will be kind and he will recover soon.” The former lawmaker said he had been on a ‘padayatra’ in the rural areas of Rudrapur in Uttar Pradesh when a WhatsApp message in his family group left him stunned. He said that doctors had told the family that the next few days were critical. “My thoughts are with Gp Capt Varun Singh who has survived the tragic chopper crash. I pray for his speedy recovery and long life,” President Ram Nath Kovind tweeted on Thursday. Group Captain Varun Singh was given the Shaurya Chakra, India’s third highest peacetime gallantry award, this August for exceptional gallantry as a Wing Commander in October 2020 when he was posted with a Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) squadron. Stellar record On October 12, 2020, he was flying a Tejas aircraft on a test sortie when an emergency developed due to the failure of cockpit pressurisation at high altitude but he managed to land the fighter plane displaying extraordinary courage and skill, the citation said. “Group Captain Varun Singh joined the Indian Air Force by clearing the National Defence Academy test and was adjudged the best pilot of his batch,” said his uncle. The fighter pilot comes from a family of defence personnel. His father K.P. Singh is a retired colonel of the Army, and his younger brother, Tanuj, is a serving naval officer. In Bengaluru, Karnataka Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai visited the Command Hospital and enquired about the health of the group captain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lone-survivor-varun-singh-airlifted-to-bengaluru-hospital/article37919845.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||More cyclones in Arabian Sea recently, Minister tells RS||The frequency of “very severe cyclonic storms” has increased in recent years over the Arabian Sea. However, this has not measurably increased the threat to India's western coast, as most of these cyclones were making landfall in Oman and Yemen, Science Minister Jitender Singh told the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. The number of cyclones and stations reporting very heavy and extremely heavy rainfall events have increased in recent years and an analysis of past data of cyclones over North Indian Ocean (Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea) during the period from 1891 to 2020 indicates that the frequency of “very severe cyclonic storms” has increased in the past few years over the Arabian Sea. A very severe cyclone is defined as one with wind speeds touching 220 kmph. It is the fourth highest category of cyclones, just below “extremely severe cyclones”. Coastal vulnerability However, the eastern coast remained far more vulnerable to “extremely severe cyclones” than the western coast, but there was nevertheless “no significant trend” in the frequency of extremely severe cyclonic storms (ESCS). “The increase in frequency of cyclones over the Arabian Sea has not posed a corresponding increase in the coastal vulnerability along the west coast since most of such cyclones forming over the Arabian Sea were making landfall over the coasts of Oman, Yemen etc and hence the threat to Gujarat & Maharashtra coasts remains same,” Mr. Singh said in his written statement. On an average, 60%-80% of the cyclones developing over the North Indian Ocean (NIO), comprising the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea, made landfall causing loss of life and property. Low-lying coastal belts of West Bengal, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu and Puducherry were more prone to the impact of these systems. The number of deaths due to cyclones has decreased significantly, as a result of the improvement in the early warning skill of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) under the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES), and effective mitigation measures and response actions by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Still there is huge loss to property, his statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-cyclones-in-arabian-sea-recently-minister-tells-rs/article37919852.ece
10 December 2021||Coimbatore,||Thousands wait along roads to bid an emotional farewell||Thousands of people lined the roads showering flower petals and raising emotional slogans as 13 ambulances carrying the coffins of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 defence personnel made their way from Coonoor to the Sulur Air Force Base on Thursday afternoon. “Bharat Mata Ki Jai”, “Veera Vanakkam, Veera Vanakkam” (Salute to the brave) and “Jai Hind”, the crowd kept shouting along the over 50-km route from Mettupalayam to Sulur. The mortal remains were airlifted to Delhi from Sulur. All shops and businesses in the Nilgiris will remain closed from 6 a.m to 6 p.m. on Friday as a mark of respect to the victims of the IAF Mi-17V5 helicopter crash. Benjamin Soundararajan, a 76-year-old veteran from Mettupalayam town in the foothills of the Nilgiris, was in deep sorrow since the news of the crash on Wednesday afternoon. His grief deepened upon learning that not all veterans were allowed to pay respects at the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC), Wellington. With no option left, Mr. Soundararajan, who retired as senior Havildar from MRC, waited on the side of the road to pay homage. “He is yet to recover from the shock. He did not have a proper meal after hearing about the crash,” said the war veteran’s son B. Samuel. Senthil Kumar, another resident of Mettupalayam, said people waited from 10 a.m. on the sides of the road. The convoy passed at 1.10 p.m. While many held the national flag, a few broke down. Children pay tribute The convoy later passed through Annur and Karumpathampatty towns, where too people showered petals on it. Children saluted as the convoy moved. “I am unable to explain it in words. It was a very emotional moment as the vans carrying the mortal remains passed through my town after watching photos and videos of the crash in media,” said K.K. Mahalingam, a resident of Karumathampatty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/thousands-wait-along-roads-to-bid-an-emotional-farewell/article37919858.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||Two years on, CAA rules not notified||Two years after the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (CAA) was passed by Parliament, the Union Home Ministry is yet to notify the rules governing the Act. The legislation cannot be implemented without notifying the rules. After the CAA was passed, 83 persons were killed in protests and riots from December 2019 to March 2020 in Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Meghalaya and Delhi. The CAA was passed by the Lok Sabha on December 9, 2019 and by the Rajya Sabha on December 11 and was given assent to by the President on December 12. The Ministry issued a notification later that the provisions of the Act will come into force from January 10, 2020. The CAA provides citizenship on the basis of religion to six undocumented non-Muslim communities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh who entered India on or before December 31, 2014. The Ministry had earlier written to the committees on subordinate legislation of both Houses to grant extension of time up to January 9, 2022 to frame the rules. As per the Manual on Parliamentary Work, in case the Ministries/Departments are not able to frame the rules within the prescribed period of six months after a law is passed, “they should seek extension of time from the Committee on Subordinate Legislation stating reasons for such extension” which cannot be more than for three months at a time. The MHA did not respond to questions on the delay. On Thursday, the Minority Affairs Ministry told the Lok Sabha that “the constitutional and legal validity of the CAA has been challenged in the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India” and the “the matter is sub judice. ” The Governments of Rajathan and Kerala have filed petitions under Article 131. The Act has been opposed by many States too. The Central Government has received resolutions adopted by the Assemblies of Meghalaya, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Punjab against the Act. Rajathan and Kerala have filed petitions in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-years-on-caa-rules-not-notified/article37919868.ece
10 December 2021||Coimbatore,||‘Black box’ recovered; Air chief visits crash site||The cockpit voice recorder (CVR) and the flight data recorder (FDR) of the Mi-17V5 chopper of the Indian Air Force that crashed with Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 12 defence personnel on board at Kattery in the Nilgiris on Wednesday were recovered on Thursday. The CVR and FDR, popularly known as ‘black box’, were retrieved during searches conducted at the crash site early on Thursday, a source said. Examination of the two boxes, painted in orange, will give insights into the crash when the chopper was heading to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC), Wellington, from the Air Force Station, Sulur, near Coimbatore. A retired Air Force officer said the CVR would have voice recording from the cockpit. The FDR would have the recording of various parameters of the aircraft. A source said the two devices would be examined by the IAF as part of its ongoing inquiry into the chopper crash. The Army has taken control over the entire area of the crash site and people from the locality and outsiders are not allowed to visit the place. The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal V.R. Chaudhari, and senior officers visited the crash site. Meanwhile, a video of a chopper disappearing into the mist in the hills, purportedly shot by a tourist from the Nilgiri Mountain Railway track at Kattery, has emerged as the last moments of the crashed IAF chopper. After the chopper disappears into the mist, a crash is heard. Defence and police sources said the video would be analysed as part of the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/black-box-recovered-air-chief-visits-crash-site/article37919848.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC turns down plea from Aircel founder||The Supreme Court has declined a plea for diplomatic immunity raised by Aircel founder C. Sivasankaran, who is facing money laundering charges. Mr. Sivasankaran claimed he was an ‘Ambassador at large’ for the Republic of Seychelles and was protected from criminal prosecution under the Vienna Convention. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said this was a ploy by Mr. Sivasankaran to ward off prosecution. He referred to a communication from the Seychelles Government that Mr. Sivasankaran was not on official duty. The court accepted Mr. Mehta’s arguments. Lookout circular The Madras High Court had refused to quash a look-out circular (LOC) issued against Mr. Sivasankaran by the Foreigner Regional Registration Officer (FRRO), Bureau of Immigration, Ministry of Home Affairs. The LOC had prevented him from travelling abroad due to an ongoing inquiry by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) into allegations of having caused a loss of over Rs. 600 crore to IDBI Bank. The High Court had pointed out that an Office Memorandum issued by the Centre in 2010, and amended in 2017, permitted the FRRO to prevent individuals from travelling abroad if such departure had to be curbed in public interest. The allegations include an IDBI Bank loan of Rs. 322.40 crore to the Finland-based Win Wind Oy, in which the businessman’s son, S. Saravanan, was one of the directors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-turns-down-plea-from-aircel-founder/article37919854.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||India pays homage to CDS, wife, 11 others||Close family members of all the deceased personnel have arrived in Delhi whose assistance would also be sought in the identification process. “Appropriate military funerals of all deceased are being planned and coordinated in close consultation with close family members,” the official added. The Defence Minister made a statement in the Parliament on the fatal helicopter crash. “With profound grief and heavy heart, I stand to convey the unfortunate news of the crash of the military helicopter in the noon of December 8, 2021, with India’s first CDS, Gen. Bipin Rawat onboard,” he said. “The CDS would be cremated with full military honours.” Mr. Singh said 13 of the 14 persons onboard the helicopter had succumbed to injuries. Group Captain Varun Singh is on life support in the Military Hospital at Wellington and all efforts are being made to save his life, Mr. Singh said, ending the statement by paying homage to the deceased persons and expressing condolences to the bereaved families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-pays-homage-to-first-cds-12-other-victims/article37919862.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers declare victory, to vacate protest sites||There were a few notes of caution as well. “Farmers have decided to suspend this agitation for now, but the movement will not end. The fight for farmers’ rights, including MSP, will continue,” said senior Punjab leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads his own faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). The Centre’s formal proposal, which was signed by Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal despite the fact that farm leaders said most negotiations on the document were held with the Home Ministry’s representatives, was received on Thursday morning. It included the same five points in Wednesday’s draft, with major concessions on case withdrawal and compensation. On the issue of MSP, it said a committee would have a specific mandate to ensure all farmers get MSP, and promised that SKM leaders would be among the representatives. After discussing the proposal in an hour-long meeting at the Singhu border protest site, SKM leaders emerged to announce their unanimous acceptance. However, they are yet to take a common decision on whether to campaign against the BJP in the upcoming Assembly polls in U.P. and Uttarakhand, as previously planned. “On ‘Mission U.P.’ and ‘Mission Uttarakhand’, we will wait to take a decision. Election dates have not yet been announced, so we have time. Let’s wait and see what is the situation by January 15 and then we will decide,” said Mr. Tikait, who heads a BKU faction in western U.P.. Atamjit Singh, national convenor of a smaller BKU faction based in the Moradabad area, said that the 87 members of SKM’s U.P. branch would “keep faith with U.P. voters” who have supported 15 rallies against the BJP over the last three months. “Only 10% of crops are sold at MSP rates. We must continue to fight for farmers to get the remaining 90% also,” he said. The Left-affiliated AIKS agreed, and hoped that the Tikait faction will return to the campaign trail once election dates are announced. “I cannot speak for the SKM as a whole. But as AIKS, we will certainly continue the fight against the BJP, which has failed to solve the problems of U.P.’s farmers,” said AIKS president Ashok Dhawale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-declare-victory-to-vacate-protest-sites/article37919863.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||International flights to resume only after Jan. 31||Full resumption of international flights stands postponed at least till January 31, 2022, according to an announcement by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation on Thursday. Last week, days after announcing resumption of international flights from December 15, the Government postponed its decision indefinitely due to fresh concerns over the new COVID-19 variant, Omicron. An order from the DGCA on December 1 said that a new date would be announced in “due course of time”. On Thursday, the DGCA said, “the competent authority has decided to extend suspension of scheduled commercial international passenger services to/ from India till 2359 hours IST of 31st January, 2022”. It added that international flights under the air-bubble agreement with 32 countries would continue as before. In a relief for travellers from Singapore, they will no longer be subjected to mandatory on-arrival RT-PCR test and seven-day quarantine, after the government removed the island city-state from its list of “at-risk” countries. Singapore had announced that it was restarting flight connectivity with India from November 29, after a gap of 20 months, and fully vaccinated Indian passengers could avail quarantine-free entry under its “Vaccinated Travel Lane” scheme. But later that month, India put Singapore on the list of at-risk countries requiring passengers arriving into the country to undergo additional health safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/international-flights-to-resume-only-after-jan-31/article37920064.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sports topped India’s Google searches in 2021||Sports, COVID-19 and farmers’ protest were among the top topics that Indian users looked for and talked about on social media in 2021. While Indian Premier League (IPL) and ICC T20 World Cup filled the top spots in the overall list of queries on Google search, ‘#Covid19’ and ‘#FarmersProtest’ were the most tweeted hashtags on Twitter. IPL, which had topped the trending query list last year as well, was followed by CoWIN, ICC T20 World Cup, Euro Cup, Tokyo Olympics and COVID Vaccine in the top trending query list on search engine giant Google. Free Fire was the lone gaming entry that made it to the overall trending list at number seven, Google said, followed by Copa America, Neeraj Chopra and Aryan Khan. Interestingly, globally, Australia vs India queries topped the Google search list, followed by India vs England and IPL. Jai Bhimin top spot 2021 also witnessed a strong interest in regional cinema, with Tamil film Jai Bhim securing the top spot on the movies list, followed by Bollywood movie Shershaah . Other movies on the list were Radhe, Bell Bottom and Eternals . On Twitter, Australian cricketer Pat Cummins’s tweet about his donation to COVID-19 relief in India was the most retweeted tweet of the year in the country, while Indian cricketer Virat Kohli’s tweet announcing the birth of his daughter was the most liked tweet.  Virat’s tweet In 2020, Virat Kohli’s tweet announcing Anushka Sharma’s pregnancy was the ‘Most Liked Tweet of 2020’. As per Twitter, in the Government category, a tweet by Prime Minister Narendra Modi sharing a picture of him getting his first COVID-19 vaccine was the most retweeted post, and his tweet congratulating India for their historic Test win against Australia at the Gabba was the most liked tweet this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sports-topped-indias-google-search/article37920072.ece
10 December 2021||Bhopal,||Row over police order in M.P.’s Katni||The Katni police in Madhya Pradesh recently equated Sikh and Muslim communities with terror outfits such as JKLF, SIMI, ULFA and LTTE while issuing a security-related order for the Governor’s visit to the district. Ahead of Governor Mangubhai C. Patel’s visit to Katni on December 7, the district Police Superintendent Sunil Kumar Jain issued a 23-point security-related arrangement in his two-page order. The sixth point in the order in Hindi said: “ Sikh, Musalman, JKLF, ULFA, SIMI, LTTE atankvadiyon par sakhat najar rakhi jaye (Keep a strict eye on Sikh, Muslims, JKLF, ULFA, SIMI, LTTE terrorist).” The Katni police maintained that the controversial point in the letter took place due to clerical error. “I regret the clerical error, it was never intended to hurt the sentiments of anyone,” the Katni SP told media persons. A show-cause notice has been issued to the clerk, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/row-over-police-order-in-mps-katni/article37920474.ece
10 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Students urge CMs to unite against AFSPA||The North East Students’ Organisation (NESO) and groups affiliated to it asked all the Chief Ministers of the region to come together against the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act of 1958 that gives sweeping powers to the armed forces. It appealed to the Chief Ministers during a protest staged across the Northeast on Thursday against the killing of 14 civilians in Nagaland’s Mon district on December 4. He said the Chief Ministers of Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland have already spoken against the AFSPA. “We call upon the other Chief Ministers of the Northeast to take a similar stand for compelling the Centre to repeal this draconian Act,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/students-urge-cms-to-unite-against-afspa/article37919869.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. avoids comment on civil code||The Government refrained from commenting on a Supreme Court notice issued to it on a petition that seeks directions to the respondents to take steps to remove anomalies on the grounds of divorce, maintenance and alimony. “The matter is sub judice ,” Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said in a written reply on December 3, referring to the matter that is pending at the top court. He was responding to a question in the Lok Sabha on whether the Government has taken note of the observation made by the Supreme Court with regard to “enacting Uniform Civil Code” for all religions to bring uniformity in case of divorce and maintenance. In another written response to a question, the Law Minister said the Government is taking steps to hold consultation with major political parties and other stakeholders on the Women’s Reservation Bill to build consensus before it is brought to Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-avoids-comment-on-civil-code/article37920115.ece
10 December 2021||Mumbai,||Sudha out on bail from Byculla jail||Human rights lawyer and trade unionist Sudha Bharadwaj was released on Thursday from the Byculla jail after spending over three years there in connection with the Bhima Koregaon caste violence case of 2018. The other co-accused Shoma Sen and Jyoti Jagtap are still in jail. Ms. Bharadwaj, 61, was arrested on August 28, 2018 from her residence at Faridabad where she lives with her daughter Maaysha, 24. After repeatedly denying her default bail, medical bail and bail on merits, the Bombay High Court granted her bail on December 1. The court held, “On the touchstone of the guarantee of personal liberty under Article 21 (Right to Life) of the Constitution, in our view, to deprive Ms. Bharadwaj of the indefeasible right of bail would be taking a too technical and formalistic view of the matter.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sudha-out-on-bail-from-byculla-jail/article37919856.ece
10 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Mon killings were for medals: Nagas||An apex body representing the Konyak Naga community said the December 4 killing of 14 civilians by the armed forces was driven by the desire for gallantry medals. The massacre happened at Oting village in Nagaland’s Mon district, which is dominated by Konyaks. “The Konyak community had reposed trust in the Indian Army and the Indian Union for almost 60 years and maintained peace and tranquillity within the community. The community has also been yearning for a solution to the protracted Naga political issue at the earliest,” the union said. But it regretted that the “hard-earned trust and expectations” was destroyed by the armed forces with the botched ambush leading to the death of civilians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mon-killings-were-for-medals-nagas/article37919864.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shah misled Parliament, says Adhir||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary, leader of the Congress Legislature Party in the Lok Sabha, said on Thursday that Union Home Minister Amit Shah made a misleading statement in the Lok Sabha on Monday, saying the victims of the firing in Mon district of Nagaland on December 4 had been shot after they tried to flee after being asked to stop by the armed forces. Monopolising sympathy Raising the issue at the start of Zero Hour, Mr. Chowdhary said survivors of the incident had stated they had been directly shot without any order to stop at any point of time. Mr. Chowdhary noted that Congress president Sonia Gandhi had constituted a delegation comprising Lok Sabha members Gaurav Gogoi and Anto Antony to visit Mon in Nagaland and share the grief of families whose members were killed in the firing. “But they are not being allowed to enter the State. Even after the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, our party leaders were prevented from providing sympathy to the families of the victims,” he said. Responding to Mr. Chowdhary, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal said the issue raised by him pertained to the State Government and not the Lok Sabha. On Monday, the Home Minister expressed regret over the death of 14 civilians in three consecutive episodes of firing by security forces, the first of which was a case of mistaken identity. Narrating the sequence of events, Mr. Shah told the House that the Army had received information on movement of insurgents in Mon and the ’21 Para Commando’ unit had laid an ambush.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-misled-house-says-adhir/article37919871.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||RS passes pharma education Bill||The Rajya Sabha on Thursday passed the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021, under which six more institutes of pharmaceutical education and research, other than the one at Mohali, will be accorded the status of institute of national importance. Undergraduate and diploma courses will introduced in them and an advisory council formed. The Bill was cleared through a voice vote. It was cleared by the Lok Sabha on December 6. Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, while replying to a discussion on the Bill, said, “During COVID-19, we held meetings with pharmaceutical manufacturers and assured them of removing all bottlenecks to research and manufacture vaccines in record time.” It was due to the Government’s policies that 85% of the eligible population had received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-passes-pharma-education-bill/article37919876.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Star couple||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/star-couple/article37920123.ece
10 December 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Bhubaneswar||At least 15 policemen, several protesters and photo journalists were injured and eight police vans were vandalised on Thursday when BJP Yuva Morcha activists scuffled with personnel of the force during their ‘Assembly gherao’ agitation over the Kalahandi woman teacher’s kidnap and murder case. A rally by the BJP youth wing, which started from the party’s State headquarters, turned violent when the police used baton on M.G. Road to disperse them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhubaneswar/article37920475.ece
10 December 2021||Patna,||Tejashwi gets married in Delhi, RJD celebrates in Patna||Celebrations were back at the RJD State headquarters here on Thursday when news broke that the party’s de facto leader Tejashwi Yadav has tied the knot with a childhood friend at a farmhouse in Delhi. The 32-years-old got hitched to Rachel Iris about whom not much is known barring the fact that the couple have known each other since childhood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tejashwi-gets-married-in-delhi-rjd-celebrates-in-patna/article37920265.ece
10 December 2021||Agartala,||2-year jail for 3 CPI(M) leaders in Tripura||A court on Thursday sentenced three senior CPI(M) leaders to two years in jail in a case relating to ransacking of a court building in south Tripura in 2015. Those sentenced include Tapas Datta, former State president of the DYFI; Trilokesh Sinha and Badal Debnath. The attackers had also allegedly threatened then district and sessions judge Ruhidas Paul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-year-jail-for-3-cpim-leaders-in-tripura/article37919846.ece
10 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Prayagraj social institute draws ire after it leaves OBC teacher seats vacant||The Govind Ballabh Pant Social Science Institute (GBPSSI), a constituent institute of Allahabad University, Prayagraj, is facing a storm for allegedly leaving posts designated for Other Backward Classes vacant under the ‘None Found Suitable’ (NFS) category in its latest recruitment drive for teachers. The National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) issued a notice to the institute seeking details of recruitment, after a complaint by two students from Tata Institute of Social Science (TISS), Mumbai, and Delhi University (DU) regarding alleged irregularities in appointment to the posts of Assistant Professor, Associate Professor and Professor. In their complaint, Mayank Yadav, LLM student, TISS, and Vivek Raj, Campus Law Centre, DU, alleged that the process of selection and appointments was “malicious, blatantly irregular, full of bias against the OBCs, illegal and against the DoPT rule and constitutional mandate of reservation.” ‘Not malicious’ However, Director of GBPSSI professor Badri Narayan Tiwari, who was directly under fire of social media users over his ‘upper caste' identity after the recruitment list was widely circulated and discussed, denied charges of casteism and bias, and said it was an “unfortunate coincidence” but not malicious. “It was not our intention or attempt,” Mr. Tiwari told The Hindu , stating that a “special drive in mission mode” was being initiated to advertise the “backlog positions of OBC”. In the notice issued on December 8 to GBPSSI director, R.R. Yadav, director (admin), NCBC, sought a reply in two days seeking details of roster of teaching and non-teaching staff of 1997, 2005, 2019 and 2021; recruitment done in last five years; selection committee report of last three years; and list of NFS in the last 10 years in the recruitment of teaching and non-teaching posts. The GBPSSI Board of Governors in its meeting on December 3 had approved the recommendations of the selection committee, which picked seven new faculty members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prayagraj-social-institute-draws-ire-after-it-leaves-obc-teacher-seats-vacant/article37920070.ece
10 December 2021||Ahmedabad,||HC flays closure of food stalls||The Gujarat High Court on Thursday reprimanded the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) for seizing food stalls selling non-vegetarian food in the city, and asked the civic body how it could stop people from eating what they wanted. The High Court was hearing a plea by a number of petitioners whose carts selling non-vegetarian food items were seized by the AMC recently. The vendors included those selling non-vegetarian food, eggs and vegetables. The court disposed of the petition filed by over 20 street vendors challenging the AMC’s drive to remove food kiosks along the main roads in the city. ‘Will expedite hearing’ The court directed the AMC that if the petitioners approached it [the High Court] within 24 hours to release their seized goods, “based on the policy and in accordance with law, their cases shall be considered as expeditiously as possible”. Justice Biren Vaishnav rapped the civic body, asking whether it would decide what people should eat outside. “What seems to be the problem? You don’t like non-veg food? That’s your lookout. How can you decide what I should eat outside? It’s always the convenience of the respondents. How can you stop people from eating what they want? [Is it] suddenly because somebody in power thinks that this is what they want to do?” Justice Vaishnav asked the counsel representing the civic body. “Tomorrow, you will decide what I should eat outside the house?” He also asked if only non-vegetarian food vendors were being singled out. The AMC has been contending that the drive was not meant to target such vendors but to remove encroachments. Civic bodies in other cities too such as Vadodara, Rajkot, Junagadh and Jamnagar had recently launched a similar drive. This came after Gujarat Revenue Minister Rajendra Trivedi and some municipal councillors from the ruling BJP publicly stated that selling non-vegetarian food on the roads “hurt the sentiments” of Hindus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-flays-closure-of-food-stalls/article37919855.ece
10 December 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra govt. demands to stay election process||A day after all political parties demanded to stay the election process until reservation for OBCs in local body polls is resumed, the Maharashtra Government on Thursday clarified it holds the identical view. “State Government is firm on the stand that either the elections should be held on all seats or no election should be held,” said Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-govt-demands-to-stay-election-process/article37919850.ece
10 December 2021||Patna,||Most of those who arrived in Bihar from abroad are untraceable: official||Even as Bihar is on high alert for the Omicron variant, it turns out that 322 of the 1,720 people who arrived in the State from abroad have switched off their phones. Samples of only 305 have been collected. “We managed to speak to only 429 people,” a senior Health Department official told The Hindu . “Of the 305 samples, 255 tested negative. Reports of the others are still awaited.” He said the remaining people could not be traced. Officials appealed to people coming from abroad to get tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/most-of-those-who-arrived-in-bihar-from-abroad-are-untraceable-official/article37920061.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||Global pension report is not based on reliable data: Ministry||The Labour and Employment Ministry told the Rajya Sabha on Thursday that a global pension index that placed India’s pension system towards the bottom of the list was “not based on reliable comparable international data”. The report, which came out earlier this year, ranked India 40 out of 43 countries for its pension system.  To a question by DMK MP M. Shanmugam about the report, Minister of State for Labour and Employment Rameswar Teli replied: “The said Global Pension Index Report, 2021 has been published by Mercer, a management consulting firm. The index is prepared based on certain criteria of adequacy, sustainability and integrity. It has placed India in the same category as that of Japan, South Korea and a few other countries. This report is not based on reliable comparable international data and does not recognise every aspect of pension system prevailing in a country.” To Mr. Shanmugam’s question on what the Government was doing to bring unorganised sector workers within the ambit of a pension system, the Minister said the Government had enacted the Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008 and launched two pension schemes — the Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan and the National Pension Scheme for Traders, Shopkeepers and Self-employed Persons in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/global-pension-report-is-not-based-on-reliable-data-ministry/article37920063.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City’s new recreation hub at Kathipara to open next week||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is likely to inaugurate the Kathipara Urban Square next week. Developed by Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) at a cost of about Rs. 14 crore, the 5.9 lakh sq. ft. landmark will include walking track, dining area, eateries, retail outlets, children’s play area, bus bays and a huge parking lot. The walls near the play area sport murals and Tamil alphabet have been installed around this square. Two months ago, Mr. Stalin had inspected the work in this square located under the clover shaped Kathipara flyover. According to CMRL officials, signages were being installed throughout the square to guide people since this was massive space. The contractor, who has won the bid to put up food and retail outlets, will need a few months to fully establish all the facilities here. “Buses will come into this square, drop people, pick up passengers and leave. This has been built as a recreational facility so that people in the neighbouring areas like Ramapuram, Butt Road, Manappakkam and so on can come with their children. This will help in bringing more commuters to Metro as Alandur station is located close to this square,” an official said. Alandur Metro station sees a footfall of about 4,000 a day but there needs to be a connectivity between this square and the station so that passengers can travel, relax and dine seamlessly. “We have to plan a way to link the station with the square. Otherwise, it will not help Metro Rail attract more passengers,” an official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citys-new-recreation-hub-at-kathipara-to-open-next-week/article37920202.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Trial run of Sholinghur temple rope car under way: Sekarbabu||The trial run of the rope car facility at the Sri Lakshminarasimhar temple in Sholinghur, Ranipet district, is currently on, said P.K. Sekarbabu, Minister of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. The Minister, who reviewed the works at the temple, which is one of the 108 ‘divyadesams’, said the construction was being carried out at a cost of Rs. 8.26 crore, which included five-year maintenance. “A total of 16 persons can go up and 16 can come down at a time, with four persons per car. It will take three to four minutes to reach the 202 metre-high hill, which is otherwise covered by 1,305 steps,” the Minister explained. The works, which began in 2016, are expected to be completed within three months. The rope car will become operational after due safety certification. The temple, which has the idol of Sri Yoga Narasimhar at the hill top and Sri Bhakthochitha Perumal, the utsava idol, at the foothills, witnesses large crowds in the weekends and during the annual Brahmotsavam. “Since the hill does not have a road, one has to climb up to carry the items meant for daily puja. And this has to be done, rain or shine,” said a devotee. The rope car is being constructed by a Kolkata-based company, which also carried out works for the Palani Murugan temple. Facilities, including a waiting hall, safe storage space for the personal belongings of devotees, a ticketing counter, drinking water, toilets, a parking lot, shops to sell puja items and restrooms, are also coming up at the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trial-run-of-sholinghur-temple-rope-car-under-way-sekarbabu/article37920219.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||WRD draws up big plans to augment water supply||During good monsoon years, a large volume of water flows into the sea near Chennai. The Water Resources Department is chalking out proposals such as enhancing the storage capacity of the Poondi reservoir and building a new reservoir upstream at Ramanjeri to harness the surplus water from the city’s waterways. The flood gates of Chennai’s major reservoirs, including those of Red Hills and Chembarambakkam, have remained open for over a month now and surplus water from Poondi reservoir is being released into Kosasthalaiyar since October 10. About 30 tmcft. of water received in Chembarambakkam, Red Hills and Poondi reservoirs was estimated to be discharged into waterways since onset of northeast monsoon this year. Of this, nearly 22 tmcft was let out of the Poondi reservoir alone as it got seven times more inflow than its storage capacity. About 2 or 3 tmcft of water was conserved in check dams downstream apart from reservoir’s storage, said the officials. Last year too, nearly 15 tmcft of water flowed into the sea in the city. In a bid to conserve more water and ensure availability of drinking water during summer, the department has proposed to enhance the storage capacity of the Poondi reservoir from its existing 3.2 tmcft to 5 tmcft. The height of the dam and bund would be raised or new dam may be constructed. There is no land acquisition required for the project. “Chennai may get a share of water in Godavari-Cauvery link project if it is routed through the Krishna river and it would be stored in Poondi reservoir,” said an official. New reservoir The department is surveying the possibility of forming a new reservoir across the Nagari at Ramanjeri. Located 11 km upstream of Poondi reservoir, the new facility would be able to store 1.5 tmcft of water. The river gets water from catchment areas and Ammapalli dam in Andhra Pradesh even during southwest monsoon. After the Thervoy Kandigai-Kannankottai reservoir, this would be the sixth such facility to meet the drinking water needs of the city and act as a balancing reservoir to store floodwater. “Water could be transferred to Poondi by gravity and only a minimum amount would be used for irrigation,” the official said. However, about 300 hectares of land need to be acquired for the new reservoir. At present, the five reservoirs have a combined capacity to store nearly 11.7 tmcft of water. But the demand is 20 tmcft. Lakes to be tapped “We may be able to bridge the gap in demand and supply by converting other waterbodies in and around the city into drinking water sources and decentralise water sources,” said an official. Spread over 1,000 acres, Thiruninravur lake is one among them. Besides inflow from catchment areas, water from unpolluted stretch of the Cooum can be diverted to the lake. About 700 mcft of water can be stored in the lake. Excess water from the Poondi reservoir can be diverted to the lake through link canal. The lake may also serve as a source for Avadi Corporation apart from the city. Similarly, Nemam tank near Chembarambakkam can store another 700 mcft of water to be supplied to surrounding areas such as Thirumazhisai and Nazarethpet. Tanks upstream of Chembarambakkam reservoir like in Sriperumbudur and Pillaipakkam may be developed as drinking water sources for the city. In the western suburbs, the chain of tanks in Ambattur, Korattur and Retteri together have a potential of storing 1 tmcft of water after rejuvenation. However, encroachments and sewage pollution need to be addressed in the smaller waterbodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wrd-draws-up-big-plans-to-augment-water-supply/article37920209.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily COVID-19 cases fall below 700; 15 deaths take toll to 36,575||Fresh COVID-19 cases fell below the 700-mark in Tamil Nadu on Thursday, as 698 people tested positive for the infection. Ariyalur, Perambalur and Tenkasi saw no new case. Chennai remained at the top of the table with 125 fresh cases, followed by Coimbatore with 112. There were 60 cases in Erode, while Chengalpattu and Tiruppur had 53 and 47 cases, respectively. A total of 42 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem and 38 in Namakkal. As many as 19 districts reported fewer than 10 cases each. Among those who tested positive in the State were two returnees from West Bengal. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 27,33,346. Another 15 people — six in private hospitals and 9 in government hospitals — succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 36,575. As many as 26 districts had no COVID-19 deaths. Coimbatore, Namakkal and Tiruppur had two deaths each, while Chennai reported a single fatality. A total of 746 people, including 123 in Coimbatore and 91 in Chennai, were discharged after treatment. This took the total recoveries so far to 26,88,888. The State’s active caseload dropped further to 7,883. At 1,265, Chennai overtook Coimbatore (1,235) in the number of active cases. A total of 22 districts had fewer than 100 active cases each. Tenkasi had the least number of active cases, at five. The State tested a total of 1,02,043 samples. This took the total number of samples tested so far to 5,51,89,430. As per Wednesday’s data, the overall positivity rate of the State was 0.7%. A total of 2,47,219 people were vaccinated on Thursday, taking the coverage at government vaccination centres to 7,24,29,191.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-covid-19-cases-fall-below-700-15-deaths-take-toll-to-36575/article37920221.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New lease of life for 121-year-old travellers’ bungalow||A 121-year-old travellers’ bungalow in Puliyoorkurichi in Kanniyakumari district, which was in a state of neglect, has been restored by the heritage division of the Public Works Department (PWD). “We have restored the building to its original form. Work was started during the end of April and is now nearing completion,” said S. Manikandan, Executive Engineer, heritage division of the PWD. The project cost is Rs. 85.01 lakh. Constructed in 1900 by the erstwhile Travancore government, the bungalow served as a guest house. The 4,000 square-feet building, spread across two acres, is located near the entrance of Udayagiri fort in Puliyoorkurichi. The bungalow with tiled roof has a wooden ceiling and two roomy suites. It has been under the control of the PWD after Kanniyakumari became a part of Tamil Nadu following the reorganisation of States. It was then used as a tourist bungalow. Years of neglect, however, had taken a heavy toll on the structure. Vegetation grew all over the building, and during the nights, it turned into an asylum for tipplers. Timely intervention by the then PWD Secretary, K. Manivasan, gave 14 heritage buildings in the district, including the tourist bungalow, a new lease of life. “Mr. Manivasan felt that the buildings would be lost forever, unless we make efforts to preserve them, immediately. At present, we are restoring Sethu Lakshmi Bai Government Higher Secondary School, Town Co-operative Bank, the travellers’ bungalow in Thiruvattar and an inspection bungalow in Balamore Estate,” Mr. Manikandan said. The government sanctioned funds after the PWD submitted a detailed project report on its preservation and restoration efforts. Work was awarded to Erode-based Kadal Constructions. Mr. Manikandan said preservation efforts had enhanced the life of the building, and it would remain stable for another 50 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-lease-of-life-for-121-year-old-travellers-bungalow/article37920675.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Third edition of Chennai Photo Biennale kicks off||From physical exhibition to virtual and in-person guided tours, with over 1,500 images of 51 artists, the third edition of Chennai Photo Biennale was launched on Thursday at the Roja Muthiah Research Library. In a span of 60 days beginning December 9, they will display the works of artists and contributors from 11 countries which will include talks by artists, digital screening, physical and virtual exhibition, book release and virtual and in-person guided tours. Titled “Maps of Disquiet”, the event will be curated by Arko Datto, Bhooma Padmanabhan, Boaz Levin and Kerstin Meincke. Varun Gupta, photographer and director of Chennai Photo Biennale, said after the pandemic hit, they had to make modifications to adapt to displaying the art in smaller private spaces, taking people’s health into consideration. “Chennai is a cultural capital and the biennale is part of it. One of the key aspects of the event is the exhibits about the Keeladi by V. Saranraj. He has displayed the portraits of labourers who are working in the excavation pits of Keeladi. The purpose is to humanise the excavation process.” Tourism Minister Mathiventhan said Tamil Nadu government is committed to having an association with this event and will support it. “We will take it forward and project it in a larger way. There is no one who may not fall for art. When it is presented in a beautiful way in any form, it will be well appreciated,” he said. B. Chandramohan, principal secretary, Tourism, Culture and Religious Endowments Department, said the State had emerged as the number one destination in attracting domestic tourists and in international tourists, it stands second in the country. “Several initiatives have been taken by the State to boost the sector. Most of the temples that attract a large number of tourists, especially with historical and heritage value, are being taken up for conservation, that is restoration of antiquity of the temple and ensuring they are maintained properly. The State will provide a major impetus to conserve, preserve and showcase the wonderful heritage we have,” Mr. Chandramohan said. The Chennai Photo Biennale will be held from December 9 to February 6 in various venues, including Forum Art Gallery, Ashvita’s Gallery, Roja Muthiah Research Library, Madras Literary Society and screenings of video works at Goethe-Institut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/third-edition-of-chennai-photo-biennale-kicks-off/article37920215.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M incubation cell to promote agritech startups||The IIT-Madras Incubation Cell (IITMIC) has signed an MoU with Samunnati Foundation, a not-for-profit subsidiary of Samunnati Financial Intermediation and Services Private Ltd., to promote agritech start-ups to improve farmers’ incomes, reduce waste and encourage sustainable agriculture. IITMIC and Samunnati will provide incubation support and facilities to entrepreneurial ventures, prepare position papers and propose policy recommendations. Samunnati aims to provide strategic and operational guidance, training, mentoring, networking and other necessary resources to help India’s visionary agritech start-ups establish themselves and scale their presence. The areas that they will explore under sustainable agriculture include promotion of alternative crops, adoption of a green agricultural ecosystem and food processing technologies. Support services for the agricultural community will also be provided. Transforming the sector S.G. Anilkumar, founder, Samunnati, aims to nurture “entrepreneurial energy by collaborating with premier institutions to incubate and scale these ideas, which can transform the agri space in the country with a focus on the smallholder farmer.” Speaking on the outcome of this collaboration, Prof. Ashok Jhunjhunwala, president, IITMIC and IIT-Madras Research Park, said the partnership would focus on encouraging innovative technologies in agriculture and allied areas. “This partnership will offer mentoring support for product development, advisory services, networking for business development, training, funding assistance and technological support, and will focus on strengthening the agriculture entrepreneurial ecosystem,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-incubation-cell-to-promote-agritech-startups/article37920623.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||9 varsity students test positive||After a person tested positive for COVID-19 on Anna University’s ACTECH campus hostel on Wednesday, 9 of the 300 students who were subjected to RT-PCR testing were found to have contracted the infection. All 763 students on the campus were now being tested, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. “The Greater Chennai Corporation has taken up saturation testing of all students on the campus after one student tested positive on Wednesday. A total of 300 students were tested, of whom 9 were found to be infected and were admitted to Government Corona Hospital, Guindy. All of them are asymptomatic and are doing well,” he told reporters shortly after inspecting the university campus on Thursday. The Minister said some of the students were from other districts like Kallakurichi and Salem. Their contacts were being traced and their travel history tracked. The health officers of the respective districts had already been given instructions, he said. All 763 students — both undergraduates and postgraduates — on the campus were now being tested, he said, adding, “We have advised students to avoid dining at the same time. They should be allowed to dine in batches, and should maintain physical distancing. We are holding a consultative meeting on Friday with all departments, particularly School Education and Collegiate Education, to come up with norms to be followed in all hostels. Though there is no need to be afraid, students should wear masks and comply with physical distancing and hand hygiene norms wherever they gather in groups.” He added that samples lifted from identified cluster areas — eight types of places such as markets, commercial complexes, schools, colleges and hostels — were being regularly sent for genomic analysis. Testing at airports A total of 9,012 passengers had arrived from 13 countries deemed ‘at-risk’ till 8 a.m. on Thursday. All of them were tested, and 11 of them tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 33,102 people had come from ‘non-risk’ countries. Following random testing of 2% of them, two out of 1,025 people were found to have contracted the infection. When asked about the accuracy of rapid PCR tests being done at the airports, he said this method was approved by the Union Health Ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research, and was followed at all international airports. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the authorities had intensified fever surveillance. “Through saturation testing, 10 or 20 cases may come up sometimes. There is no need to panic as we can prevent further spread of infection.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/9-varsity-students-test-positive/article37920223.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai police revive bicycle patrolling in several areas||The city police on Wednesday revived bicycle patrolling in several areas to ensure visible policing. On the orders of City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal, personnel in 12 police districts patrolled the city. Mr. Jiwal has instructed Deputy Commissioners of Police to carry out regular bicycle patrolling in their respective jurisdictions to maintain a good interface between people and the police. This will also make the police approachable and help prevent crime. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Triplicane, P. Pakalavan, said, “To ensure visible policing, we will patrol on bicycles, criss-crossing narrow lanes and crowded places. We have chalked out a plan to execute the traditional method of cycle patrolling. As per our plan, at least four personnel will move around on bicycles in each beat of the police station, for two to three hours, every day.” Another officer said, “When personnel move around in jeeps or two-wheelers, people may not have easy access to them. Using bicycles, the police can now become more accessible and move around narrow lanes and crowded places.” Besides, the move is expected to help build a rapport between residents and the police, and keep personnel fit. Officers said they can clearly hear sounds from inside a house or observe a house break while patrolling in cycles. This way, criminals can easily be nabbed, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-police-revive-bicycle-patrolling-in-several-areas/article37920634.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC refuses to entertain IPS officer’s application against Dhoni’s Rs. 100-crore suit for damages||The Madras High Court on Thursday refused to entertain an application filed by IPS officer G. Sampath Kumar to reject the plaint in a civil suit, preferred by cricketer Mahendra Singh Dhoni in 2014, seeking Rs. 100 crore in damages for having linked his name with allegations of betting and match fixing in the Indian Premier League (IPL). Justice N. Seshasayee said he would not entertain the application when the suit was ripe for final hearing. The judge was of the view that entertaining such an application in 2021 with respect to a suit pending since 2014 would amount to dragging the proceedings for at least two more decades. He said the IPS officer ought to have taken out the application much earlier. Further, pointing out that the applicant had already filed his written statement in the suit filed against him, Zee Media Corporation Limited, its then Editor Sudhir Chaudhary and News Nation Network Private Limited, the judge said the present application was aimed at sabotaging the commencement of trial in the civil suit by examining the witnesses. He said the court owes a responsibility to the people of the country, and it could not permit a defendant in the suit to abuse the process by taking out such applications after seven years of the filing of the suit. However, the judge permitted the IPS officer to file an additional written statement since senior counsel P.R. Raman, representing Mr. Dhoni, had no objection to it. In an affidavit filed along with his application to reject the plaint, the IPS officer said the suit had been filed against him, too, on the assumption that it was he who had leaked information regarding the investigation into the IPL betting scam to the media. Such allegations, levelled on the basis of assumptions, were not sufficient to prefer a suit for damages, he said. ‘Victim of rumours’ Stating that he had only discharged his duty as a police officer, the applicant said the police department was empowered to initiate disciplinary action against him if it was proved that he had divulged investigation details to third parties. Claiming to have been a victim of a lot of rumours and false propaganda, the officer said he was also suspended from service. After an inquiry, a special court for vigilance and anti-corruption cases had acquitted him honourably on December 20, 2019, Mr. Kumar said, and cited it as proof of his not having engaged in any activity in violation of service rules. “I am an honest police officer and, in fact, I also respect the plaintiff (Mr. Dhoni) for his contribution to sports,” the affidavit read.  Entertaining such an application in 2021 with respect to a suit pending since 2014 would amount to dragging the proceedings for at least two more decadesJustice N. SeshasayeeMadras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-refuses-to-entertain-ips-officers-application-against-dhonis-rs-100-crore-suit-for-damages/article37920225.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RWA’s initiative pays off||Rainwater recharge wells in open spaces have helped residents of Kalakshetra Colony, Besant Nagar, to minimise waterlogging this monsoon. It all started during the late 1990s, when a few residents initiated the campaign to conserve water and construct rainwater recharge wells in the colony. Now, the area has nearly 75 recharge wells on its roads, including one on Mahalakshmi Avenue, through the joint efforts of the Kalakshetra Colony Welfare Association and the Greater Chennai Corporation. Residents, including Sridhar Chaganti and Shanthi Krishnan, were instrumental in creating awareness among residents on the significance of constructing rainwater harvesting structures at houses and open spaces. “Water in the area used to be brackish in the 1990s. There was much improvement in groundwater quality after constructing recharge wells on the corners of the roads. Ms. Krishnan had even persuaded a telecom company to construct some recharge wells then. It helped reduce waterlogging on the roads,” said Mr. Chaganti. Association treasurer Priya Rajshekhar said the association had built 28 recharge wells with its own funds. Groundwater that was at a depth of 15 feet is now at one foot depth. “We are planning to construct four more recharge wells on the waterlogged roads. The association is coordinating with GCC to find a permanent solution to water stagnation on these main roads,” she said. Sekar Raghavan, director, Rain Centre, who had supported the association’s efforts, said at least two feet on either side of the roads in the area must be left unpaved for better groundwater percolation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rwas-initiative-pays-off/article37920206.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai to host largest defence-related expo||Chennai-based Swatantra Foundation is organising the largest private sector defence related expo in Chennai between January 18 and 20. The expo will focus on engineering and manufacturing, leather, services, food, rubber and clothing in the defence and aerospace domain and robotics and artificial intelligence. Around 400 exhibitors are expected to participate. A statement from the organisers said the aim of the event was to support MSMEs and also considering that the State is coming up with a defence corridor. The event will be organised with support from the Ministry of Defence — Department of Defence Production, Department of Science and Technology and Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-to-host-largest-defence-related-expo/article37920241.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AMMK cadre arrested||A worker of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) has been arrested on charge of hurling footwear at the cars of former Chief Ministers Edappadi K. Palaniswami and O. Panneerselvam in Anna Square police station limits. The incident occurred on Sunday, when the two leaders were returning from the Jayalalithaa memorial after paying tributes on her death anniversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ammk-cadre-arrested/article37920198.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai to be developed as a ‘sponge city’||It is time to adopt innovative water management strategies and transform Chennai into a sponge city to tackle urban flooding. The concept of sponge city is to make urban areas more permeable, have more open spaces store rainwater and allow it to percolate to aquifers. The Water Resources Department is mulling over possibility of digging recharge shafts in smaller waterbodies in and around the city. These recharge shafts that could be dug up to a depth of 80-90 feet will help replenish water table. Officials of the WRD said a majority of the city residents depend heavily on groundwater. The smaller waterbodies and temple tanks could be used as structures to store surplus water during intense rain. Water can be drawn, treated and supplied to the city whenever necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-to-be-developed-as-a-sponge-city/article37920210.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel for non-resident Tamils holds meeting||The advisory panel for non-resident Tamils held its meeting on Thursday in the presence of Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu. The Minister told The Hindu that this was the first meeting of the advisory panel constituted for making connection with Tamil diaspora and bringing investments into the State. “It was a hybrid meeting. The discussions were on how we should go about in achieving the goal of $1 trillion economy and how effectively we could use the connections and services of influential members of Tamil diaspora in achieving this,” he added. Suresh Sambandam, CEO of Kissflow, said this was more of an introductory meeting. “I said that to achieve this $1 trillion economy we need to have a big game plan. The State has 150 big home-grown business brands and we need to create more such brands,” he said. “Our Tamil diaspora should be encouraged to create such companies/start-ups not just in IT but every other space,” he added. The main objectives of this committee, which was formed last month, is to connect with the Tamil diaspora, welfare associations, trade bodies across the world and bring in investments from them into Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advisory-panel-for-non-resident-tamils-holds-meet/article37920213.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Organs flown to Chennai||Three patients in Chennai got a new lease of life after organs from deceased donors were airlifted from Chandigarh and Visakhapatnam. Two of them, including a child, underwent heart transplants, while the third patient underwent a lung transplant at MGM Healthcare. According to a press release, teams coordinated the transport of organs through green corridors in the three cities. A team of over 60 people, led by K.R. Balakrishnan, director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support; Suresh Rao, head of anaesthesia, MGM Healthcare, and Ravikumar, chief cardiologist at the same hospital, was involved. The entire process — harvesting and transporting of the organs across a distance of 6,400 km and the transplantation — took 14 hours. Dr. Balakrishnan said travelling from Chandigarh to Chennai, without direct air connectivity, was not an easy task. The team had to change two aircrafts and undergo two separate security checks, after travelling for over seven hours. The cold ischemic time — time between the removal of the heart from the donor and transplanting it in the recipient — was eight hours, double the normal four hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/organs-flown-in-from-chandigarh-vizag/article37920199.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP seeks single-phase polls to urban local bodies||The Tamil Nadu BJP has written to the State Election Commissioner, demanding single-phase elections to urban local bodies. In his letter, R.C. Paul Kangaraj, State president of the BJP’s advocate wing, said single-phase elections would help restrict the undue influence of the ruling party. He said the State Election Commission had acted subservient to the DMK in the recently held local body elections, and the BJP State unit was expecting the same during the urban local body polls. Mr. Kangaraj sought a slew of measures, including the appointment of an election officer and an observer, either from the Union government or Central public sector undertakings, initiation of action against contractors who provided CCTV camera coverage, but miserably failed to capture the election process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-seeks-single-phase-polls-to-urban-local-bodies/article37920635.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for burglaries||Two persons from Nepal have been arrested for burglaries in Semmancheri and Sholinganallur. The police gave the names of the arrested as Pawan Singh, 35, and Jegadeesh Singh, 30, both from Nepal. They were reportedly staying with a relative at a rented house in Kelambakkam. They were arrested by a special team of the police near Kumaran Nagar, Rajiv Gandhi Salai on Wednesday afternoon following a complaint from V. Muthupandi, 32, of Lal Bahadur Shastri Street, Sholinganallur. The complainant alleged that on Tuesday a gold chain and other valuables were stolen from the steel cupboard in his house. The burglars also took away a television set. The police recovered stolen articles from them. Investigation revealed that the duo had been working as security guards and involved in three more cases of house break and theft in Semmancheri and Sholinganallur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-burglaries-in-semmancheri-sholinganallur/article37920200.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Initials in Tamil mandatory for students, public||The Tamil Nadu government has issued an order making it mandatory for students to write the initials of their names in Tamil while applying for certificates in schools and colleges. Likewise, the mandate would apply to members of the public when they submit applications for government records. The order issued by Mahesh Kasirajan, Secretary, Tamil Development Department, directed all departments, schools and colleges to display the Government Order to create awareness among the people. The first letter of the parent’s name as written in Tamil would be the initial of the applicant. The order follows an announcement made by Tamil Development Minister Thangam Thennarasu in the Assembly while presenting the demand for grants for the department. The State government already made it compulsory for its employees to sign their name and initials in Tamil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initials-in-tamil-mandatory-for-students-public/article37920234.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMWSSB plans open house||Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board will organise open house meetings at its 15 area offices on every second Saturday between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. to redress grievances of residents related to water supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmwssb-plans-open-house/article37920197.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two electrocuted||Two persons were electrocuted on Thursday at a brick manufacturing unit at Azhinjiwakkam village near Periyapalam. Both were workers who had gone to the spot for welding work. The victims were identified as Ramana, 23, from Anna Nagar and Prasad, 22, from Tiruvannamalai. While welding in a shed, they stepped on an iron sheet which had a live wire underneath it. They died on the spot and following an alert, power supply was cut and the bodies were retrieved. Periyapalayam police send the bodies to the government hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-electrocuted/article37920211.ece
10 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||National Highways may take up Mettupalayam bypass road project||The State Highways Department is looking at moving Mettupalayam bypass road project to the National Highways (NH) wing. Officials here said the plan to develop a four-lane bypass road for 7.25 km hit a road block as the land acquisition cost is estimated to be Rs. 610 crore. Apart from this, the cost of laying the road is working out to Rs. 10 crore to Rs. 12 crore for a km. When the road was planned more than five years ago, the land acquisition cost was expected to be just about Rs. 110 crore. “This was planned as a greenfield, four-lane road. Since the land cost is working out to be very high, the State Highways plans to give it to the NH,” an official said. The NH is yet to decide if it will take up the project. But, there is a proposal, an official of the NH said. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the bypass road was planned initially as a part of the Coimbatore bypass road between Neelambur and Narasimhanaikenpalayam, more than 10 years ago. It did not take off then as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) wanted to have a toll gate at Narasimhanaikenpalayam. The public opposed this proposal and the project was dropped. However, Mettupalayam is the gateway to the Nilgiris, connecting Coimbatore and the Nilgiris. There is just one road at Mettupalayam, which is also a major vegetable trade hub. Since a bypass road was a requirement, the State Highways Department planned a Mettupalayam bypass road and it was approved by the Coimbatore district road safety committee in 2013-2014. The alignment was finalised and even 15 (2) notification issued for land acquisition. Moving the project to the NH now is likely to delay the project by more than five years. “An official of NH said that they need to start from the scratch if they take up the project. Why did the State government take up the proposal if it cannot execute it,” he asked. A bypass road project at Mettupalayam is not just for that town but for all those going to or coming from the Nilgiris, a major tourism destination, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-highways-may-take-up-mettupalayam-bypass-road-project/article37920249.ece
10 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Van carrying mortal remains of defence personnel meets with accident||One of the hearse vans carrying the mortal remains of Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other defence personnel, who were killed in a helicopter crash near Coonoor in the Nilgiris on Wednesday, met with an accident on the way to Air Force Station, Sulur, on Thursday afternoon. The accident took place near Mettupalayam when the convoy carrying the mortal remains from the Army Hospital at Wellington in the Nilgiris was en route to the Air Force Station. The caskets were being taken in 13 vans of Tamil Nadu government’s free hearse service run by GVK EMRI (Emergency Management and Research Institute). Sources said that one van rear-ended another one, after the driver of the latter applied brake due to traffic problem. The casket inside the van that met with the accident was immediately shifted to a spare van. S. Selvamuthukumar, GVK EMRI’s programme manager for Coimbatore and the Nilgiris, said that a spare van was included in the convoy to be used for emergency. “The casket was shifted to the spare van within seconds and the convoy proceeded without any delay,” he said. No one was injured in the accident. A police van that was part of the convoy also met with an accident. Police sources said that a van travelled by policemen who came from Tiruppur district for the convoy rammed a rocky portion of the ghat section near Burliayar on Coonoor – Mettupalayam road. A few policemen suffered minor injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/van-carrying-mortal-remains-of-defence-personnel-meets-with-accident/article37920352.ece
10 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||In person attendance goes up in schools||Over a month following the reopening of schools for Classes I to VIII after the COVID-19 lockdown, most of the schools in the district have seen an increase in attendance, according to the Department of School Education. Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer N. Geetha said that around 75% of the students studying in Classes I to VIII in government, aided and private schools have been attending physical classes. In the case of Classes IX and XII, for whom regular classes commenced two months prior on September 1, the attendance has increased significantly as over 90% of the students are attending the classes, she said. Ms. Geetha said that she had instructed all the schools in the district to provide writing exercises to get the students to speed up for the public examinations. Unit tests for the higher secondary classes commenced on Monday and the performance of the students will be analysed, based on which further action will be initiated, according to the Chief Educational Officer. According to T. Arulanandam, State auditor of the Tamil Nadu High Higher Secondary School Graduate Teachers’ Association, teachers are increasingly concerned about the learning gap among the students due to the pandemic. “Even bright students are struggling when it comes to writing, memorisation and retention,” he said. The students have lost touch with writing notes regularly due to the online classes and students of Classes X, XI and XII have faced a dip in confidence levels to face the public examinations next year, Mr. Arulanandam said.  Even bright students are struggling when it comes to writing, memorisation and retention T. Arulanandam State auditor of the Tamil Nadu High Higher Secondary School Graduate Teachers’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-person-attendance-goes-up-in-schools/article37920250.ece
10 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Gen. Rawat facilitated indigenisation of speciality clothing’||The last five or six years have seen several measures that went into indigenisation of speciality garments and fabrics for the armed forces, and one of the key persons in this effort was Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, who died in a helicopter crash on Wednesday, says S.K. Sundararaman, deputy chairman of the Southern India Mills’ Association. “I met General Rawat at least half a dozen times,” said Mr. Sundararaman, who is also the former chairman of the Indian Technical Textile Association (ITTA). The ITTA held an Army sourcing conference in 2016-2017 and General Rawat, who was then the Chief of Army Staff, was invited as the chief guest. He would back his officers for their ideas. “He empowered his people to take decisions,” Mr. Sundararaman said, recollecting his meetings with General Rawat. Five or six years ago was the transition period when the government wanted to indigenise speciality clothing and textile requirements of the Defence sector. Today, almost all textile and clothing items except a few, such as high altitude gloves and sleeping bags, are made by the domestic industry. All textile sourcing was through the Master-General of the Ordnance. General Rawat spearheaded the effort to indigenise production, as he allowed his team to go out and take the required measures to make the products locally. He supported the officers with the procurement processes, said Mr. Sundararaman.  Today, almost all textile and clothing items except a few, are made by the domestic industry S.K. Sundararaman Deputy chairman, SIMA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gen-rawat-facilitated-indigenisation-of-speciality-clothing-for-armed-forces/article37920350.ece
10 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore logs 112 COVID-19 cases||A total of 112 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Thursday. The Health Department reported one new death in the district, that of a 78-year-old man, taking the toll to 2,480. As many as 123 persons recovered on Thursday and the district had 1,235 active cases. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.3 % on Wednesday when it reported 117 cases. Tiruppur district reported 47 new cases. The district had 630 active cases as 55 persons recovered. The Health Department reported two new deaths and the toll went up to 1,003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-logs-112-covid-19-cases/article37920254.ece
10 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Export certification||The Director General of Foreign Trade has listed the Powerloom Development and Export Promotion Council (PDEXCIl) as one of the agencies that can issue Certificate of Origin for exports, according to a press release from PDEXCIL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/export-certification/article37920335.ece
10 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pollachi MP seeks speedy completion of foot overbridge||Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundram on Thursday reiterated his demand for the completion of the foot overbridge work in Kinathukadavu Railway Station and resumption of trains operated during the metre gauge period. In a letter to Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, the MP wrote that the foot over bridge project was sanctioned on November 22, 2019 at a cost of Rs. 1.38 crore, according to a reply under the RTI Act from the office of the Railway Minister. However, it has been delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the letter claimed. Train services operated from Coimbatore to southern districts in the Pollachi-Kinathukadavu-Podanur section prior to the broad gauge conversion have not been resumed, he noted. “Long delay in re-operating the above-mentioned trains are resulting in the waste of public money spent on gauge conversion and railway electrification,” Mr. Shanmugasundaram said. He also the Minister to include the Pollachi-Kinathukadavu railway station with either the Salem or Madurai Division of Southern Railway as he alleged stepmotherly treatment by Palakkad Division, under which Pollachi and Kinathukadavu Junctions are present.  The foot over bridge was sanctioned in 2019 K. Shanmugasundram Pollachi MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-seeks-speedy-completion-of-foot-overbridge-in-kinathukadavu-railway-station/article37920251.ece
10 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man trampled to death by wild elephant||A man aged around 70 was trampled to death by a wild elephant near Anaikatti in Coimbatore district on Thursday. The Forest Department identified the deceased as K. Kaarai, a resident of Thoovaipathi. The Department said that man was trampled by the wild elephant, around 500 metres away from the reserve forest, when he went there to attend nature's call. The man died on the spot. Other residents from the village found him dead and informed the Forest Department staff. The body was shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-trampled-to-death-by-wild-elephant/article37920353.ece
10 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly - for air and city||The Director General of Foreign Trade has listed the Powerloom Development and Export Promotion Council (PDEXCIl) as one of the agencies that can issue Certificate of Origin for exports, according to a press release from PDEXCIL.   The Udumalpet police on Thursday seized banned tobacco products weighing around 262 kg from a house at Udumalpet and arrested two persons Kamaluddin (41) and Azharuddin (30). The accused were subsequently remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly-for-air-and-city/article37920247.ece
10 December 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Minister’s wife dies in Vriddhachalam||G. Bhavani, wife of Tamil Nadu Minister for Labour and Skill Development C.V. Ganesan, died after suffering a heart attack at their residence in Vriddhachalam on Thursday. She was 56. She is survived by her husband and one son. Sources said Ms. Bhavani died in the early hours of Thursday. Mr. Ganesan, who was in Chennai, rushed back after being informed. Speaker M. Appavu, Deputy Speaker K. Pitchandi, Ministers Duraimurugan, Ma. Subramanian, M.R.K. Panneerselvam amd K. Ponmudi met Mr. Ganesan, and expressed their condolences. The funeral is scheduled to take place on Friday at Kazhuthur, near Veppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-cv-ganesans-wife-dies-in-vriddhachalam/article37920245.ece
10 December 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||1,74,161 voters in Dharmapuri district||Collector S. Dhivyadarshini released the final electoral roll that has registered 1,74,161 voters for the urban local bodies in the district. It has a total of 85,068 male voters, 89,079 female voters and 14 transgender voters for the 10 town panchayats and Dharmapuri Municipality. Of the total registered voters, the electoral roll includes 47,955 voters for Dharmapuri Municpality, and 1,26,206 voters for the 10 town panchayats of Harur, Paapireddipatty, Kadathur, Karimangalam, Palacodde, Paaparapatty, Pennagaram, Marandahalli, Kambainallur, and P.Mallapuram. There are 230 polling booths for the elections and the polling will be conducted by 11 polling officers, 26 assistant polling officers,18 regional officers, and 920 booth officers, according to the administration. In addition, a block observer is being appointed at the rank of a deputy director/assistant director for the conduct of the elections. The administration has designated 13 polling stations as sensitive for Dharmapuri Municipality, and 14 polling stations for the 10 town panchayats. A total of 24 polling stations have been designated as sensitive and have been accorded monitoring arrangements. All polling booths will be monitored through CCTV cameras. Krishnagiri Election Observer for Krishnagiri district and Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Handloom Development Corporation V. Shobana held consultations on the roll revision process at the Collectorate here. In the meeting presided over by Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy, Ms.Shobana perused the form verification for inclusion of names and uploading of forms for roll revision. The revision has been carried out with January 1, 2022 as the qualifying date for those who have attained 18 years of age and are eligible to vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/174161-voters-in-dharmapuri-district/article37920333.ece
10 December 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||‘Order CB-CID probe into sexual assault cases’||Taking strong exception to the Dindigul Mahila Court giving bail to an accused, P. Jothimurugan, in two cases booked under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), has sought the Tamil Nadu government’s legal intervention in quashing the bail orders. The party has also sought a CB-CID probe into the cases to ensure justice to the victims. Former Dindigul MLA, K. Balabharathi, said that the party would stage a demonstration on Saturday to draw the attention of the State government to the issue. “The Tamil Nadu government should move the High Court and get the bail order quashed,” she said. Suspicions Ms. Balabharathi also alleged that most of the accused in about 70 POCSO cases had been given bail in recent months, and raised suspicions over these development. “Firstly, the Dindigul police did not arrest the accused and he surrendered before a court in Tiruvannamalai. But, within 11 days, the court has given bail in POCSO cases, which is shocking,” she said. Cases registered The three-time MLA said that Jothimurugan, who runs a nursing college, was accused of sexual assault by students and three cases were registered after a series of protests by students. Meanwhile, the district police had registered a case against Ms. Balabharathi and other members of All India Democratic Women’s Association on charges of assaulting an advocate. “The police have registered a case against us under nonbailable sections. This is only a way of threatening whoever protested against Jothimurugan. “If this is the case for a three-time MLA and if the accused is let out scot-free will he not threaten the complainant and their poor parents?,” she asked. She also alleged that Jothimurugan had flouted bail conditions and had not appeared before the district police ever since he left the prison. Meanwhile, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Dindigul Range) B. Vijayakumari said the police would move the court for quashing the bail order for his failure to comply with the bail conditions. More cases Besides, two cases under the POCSO Act, one case of sexual assault on an adult female student was also registered against Jothimurugan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-seeks-cb-cid-inquiry-into-nursing-college-sexual-assault-cases/article37920240.ece
10 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 relief extended to Sri Lankan refugees||The State government has extended cash relief provided to children who lost their parents to COVID-19 to Sri Lankan refugees as well. In a press release, District Collector H.Krishnanunni said the government announced a solatium of Rs. 5 lakh for children who lost both their parents to COVID-19 and Rs. 3 lakh for children who lost one of their parents. Sri Lankan refugees living in camps and those residing outside camps after registering at police station could benefit under the scheme, the release said. The public were asked to visit the office of District Child Protection Officer to benefit under the scheme, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-relief-extended-to-sri-lankan-refugees/article37920336.ece
10 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Hoax bomb threat made to important places in Erode||The police are on the lookout for a person who made a hoax bomb threat to important places in Erode on Thursday. According to the police, the police control room received a call around 2 p.m. and the caller allegedly threatened that bombs would explode at Erode bus stand, railway junction and at Manikundu. Personnel from Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad conducted searches at those places and checked shops and vehicles parked in the area. Searches were also conducted at the railway junction along with railway police and the threat was found to be hoax. Efforts are under way to identify the caller.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hoax-bomb-threat-made-to-important-places-in-erode/article37920342.ece
10 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Banned tobacco products seized||The Erode Town police seized banned tobacco products worth Rs. 3.62 lakh here on Thursday. According to the police, during a vehicle check near the Theppakulam road junction, the police intercepted a two-wheeler and seized banned tobacco goods from the rider, Mugesh Kumar from Erode. On inquiry, the police arrested his accomplice Mahendrakumar from Kanagi street here and raided his godown. They seized 461.28 kg of banned tobacco products worth Rs. 3.62 lakh. The police also seized Rs. 2.10 lakh that was earned through sales of the products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-tobacco-products-seized/article37920345.ece
10 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance works at Sivagiri sub-station , power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on    December 12 at Sivagiri, Vettuvapalayam, Kagam, Konthalam, Minnapalayam, Palamangalam, Veerasangili, Kallapuramkottai, Vilankattuvalasu, Ellakadai, Kulavilakku, Karakkaattuvalasu, Kovilpalayam, Aayaparappu, Molapalayam, Parapalayam, Vilakethi, Kuttapalayam, Amman Kovil, Thoppapalayam, Perumparappu, Vadugapatti, 24 Velampalayam, Pannaikinaru, Karattupudur, Kattupalayam, Rakamapudur, Itchipalayam, Muthayanvalasu, Karukkampalayam, Unjalur, Othakadai, North Pudupalayam, Anjur, Kurukkuvalasu, Nammacoundanpalayam, Valliyampalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37920334.ece
10 December 2021||IDUKKI,TAMIL NADU||Two Sabarimala pilgrims from A.P. die in accident||Two Sabarimala pilgrims from Andhra Pradesh were killed when a bus lost control and crashed on the back of a parked tempo traveller where the victims were standing at Amaravathi in the Peruvanthanam police station limits in Idukki district on Thursday afternoon. The deceased were identified as Kurnool residents Narayana Naidu (44) and Ishwar (42). Three other pilgrims injured in the incident were were admitted to the Medical Trust Hospital at Mundakkayam. According to the police, the bus carrying pilgrims to Sabarimala first hit a car before knocking down the pilgrims travelling in the tempo. Eyewitnesses said the accident happened after bus driver attempted to avoid the vehicle ramming a lorry coming from the opposite side. The bodies of the deceased were sent for autopsy at the Kanjirappally taluk hospital, the police said. The stretch of road from Kumily to Mundakkayam on the Kollam-Theni national highway has several hairpin curves, and pilgrims often stop their vehicles on the roadside to take breaks during the long trip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-sabarimala-pilgrims-from-ap-die-in-accident/article37920125.ece
10 December 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Electoral rolls released for Kallakurichi, Villupuram||Collector P.N. Sridhar on Thursday released the photo electoral rolls for urban local bodies in Kallakurichi. Copies of the rolls were handed over to recognised political parties. As per the roll, there are a total of 1,22,233 voters — 59,566 men, 62,648 women and 19 others — in Kallakurichi Municipality and five town panchayats — Chinna Salem, Manalurpettai, Sankarapuram, Thiyagadurgam and Vadakkanandal. There are a total of 140 polling stations, split 46 and 94 between the municipality and town panchayats. The voter list will be displayed at the municipality and town panchayat offices, Mr. Sridhar said. In Villupuram, Collector D. Mohan released the electoral rolls for two municipalities — Villupuram and Tindivanam — and seven town panchayats — Ananthapuram, Arakandanallur, Gingee, Marakkanam, Tiruvennainallur, Valavanur and Vikravandi. In Villupuram, there are are a total of 2,69,513 voters (1,30,441 men, 1,39,019 women and 53 others).  The voter list will be displayed at the municipality and town panchayat offices P.N. Sridhar Kallakurichi Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electoral-rolls-released-for-kallakurichi-villupuram/article37920631.ece
10 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bus driver ensures safety of 50 passengers before dying||A Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus driver on Thursday ensured the safety of about 50 passengers. He safely parked the bus on the road margin before dying of cardiac arrest minutes later. M. Arumugam, 44, from Karumathur experienced chest pain while driving the bus. He immediately parked the bus on the road margin before dying of cardiac arrest minutes later. According to TNSTC sources, M. Arumurgam, 44, from Karumathur, was driving the bus bound for Kodaikanal. The bus left Arapalayam bus stand at 6.20 a.m. Five minutes later he experienced chest pain when the bus was near Guru Theatre. He alerted conductor S. Bhagyaraj about the chest pain and stopped the bus on the road margin. The conductor called the emergency ambulance service. Unfortunately, he died of cardiac arrest five minutes later. The body was taken to Government Rajaji Hospital and the driver’s family was informed about the incident. The Karimedu police have registered a case and are conducting an inquiry. The driver is survived by his wife and two children. He had 12 years of experience in the TNSTC, the sources said..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-driver-ensures-safety-of-50-passengers-before-dying/article37920529.ece
10 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Man’s death prima facie a case of suicide’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday dismissed the petition filed by a Scheduled Caste man from Kanniyakumari district who had alleged that his brother’s death was honour killing and sought the transfer of investigation into the death. Justice G.R. Swaminathan took into account the CCTV footage produced before the court by the investigating officer. The footage showed the man’s brother walking towards a pesticide shop, making a purchase and then walking towards the spot where he was found dead. This evidence / material prima facie indicated that the petitioner’s brother had died by suicide. Whether the suicide was abetted by others and whether other offences had been committed was for the investigation to unearth and find out, the judge said. The judge also observed that the investigation in the case was proceeding on the right lines and there was no need to transfer the investigation. The court took note of the fact that the CCTV footage was shared with the petitioner’s counsel. The court had earlier sought a status report from the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Nagercoil. The court was hearing the petition filed by S. Suman Anand of Thovalai. He said that his brother Suresh Kumar was in a relationship with a Caste Hindu woman. Since they belonged to different castes, the woman’s family did not accept the relationship, the petitioner said. The petitioner had suspected the involvement of the woman’s family members in the death of his brother. (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanniyakumari-mans-death-prima-facie-a-case-of-suicide/article37920531.ece
10 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Employee of private firm robbed of 1.25 kg gold, cash||An armed gang robbed an employee of a private gold finance company of over 1.25 kg of gold and Rs. 90,000 on Tiruchi-Madurai highway near Kottampatti on Wednesday night. Police said that M. Michaelraj, 30, of Usilampatti, along with two others, was returning from Villupuram with the valuables in a car. When the car was crossing Ayyapatti junction under Kottampatti police station limits, another car that was following them dashed against their vehicle. Five armed men, who got down from the car, threatened them to part with the valuales. One of them attacked Michaelraj with a machete and he sustained injuries on his forehead. After pulling all the three out of the car, the gang sped away with both the vehicles. Upon being alerted, the Kottampatti police found Michaelraj’s car which was abandoned at Pathinettu Sukkampatti few hours later. However, the valuables were missing from the car. “The car was found abandoned at Pathinettu Kukkampatti few hours later,” Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said. However, the valuables inside the car were missing. The SP said that the employees had flouted some of the security norms of the finance company. “They were not supposed to travel in the night while carrying valuables. Besides, they should not stop the vehicle mid-way,” the SP said. The police said that though the complainant said that the other car had dashed against their vehicle, there was not much dent on the vehicle. Even as the special teams were on the lookout for the accused, the police have not ruled out the role of insider’s hand in the robbery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/armed-gang-robs-finance-firm-staff-of-125-kg-gold-cash/article37920528.ece
10 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Philatelic exhibition||Department of Posts, Madurai Postal Division is conducting a virtual Philatelic Exhibition ‘Maduraipex’ on Dec. 15 and 16 as part of the 75th Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. The virtual philately exhibition (competitive) on the theme ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ will be conducted. Students and philatelists can participate in the events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/philatelic-exhibition/article37920326.ece
10 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Driver ensures passengers’ safety, dies||A Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus driver on Thursday saved the lives of about 50 passengers after he safely parked the bus before dying of cardiac arrest. According to sources, Arumurgam was driving a bus bound for Kodaikanal when he experienced chest pain as the bus neared Guru Theatre. He immediately stopped the bus but died a few minutes later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/driver-ensures-passengers-safety-dies/article37920327.ece
10 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Philatelic exhibition to be held next week||Madurai Postal Division of the Department of Posts is conducting a virtual philatelic exhibition, ‘Maduraipex,’ on December 15 and 16 as part of 75th Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebration. A district-level virtual philately exhibition (competitive) on the theme ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ will be conducted. Students and philatelists can participate in the events. Competitions Drawing and letter writing competitions will be held on December 15 and online quiz competition on December 16 during the exhibition. Prizes and digital certificates will be issued to the participants. An inauguration and valedictory function for release of Special Covers would be held at Heritage Hotel in Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/philatelic-exhibition-to-be-held-next-week/article37920533.ece
10 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses petition||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed a petition filed by an advocate who complained that private hospitals were not following rules and regulations and were charging excessive fees. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan observed that it was for the regulatory bodies to address the issue, and even as per the affidavit filed by the advocate the regulations were in place. The court was hearing the petition filed by S. Ayyaa of Palayamkottai. The petitioner said private hospitals were charging enormous fees without complying with rules and regulations. The court observed that the affidavit was bald. Except for quoting the regulations, the petitioner had not even cited one example of the hospitals that violated the regulations. Also, there was no compulsion for one to go to any of the hospitals, if one felt that the charges were exorbitant, as the State and Central governments had established state-of-the-art hospitals with latest and sophisticated equipment, the court said. Stating that ESI Corporations and primary health centres were also serving society by extending medical services, the judges said they were not inclined to pass any orders and the petition was liable to be dismissed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-petition-against-private-hospitals/article37920532.ece
10 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Provocative post lands YouTuber in trouble||The Madurai City Police on Thursday picked up YouTuber Maridhas over a social media post questioning whether Tamil Nadu was becoming another Kashmir. He said there was a possibility of a big conspiracy in the State due to the freedom to mobilise people who could betray the country, and sought to curb the separatist forces. After posting the message in the morning, he deleted it subsequently, a police officer said. Based on a complaint from the DMK IT Wing, the Madurai City Cyber Crime Police registered a case against Maridhas and arrested him under Sections 153A, 505 (1) (b) and 505 (b) of the Indian Penal Code for promoting enmity between different groups. Earlier, when police officers went to his house to pick him up, BJP cadre got into an argument with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provocative-post-lands-youtuber-in-trouble/article37920226.ece
10 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Mullaperiyar dam stood at its maximum permissible level of 142 ft with an inflow of 3,420 cusecs and a discharge of 1,867 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 70.14 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 3,100 cusecs and a discharge of 2,964 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 11,115 mcft. There was no rainfall in the region during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37920328.ece
10 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai city has 13.27 lakh voters||Madurai Corporation has 13,27,894 voters in the electoral roll released ahead of the election to urban local bodies. Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan released the voter list for 100 wards which includes 6,25,617 men, 6,75,139 women and 138 others. The city has 1,317 polling booths. Assistant Commissioners Dhakshinamoorthi, Suresh Kumar, Amirthalingam and Rengarajan, and Corporation Council secretary George Oliver Lawerence were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-city-has-1327-lakh-voters/article37920536.ece
10 December 2021||NAMAKKAL/SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Final electoral roll released in districts||District Collector Shreya P. Singh released the final electoral roll for the urban local body elections here on Thursday. According to a release, elections will be held for Kumarapalayam, Namakkal, Rasipuram, Pallipalayam and Tiruchengode Municipalities and 19 town panchayats. There are 1,56,552 male voters, 1,67,126 female voters and 84 transgender voters in the five municipalities. Across the town panchayats, there are 1,11,143 male voters, 1,18,622 female voters and 31 transgender voters. The district administration advised the public to visit the municipal and town panchayat offices in their area and ensure that their names were on the voters list. In Salem Corporation, Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj released the voters list in the presence of representatives of recognised political parties and other officials. According to officials, there are 60 wards in the Corporation and 709 polling booths will be set up here. There are 3,52,523 male voters, 3,66,751 female voters and 87 transgender voters in the Corporation limits. District Collector S. Karmegham said the electoral roll was released at four Municipalities and 31 town panchayats here on Thursday. According to a release, there are 82,490 male voters, 88,166 female voters and 17 transgender voters in Attur, Edappadi, Mettur and Narasingapuram Municipalities and elections will be conducted for 111 ward councillor posts. There are 1,92,089 male voters, 1,98,790 female voters and 15 transgender voters in the 31 town panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/final-electoral-roll-released-in-districts/article37920341.ece
10 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Despite ban, heavy vehicles enter U.T.||Heavy vehicles continue to ply on the city roads choking traffic despite orders restricting their movement. In the absence of a full-fledged truck terminal, the vehicles continue to enter the city during the peak hours with the authorities turning a blind eye to their erratic parking on the main thoroughfares such as Rangapillai Street, Ambalathadayar Madam Street and Vellala Street which house outlets of retail and wholesale merchants. The Transport Department has restricted movement of trucks within the city limits from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. However, most of the trucks enter the city only during the ban hours for loading and unloading of goods. It is a common sight to see heavy vehicles parked on arterial roads during the day resulting in frequent traffic snarls. According to D. Jayaseelan, a resident of Kombakkam, “commuting on the main thoroughfares in the Boulevard is a difficult task and motorists are forced to take alternative routes. While the existing roads are already damaged and ridden with potholes, the entry of trucks has only made the situation worse.” Trucks coming from districts like Villupuram and Cuddalore are supposed to park their vehicles at the terminal in Mettupalayam during peak hours in the city. However, with the traffic police and authorities not implementing the ban, the vehicles enter the city. However, traffic police officials maintain they have been trying their best to enforce the ban with limited staff. Fines have been imposed on vehicles which violate the rules, an officer said. Sources said that trucks were entering the city due to the lack of a proper truck terminal. Though the truck terminal was set up on 37 acres in 2008, the government failed to create adequate infrastructure for parking vehicles. According to M. Sivasankaran, president of Puducherry Traders Federation, trucks ferry essential goods mainly from Bengaluru and Chennai and they reach here only in the morning. “Shifting of warehouses and depots to areas outside the city would involve additional costs for traders. Hence, we have requested the Transport Department to allow some relaxation from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. However, there has been no progress on this front,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/despite-ban-heavy-vehicles-enter-city/article37920630.ece
10 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Revise U.T.’s poverty alleviation schemes’||Former Member of Parliament M. Ramadass has asked the territorial administration to revisit its poverty alleviation schemes in the wake of the Niti Aayog’s latest report giving the Union Territory a high ranking in poverty alleviation. In a statement, he said the Multidimensional Poverty Index released by Niti Aayog has ranked Puducherry second among States and the Union Territories with a poverty ratio of 1.72. This means, only less than 2% of the population in Puducherry was below the poverty line (BPL), he said. The latest estimate of the Puducherry’s poverty rate was compatible with the earlier assessments made by the Puducherry Vision: 2020 (published in 2003), the Puducherry State Development Report (2010), the Annual Sectoral Document of Planning and Research Department (2020) and the CAG Report (2018-19). These reports also had found a rapid decline in the poverty ratio, he said. A contrary picture “Unfortunately, the Puducherry Government today presents an incredibly contrary picture of poverty. It works on the assumption that more than half of the population (50.17%) are poor, and in the case of some schemes, like rain relief, the entire population,” he said. As on March 31, 2020, there are a total of 3,44,718 ration cards in the Union Territory. Of this, 1,78,180 are red ration card holders. The total number of red ration cards implied that 50.17% of the households (of the estimated population of 16 lakh) were BPL. “During 2019-20, 1,71,332 heads of households received financial assistance under the Direct Benefit Transfer Scheme. The huge variation in data between the Niti Aayog and the local government is inexplicable. A poverty rate of 50.17% takes Puducherry back to 1983, or contemporarily, Puducherry and Bihar sail in the same boat, both of which are untenable,” the economist-turned- politician said. The lure of the people — rich and poor, employed and unemployed, government servants and other employees and migrants and natives — to enjoy the benefits of government schemes could have influenced surveyors to enrol them as red ration card holders, he said. “The vote bank politics also seems to have aided the process,” Mr. Ramadass said. The Union Territory has made remarkable strides in all parameters. “Inflating the figure and implementing anti-poverty schemes to benefit people in the comfort zone is a blatant fraud on the exchequer,” Mr. Ramadass said. A government with a debt burden of Rs. 9,000 crore, paying Rs. 2.5 crore interest every day, and knocking at the doors of the Central Government with a begging bowl could not and should not afford the luxury of wasting public money on undeserving individuals, he said, and added that it should identify real beneficiaries and stop wasteful expenditure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revise-uts-poverty-alleviation-schemes/article37920632.ece
10 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||EB workers skip meeting with Power Secretary||Workers of the Electricity Department on Thursday boycotted the meeting with the Power Secretary to discuss the move by the Union Government to privatise power distribution in Puducherry. Pacifying protestors The meeting was convened to pacify the workers who are against the privatisation. The section of workers who were against the decision had called several agitations against the Centre. “We did not participate in the meeting and continued with the agitation. They wanted to explain the benefits of the move to us, but we know the move will not be good for the workers and people of the Union Territory in the long run. We will continue with our protests till the Central Government’s decision is withdrawn,” an employee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workers-boycott-meeting-with-power-secretary/article37920625.ece
10 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records one COVID-19 death, 28 new cases||The Union Territory has recorded one COVID-19 death and 28 new cases in the last 24 hours, ending Thursday 10 a.m. The lone death was reported in Puducherry region, where a 78-year-old woman succumbed to virus while undergoing treatment at the Government Chest Hospital. So far, 1,877 people succumbed to the virus in the Union Territory. Case distribution Of the total new cases recorded, 21 are from Puducherry region, five from Mahe and two from Karaikal. The fresh cases were detected from screening 2,729 persons. The test positivity in the Union Territory has come down to 1.03% The virus has so far affected 1,291,56 persons in the Union Territory, data released by the Health Department revealed.  The virus has so far affected 1,291,56 persons in the Union Territory||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-1-covid-19-death-28-new-cases/article37920627.ece
10 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK criticises Puducherry government||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam hit out at the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the Union Territory for neglecting certain Assembly constituencies in development and welfare measures. Former Legislator and party election wing secretary Vaiyapuri Manikantan, in a statement on Thursday, said all alliance party workers had worked in the last Assembly polls to bring the NDA to power in Union Territory. “We have all worked together. But the ruling party was concentrating only on Thattanchavady, Indira Nagar and Kadirgamam Assembly segments. They are neglecting the remaining 27 constituencies,” he said. The three constituencies mentioned by the AIADMK leader are represented by the All India N.R. Congress, which heads the NDA government. The statement said the distribution of 10 kg of rice and 2 kg of sugar, announced for Deepavli, and road repair work were all done only in the three constituencies. Even beneficiaries for elderly pension were selected from these constituencies. The attitude of the government should be condemned, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-leader-criticises-puducherry-government/article37920626.ece
10 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Mysterious death of two women turns out to be murder for gain||The death of a woman and her daughter under mysterious circumstances in the Railway Quarters in Mandapam on Tuesday turned out to be murder for gain following interrogation of two Sri Lankan Tamils. The police have recovered some jewellery that were taken away from K. Kaliammal, 58, a sanitary worker with the railways, and her daughter K. Manimegalai, 32, from the accused, T. Sasikumar, 35 and Rajkumar, 30, of the Mandapam camp. When the Mandapam police found the bodies of the women completely charred inside their house with both front and rear doors locked from inside, they registered a case of suspicious death. However, Kaliammal’s elder daughter P. Shanmugapriya gave a petition to Ramanathapuram Collector seeking investigation into the mysterious death as their mobile phones, some gold jewellery and cash were missing from the house. Subsequently, the police found that the Sri Lankan Tamils, who had gone to the house for some construction work a few days back, had entered the house through the rear door. “One of the accused had worked as mason while repairing the house a few days back. He had found that the inside latch of the rear door could be opened by inserting the hand through a hole of a cement vent from outside the house,” said Inspector General of Police (South Zone) T. S. Anbu who inspected the scene of crime. He said that some jewellery that were missing from the house have been recovered from the accused. The accused had entered the house in the early hours of Tuesday when the inmates were fast asleep by opening the latch from outside the house. After assaulting the woman and her daughter with lethal weapons and robbing them of the valuables, the accused set them on fire. After committing the crime, they locked the latch in the same manner to divert the police attention. Superintendent of Police E. Karthik was present during the IG’s inspection. Further investigation is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mysterious-death-of-two-women-turns-out-to-be-murder-for-gain/article37920330.ece
10 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Tax payers felicitated||The Income Tax department felicitated tax payers and eminent personalities from various walks of life as part the 75th Anniversary of Indian Independence celebrations here on Thursday. According to a press release issued here, Bhupal Reddy, Chief Commissioner of Income Tax, Coimbatore, R. Jagannathan, Vice-Chancellor of Periyar University, Kumar Ajeet, IRS, Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals), B. Lakshminarayanan, Additional Commissioner of Income Tax, Salem Range and other senior officials took part in the event. Eminent personalities honoured R. Sundaram, Managing Director, Aerospace Limited, N. Periyasamy, founder secretary of Nesakkarangal Home for Destitute Children and Senior Citizens, sports personalities T. Natarajan, T. Mariyappan, and V. Pavithra, firms, Chartered Accountants and tax practitioners were honoured, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tax-payers-felicitated/article37920344.ece
10 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Mettur dam reduced||The discharge from Mettur dam was reduced on Thursday following decrease in inflow to the dam. According to officials from Public Works Department, at 8 a.m., water level at the dam remained at 120ft and the storage was 93,470 tmcft. The dam received an inflow of 12,400 cusecs and 12,000 cusecs was discharged into River Cauvery and 400 cusecs was released through East-West canal. By 4 p.m., the inflow reduced to 9,400 cusecs and 9,000 cusecs was released into the Cauvery. At Bhavani Sagar dam, at 8 a.m., water level was 104.63ft . The dam received an inflow of 4,324 cusecs. The discharge was 1,500 cusecs through Lower Bhavani Project canal, 500 cusecs through Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals and 100 cusecs was released into River Bhavani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-from-mettur-dam-reduced/article37920343.ece
10 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 60 fresh COVID-19 cases||Erode district reported 60 new COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday. As per the bulletin, there are 705 active cases in the district. In Salem, 42 persons tested positive on Thursday. Namakkal distrcit reported 38 fresh cases. As per the bulletin, one death was reported in Erode and two deaths in Namakkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-60-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37920337.ece
10 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Training held for farmers||A training programme on organic input preparation was conducted by Agricultural Technology Management Agency at Bommiyampatti village near Kadayampatti here recently. Farmers were trained in preparing organic farm inputs like panchakavya, kanajeevamirtham, peejaamirtham and others, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-held-for-farmers/article37920339.ece
10 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘No new train to Thanjavur from Chennai’||The possibility of doubling the track between Thanjavur and Villupuram on the mainline section is very bleak, according to Southern Railway General Manager, John Thomas. Disclosing this to reporters here on Thursday, he said that for initiating a proposal for adding additional track in a section there should be 70 % freight movement. Hence the possibilities of doubling the track between Thanjavur and Villupuram was very bleak. When asked whether additional train services to Chennai from Thanjavur would be introduced or existing services to/from Chennai to southern districts via Tiruchi would be diverted through Thanjavur since the lone express train Uzhavan Express between Thanjavur and Chennai always runs with full capacity, he ruled out the possibility of the introduction of new trains or diversion of existing services operating on chord line. “It may not be possible to divert the existing services operated through the chord line for two reasons - the commuters may oppose it and operating the services on a double line section is advantageous,” he said. Responding to a query on the revival of train services through the newly laid broad gauge line between Tiruvarur and Karaikudi, he said that steps have been initiated to operate the existing DEMU service between these two junctions as normal service. At present this service is being operated with more than six hours as the running time. As far as the operation of long-distance services through this section, he said that proposals in this regard were under consideration. Meanwhile, the Thanjavur MLA, T.K.G.Neelamegam submitted a representation to him seeking underpasses at four places – Sivaji Nagar, Tirupati Nagar, Then Vettukara Street and at Subramaniya Kovil Street in Thanjavur. He sought extension of Thiruvananthapuram-Tiruchi Intercity Express to Karaikal via Thanjavur, the extension of Palakad-Tiruchi Express and Howrah-Tiruchi Express up to Thanjavur, conversion of Ramesharam-Secunderabad train as daily service and introduction of Chennai-Tuticorin (Jayanti Janata Express) via Thanjavur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-chance-for-new-train-to-thanjavur-from-chennai/article37920316.ece
10 December 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Three held with 750 kg sea cucumber near Gomezpuram||Forest Department personnel attached to the Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve Trust have seized 750 kg of sea cucumber and arrested three persons when they were reportedly processing the marine species in a godown on the outskirts of the city in the early hours of Thursday. According to the sources in Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve Trust, a team of forest personnel, led by Range Officer Raghuvaran, was returning to their office at Mappillaiyoorani around 1.30 a.m. after patrolling along Siluvaipatti coast. When they were crossing Esakkiamman Temple near Gomezpuram, they sensed the foul smell of sea cucumber emanating from a godown close by. As they others entered the godown, they saw three persons processing sea cucumber and loading the processed marine animal in a cargo vehicle. After seizing 750 kg of sea cucumber, gas stoves, gas cylinders, utensils used for processing the sea cucumber and the vehicle, the team also nabbed K. Senthil Kumar, 48, of Melavayal near Thiruvaadaanai in Ramanathapuram district, A. Sathik Pasha, 37, of Thondi in Ramanathapuram district and Nandakumar, 21, of Thaai Nagar near Thoothukudi. Further investigations are on to extract more information from the trio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-with-750-kg-sea-cucumber/article37920243.ece
10 December 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Leprosy home remains inundated for 15 days||Agitated over the official machinery’s indifferent attitude in pumping out rainwater stagnating at a leprosy home for the past 15 days, the patients and sisters administering the home staged a road roko here on Thursday. As knee-deep rainwater is stagnating on St. Joseph’s Leprosy Home campus near Arockiyapuram on the city outskirts for the past 15 days following the downpour, the nuns administering the home, now having 35 leprosy patients, appealed to the officials repeatedly to take immediate steps to pump out the stagnant water. “Since the water is stagnating inside the hospital and even in the wards, patients undergoing treatment are suffering a lot. However, the officials did not take any step to pump out the water even after 15 days,” they said. Upset over the delay, the patients, nuns and a group of locals staged a road roko in front of the home on Thursday evening, forcing the officials including the police from Thaalamuthu Nagar Police Station to rush to the spot to hold talks with the protestors. As the police assured the protesting leprosy patients that immediate steps would be taken to pump out the water, the agitation was withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leprosy-home-remains-inundated-for-15-days/article37920676.ece
10 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘NEP is a revolutionary document’||Terming the National Educational Policy (NEP) 2020 a revolutionary document, Governor and Chancellor R.N. Ravi said on Thursday that it envisions an educational system rooted in the Indian ethos enabling the transformation of the nation into an equitable and vibrant knowledge society. The policy is aimed at creating a “new India” that leads the world, which was the dream of revolutionary poet and freedom fighter Bharathidasan and his mentor Subramania Bharathi, he said speaking at the 37th convocation of Bharathidasan University after awarding degrees to students. He expected Bharathidasan University to survey the area of its coverage, dig up those (unsung) heroes and build profiles of their contributions (in the struggle for India’s freedom), lest they are lost forever. The policy places thrust on ending certain hurdles in the present educational system that includes fragmentation of higher education in narrow divisions instead of being inter-disciplinary and holistic, sub-optimal governance and leadership of higher educational institutions, inadequate development of cognitive skills and learning outcomes, rigid separation of disciplines, limited access, particularly in socio-economically disadvantaged areas, and limited teacher and institutional autonomy. Other initiatives for building a new India include Swasth Bharat, Samruddha Bharat, Atmanirbhar Bharat, Jal Jeevan Mission, Jan Dhan Yojana, Online Education, Direct Benefit Transfer, Enhanced MSP, Indigenous Defence Industrial Complex, Global Collaboration, Multilateral Initiatives, and many more for building an inclusive progressive and a India, a role model for the world. He awarded degrees to 2,225 candidates in person, that included 2,139 Ph.D. graduands. A total of 1,04,006 UG, PG and M.Phil graduands received their degrees in absentia. Pro-Chancellor and State Higher Education Minister K.Ponmudi said it has become necessary for teachers to adapt themselves to the requirement of imparting practical skills. The government was keen on making the learning process multi-disciplinary in nature be it for engineering or social sciences subjects, Mr. Ponmudi said. The need of the hour was to frame content accordingly to promote lateral thinking, he said. In his convocation address, P. Kanagasabapathi, Chairman (in-charge), Indian Council of Social Science Research, said it is time that the educational system is connected to the ground realities. Each nation has its own unique characteristics, he said, to drive home the point that much of the ‘universal models’ developed in the West need not be taken as the guiding paths in the Indian situation. Vice-Chancellor M. Selvam listed the achievements by the various departments, in his report. Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi, during the course of his address at the convocation, sought the Governor’s support to the Tamil Nadu’s two-language policy. “The State is indeed in favour of students learning a third language in addition to English and mother tongue. It could be Hindi or Malayalayam or Telugu. But, the learners must make the choice. There should be no compulsion with regard to learning a third language,” he emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nep-a-revolutionary-document/article37920315.ece
10 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Uyyakondan project inaugurated||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin inaugurated the Uyyakondan Canal Riverfront Development project through videoconferencing on Wednesday. The project, undertaken under the Smart Cities Mission, was an effort to beautify the banks of the canal and make it a site for public use. Three parks have been constructed along the 2.60 km long stretch of the north bank Uyyakondan Canal at a cost of Rs. 18.32 crore. Walkways, a park with fountains and an open-air amphitheatre where art and cultural shows can be held, were some of its features. The first park, named Tiger park spans 3,420 square metres, the second Peacock park spans 5,186.34 square metres and the third, Rose Park, is spread over 2,773.35 square metres. A children’s play area of 1,500 square metres has been set up. Pedestrian walkways have been laid for a distance of 1,800 metres on the side of the road. Other features include a surveillance room, CCTV cameras, meditation hall, lawn with flowering plants, and drinking water facility. The amphitheatre, the first of its kind in the city can seat 200 people. Bio-fencing has been created for 2,600 metres along the canal in order to prevent people from littering while the retaining wall has been extended through the length of the three parks. Meanwhile, 430 granite stone benches have been placed across the three parks. The project, which began in January 2019 slowed down due to the COVID-19 lockdown but soon picked up the pace. It will be an important attraction for tourists and locals alike, officials of the Tiruchi Corporation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uyyakondan-project-inaugurated/article37920308.ece
10 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Concern over delay in completing bus stand work||The undue delay in completion of the remodelling of Chathiram Bus Stand has raised concern among the motorists and the passengers. The project, which is being executed at a cost of Rs. 17.34 crore, is aimed at building an organised bus bays and other infrastructure at the Chathiram Bus Stand, which had been in use for more than 40 years without any standard infrastructure. Provision of 30 bus bus bays -15 of them in the ground floor and another 15 in the first floor, waiting hall for the passengers, leisure room for the bus crew, cloak room, mother feeding room, shops in ground floor and the first floor, food court, men and women toilets and facility to park 350 two wheelers were among the components of the project. The Tiruchi Corporation had to face litigations from some quarters before launching the construction work in 2019. Moreover, it had faced a tough time to allotting space to operate buses from Chathiram Bus Stand to various destinations in and outside the city. It was supposed to be completed in two years from the date of issuance of work order. The officials had initially said that the project was on fast track and it would be completed in January 2021, three months in advance than the scheduled month of completion. They exuded confidence that it would be thrown open to the public use before the announcement of elections to the State Assembly. Almost seven months have passed since the DMK government assumed office in May. Soon after K.N. Nehru took charge as the Municipal Administration Minister he visited the work site to review the progress of the work. The officials told him that it would be completed within a few months. It raised hope that the remodelled bus stand would be declared open on August 15. But, the project has not yet been completed yet. The operation of buses from the temporary buys along the road side has had its impact on roads. It continues to cause confusion and chaos in the Chathiram Bus Stand area as the bus crews load and offload passengers on the middle of roads. As buses occupy the entire spaces of roads, the phenomena literally prevents other vehicles. They have to wait for long to proceed further. “We have no option but to operate from middle of the roads. The problem will be solved only after opening the Chathiram Bus Stand,” says a crew member of a private bus. Ghouse Baig, a civic activist, said that it was unfortunate that the work had been dragged on for so long. It should be opened immediately. Sources in the corporation said that almost all works had been completed. It was set for opening anytime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-delay-in-completing-bus-stand-work/article37920313.ece
10 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||10.l1 lakh voters in urban local bodies in Tiruchi district||About 10.11 lakh voters would be eligible to exercise their franchise in the elections to urban local bodies in Tiruchi district. A bulk of the voters are in Tiruchi city limits. Collector S.Sivarasu on Friday released the electoral rolls for the 18 urban local bodies in the district. A total of 1,205 polling stations would be set up for the polls to the urban local bodies, the schedule for which is expected to be announced soon. The district comprises of Tiruchi Corporation, Thuraiyur, Thuvakudi and Manapparai municipalities and Balakrishnanpatti, Kallakudi, Kattuputhur, Koothapar, Mannachanallur, Mettupalayam, Ponnampatti, Pullampadi, Poovalur, Sirugamani, M.Kannanur, Thathaiyengarpet,Thottiyam and Uppilliyapuram town panchayats. The 64 wards in the Tiruchi Corporation have 7,74,415 voters including 3,75,397 men, 3,98,900 women and 118 transgenders. Corporation Commissioner P.M.N.Mujibur Rahuman released the voters list for public verification at the Corporation main office. The electoral rolls would be on display for public verification at the all the four zonal offices of K.Abishekapuram, Srirangam, Ariyamangalam and Golden Rock. There will be 859 polling stations in the city. With 34,683 voters in 27 wards, Manapparai is the biggest among the three municipalities in the district in terms of voter strength. Thuvakudi has 28,870 voters in 21 wards while Thuraiyur has 27,881 voters in 24 wards. With 23,404 voters in 18 wards, Manachanallur is the biggest Town Panchayat in the district. The Uppilliyapuram Town Panchayat has the least number of voters – 6,462 -- among the town panchayats in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10l1-lakh-voters-in-urban-local-bodies-in-tiruchi-district/article37920320.ece
10 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||St. John’s Church elevated to cathedral||The St. John’s Church near Tiruchi Railway Junction here, which completed 200 years of its existence, has been declared a cathedral of the Church of South India (CSI). The church, which belongs to the Tiruchi -Thanjavur Diocese celebrates 200 years of its consecration in April 2016. St. John’s belongs to the Tiruchi -Thanjavur Diocese of the CSI and was built by the British East India Company in 1816. According to a fact-sheet published by the church, permission and guidelines were provided by the British government to construct a church to seat 600 persons in the centre of the new burial ground. In an official document dated 1852, it was stated that the cost of building the church was Rs. 28,248. It is here that the mortal remains of the third bishop of Calcutta, Bishop Reginald Heber, are interred within the altar of the church. Bishop Heber is said to have given his last sermon at this church before he died. A commemorative brass tablet was placed in 1865, and in 1885, a stained glass backdrop was made for a more visible memorial. According to the church sources, the first burial inside of the church was of an infant - Paulina Lushington, who died of cholera when she was eight months old on December 22, 1815. The elevation ceremony of the church was held on 29 September with a holy communion service. A. Dharmaraj Rasalam, Moderator, CSI solemnised the service in the presence of D. Chandrasekaran, Bishop, Tiruchi-Thanjavur Diocese.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/st-johns-church-elevated-to-cathedral/article37920311.ece
10 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||GM inspects BG section||Mr. John Thomas inspected the Mayiladuthurai - Tiruchi broad gauge section on Thursday. Accompanied by the Divisional Railway Manager, Tiruchi, Manish Agarwal, and Principal Heads of Departments, he inspected various facilities such as running rooms, Crew Lobby and OHE (overhead electrical equipment) depot at Mayiladuthurai station. He opened the renovated Traffic Inspector office and commissioned the Body Mass Index Kiosk at the station. He released a quarterly magazine ‘Rail Leaf’ containing various initiatives of the Operating Department and a hand book for Railway Guards working in Tiruchi Division. He inspected two level crossing gates, curves and bridges in the Mayiladuthurai- Thanjavur stretch. He opened a new rest room at Thittai station for the gangmen and interacted with them. He inspected various passenger amenities, newly converted RPF barrack, solid waste management plant and other facilities at the Thanjavur station. A speed trial was conducted between Thanjavur and Ponmalai stations as part of the inspection. On arrival at Tiruchi Junction, he reviewed various passenger amenities at the station. He commissioned a new IRCTC Facilitation Centre, e-bike rental facility and inspected the ongoing works for the new IRCTC food plaza at the station. He inspected a selfie point named ‘I Love Trichy’ at Tiruchi Junction. He interacted with passenger associations and commuters at various railway stations en route and received their representations. He declared awards to outstanding employees and distributed merit certificates on the spot, a press release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gm-inspects-bg-section/article37920322.ece
10 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Appoint an official to monitor water release ’||The Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association has urged the State government to appoint a senior-level Public Works Department officer in the rank of Executive Engineer exclusively to monitor the release of water in the Mullaperiyar Dam. “A needless controversy is being kicked up over the release of water from the dam. Any confusion or issues related to water release can be sorted out at the level of officials,” said Mannargudi S.Ranganathan, general secretary, Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association. Tamil Nadu has an Executive Engineer stationed at Krishnaraja Sagar Dam in Karnataka for several decades now to monitor the water release, Mr.Ranganathan said and urged Chief Minister M.K.Stalin to consider appointing such an officer at the Mullaperiyar Dam too. Although the dam is under the control of Tamil Nadu, complaints were being aired by Kerala that water was being released without information. This would only help Kerala gain sympathy and attempts could be made to take the control of the dam away from Tamil Nadu. To avert such a situation, it was essential that any confusion was sorted out at the level of senior officials on the spot, Mr. Ranganathan said. The exclusive officer can monitor the level and water release and submit daily reports to the Tamil Nadu and Kerala governments and the Central Water Commission, he said. Referring to the Centre’s move to enact a law on dam safety, Mr.Ranganathan observed that there was no need for such legislation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appoint-senior-official-to-monitor-water-release-from-mullaperiyar-dam/article37920244.ece
10 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Electoral rolls for urban civic bodies released||The urban civic bodies of the district have 7,28,348 voters – 3,55,342 men, 3,72,957 women and 49 others – according to the electoral rolls released by Collector V. Vishnu on Thursday evening. Tirunelveli Corporation with 55 wards has 4,16,389 voters – 2,03,879 men, 2,12,473 women and 37 others. Ambasamudram and Vickramasingapuram municipalities have 73,364 voters – 35,479 men, 37,883 women and two others. In the 17 town panchayats of Tirunelveli district, 2,38,595 voters – 1,15,984 men, 1,22,601 women and 10 others – are living. The 18 town panchayats and two municipalities and the lone Corporation of Thoothukudi district have 6,17,104 voters – 3,01,555 men, 3,15,463 women and 86 others – who will cast their votes in 730 polling booths, according to the electoral rolls released by District Revenue Officer Kannabiran on Thursday. Kovilpatti and Kayalpattinam municipalities have 1,16,232 voters – 57,144 men, 59,069 women and 19 others – who will exercise their franchise in 125 polling booths. In Arumuganeri, Athoor, Eral, Ettaiyapuram, Kazhugumalai, Nazareth, Sattankulam, Sawyerpuram, Srivaikundam, Udangudi, Vilathikulam, Azhwarthirunagari, Kadambur, Kayathar, Pudur, Kanam, Perungulam and Thenthirupperai town panchayats 1,78,484 voters – 86,648 men, 91,824 women and 12 others – will cast their votes in 286 polling booths. Since Tiruchendur town panchayat has been upgraded as municipality, work on delimitation of wards is yet to be completed and hence election for this municipality will be held later. As per the electoral rolls released by Thoothukudi Corporation Commissioner T. Charusree, the 60 wards have 3,22,388 votes – 1,57,763 men, 1,64,570 women and 55 others – who will cast their votes in 319 polling booths. In Tenkasi district, Collector S. Gopala Sundararaj released the electoral rolls for the urban civic body elections. Kadayanallur, Puliyangudi, Sankarankovil, Shencottai and Tenkasi municipalities have 2,70,081 voters – 1,32,951 men, 1,37,124 women and six others – in 153 wards. A total of 300 polling booths will be set up in these wards of five municipalities. In Achanpudur, Alangulam, Alwarkurichi, Ayikudi, Courtallam, Ilanji, Keezhapavoor, Melagaram, Paimpozhil, Pudur, Royagiri, Sambavarvadakarai, Sivagiri, Sundarapandiapuram, Tiruvenkatam, Vadakarai Keezhpidagai and Vasudevanallur town panchayatswith 260 wards, 2,11,950 voters – 1,04,066 men, 1,07,878 women and six others – will cast their votes in 294 booths. In all, Tenkasi district’s urban civic bodies house 4,82,031 voters – 2,37,017 men, 2,45,002 women and 12 others. They will cast their votes in 594 polling booths. In Kanniyakumari district, three municipalities and 51 town panchayats have 7,29,535 voters – 3,64,293 men, 3,65,193 women and 49 others – who will cast their votes in 944 polling booths. The three municipalities of the district have 57,848 voters – 28,461 men, 29,381 and six others – who will exercise their franchise in 77 booths. In the 51 town panchayats, 867 booths will be set up to enable 6,71,687 voters – 3,35,832 men, 3,35,812 women and 43 others – to cast their votes, according to the electoral rolls released by Collector M. Aravind. The electoral rolls released will be displayed in the urban civic bodies concerned and also in the Development Section in the District Collectorate. Those who want to add or delete names or make corrections in the names or addresses should submit the appropriate form to the Electoral Roll Registration Officer concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electoral-rolls-for-urban-civic-bodies-released/article37920680.ece
10 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Engineering college gets ‘Four Star’ rating||Francis Xavier Engineering College here has bagged ‘Four Star’ rating of the Ministry of Education’s Innovation Council for having developed innovative scientific and entrepreneurial ideas that can be used in user-friendly hi-tech gadgets. According to S. Cletus Babu, chairman of SCAD Group of Institutions that administers the college, the Ministry has established ‘MoE’s Innovation Cell’ with the mandate of working closely with the higher education institutions (HEIs) to promote students’ innovative ideas and encourage them to establish entrepreneurial ventures. Under the guidance of the Ministry’s Innovation Council (MIC), Francis Xavier Engineering College established Institution’s Innovation Council (IIC) in 2018-19. “The college is creating awareness of innovation and entrepreneurship among engineering and management students. The college has hence created 10 special labs to give pre-incubation facilities to develop innovative ideas to prototype and develop user-friendly but hi-tech gadgets,” said Dr. Cletus Babu. The MIC announced the result of annual performance of the IICs functioning in higher educational institutions for the academic year 2020-21 on December 1. This year, the Ministry of Education’s Innovation Council gave 4 Stars as the highest star rating for the best performing institutions. Out of 2,680 higher educational institutions, ‘Four Star’ rating had been awarded to 339 institutions,” said Dr. Cletus Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engineering-college-gets-four-star-rating/article37920678.ece
10 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Electoral rolls released||District Collector S. Vineeth and Commissioner of Tiruppur Corporation Kranti Kumar Pati released the photo electoral roll ahead of the urban local body elections on Thursday, a release said. The elections will be held for one Corporation, five Municipalities and 14 out of the 16 Town Panchayats (except Thirumuruganpoondi and Thali) in the district. Out of the 10,98,857 voters, men voters were 5,49,511, women 5,49,149 and third gender 197. Majority of the voters in the urban local bodies were in Tiruppur Corporation. The total number of voters in the five Municipalities and 14 Town Panchayats were 2,17,852 and 1,68,235 respectively, according to the release from district administration. Meanwhile, Tiruppur North unit of the BJP alleged that Mr. Vineeth had released the electoral roll in the absence of representatives from the Opposition parties. However, the district administration denied the allegation. Coimbatore In Coimbatore, Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara released the electoral roll. A release said that the Corporation has 15,38,411 voters comprising 7,69,397 women, 7,68,736 men and 278 third genders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electoral-rolls-released/article37920252.ece
10 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Stalin leads tributes to General Rawat||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and senior defence officers on Thursday laid floral wreaths at the Shrinagesh Barracks in Wellington, Coonoor and paid their respects to Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 defence personnel who lost their lives in a helicopter crash near Kattery in Coonoor a day earlier. Wearing a black shawl, Mr. Stalin entered the barracks at the Madras Regimental Center (MRC) around 11.30 a.m. and paid his respects to the deceased military personnel. The Chief Minister then left for Coimbatore by road, before heading to the State capital. Later, the Telangana Governor visited the barracks and laid floral wreaths. Addressing the media, Ms. Soundararajan, who holds additional charge as the Lt. Governor of Puducherry, said, “General Bipin Rawat spent every second of his life serving the country.” “I was heartbroken when I heard that he died in a helicopter crash, so I came to Coonoor to pay my respects to him as well as to others who died in the accident,” she added. She expressed hope that the lone survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, would recover soon. “The only solace is that his vital organs are all functioning. We are praying for his recovery,” she said. Hundreds of onlookers and police and media personnel congregated outside the barracks in Wellington. ‘Exceptional officer’ India had lost an exceptional military officer, said Tamil Nadu Governor R.N. Ravi after paying homage to the portrait of General Bipin Rawat on the premises of Bharathidasan University in Tiruchi. The Governor said the country witnessed one of the historic feats of General Rawat in Chumbi Valley in 2017, when his strategy worked well to push back Chinese forces on the India-Tibet border. The Chinese military had moved across the agreed line with heavy construction material. The question before the Central Government was how to respond. Mr. Ravi recalled that till then, India's policy had been to issue démarches to avoid an escalation of conflict in the face of Chinese belligerence. But that did not stop them on the ground. This time, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a political decision, which was backed by military planning and strategy by General Rawat. After a 72-day stand-off, the Chinese forces went back. General Rawat's strategy worked on the ground. “Military is not all about physical strength...It is what kind of strategy you have. General Rawat proved himself to be exceptionally brilliant,” the Governor said. The Governor condoled the deaths of 12 others who had also died in the chopper crash. “We pray that their souls rest in peace,” he added. In his condolence message, the Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, said the untimely death of General Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 others was “a great loss to the nation and [it] will be difficult to fill the vacuum”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-leads-tributes-to-general-rawat/article37920231.ece
10 December 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||NDC plans to celebrate International Mountain Day||The Nilgiri Documentation Center (NDC) has called for plans to celebrate International Mountain Day on December 11. “Two years of COVID-19, six months of monsoon rain, landslides, accidents, economic downturn and business loss, the Nilgiris has gone through all these challenges and still survived. This is what is called Resilience of the Mountains. It is now time to renew, revive and rejoice. What better occasion to do this than the UN declared International Mountain Day on December 11, 2021,” said Venugopal Dharmalingam, honorary director of the NDC in a press release. “The theme of this year’s celebration, ‘Sustainable mountain tourism’, highlights how innovative and transformative approaches to mountain tourism can contribute to economic, social and environmental sustainability. Mountain tourism plays a role in valuing the natural and cultural heritage of mountains and mountain peoples, promoting sustainable food systems, and protecting mountain ecosystems and their biodiversity,” he said, calling on “the government, non-governmental agencies, civil society, social and religious organisations, community groups, local media, TV and the press and creative individuals to plan a wide range of events to celebrate the IMD on December 11.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ndc-plans-to-celebrate-international-mountain-day/article37920246.ece
10 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||First responders in Coonoor recall difficulties in rescue operation||First responders from the Coonoor Fire Station have recalled the horrific scenes they witnessed at the site of the IAF helicopter crash which led to the deaths of Chief of Defence Staff General Rawat, his wife and 11 defence personnel on Wednesday. Station Fire Officer (Coonoor), R. Mohan, told The Hindu the fire station received a call from the district SP’s office, following which an Emergency Rescue Tender vehicle was quickly dispatched to the site. “However, as the site of the accident was in a wooded area where the fire tender couldn’t pass, we were forced to dispatch a smaller vehicle so that it could get close to the wreckage,” he said. N.C. Muralidharan, fireman and driver at the Coonoor Fire Station, said the rescue personnel arrived at the site of the crash within 10 minutes of being alerted. “We saw residents trying their best to douse the fire using water poured into buckets and paint cans. We quickly attached a hose to a nearby pipe and began fighting the blaze to bring it under control,” Mr. Muralidharan said. “We also began surveying the area to find any victims away from the crash site,” he said. M. Kumar, the leading fireman at the station, said they saw two persons who were still alive, around 10 to 20 metres away from the crash site. “We were unable to identify them but managed to rescue them, and we rushed them to a hospital,” he said. The Fire and Rescue Service personnel at the Coonoor Fire Station assisted in retrieving all 14 persons from the accident site and carried them in stretchers to the nearest area accessible to ambulances. “This is the first time I am witnessing a tragedy of such magnitude. Our hope is that our actions could have helped save at least one person’s life,” said another fireman from the Coonoor Fire Station.  As the site was in a wooded area where the fire tender couldn’t pass, we were forced to dispatch a smaller vehicle R. Mohan Station Fire Officer (Coonoor)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-responders-in-coonoor-recall-difficulties-in-rescue-operation/article37920228.ece
10 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Police review investigation into chopper crash||A discussion involving top State and local police officials was chaired by Tamil Nadu Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu on Thursday. The officials discussed the investigation that has so far been carried out by the police into the crash of the army helicopter that killed Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and 12 others in Kattery near Coonoor on Wednesday. Case registered Forensics experts are being used to investigate the area around the crash site and look for clues. The police said that a case has been registered at the Upper Coonoor Police Station under Section 174 (inquiry into death) of the Code for Criminal Procedure. ADSP (Nilgiris), Muthu Manickam has been posted as the Investigating Officer to lead the probe. A total of 26 witnesses have been questioned so far, a press release from the Nilgiris district police said. Police personnel who arrived at the spot soon after the accident and those who helped to pull people out from the burning wreckage were appreciated by Mr. Babu at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-review-investigation-into-chopper-crash/article37920354.ece
10 December 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||New facility to treat kidney stone at Virudhunagar GH||Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital has got an advanced medical facility, Extracorporeal Shock Wave Lithotripsy, which can help break kidney stones in an non-invasive manner. Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy inaugurated the Rs. 15-lakh equipment. “Hitherto, people had to go to Government Rajaji Hospital for free treatment or spend Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 5,000 for this painless treatment,” said Dean J. Sangumani. People can get free treatment under the Chief Minister’s Health Insurance scheme. The Collector also visited the newly-created isolation facility for Omicron-infected patients at the hospital. The isolation ward has got 12 beds with oxygen supply and ventilator facility. Hospital Superintendent Palanikumar, Deputy Superintendent Anbuvel and Resident Medical Officer Aravind Babu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-facility-to-treat-kidney-stone-at-virudhunagar-gh/article37920325.ece
10 December 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Revenue division-level farmers grievances meeting||The monthly farmers grievances redressal meetings held at Revenue Divisional level will be held on every third Tuesday, said Collector, J. Meghanath Reddy. He said that the Sub-Collector of Sivakasi and Revenue Divisional Officers of Sattur and Aruppukottai will hold the meetings in which farmers can raise common demands for them.    Allinagaram police have seized 21 kg of ganja and arrested two persons in this connection near Pandikoil on Wednesday night. The police identified the accused as S. Prabhakaran and K. Ramkumar of Kailasapatti near Periyakulam. The police are on the lookout for one J. Ganga.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-division-level-farmers-grievances-meeting/article37920331.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Govt. submits file on ICC inquiry to HC||Accordingly, Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram submitted three volumes of documents and said the question of allowing the suspended special DGP to cross-examine witnesses did not rise, since no punishment had been imposed on him on the basis of the ICC inquiry report. He said the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act of 2013, and the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules of 1969 permitted the ICC itself to conduct disciplinary proceedings. Therefore, the government had asked the ICC, headed by IAS officer Jayashree Raghunandan, to hold a disciplinary inquiry against the suspended special DGP and submit a detailed report. “The disciplinary inquiry is under way. The petitioner herein will be given an opportunity to inspect the relevant documents, in consonance with the guidelines issued by the Government of India,” the A-G said. The submissions were made during the hearing of a writ petition filed by the suspended special DGP, challenging the ICC inquiry on various grounds, including bias and non-adherence to the principles of natural justice. Denying the allegations, the A-G filed an affidavit, sworn on behalf of the Home Secretary, wherein it was stated that the charges framed against the suspended special DGP, under Section 8 of the 1969 Rules, were served on him, along with a copy of the government letter, asking the ICC to conduct the disciplinary inquiry. The ICC had been following due process of the law, the affidavit stated, urging the court to dismiss the writ petition. The government also told the court that the writ petitioner was placed under suspension between August 20, 2002, and April 26, 2004, when he was serving as Superintendent of Police in Tiruvallur district. The charge against him then was that he prevented guardmen from presenting the guard of honour to the then Deputy Inspector General of Police, Chengalpattu Range. In 2006, he was let off with a warning not to give room to such complaints. It was also brought to the notice of the court that a few constables had approached the State Human Rights Commission, accusing the suspended special DGP of having assaulted them. One of the injured constables had filed a writ petition in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court in 2016, and the case was still pending. “Therefore, no exemption can be shown to the petitioner from facing the present inquiry,” the Home Secretary’s affidavit read.  The submissions were made during the hearing of a writ petition filed by the suspended special DGP, challenging the inquiry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-submits-file-on-icc-inquiry-to-hc/article37920324.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||1.74 lakh connections given under Ujjwala 2.0||“We are concentrating on districts, including Villupuram, Pudukottai, Tiruvarur, Dindigul and Dharmapuri,” said the source. The IOC has provided 1.16 lakh connections under the scheme. The scheme was launched in April 2021 to provide LPG connections to households under various categories, including island dwellers, SC/ST, most backward classes, forest dwellers, tea and ex-tea garden tribes. These houses should not posses any other LPG connection. The households should have some document such as family card or Aadhaar card and have a bank account linked to the Aadhaar. The beneficiaries would get a gas stove, Suraksha safety hose, regulator and one LPG cylinder for free. They would not have to pay any deposit amount as in regular connections. The cost is borne by the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/174-lakh-connections-given-under-ujjwala-20/article37920527.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Headcount||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/headcount/article37920683.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||10-12-2021-city cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA AAA / BHARAT KALACHAR / TOM MEDIAAS - MARGAZHI NATYA MAHOTSAV 2021 TODAY AT SRI YGP AUDITORIUM, NO.17, THIRUMALAI ROAD, T. NAGAR, CHENNAI - 600 017. 5.30 PM (ALL ARE WELCOME) DEEPA S. MANOHAR , Guru : Sri. CHARLES MA, 7.15 PM (ALL ARE WELCOME) S.PRABHAVATHY SATISH KUMAR , NATYARANJANI School of BHARATHANATYAM, Selaiyur ENTRY ONLY THIRUMALAI RD. PH: 28343045 / 9941907993 (ALL Govt. S.O.P's will be followed). ABBAS/TVK Celebrate Our Superstar's B'day with a grand musical evening "NAMMA SUPERSTAR RAJINI HITS " by SPB. CHARAN performing the evergreen Rajini-SPB combo in Murali's Mouna Ragam orchestra on Sunday, 12th December, 6.15 pm @ Rajah Annamalai Mandram A/c. Tkts @ bookmyshow.com. 97106 33633/ 98841 52200. Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, East Mada Street, Mylapore Chennai-600 004 Bhavan's Cultural Festival 2021, Live Programme : upto 15.12.2021 in association with South Zone Cultural Centre ( Ministry of Culture, Government of India ) at Bhavan's Main Auditorium, East Mada Street, Mylapore Chennai -600 004. Today 10th Dec: 5.00 pm: Sri Rithvik Raja (Vocal), Sri M.A.Krishnaswamy (Violin), Sri Patri Satish Kumar (Mridangam), Madipakkam Sri Murali (Ghatam) and6.30 pm: Vidwan Sri N.Vijay Siva (Vocal), LalgudiSmt.Vijayalakshmi (Violin), Melakaveri Sri K.Balaji (Mridangam). Tomorrow 11th Dec: 5.00 pm: Dr.M.Narmadha (Violin) and 6.30 pm: Malladi Brothers (Vocal).Programme supported by : Apollo Pharmacies Ltd., Ramco Cements Ltd., Ramco Industries, Rajalakshmi Institutions, MGM Healthcare, Kauvery Hospitals, GRT Jewellers, Co-Optex, Nalli Silks, Aban Scientific, Larsen & Toubro, State Bank of India, AVA Cholayil, Dhanvantari Nano Aushadi, Sabari Foundations and Construction, Suryaans Paper, Star Health and Allied Insurance, SMK Fomra Institute of Technology, Indian Oil Corporation, NAC Jewellers,Sri Krishna Sweets,Sri K.V. Rangaswamy ( L & T ). Watch Live(Courtesy - Bhavan's Kolkata Kendra).www.bhavanschennai.org. Covid-19 S.O.P to be followed.All are Welcome. PUSHPAANJALI CULTURAL TRUST Today 5.30pm at R K Swamy Auditorium (Sir Sivaswamy Kalalaya), Mylapore. Bharathanatyam by Kum.Vaishnavi Sridhar.7pm Bharathanatyam by Kum.Maitri Vittal Prasad(Both Dis of Gayathri Chandrasekhar.Bangalore) Rasika Ranjani Sabha (Regd.) Mylapore, Ch. – 4 December - 2021 "Music in Perpetuity" Today at 10.00 am "PATNAM SUBRAMANYA IYER" (Lec Dem) by Smt. R.S. Jayalakshmi - 04.15 pm Kolkata Padmavathi Saranathan - Vocal, Sri Melakaveri Thiagarajan - Violin, Sri Guru Raghavendra - Mridangam. - 06.15 pm Tribute to "PATNAM SUBRAMANYA IYER, MYSORE VASUDEVACHAR & HARIKESANALLUR MUTHIAH BHAGAVATHAR" Smt. Mahathi - Vocal, Sri. H N Bhaskar - Violin, Sri. Delhi Sairam - Mridangam, Sri. Anirudh Athreya - Programme supported by AANMAJOTHI (Cultural wing of Saraswathi Vidyalaya Vadapalani). Ph. No: 86103 57987. Entry as per Govt. Covid SOP Guidelines. ALL ARE WELCOME. Our programs can be watched on https://www.rrsabha.org at later dates. SRUTHI LAYA KENDRA of GURU KAARAIKKUDI MANI Mob: 9840834636 34th Winter Music Festival. Friday 10th Dec 2021 4pm: Mridangam Concert by Kishore Ramesh and Aduthurai Guruprasad. 5pm: AWARD FUNCTION Chief Guest Sri K RAMKUMAR Sr. Vice President, Ashok Leyland Ltd. will present the awards and felicitate Sri Guru Surajananda Award to Violin Vidwan Sri VV SUBRAMANYAM and Sri Gowri Manohari Award to Sangeetha Vidwan Dr R GANESH. Sri Venkata Narasimhan Endowment prize & Sri N V Subramaniam Endowment prize to Kolar Sri Ravichandra. 6pm: Vocal Concert by VIDHUSHI GAYATHRI VENKATARAGHAVAN with Mysore V Srikanth B Sivaraman N Guruprasad - Ghatam. Saturday 11th Dec 2021 6pm: "LALITHA SAHASRANAMAM" Dance Ballet by Dr RAJESWARI SAINATH ,Dr VAISHNAVI SAINATH and their disciples. At "Sachidananda Hall" Sri Ganapathi Sachchidananda Nagar Main Road (Baby Nagar) Velachery, Chennai 600042. All are welcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-12-2021-city-cinema/article37920203.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Coimbatore Bar Association: 22nd International Human Rights Day, 4 p.m.  KPR College of Arts and Science: Intra-college competitions on the occasion of Human Rights day, 1 p.m.  Adithya School of Business Management: Session on business analytics, 2 p.m.  POLLACHI   Sree Saraswathi Thiyagaraja College: World Human Rights Day - signature campaign, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37920253.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem||Knowledge Institute of   Technology:  Mechanical engineering Department association inauguration, 10.30 a.m.    Nandha Engineering College: Department of Agriculture Engineering, World Soil Day 2021 celebrations, special lecture on Soil Salinity – Causes, Characteristics and Management, B. Nandhinidevi, Assistant Professor, Mother Theresa College of Agriculture, Pudukottai, resource person, 10 a.m.; Department of CSE and IT, technical seminar on Scientific Approach in Python Programming, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem/article37920338.ece
10 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Officials leave for polling stations in Belagavi||Officers are gearing up for polling in the two-member Legislative Council constituency of Belagavi. On Thursday, election duty officers left for their respective polling stations across the district, with ballot papers, boxes, electoral rolls, ink and other material. Counting of votes, scheduled for December 14, has been shifted to Chikkodi, to avoid crowding in Belagavi that will host the winter session of the State Legislature starting December 13. Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar had requested the Election Commission to allow counting in Chikkodi, just as he took charge two weeks ago. Polling will be held in 511 polling stations, with around 3,500 personnel on duty. Officers have also carried sanitisers, masks, face shields and other safety gear to help them conduct the polls in compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols. Of the six candidates in the fray, three are Independents. Apart from Mahantesh Kavatagimath of the BJP, Channaraj Hattiholi of the Congress and Shankar Hegde of the Aam Aadmi Party, Lakhan Jarkiholi and two other Independents are in the fray. Of the three Independents, one has expressed support for the BJP. The Deputy Commissioner has instructed all arms licence holders to deposit their weapons at the nearest police station, till the end of the election process. However, security agencies, private security guards, gunmen of VIPs and others, who are constrained to carry arms, should approach the district-level screening committee for permission to retain them during the poll process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-leave-for-polling-stations-in-belagavi/article37920362.ece
10 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Writer Eshwar Mantur dead||Eshwar Mantur, writer, public speaker and founder of the Basava Jnyana Gurukul orphanage, died in Honnur-Madhurkhandi village of Bagalkot district on Thursday. He suffered a heart attack at his house in the morning. He was 49. Born in a traditional weaver family, he was attracted to Sharana philosophy at a young age. He formed Raga Rashmi, a folklore troupe, along with his friends and toured various States singing folk and Bhakti songs. He joined a bank as a clerk and completed is doctorate in Kannada literature. However, he resigned to start the orphanage in his native village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/writer-eshwar-mantur-dead/article37920360.ece
10 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Constable dies in road accident||A 24-year-old police constable died in a road accident in Benachikamaradi near Gokak on Thursday. Anand Suladal was going home to Hudali from Gokak after his duty hours when his bike skidded off the road and he suffered head injuries. He was unmarried and was scheduled to meet a girl’s family in a nearby village next week, the police said. A case has been registered in the Gokak Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/constable-dies-in-road-accident/article37920359.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP data show widespread violation of building bylaws||Data submitted by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to the High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday show that deviations from the building bylaws were found in the construction of at least 62% of 8,496 buildings for which plans were sanctioned between January 1, 2020, and June 30, 2021. In a statement submitted to the court, the BBMP has said it has completed survey of 7,245 out of 8,496 buildings so far, and has found deviations in the construction of 5,341 buildings, and the process of surveying the remaining 1,251 buildings is ongoing.  The civic body also said it has surveyed 1,31,754 buildings among the properties that were registered in the property tax register “B” in various zones, and has issued notices to the owners of 16,286 surveyed buildings asking them to submit property documents suspecting that these buildings might have been built without plan approval. “We have issued notices to the building owners under Section 313 of the BBMP Act, 2020, asking them to submit necessary documents. We have received replies from 1,712 owners. We will take action as per law after examining the documents submitted by the owners,” senior advocate D.N. Nanjunda Reddy told the court on behalf of the BBMP Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, who was also personally present on court’s earlier direction. The BBMP also told the court that three illegal buildings have been demolished so far in the south zone after following the due process of law, while pointing out that 2,656 notices were issued to the owners of buildings for putting up constructions that deviated from the plan and contrary to the bylaws. The BBMP submitted these details before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum during the hearing of a PIL petition initiated suo motu by the court in 2019 after noticing a large number litigations on instances of of illegal constructions in the city.  “If you want to make public aware of action taken against illegal constructions, identify illegal constructions by some belonging to ‘who’s who’ category and set one or two examples by taking action against their buildings,” the Bench orally observed in response to BBMP’s claim that it has demolished three illegal buildings so far. Meanwhile, the Bench granted three months time to the BBMP to act upon the action plan prepared by the civic body to identify two categories of illegal constructions – those put up without obtaining sanctioned plan and those built in violation of sanctioned plan – and initiate action based on the outcome of the survey to identify such buildings. The Bench adjourned further hearing till March 2022, asking the BBMP to file compliance report on action taken on illegal buildings based on the outcome of the survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-data-show-widespread-violation-of-building-bylaws/article37920160.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Separate property tax slab for industries in ULB limits||To ease tax burden on industries and encourage entrepreneurs to set up units, the State Cabinet on Thursday decided to create a separate slab of property tax to be levied on industries/industrial areas developed by KIADB and KSSIDC falling under urban local bodies (ULBs) This will be done by bringing in amendments to the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, and the Karnataka Municipalities Act, 1964, sources in the Government said. Older sections As per section 101(2) of the Karnataka Municipalities Act, 1964, ULBs are empowered to levy property tax on commercial, residential, and industrial buildings/industrial areas.The ULBs are levying property tax on industrial buildings as per rates fixed for commercial buildings, as there is no separate slab for industries. The former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, in his 2021–22 Budget, had proposed to have a new slab in property tax for industries in ULB limits. Several industry bodies and groups had made representations to the Government claiming that property tax currently being levied on industries was too high. Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh R. Nirani is said have been pursuing this with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and the Urban Development Department.  A Bill in this regard will be tabled in the winter session of the State legislature in Belagavi. This is expected to encourage establishment of more entrepreneurs to set up industries which would, in turn, generate more jobs. The ULBs would incur financial difficulties on account of change in property tax slabs, but this loss would be compensated over a period of time due to industrial growth and resultant economic boost, it is argued. This would enable the ULBs to carry out more development works with more financial inflow, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/separate-property-tax-slab-for-industries-in-ulb-limits/article37920186.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Legislative Council elections today||Stage is set in Karantaka for the biennial elections to 25 Legislative Council seats, whose term comes to an end in January 2022. The results of the elections from the local authorities’ constituencies will be declared on December 14. The polling on Friday will start at 8 a.m. and conclude at 4 p.m. Opportunity for BJP The elections are being seen as a big opportunity for the BJP to gain majority in the 75-member House. Currently, the Upper House has 32 BJP members, 29 Congress members, 12 Janata Dal (Secular) members, and an Independent, besides the Chairman. Of the 25 members retiring from the House, the maximum are from the Congress, at 13. Meanwhile, the ruling BJP is confident of securing the support of representatives associated with the JD(S) in most of the 19 seats for which the regional party is not contesting. “In most of the seats, gram panchayat and nagar palika members associated with the JD(S) are keen to vote for the BJP. As a ruling party we obviously have an advantage since we will be able to help them with development grants. Even in some seats where local JD(S) leaders have appealed to the local body representatives to support the Congress, we are confident we will get these votes,” a senior BJP leader said. HDK’s announcement After weeks of speculation, JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy had announced his party will not tie up formally with the BJP for the Council polls, but said local leaders were free to take a call where the party had not fielded candidates in, which was welcomed by the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. “Allowing the local leaders to decide reflects a leaning of the party leadership to allow their members to vote for us and also the reality that they cannot control the choices of the representatives associated with their party,” the BJP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/legislative-council-elections-today/article37920180.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prices of tomatoes, beans, garlic cross Rs. 100 mark||The prices of vegetables have continued to skyrocket over the last two weeks. At least seven items including tomatoes, knol-khol, beans, brinjal, capsicum, garlic, drumsticks and tondekai (ivy gourd) that are the staples in most households have crossed the Rs. 100/kg mark. More significantly, vegetables like radish, carrots, beetroot, and several gourds, which are usually available at cheaper rates, also seem to be inching towards the 100 mark. While a kilo of radish is retailing at Rs. 90, carrots cost Rs. 92, beetroot Rs. 70 and bitter gourd Rs. 75. “The recent spell of untimely heavy rains has caused large-scale crop damage. The supply of vegetables has dropped drastically and even if one is ready to pay, there is no supply of most of the staples,” said Umesh Mirji, Managing Director, Horticultural Producers’ Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society. The crop cycle for most of these vegetables is at least two or three months. “We are now in a phase where the previous crop was severely damaged and the next crop is yet to come to harvest. Hence the situation is unlikely to change before Sankranthi, if there are no other spells of rain,” he said.  The silver lining is the price of onions and potatoes that are relatively low. However, the quality of onions available in the market is bad, with most wet and sprouted. “The prices of most greens, including coriander which had also crossed Rs. 100 for a bunch, have come down. Given that the crop cycle of greens is much shorter, their supply has slightly improved since the rains stopped and hence their prices have come down,” said Mr. Mirji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prices-of-tomatoes-beans-garlic-cross-rs-100-mark/article37920165.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tumakuru police crack 473 out of 500 cases reported over the last one year||A priest performing pujas in front of a truck; family members holding gold chains and thali s with tears in their eyes. It was an emotional scene at the Tumakuru district Superintendant of Police’s office on Thursday as people gathered to reclaim items that had been stolen from them over the last one year. The Tumakuru district police, which cracked 473 out of 500 cases reported, recovered valuables worth Rs. 7.4 crore, some of which were returned to the owners. Among the seized valuables are 11.9 kgs of gold jewellery, 175 vehicles, Rs. 2.3 crore cash, 50 mobile phones, 146 sheep and goats, 32 cement sacks, 5,049 kgs of iron material, 8,200 coconuts, 25 poultry, 75 litres of diesel, 2,250 kgs of betel nuts, and 800 kgs of aluminium goods. Inspector General of Police (Central Range) M. Chandrashekhar along with the S.P. Rahul Kumar Shahpurwad, handed over the valuables to the owners after obtaining due permission from the court. It was an emotional scene at the office as women started crying soon after receiving their thali s which they had lost in robberies. A truck owner, whose vehicle was stolen by a gang from Tamil Nadu, arrived with a priest who performed puja. “The man broke down as soon as he saw his truck as he had an emotional attachment to it,” Mr. Rahul Kumar said. A family arrived to claim a gold chain of a relative who was killed in a robbery in Huliyurdurga earlier this year. The gang of three from Mysuru who were involved in the robbery were tracked and arrested. Lauding the efforts of the Tumakuru police Mr. Chandrashekhar said that teams worked hard to crack the cases, a majority of which did not have strong leads. He also announced a cash reward for the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tumakuru-police-crack-473-out-of-500-cases-reported-over-the-last-one-year/article37920167.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Council polls: HC fiat to ECI on results of one constituency||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the Election Commission of India (ECI) not to announce the results of the elections to be held to the Legislative Council from the Bangalore Urban Local Authorities (BULA) constituency without its prior permission pending consideration of right of 15 nominated members of the local authorities to vote in the election. Stating that elections could go on as per the schedule, the court said that the votes of the 15 nominated members of three town municipal councils of Bommasandra, Attibele, and Anekal should be placed in a sealed cover by arranging a separate ballot box for them to cast their votes. Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the interim order on a petition filed by Yousuf Sharif, who is contesting from the BULA constituency as a Congress candidate. Senior Advocate Ravivarma Kumar, appearing for the petitioner, contended that under Article 243R of the Constitution of India the nominated members who had no right to vote even in the meeting of the municipal council, could not be seen to be voting in a Legislative Council election. Allowing these nominated members to vote in the Council elections would run counter to Article 243R of the Constitution. However, S.R. Dodawad, counsel for ECI, contended that there was no mandate in the law that only elected members should be allowed to cast their votes in the elections to Legislative Council from the local local authorities constituencies. Observing that the matter required deeper consideration, the court adjourned further hearing till December 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/council-polls-hc-fiat-to-eci-on-results-of-one-constituency/article37920170.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM: Gen. Rawat wanted India to be ‘atmanirbhar’ in defence production||Chief of Defence Staff late Gen. Bipin Rawat was a strong votary of atmanirbhar (self-reliance) in defence production and was instrumental in starting indigenous production of many arms and equipment within India, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said here on Thursday. He inaugurated an exhibition on logistics organised by the DRDO and the DFRL in the Banquet Hall of the State secretariat. The Chief Minister said Gen. Rawat had a big role in encouraging the DRDO and other organisations to excel in defence production. Apart from innovation and development of modern weapon systems and equipment, he pushed for transfer of technology to encourage participation of private sector in defence production. “The nation is shocked by the tragic accident that snatched the life of Gen. Rawat,who was the head of the three wings of the armed forces. Gen. Rawat always led from the front,” Mr. Bommai said.Gen. Rawat’s strong posture against China during the recent border stand-off had compelled the Chinese troops to retreat. “The nation needed his leadership in the years to come,” the Chief Minister said. Gen. Rawat had a close association with Karnataka, especially Kodagu. He was all praise for Gen. K.M. Cariappa and Gen. K.S. Thimayya, Mr. Bommai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-gen-rawat-wanted-india-to-be-atmanirbhar-in-defence-production/article37920182.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Parents against managements’ demand for vaccine certificate||Many parents who are yet to take both shots of the COVID-19 vaccine, and hence unable to send their children to school, are up in arms against managements over the payment of fees. While principals and teachers said they are mandated to follow the government’s rules, parents are demanding that fees should be refunded if their children cannot attend offline classes. Parimala S., whose daughter studies in Class V in a private school, is yet to get her second shot of the vaccine. “We were unable to pay the fees as we had a lot of financial difficulties owing to COVID 19. But the school forced us to pay up when offline classes resumed. Now, they have said that my child cannot attend class till I complete my vaccination. They should refund the fees for the duration my daughter misses her classes,” she said. Mullahalli Suri, president of parents’ association, said that school managements should consider requests from parents on humanitarian grounds and reimburse fees for students who are unable to attend classes because their parents have not been vaccinated. ‘Peculiar situation’ “This is a peculiar situation and school managements need to cooperate with parents in the interest of their students,” he said. School managements, however, said their hands were tied. “Parents are violating their child’s right to education if they do not get vaccinated. Parents should be worried about the continuity in their child’s education rather than only worrying about the fees,” said D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. Other school managements pointed out that though children stopped coming for offline classes, they were making alternative arrangements and were sending assignments to students. “Because they are not attending offline classes does not mean we have stopped their education. This is an unnecessary tactic by parents who want their fees refunded,” said a private school management member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parents-against-managements-demand-for-vaccine-certificate/article37920177.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No change in rules for one week||The Karnataka Government has decided not to make any change to the COVID-19 guidelines after Technical Advisory Committee chairman M.K. Sudarshan informed that there is no need to press the panic button as the number of cases in the State is not alarming. A decision on restrictions for Christmas, New Year’s celebrations, and night curfew would be taken after monitoring the situation over the next one week. However, special guidelines have been issued for hostels in the light of some of them emerging as clusters. The unfolding pandemic situation in Karnataka was discussed in detail at a Cabinet meeting on Thursday presided over by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in the wake of cases of Omicron, a new variant of COVID-19, emerging. Mr. Bommai told mediapersons that Mr. Sudarshan explained to the government details about Omicron and said there is no need to panic as the current figures for COVID-19 in Karnataka are low. However, he advised precautionary measures to contain the spread of the infections. With some students’ hostels emerging as hotspots for COVID-19, the Chief Minister said special guidelines were formulated. Hostel authorities have been told to stagger students for meals, reduce number of visitors, sanitise premises twice a day, make mandatory two doses of vaccination for employees working in kitchens, and establish isolation rooms. College students coming from Kerala and residing in college hostels have to mandatorily undergo a COVID-19 test. Intensive surveillance and testing at the inter-State borders with Kerala and Maharashtra would continue, Mr. Bommai said. He said his Cabinet colleagues suggested undertaking a special drive to vaccinate people in the coming days, like the special drive undertaken in May and June during the second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-change-in-covid-19-guidelines-for-one-week/article37920171.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Theatre activists condemn Rangayana director dubbing his detractors ‘Maoists’||Mysuru Rangayana director Addanda C. Cariappa terming all those who protested against the guest list of the now-postponed Bahuroopi theatre festival as “Maoists” has drawn the ire of Kannada theatre activists. Several theatre activists from Mysuru had taken objection to Chakravarty Sulibele, a Hindutva ideologue, being invited for the closing ceremony of the festival. In an interview given to ‘Samvaada’, a media house associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Mr. Cariappa called himself an “RSS worker” and said Rangayana was captured by “Maoists” till now and that they were protesting against him. ‘A new low’ Raghunandana, theatre director with a long association with the Rangayana, said the debate in the Kannada world of arts and letters had never stooped so low. “The way all those who oppose certain decisions of his have been labelled ‘Maoists’, betrays a clear fascist mindset. It is very different from the disagreements we have had and handled in the Kannada literary and theatre world before,” he said. “I am saddened at the lack of resistance from within the Rangayana community to this,” he added. Several former directors of Rangayana, Mysuru, have taken objection to how Mr. Cariappa portrayed the work of the repertoire before him taking over. “Rangayana has mostly been free of politics or strong ideological narratives. We have done productions of Gopalakrishna Adiga, Devanur Mahadeva, P. Lankesh, and several other writers. S.L. Bhyrappa has been part of several events at the Rangayana before. The picture Mr. Cariappa paints is extremely unfair,” said C. Basavalingaiah, a former director. Another former director, Prasanna, who started the Bahuroopi theatre festival, came down heavily on Mr. Cariappa’s comments on another former director Bhaghirathi Bai Kadam. Mr. Cariappa had insinuated that Ms. Kadam, married to a Muslim artist from Assam, had held a festival with the theme of migration during the Rohingya crisis. “What he has said is highly irresponsible,” he said. “This is happening all over India. Many theatre personalities in north India are being forced to become members of the Samskara Bharathi, an affiliate of the sangh parivar, to survive,” he added. Meanwhile, a coalition of like-minded citizens, including several artists and writers from Mysuru, are meeting on Saturday to discuss the “cultural crisis” in Rangayana and the next course of action. “Wedo not have a problem with Mr. Cariappa saying anything he likes, but not as a director of Rangayana. So we demand that he either resign or the Government sack him,” said Na. Diwakar, one among those who wrote an open letter launching the first protest against the theatre festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/theatre-activists-condemn-rangayana-director-dubbing-his-detractors-maoists/article37920178.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bill approved for giving land occupancy rights||The Cabinet on Thursday approved a Bill on amending the Inams Abolition Act to allow farmers to submit applications for claiming occupancy rights, sources in the Government said. When the Act was brought in earlier to provide rights to those cultivating them, a large number of farmers had not applied due to lack of awareness. The Bill will be tabled in thewinter session of the State legislature in Belagavi which would start from Monday. Nearly 70,000 acres come under the Inam land category in different parts of the State.These land were given as Inam (prize) during theBritish rule and farmers were cultivating them from many years. Such farmers would become owners of the land, for which they need to file applications, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bill-approved-for-giving-land-occupancy-rights/article37920184.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Act on dog, cattle menace in Cubbon Park’||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday asked the State government and the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to look into the issue of dog and cattle menace in Cubbon Park, while pointing out that people are allowed to bring their pets as well as feed stray dogs inside the park without any restrictions. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the oral direction in this regard during the hearing of a PIL petition on the issue of alleged illegal constructions in the Cubbon Park area. The Chief Justice said the court would take up the issue in a suo motu proceedings if the authorities fail to act on their own while pointing out that stray dogs are ferocious if they are fed by the users of the park. Pet owners don’t even leash their dogs inside the park, he pointed out. On litter by dogs inside park, the Chief Justice said he had seen a man removing his dog’s poop from the pavement in a plastic bag when he had visited Europe. Meanwhile, some of the advocates pointed out to the court that even cattle were allowed to graze inside the park. At this stage, counsel representing the Government assured the court that the authorities concerned would take appropriate action on the issues pointed out by the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/act-on-dog-cattle-menace-in-cubbon-park/article37920162.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gang that targeted vacant houses arrested||The Hennur police have arrested a gang of five men who allegedly travelled from Nepal to Bengaluru with the sole aim of breaking into houses and stealing valuables. The gang had a network of informants among security guards who would identify vacant houses. As part of the investigation, the police team went to Nepal to track down the members of the gang. The gang would come to the city, break into houses, loot valuables and evade the police to return home. The police cracked the case while investigating a burglary at an apartment in Coconut Grove Layout, Horamavu reported on October 17. The police zeroed in on a security guard, later identified as Karan Bista. “Bista worked for a businessman in Bengaluru. The family had to go to Andhra Pradesh and had deputed Bista to take care of the house,” said the police, adding that while the family was away, he called them to inform them that their house had been burgled. A gold diamond and cash totalling to Rs. 43 lakh has been stolen. Based on the complaint, the police questioned Bista, and suspecting his involvement took him into custody. The police learned that Bista had alerted his associates in Nepal. While some were still in Bengaluru, others were in Nepal. Apart from Bista, the arrested accused have been identified as Raju, Jeevan, Gorakh Kalu and Hikmath Shahi. The police have recovered Rs. 19 lakh worth valuables, Rs. 9.3 lakh cash from four house break thefts they were reportedly involved in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gang-that-targeted-vacant-houses-arrested/article37920163.ece
10 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Submit life certificate’||Bangalore University has urged pensioners/family of pensioners to submit life certificates to the Finance Officer, duly attested by the managers of respective bank branches or by officers of the university, by post. The certificate can also be submitted in person to the pension section of the university by December 31, a release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/submit-life-certificate/article37920168.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two held for bid to sell baby crocodile||The C.K. Achukattu police on Thursday cracked another illegal wildlife trade racket and arrested two persons who were allegedly trying to sell a crocodile hatchling to a customer.After receiving a tip-off, a police team led by inspector P.R. Janardhan rushed to the spot near Eshwari Theatre and caught two men with a plastic can containing a palm-sized crocodile hatchling. The accused have been identified as Abdul Khalid, 32, from Jayanagar and his associate Gangadhar B.S., 32, from Kanakapura. Khalid and Gangadhar allegedly confessed to the police and said they had procured the reptile illegally from the banks of the Cauvery. They brought it to the city after clinching a deal with a client who reportedly wanted to buy the reptile to keep it as a pet. According to the police, while trade of reptiles such as the threatened Indian star tortoise is rampant, it is rare to see a market for baby crocodiles given that an adult can grow over 10 ft long depending on the species. The rescued hatchling is at Bannerghatta Biological Park, said the police. The two have been booked under various sections of the Wildlife Act and efforts are on to track down the client.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held-for-bid-to-sell-baby-crocodile/article37920173.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown today||There will be disruption in power supply on Friday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. because of work related to conversion of overhead lines into UG/AB cable. According to a press release from Bescom, Bengaluru West Circle, the areas to be affected are: Vinayaka Layout, Nagarbhavi 9th Block, Pipeline Road, Ganapathinagar, Ranganatha Colony, Uttarahalli Road, Kodipalya, Annapoorneshwari Layout, BHEL Layout, Krishna Garden, Bhoomika Layout, Pattanagere, Bhavaninagara, KSRTC Layout, Apoorva Layout, Kengeri Main Road, Bhuvaneshwarinagar, Dodda Basthi Main Road, Kalyani Layout, R.R. Layout, Upadhyaya Layout, BEL 1st and 2nd Stages, Gandhi Park-1, Sir M.V. Third and Fifth Blocks, Udupi Hotel Road, Amma Ashram Road, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown-today/article37920174.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sonia’s birthday: Cong. organises baby shower for 70 women||Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee members, led by its president M.S. Raksha Ramaiah and former Minister K.J. George, organised a mass baby-shower ceremony for 70 women here on Thursday to mark Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi’s 75th birthday. The event was held at Anjaneya temple at Doddabanaswadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sonias-birthday-cong-organises-baby-shower-for-70-women/article37920183.ece
10 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Poll preparations completed||The district administration in Shivamogga, Hassan, and Chikkamagaluru have completed preparations for the Legislative Council elections, scheduled to be held on Friday. The mustering process was held at district centres on Thursday. The officials involved in the election duty were provided with ballot boxes and other materials required for the smooth conduct of the elections. Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar has said the preparations for the elections had been completed. There were 4,164 eligible voters and among them 1,983 were men and 2,181 were men, he said. The administration has set up 365 polling booths. The mustering process was held at Sahyadri Arts College in Shivamogga. The administration had arranged 38 buses to carry the polling staff. For Hassan seat there are 3,578 voters and the administraton has identified 257 booths. As many as 570 officers have been appointed for the smooth conduct of the elections. Besides them, there will be 285 micro observers. The DC has clamped prohibitory orders 100 metres around the polling booth to avoid any untoward incident. The voters are not allowed to take cell phones inside the booth. In Chikkamagaluru, 2,423 elected members will exercise their franchise. The administration has set up 231 polling booths. Each booth will have two polling officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/poll-preparations-completed/article37920575.ece
10 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Farmer found dead near son-in-law’s house||A farmer was found dead near his son-in-law’s house at Malegere in Belur taluk on Wednesday. Nagaraj, 53, of S. Somanahalli in Arehalli, reportedly was upset following his daughter’s death and was angry with the way his son-in-law treated his daughter. Nagaraj had married his daughter, Hemashree, to Praveen of Malegere a couple of years ago. He had paid Rs. 1 lakh in cash and 150g of gold as dowry, according to the police. Even after the marriage, he reportedly gave Rs. 2 lakh as a loan to help his son-in-law set up his business. However, he continued to harass his wife, forcing her to return to her parents’ place. She died while giving birth to her baby recently, the police said. Nagaraj’s wife Renuka, in her complaint to the police, said Praveen and his mother Bhadramma continued to insult Nagaraj in public. He had been to Praveen’s place on Wednesday to settle a financial matter. Later, he was found dead near their house.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmer-found-dead-near-son-in-laws-house/article37920576.ece
10 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Polling today in Dharwad local authorities segment||All preparations have been made for polling in the elections to the Dharwad Local Authorities Constituency of the State Legislative Council scheduled to take place on Friday. Speaking to presspersons after reviewing the mustering process on the Dharwad Tahsildar Office premises on Thursday, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad and Returning Officer Nitesh Patil said that everything has been put in place for polling to be held from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Mr. Patil said that there are 7,501 eligible voters, including 3,844 female and 3,657 male, in the three districts of Dharwad, Gadag and Haveri that come under the constituency. These voters also include two members of Parliament, 17 MLAs, three MLCs and 42 nominated members. Mr. Nitesh Patil clarified that the newly elected members of the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) council, who are yet to be sworn in, are also eligible to vote. It might be recalled that the district administration had written to the Election Commission seeking clarification on the voting rights of the HDMC council members as they have not been sworn in yet. In all, 504 polling stations — 144 in Dharwad district, 130 in Gadag district and 230 in Haveri district — have been set up. The highest voters are in Haveri district with 3,369 voters, followed by Dharwad district with 2,165 voters and Gadag district with 1,967 voters. Mr. Patil said that provisions have been made for helping the illiterate and physically challenged voters to exercise their franchise by appointing one assistant each for such voters. In all, 407 voters — 207 in Haveri district, 140 in Dharwad and 60 in Gadag — have availed themselves of the facility and the condition is that one assistant can assist a voter only once. To ensure free and fair polling, micro observers have been appointed to each polling station and the whole process will be videographed. The requisite police security will be provided. This apart, strict instructions have been given to ensure adherence to COVID-19 protocol. To a query, Mr. Patil said that no cases of model poll code violation have been reported so far. However, a few cases of illegal transportation of liquor have been unearthed by Excise officials and the consignments seized. Tahsildar of Dharwad Santhosh Biradar and other officials were present. Meanwhile, election officials reviewed the mustering process in Haveri and Gadag districts on Thursday. The polling officials and personnel left for the respective polling stations after thoroughly verifying the election paraphernalia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/polling-today-in-dharwad-local-authorities-segment/article37920365.ece
10 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Former Minister S.R. More passes away||The former Minister and Congress leader Shiavajirao R. More, better known as S.R. More, passed away at a private hospital in Dharwad on Thursday morning. He was 83. The three-time MLA, who was Minister for two terms, is survived by three daughters. Mr. More held the portfolios of Cooperation and Municipal Administration in the Cabinets of S. Bangarappa and N. Dharam Singh. After having undergone an orthopaedic surgery recently, Mr. More was recuperating at home. On Wednesday night, he developed breathing problem and was shifted to a private hospital at Sattur in Dharwad where he breathed his last on Thursday morning. The final rites were performed at his farmhouse in the evening. Congress leaders H.K. Patil, A.M. Hindasgeri, I.G. Sanadi, Saleem Ahmed, Veeranna Mattikatti, F.H. Jakkappanavar, Sharanappa Kotagi, BJP MLAs Arvind Bellad, Amrut Desai, the former MLA Seema Masuti, Deepak Chinchore and others visited Mr. More’s residence to pay their tributes. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Chairman of Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, and others mourned his demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-minister-sr-more-passes-away/article37920370.ece
10 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||247 polling booths, 4,663 voters in Ballari-Vijayanagara districts||Ballari Local Bodies Constituency of the Legislative Council saw intense preparations on the eve of Friday’s polling. The polling staff and security personnel were busy in arranging poll material at Tahsildar offices across Ballari and Vijayanagara districts that were designated as mustering centres. Later, they left for the respective polling stations in vehicles. As per the calendar of events issued, polling is to be held between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. The district administration has established 247 polling stations across the two districts to facilitate 4,663 voters — members of local bodies of governance such as municipalities in urban areas and panchayats in rural areas. An exclusive polling station has been set up on the Ballari Zilla Panchayat premises for members of the Ballari City Corporation. As per information provided by the district administration, each polling station is provided with a presiding officer, assistant presiding officer, polling officer, identification officer and a Group D staff, apart from security personnel. Each polling station will have a micro observer and the polling process will be videographed. The administration has already sensitised the polling staff on the COVID-19 guidelines to be followed during polling. Senior Indian Administrative Officer V. Ramprasad Manohar, who is the designated election observer for the constituency, District Election Officer and Ballari Deputy Commissioner Pavankumar Malapati, Additional District Election Officer P.S. Manjunath and other senior officers visited the mustering centres and took stock of the preparations. Later, they also visited the Government Polytechnic College where counting will be taken up. Four candidates, Yeachareddy Sathish from the Bharatiya Janata Party, K.C. Kondaiah from Indian National Congress and Independent candidates Gangireddy and C.M. Manjunath, are in the fray||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/247-polling-booths-4663-voters-in-ballari-vijayanagara-districts/article37920364.ece
10 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Hectic activities in Kalaburagi, Yadgir ahead of polling today||The Kalaburagi-Yadgir Local Bodies Constituency of the Legislative Council witnessed hectic political and administrative activities on Thursday. On the one hand, the district administration was found busy in preparing the polling staff and sending them to polling stations, while on the other, the BJP and the Congress were seen making last-minute efforts to win over their voters. Mustering activities that started in the morning were completed by evening. The polling staff were found leaving for their designated polling stations along with polling material and security personnel. Polling will be held in the taluk and gram panchayats across Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts. Apart from members of the local bodies of governance — municipalities in urban areas and panchayats in rural areas, members of the legislature and Parliament are also eligible to votes in these elections. Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna, who is the District Election Officer, was seen visiting the mustering centres and giving instructions to district level officers and tahsildars to ensure free and fair polls. Apart from sensitising the polling staff on COVID-19 guidelines to be strictly followed during polling, the administration has provided the staff with required supplies such as masks, sanitisers and infrared thermometers. Three candidates are in the fray — B.G. Patil of the BJP, Shivanand Patil of the Congress and Independent Mallikarjun Kodli. There are 7,102 voters (3,358 men and 3,744 women) in Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts. The administration has established 391 polling stations (265 in Kalaburagi and 126 in Yadgir). There are 256 gram panchayats, seven town municipal councils, a city municipal council and a city corporation in Kalaburagi district. Yadgir district has 122 gram panchayats, eight town municipal councils, four city municipal councils and a city corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hectic-activities-in-kalaburagi-yadgir-ahead-of-polling-today/article37920368.ece
10 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Voters asked to fearlessly participate in polling||Bidar Deputy Commissioner and District Election Officer Ramachandran R. and Superintendent of Police Nagesh D.L. has urged voters to fearlessly participate in polling for the local bodies constituency of the Legislative Council scheduled for Friday. After a meeting at mustering centres and taking stock of preparations, Mr. Ramachandran also directed the polling staff and security personnel to ensure free and fair polling. “I appeal to voters to fearlessly participate in the polling and exercise their franchise. If anybody faces any problem, please call 112 or contact the nearest police station for help,” Mr. Nagesh said and warned that his department will take stringent action against those who violate the law. The district administration has established 192 polling stations across the district where polling will be conducted between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. As many as 852 personnel, including polling and security staff, have been deployed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/voters-asked-to-fearlessly-participate-in-polling/article37920363.ece
10 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. should put an end to forcible conversion: seer||The State Government should enact anti-religious conversion law to put an end to religious conversion through force or inducements, said Pejawar Mutt seer Sri Vishwaprasanna Tirtha Swami in Udupi on Thursday. Regretting the death of four persons of a family after what is said an attempt to convert a woman in Mangaluru on Wednesday, the swamiji said that attempts to convert people through force or inducements will lead to discord in families and in society. “The government should bring in a law to bar forcible conversion,” he said. Condemning the action of the State Government in providing eggs to students in schools, Sri Vishwaprasanna Tirtha said that the government should not try to force a change in food habits of children. Schools are meant to provide education and not to change children’s food habit. If the government wants to provide eggs to children, it may provide equivalent money to those who consume it. The government should stop open distribution of eggs in schools, he said. No evidence Meanwhile, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that the ongoing investigation of the death of Nagesh Shiraguppi, his wife, Vijayalakshmi, and their two children has so far not revealed anything about what is said attempts to convert Vijayalakshmi. Shiraguppi is said to have left a note and also sent a voice message to the police about what he thought attempts to convert his wife before, according to the police, killing her and their two children. The police said that he hanged himself to death. “We have so far not found evidence to support Shiraguppi’s note that mentions the attempt to convert Vijayalakshmi,” Mr. Kumar said. The woman who is accused of attempting to convert Vijayalakshmi told the police that she only paid wages to Vijayalakshmi for the latter’s work as a maid, while denying the charge of religious conversion. Mr. Kumar said that Vijayalakshmi had confided with people close to her about harassment by her husband and had also expressed her intention to divorce him. And, Shiraguppi had enquired with his employer about an advocate for divorcing his wife, he added. The police are waiting for the arrival of Shiraguppi’s family members to conduct post-mortem, Mr. Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-should-put-an-end-to-forcible-conversion-seer/article37920554.ece
10 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karkala town too loses one of its sons-in-law in Coonoor crash||Karkala town in Udupi district too lost one of its sons-in-law, Lt. Col. Harjinder Singh of the 11 Gorkha Rifles in Wednesday’s chopper crash at Coonoor in which Chief of Defence Staff Gen. B.P. Rawat and his wife, among others, were killed. Lt. Col. Singh, a part of security protocol of General Rawat, was married to Maj. Agnes Prafulla Menezes, who is working as a lecturer in Military School, Delhi. Maj. Menezes is the daughter of late Felix Menezes and Mary Menezes from Salmara in Karkala. Felix Menezes was the vice-president of Karkala Town Municipality once and a member for nearly two decades. Maj. Menezes, youngest of four children, married Lt. Col. Singh about 15 years ago after they fell in love, people close to the family said. Lt. Col. Singh had served in various operations with his battalion, including deployment on the Siachen Glacier and a tenure in the United Nations Peace Keeping Force. After their marriage, Lt. Col. Singh visited Karkala a few times, the last being about four years ago. Maj. Menezes had visited her parents recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karkala-town-too-loses-one-of-its-sons-in-law-in-coonoor-crash/article37920552.ece
10 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Police recover stolen articles worth Rs. 28.4 lakh, arrest two||The police arrested two persons allegedly involved in 13 cases of theft at places of worship and three cases of house break reported in the city in the last four years. The police gave their names as Naga Naidu, 55, from Tarikere in Chikkamagaluru district, and C.V. Maruti, 33, from Channagiri in Davangere district. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters that the two accused were arrested by the Central Crime Branch sleuths in connection with theft of gold ornaments worth Rs. 6.86 lakh from a house in Ashok Nagar in Urwa Police Station limits on November 10. Investigation revealed their alleged involvement in thefts at Devastanas, Daivastanas, and three houses in Surathkal, Urwa, Bajpe, Panambur, Mulki, Kavoor, and Ullal police limits between 2018 and 2021. Mr. Kumar said Naidu is an accused in theft cases reported in Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts. Naidu used to travel to Mangaluru by bus, survey potential places in the morning, and carry out thefts in the night. Naidu reportedly sold stolen articles to Maruti, who in turn, allegedly sold them to a jeweller in Davangere. The police recovered 406 gm of gold articles and 16 kg of silver articles, together worth Rs. 28.4 lakh, he said. The Surathkal police arrested Rajan Chinnatambi, 57, of Tirupur in Tamil Nadu and P.B. Pramod from Chandrapura in Bengaluru for their alleged involvement in four house break thefts reported in Kana, Kulai, Hosabettu, and Kadambodi early this year. Mr. Kumar said police recovered part of stolen articles from Laxmi Kerala Mess in Keerti Layout, Chandapura, owned by Pramod and seized some stolen jewellery reportedly pledged by Pramod in a finance firm. They also recovered some stolen articles from Chinnatambi’s house in Tiruppur. He is an accused in several theft cases reported from Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. In all, police recovered 366 gm of gold articles worth Rs. 16.5 lakh from the accused. Mr. Kumar lauded the police team comprising of Deputy Commissioners of Police Hariram Shankar and B.P. Dinesh Kumar, Police Inspectors Mahesh Kumar and K. Chandrappa and Police Sub Inspectors B. Rajendra and Chandrashekariah for tracing the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-recover-stolen-articles-worth-rs-284-lakh-arrest-two/article37920557.ece
10 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bank conferred DigiDhan awards||Karnataka Bank was conferred with two DigiDhan awards instituted by the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for achieving the target with highest percentage in BHIM-UPI transactions under the Private Sector Bank Category for two years, 2019-20 and 2020-21. Bank’s Delhi Region General Manager B.S. Raja and Deputy General Manager K.S. Jagadeesh received the awards from Railway and Union Electronics and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrashekhar during “Digital Payments Utsav” in New Delhi on December 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bank-conferred-digidhan-awards/article37920548.ece
10 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||All set for elections to Legislative Council today||The elections to Legislative Council from the local bodies’ constituency will be held in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts for the dual seat on Friday. The administrations in two districts have made elaborate arrangements for the smooth conduct of the polls, where voting will be held from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. The mustering was conducted at the taluk office here on Thursday and the polling officials were sensitised about the steps to be taken. They were also told about the COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Only one voter has to be permitted inside the polling at a time for voting, the polling officials were told. Ahead of Friday’s elections, the polling officials on Thursday collected ballot boxes, ballot papers, indelible ink, list of voters, and other accessories before leaving to their respective polling booths. The Congress has fielded D. Thimmaiah as its candidate while Raghu Kautilya is the BJP candidate and C.N. Manje Gowda is the JD(S) nominee. Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha leader Vatal Nagaraj is also in the fray besides a few independents. Polling will be held for 134 booths in Chamarajanagar and 259 booths in Mysuru. In total, the districts have 6,771 voters with women voters outnumbering men. Mysuru district has 2,172 male voters and 2,329 female voters while Chamarajnagar has 1,082 male voters and 1,187 female voters. Kodagu is also geared up for the polls with the district having 40 sensitive, 11 hyper-sensitive and one booth in Naxal-affected area. Adequate police deployment has been ensured in these booths. As many as 127 polling officials have been appointed. Mobile phones and electronic gadgets are strictly banned inside the booth, according to the district administration. In total, 1,329 voters will be casting their ballot in Kodagu. Mandya Deputy Commissioner S Ashwathi on Thursday visited the Government College in Mandya to supervise the mustering process for the council polls in the district. Mandya has 240 polling booths. The district has 4,024 voters, including 2,095 women and 1,929 men. Ban orders under section 144 CrPc are in force till Friday. Mandya has 39 hyper-sensitive, 90 sensitive, and 111 regular booths. As many as 408 police personnel will be in-charge of bandobast across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-set-for-elections-to-legislative-council-today/article37920572.ece
10 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MUDA’s peripheral ring road remains only on paper||The peripheral ring road (PRR), proposed by the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA), for the city is on the backburner in the absence of administrative push. The project was mooted almost six years ago but though the MUDA came out with the concept it has realised that cost of implementation was beyond its means. The project was thought of as a long-term measure to divert outbound vehicles and prevent their entry into the city so as to help in traffic decongestion and spare Mysuru pollution. Also, there is no clarity as to whether the project would be taken forward or whether it would be one of the many such MUDA dreams, which have been given a quiet burial. When contacted, MUDA chairman H.V. Rajeev was ambiguous on the subject but said that the survey will be entrusted to RITES though he did not spell out the timeframe or the cost of conducting it. The MUDA officials were tight-lipped on the subject but said that the cost of land acquisition itself was beyond the means of MUDA which was cash-strapped. The PRR is mentioned in the Mysuru Master Plan 2031 and was supposed to have a length of 106 km as against nearly 43 km length of the outer ring road. The alignment was to be 5 to 6 km from the existing ORR and parallel to it. But land acquisition itself is set to be a critical factor and unless the MUDA can provide the land, the Government may not even approve it. It is reckoned that the project requires at least 1,200 acres against which MUDA is in possession of about 400 acres. The cost of the project was pegged at around Rs. 1,500 crores a few years ago but would have escalated by now. And given the current fiscal situation owing to the pandemic, the authorities are not confident to even broach the subject. Though the MUDA had informal discussions with the officials from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for their support, there was nothing concrete on paper beyond oral assurances. Officials point out that the MUDA did not have the capability to maintain the ORR and handed it over to NHAI for maintenance. Hence it is unlikely that it will take up another project beyond its means to either implement or maintain. The MUDA had also made noise of Metrolite project for Mysuru. But Mr. Rajeev said it will only propose for inclusion of Mysuru but the approval, funding and implementation will be by the metro authorities. However, officials point out that the PRR was a long-term infrastructure requirement of Mysuru for its orderly growth and cannot be indefinitely postponed. Though ORR was questioned when conceived in late 1990s, its benefits were being appreciated in the present times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mudas-peripheral-ring-road-remains-only-on-paper/article37920574.ece
10 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Students protest against NEP 2020||Students under the aegis of All India Democratic Students Organisation (AIDSO) staged a protest in the city on Thursday against the implementation of National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. AIDSO said the new policy was being implemented in a haste manner without analysing the pros and cons of the changes. Scores of activists gathered in front of the Crawford Hall to express their ire and said the government was in a hurry to implement NEP without adequate preparation by way of creating new facilities. “It takes a year or two after a thorough debate to roll out new policies but the State Government has announced its implementation within 15 days on receiving the centre’s directives,” said AIDSO activists. The demonstration was part of a State-wide protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-protest-against-nep-2020/article37920558.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Chariot festival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chariot-festival/article37920547.ece
10 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||This retired professor has scripted a passion for pens||From ceramic pots, glassware, plants, trophies and books, people decorate their living room shelves with a melange of items. But what makes the glass cabinet at K. Varghese’s house at Pathichira, near Mavelikara, Alappuzha, elegant is the display of an assortment of pens of various brands. Mr. Varghese, a retired professor of Botany at St. Stephen’s College, Pathanapuram, boasts a collection of over 3,000 pens using 15 different colour inks of 54 brands such as Mont Blanc, Sheaffer, Parker, Balenciaga, Swiss Military, Montegrappa, Pilot, Philippe Moraly, Cross, Waterman, Quil and so on. He has amassed the pens, which include a huge bunch of rare and costly fountain pens, over a period of 40 years. The sexagenarian says writing with a fountain pen with black ink gives him enormous joy. “I started showing an interest in pens during my college days. A priest named Geevarghese was the first to give me a pen, a Parker, as a gift before I was about to attend a degree exam. I was intrigued by its quality. My interest in pens gradually evolved and later turned into a passion,” he says. Calligraphy pens After joining St. Stephen’s, Mr. Varghese started scouring pen shops and street markets for writing tools. Pens not available here were sourced from overseas with the help of friends and relatives. On average, he spends Rs. 5,000 every month to buy pens. The collectables include a Parker 21 with a gold nib, a Balenciaga, which is currently valued at Rs. 1 lakh apiece, and a diamond-studded Parker. The Parker 21 is the oldest in his collection. The pen, which was used by his grandfather, G. Pappy, was handed over to Mr. Varghese by his father, P. Kunjukunju. He also possesses 30 calligraphy pens. Mr. Varghese puts the total value of his pens at Rs. 15 lakh, but not a single one is for sale. “Earlier, I used to collect stamps and coins too. But with the postal mail disappearing, I shifted my focus entirely to pen and books. Today, those who know me gift me pens on special occasions. Whenever it comes to my turn to present gifts, I give my friends pen and books,” says Mr. Varghese.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/this-retired-professor-has-scripted-a-passion-for-pens/article37920494.ece
10 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Silver jubilee of BCom batch||Silver jubilee celebrations of the passing-out of the first batch of BCom graduates from Bishop Moore College, Mavelikara, will begin on Saturday. the event will be virtually inaugurated by Higher Education Minister R. Bindu at the college auditorium at 10.30 a.m. On the occasion, 25 socially responsible and developmental programmes will be launched. M.S. Arun Kumar, MLA, Church of South India Madhya Kerala Diocese Bishop Malayil Sabu Koshy Cherian, Jacob Chandy, Principal, Bishop Moore College, Sajeeve V.P., head of Department of Commerce will be present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silver-jubilee-of-bcom-batch/article37920495.ece
10 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Cheruthoni dam shutter closed||Shutter 3 of the Cheruthoni dam of the Idukki reservoir was closed on Thursday morning after the water level fell to 2,401.26 ft. The water level at 4 p.m. was 2,401.18 ft. The shutter was opened at 6 a.m. on Tuesday after the water level crossed the orange alert level following heavy inflow in the Periyar after Tamil Nadu discharged a high volume of water and rainfall in the catchment area from Monday evening. The shutter was closed at 8 a.m. on Thursday. Within two days, 8.889 mcm of water was released from the Idukki reservoir, said a dam safety official. Tamil Nadu had limited the discharge to the Periyar now and the catchment area of the reservoir was also free of rainfall. The power generation at Moolamattom was at a high level, he said adding the Indian Meteorological Department forecast was also considered before closing the shutter. The water level in the dam continued to be at the orange alert level and it was likely to fall to the blue alert level in two days unless there was heavy rainfall. Sigh of relief Meanwhile, the residents downstream of the Mullaperiyar dam heaved a sigh of relief as there was only limited discharge from the dam since Wednesday night. It was over a week that the high volume of water released from the dam during night caused enormous misery to the people. Tamil Nadu closed all spillway shutters but one as the water level declined to 142.75 ft at 4 p.m. on Wednesday. The water level was 141.95 ft at 4 p.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cheruthoni-dam-shutter-closed/article37920446.ece
10 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Two youths killed in road accident||Two motorcycle-borne youths were killed after their vehicle collided head on with a car at Kainatty here on Thursday evening. The police identified the deceased as Vishnu, 20, son of Gireesh of Kallivalappil, and Sibith Kumar, 23, son of Shobhini of Managalthodyil at Vithukad near Meppadi in the district. The accident occurred around 5.30 p.m. Though the duo was rushed to hospital, doctors declared them dead on arrival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-youths-killed-in-road-accident/article37920443.ece
10 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||KSEB to open 1,140 pole-mounted charging stations across State||In order to enhance clean mobility and with more people opting for electric vehicles in the wake of rising fuel prices, the Renewable Energy and Energy Savings (REES) wing of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has decided to launch 1,140 pole-mounted charging stations across the State. The decision follows the successful launch of 10 pole-mounted charging stations on a pilot basis in Kozhikode to support two- and three-wheelers. The project is implemented under the State government’s e-mobility promotion initiative. Once tenders are issued, pole-mounted chargers will be installed within six months, a senior REES official told The Hindu . In Kannur, there will be over 40 charging stations. Depending on the number of vehicles, stations will be planned accordingly in each district. There will be at least one station in every constituency. The official said the Kozhikode-based start-up, Charge MOD, had developed the charging equipment and software. The installation of each charger costs Rs. 25,000. However, considering the increasing operational costs, tenders have been called for a higher estimate for a period of five years. Interestingly, the government has taken up the project on a promotional basis and charges Rs. 9 per unit. To make it more profitable and attract private investors the charge should be raised to at least Rs. 17, the official said. Meanwhile, the KSEB has already opened six fast-charging stations in six corporations. In Kannur, one is operational at Chovva, while two others are coming at Valapattanam and Kannur, the official said. The government plans to set up 60 more fast-charging stations across the State. Of them, 30 stations will be set up under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles in India Scheme sanctioned by the Department of Heavy Industries. Work for another 26 stations under the e-Mobility Promotion initiative of the government is in progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-to-open-1140-pole-mounted-charging-stations-across-state/article37920432.ece
10 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Greens voice concern over worsening pollution of Periyar||Greens have voiced concern over the worsening ecological condition of the Periyar owing to heavy metal contamination. The frequent discolouration of the river on its Edayar stretch had triggered protests among local residents and environmentalists, who alleged that the government and enforcement agencies had failed to take concrete action against those responsible for the pollution. “The results of the test samples collected by the State Pollution Control Board in June and August from the upstream of Pathalam bund and the Irrigation canal near the navigation channel had revealed the presence of iron, copper, manganese, aluminium, cadmium, etc. in levels exceeding the permissible limits by several times. The findings had contradicted the board’s position that the discolouration of the river stretch was not due to iron contamination,” said Purushan Eloor, research co-ordinator of Periyar Malineekarana Virudha Samithi. The presence of iron was about 2,15,700 mg/kg against the detection limit of 0.05 mg/kg at the upstream of Pathalam bund while the value of cadmium was 4.6 mg/kg against the detection limit of 0.01 mg/kg. The presence of lead was shown as 108 mg/kg against the detection limit of 0.05 mg/kg, according to the test results. The environmentalists alleged that the board was trying to protect an industrial unit responsible for the iron contamination in the Periyar. Despite repeated pleas, the authorities have not yet taken any action against the erring units responsible for the pollution of the river, they said. However, officials of the board clarified that the test results of the samples taken from the river following the discolouration (turning red) on October 16 had not shown any contamination owing to the presence of iron. The value of iron was 0.2 mg/kg. They admitted that samples collected from the Irrigation canal near the navigation channel and the upstream of Pathalam in June and August had iron content above the permissible limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greens-voice-concern-over-worsening-pollution-of-periyar/article37920453.ece
10 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Balagopal offers a hand of help to Kochi||The State government will actively consider the proposal to upgrade facilities at the Ernakulam KSRTC bus stand as well as city road development schemes, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said. Participating in a meeting convened by the Kochi Corporation to highlight the development needs of the city which required budgetary support, Mr. Balagopal offered to consider the request of the civic body to take back the land at Brahmapuram, which it had purchased at the instance of the State government, and avoid deduction of land cost from its annual plan fund allocation. The proposal was put forward by Mayor M. Anilkumar. He pointed out that the Corporation owned around 100 acres at Brahmapuram. Though it was the civic body that purchased the land, its ownership was vested with the State government. The government has been deducting the money advanced by it for the purchase of the holding from the annual plan fund allocation, which has economically crippled the civic body, he pointed out. Mr. Balagopal felt that Kochi should lay emphasis on developing water transport network through its canals. He offered support for the Operation Breakthrough project, which was implemented to address waterlogging and related issues in the city. Property tax collection in the city accounted for half of what was collected in Thiruvananthapuram. Tax is collected in Kochi at old rates. Though the proposal to impose tax may not be welcomed every time, payment of tax is the responsibility of every citizen. No local body can function without collecting taxes, he said. Cities like Kochi will be the natural choice of the workforce that opts for work-from-home post-COVID. The civic body shall also look for employment generation schemes, he suggested. Climate change and rising sea levels are stark realities, and environment protection should get priority while preparing projects, the Minister suggested. K. Babu and T.J. Vinod, MLAs, Deputy Mayor K.A. Ansiya, Congress councillor Antony Kureethara, and Cochin Smart Mission Limited chief executive officer S. Shanavas were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/balagopal-offers-a-hand-of-help-to-kochi/article37920461.ece
10 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Tech enables watching of 3D displays without glasses||The department of Electronics at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) played host to the showcasing of an advanced technology that enables one to watch 3D displays without 3D glasses here on Thursday. The 3D sensing and spatial display by Japan’s Sony Group was presented as part of an international symposium organised by the department in association with the Defence Research Development Organisation and the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. “3D glasses are going to be a thing of the past with the launch of the latest 3D sensing and spatial display that allows it to be adjusted on the display itself without glasses. By sensing the movements that occur in us while viewing the display, the visuals are constructed accordingly. The direction of the scenes is adjusted in the same direction, as our eyes move,” said Supriya M.H., professor and head of the department of Electronics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tech-enables-watching-of-3d-displays-without-glasses/article37920456.ece
10 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CRZ panel for more land for construction in grama panchayats||Coastal grama panchayats in Kerala will have more land areas for construction if a recommendation by a government-appointed expert committee is approved. The three-member expert committee, appointed to review the draft of the Coastal Zone Management Plan to be prepared as per the notification of the Coastal Regulation Zone, 2019 is understood to have suggested moving all developed grama panchayats of the State to Zone 2 of the CRZ from the current Zone 3. The committee has the Additional Chief Secretary (Environment), environmental consultant P.Z. Thomas, and lawyer P.B. Sahasranamam as its members. Activites in Zone 2 There would be very little restrictions on construction activities in Zone 2, which includes areas that are developed up to the shoreline and falling within the municipal limits. Zone 3 includes coastal areas and areas within municipal limits or legally designated urban areas that are not substantially built-up. Once moved to Zone 2, there will not be any No Development Zone where construction activities are banned. Construction activities can be undertaken towards the landward side of holdings from the building line of the pre-1991 approved structures and roads. Earlier estimate It was earlier estimated that 245 coastal grama panchayats will come under the CRZ regime where no new development activities will be permitted in the area between the high tide line (HTL) and 200 metres towards the landward side under the CRZ 2011 notification. Later, the CRZ 2019 notification further reduced the No Development Zone in various categories. The committee is understood to have banked on an order of the Local Self-Government Department issued on October 13 this year classifying 398 grama panchayats as legally designated urban areas in the State for submitting its recommendation on the CRZ regime. The State government had earlier taken the stand in the Supreme Court in a case related to the closing down of liquor outlets along the State and National Highways that all villages of Kerala were of semiurban nature. Now, the State government could not take a different stand regarding the classification of grama panchayats, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crz-panel-for-more-land-for-construction-in-grama-panchayats/article37920508.ece
10 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Lift irrigation project for paddy field mooted||The government has directed the Irrigation department to come up with a proposal for the construction of a lift irrigation project for Edayattuchal paddy field in Edayar. The Chief Engineer, Irrigation and Administration, has been told to prepare the proposal. The action comes in the wake of the direction issued by the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal to initiate steps to restore the pollution-hit Edayattuchal paddy field in its original condition. The petitioner in the case had requested the court to restore the joining portion of Chakalathodu to the Periyar on upstream of Pathalam regulator-cum-bridge by removing the earth filling in it to ensure easy inflow and outflow of water through the channel to and from the Edayattuchal paddy fields. The investigations by the department in June had found discharge of effluents black in colour from an illegal outlet into the canal connecting the Periyar and Edayattuchal paddy fields. The unauthorised pipe with six-inch diameter was found at the time of digging work carried out by the department along the banks of the river. The illegal outlet was later closed. Local farmers had earlier demanded steps on the part of the government to facilitate irrigation of the Edayattuchal paddy field for agricultural purposes. The Executive Engineer, Irrigation Division in Ernakulam, had reported that an alternative and a suitable measure to ensure irrigation of the paddy field was to construct a lift irrigation project. However, senior officials of the State Pollution Control Board expressed doubts over the feasibility of a lift irrigation scheme for Edayattuchal before completing the remediation works of the paddy field contaminated by heavy metals. A report by the Central Pollution Control Board had revealed heavy metal contamination in exceeding limits in Edayattuchal and Chakkarachal paddy fields in the Edayar industrial region. Investigations had found that illegal discharge from the now defunct Edayar Zinc Ltd. (formerly Binani Zinc Ltd.) was responsible for causing the contamination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lift-irrigation-project-for-paddy-field-mooted/article37920452.ece
10 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Transport of migrants’ bodies: private players come under fire||The engagement of private services agencies by the Labour department for transporting bodies of migrant workers to their native places has drawn criticism from social workers and organisations working for the welfare of migrants, accusing private players of fleecing labourers’ relatives. The Labour department in 2018 had introduced a revolving fund of up to Rs. 50,000 for the transportation of a migrant’s body. While the initiative, arguably the first of its kind anywhere in the country, is being lauded, entrusting the job with private players is far from being appreciated. “The focus is on sending bodies at the earliest to the bereaved families for which we entrust the service with private players prepared to do it at the lowest possible cost. We clear the vouchers submitted by service providers once the service is delivered,” said P.M. Firoz, District Labour Officer, Ernakulam. Private agencies are entrusted with embalming of bodies and their transportation in ambulances to the airport. However, there is no process to verify the costs incurred as the Labour department cites shortage of hands and preoccupation with other duties. Nexus with attendants “While bodies can be embalmed for free or negligible fee at government medical colleges, a private agency insisted on shifting bodies to its own embalming unit at Nattakam in Kottayam at considerable time and cost. Besides, in the case of migrant deaths unknown to the Labour department which deprives the kin of the deceased of the financial assistance, these private players, in nexus with attendants at hospitals, get the relatives to agree to transport bodies back home at exorbitant rate by playing on their insecurities,” said George Mathew, chairperson, Progressive Workers Union. In one such instance, the body of a migrant was transported back home in Odisha by road for Rs. 1.25 lakh in October. “Vested interests should be suspected in shifting bodies, at considerable time and cost, to the embalming unit in Kottayam even from other districts with government medical colleges. Once that happens, relatives are at the mercy of the agency concerned making them more vulnerable to exploitation. Also, there is the emotional trauma of bereaved families caused by the delay in the arrival of the body of their dear ones,” said Benoy Peter, executive director, Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-players-come-under-fire-for-swindle/article37920504.ece
10 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||S. Sivadas, Deepa Balsavar win Big Little Book Award||Prof. S. Sivadas and Deepa Balsavar have been adjudged winners of this year’s Big Little Book Award (BLBA) for their significant contribution to children’s literature in Indian language(s). BLBA is a first-of-its-kind award instituted by the Parag initiative of Tata Trusts to recognise notable work in children’s literature. The winners of the sixth edition of BLBA were selected from among 490 entries. Malayalam was the chosen language this year for the author category, while the illustration category accepted nominations in any language. Winners were selected for their contribution to Indian children’s literature. Kottayam-based Prof. Sivadas who won in the author category has over two hundred books to his name. Inspired by his childhood memories, love for nature and deep commitment to science, his work has stood out significantly in the children’s literature in Malayalam. The jury made up of Greystroke, M.M. Basheer, Paul Zacharia, Sherylene Rafeeque, and Suneetha Balakrishnan made the selection. Mumbai-born artist Deepa Balsavar, winner in the illustrator category, grew up loving animals and books and drawing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/s-sivadas-deepa-balsavar-win-big-little-book-award/article37920463.ece
10 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lucky dip for metro commuters||Commuters using the Kochi metro on December 24, 25, 31, and January 1 can participate in a lucky-dip contest that Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) is organising. They can drop their QR coded tickets in lucky-draw boxes kept at each station. The winner will be able to commute in the metro free of cost for a full year, while the runner-up and second runner-up can do so for six and three months respectively. Kerala Metro Day June 17 will be observed as Kerala Metro Day, to commemorate June 17, 2017 on which the Kochi metro’s first reach (Aluva-Palarivattom) was commissioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lucky-dip-for-metro-commuters/article37920450.ece
10 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lottery winner gets threatening letter again||Winning the Onam bumper lottery seems to have brought the autorickshaw driver from Maradu not just a fortune of Rs. 12 crore but unnecessary attention laced with threats he could very well do without. For, Jayapalan P.R. has received a second ‘threatening’ letter in quick succession. The letter was handed over to the Maradu police who found the content quite similar to that of the first one. “It was a coercive one posted from Chelakkara in Thrissur demanding money to save some property about to be attached,” Maradu police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lottery-winner-gets-threatening-letter-again/article37920454.ece
10 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Former district judge dies||Elizabeth Mathai Idiculla, 93, former district judge, died here on Thursday. She was the first CBI Special Judge in the State and former president of the Indian Federation of Women Lawyers (Kerala Branch). She was practising as a High Court lawyer after her retirement from the judicial service. She is survived by her daughter Dr. Jyothi Mariam Idiculla and son Adv. Mohan Idiculla Abraham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/former-district-judge-dies/article37920459.ece
10 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Over 40 kg of ganja found abandoned||Around 40 kg of ganja was found abandoned in an open yard in the city on Thursday morning. The narcotic was found by migrant workers engaged in construction work at a property near P.J. Antony Ground at Pachalam. It was found neatly wrapped in a plastic sack and abandoned in the bushes. The workers chanced up on it when they went to collect sand. They alerted their supervisor who in turn informed the North police. A joint team of the North police and the District Anti-Narcotic Special Action Task Force (Dansaf) confirmed it to be ganja.  Theft attempt The Muvattupuzha police on Thursday arrested a man wanted in several cases of theft. The police said Faisal Ali, 35, of Mulavoor was an accused in several cases of pickpocketing, robbery, and house break-ins in Thrissur, Ernakulam, and Mysore. He was reportedly caught in the middle of an attempted theft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-40-kg-of-ganja-found-abandoned/article37920462.ece
10 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Held on charge of sexual abuse||The Perumbavoor police on Thursday arrested a man on the charge of sexually abusing a minor girl. The arrested was identified as Vishnu, 27, of Neyyattinkara. He is accused of forcefully entering the victim’s house and sexually abusing her and then repeating the crime by blackmailing her using the video of the previous act. A team led by inspector R. Ranjith, Sub Inspector Rinse M. Thomas, and senior civil police officers Naushad, Subair, and Jinju K. Mathai made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/held-on-charge-of-sexual-abuse/article37920464.ece
10 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bennichan reinstated as Chief Wildlife Warden||After keeping him under suspension for close to a month, the State government reinstated Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Wildlife and Chief Wildlife Warden Bennichan Thomas on Thursday. Mr. Thomas was suspended from service for permitting the Executive Engineer of the Tamil Nadu Water Resources department to cut down 15 trees in the area adjacent to the baby dam near the Mullaperiyar dam without following the applicable rules and consultative procedures, according to the government order that reinstated the official. The suspension was withdrawn on the recommendation of the Suspension Review Committee that the order issued by Mr. Thomas permitting Tamil Nadu to cut down the trees was cancelled by the State government and that no trees were felled in the area as per his earlier order. The committee observed that there was no need to continue to place Mr. Thomas under suspension in the wake of the government cancelling his order. Mr. Thomas was reinstated ‘pending finalisation of disciplinary action with the condition that decisions on all matters relating to Mullaperiyar will be taken at the level of the Head of Forest Force/government only in future.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bennichan-reinstated-as-chief-wildlife-warden/article37920511.ece
10 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mohanlal to continue as AMMA president||Actors Mohanlal and Edavela Babu will continue to be the president and general secretary respectively of the Association of Malayalam Movie Artistes (AMMA). Nobody else had filed nominations for the posts when the list of candidates for the election of office-bearers and members of the executive committee was announced on Thursday. Their new term is till 2024. The election of actors Jayasurya and Siddique as joint secretary and treasurer has been confirmed as there were no other nominations for both posts. Actors Asha Sharath, Maniyan Pillai Raju and Shwetha Menon are contesting for the two posts of vice president. There are 14 contestants for the 11-member executive committee. The election will be held on December 19, according to an official communication on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mohanlal-to-continue-as-amma-president/article37920515.ece
10 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC appoints amici curiae in case against police officers||Observing orally that taking money from the victims or their parents amounted to extortion, the Kerala High Court on Thursday appointed two High Court lawyers as amici curiae to assist the court in ascertaining whether prosecution proceedings could be launched against the police officers who had collected money from a family in Kochi for travelling to Delhi to trace their two missing daughters. Justice Devan Ramachandran passed the order in a suo motu case initiated on the basis of a newspaper report that a North Indian family living in Kochi had to give money to the police officers for their travel to Delhi to trace out their two missing daughters. The family had also alleged that an assistant sub-inspector of police had demanded Rs. 5 lakh for releasing the girls who were brought to the city and lodged in a care home. The newspaper reported that the two sisters had run away from home to meet an online boyfriend of the elder one. The court had, later, allowed the girls to go with their parents. The court observed that all were expected to act as per the law. How could one condone such actions of police officers? the court asked. They should have never taken the money from the parents or the victims, not even as an advance, for travel and lodging expenses. In a report, the District Police Chief (Kochi City) said the officers did not avail of the railway travel warrants or advance travelling allowance they were entitled to. They had travelled at the expense of the parents and that the assistant sub-inspector in the team had obtained Rs. 17,000 from the elder girl for their boarding and lodging expenses. The officer said the amount taken from the family would be returned or reimbursed. The court observed that the question which arose now was whether the action of the officers required lodging of an FIR. The court has appointed advocates S. Rajeev and A.V. Jojo as amici curiae to explore the ambit of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amici-curiae-to-assist-court-in-deciding-on-action-against-cops/article37920457.ece
10 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Special enforcement drive in Kollam||Anticipating high chances for bootlegging and drug peddling during the Christmas-New Year season, the Kollam Excise division has launched a special enforcement drive to prevent any possible inflow of illicit liquor and drugs into the district. Special attention will be given to offences coming under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) since the use of narcotics, including cannabis, as an alternative to alcohol is more common among the youth and students. Surveillance measures will be stepped up and joint inspections will be conducted till January 4, say officials. The department has opened a 24-hour control room at the Excise division office to coordinate the enforcement activities. The control room will function under an Excise inspector. There will be four striking force units functioning 24x7 covering various excise circles. The first unit will be functioning from Kollam excise range office and the second unit focussing on Karunagapally and Kunnathur taluks. The third unit will be in charge of Kottarakara taluk and the fourth Punalur and Pathanapuram. A 24-hour border patrol unit will monitor border areas that include Aryankavu and Achencoil. The Kollam Excise Enforcement & Anti-Narcotics special squad, Pathanapuram Excise circle office and Anchal Excise range office will supervise enforcement measures in the border areas. The border patrol team will be deployed along with the check-post party to tighten vehicle inspections at the entry points. Control rooms While 24-hour control rooms will be functioning in the Excise circle offices of Kollam, Karunagapally, Kunnathur, Kottarakara, Punalur and Pathanapuram taluks, joint inspections will be conducted with the Police, Revenue and Forest departments. Sea patrolling Sea patrolling will be strengthened with the Coastal police to prevent the smuggling of spirit and drugs. Joint raids will be conducted along inter-State borders with the help of the Tamil Nadu police to curb the inflow of contraband from the neighbouring State. The department has also intensified inter-range inspections and sample collections at toddy shops to ensure quality.  Particular attention to be given to offences coming under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-enforcement-drive-in-kollam/article37920496.ece
10 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Project to renovate roads in Kollam city||The State government has given in-principle approval to a project for renovating roads in Kollam city under the Chief Minister's Major Infrastructure Development Project (MIDP). The 158.4-crore project will bring major changes in the transport and infrastructure sectors of Kollam, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said. As part of the Kollam City Road Improvement Project, the Mevaram-Kavanad, Railway Station-Decent Junction and Thirumullavaram-Kallupalam stretches have been sanctioned Rs. 95.7 crore (13.15 km), Rs. 37 crore (6.3 km) and Rs. 25.7 crore respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/project-to-renovate-roads-in-kollam-city/article37920498.ece
10 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||SHRC seeks report on suicide||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has sought a report in an incident in which a Bharateepuram resident committed suicide after he was called an alcoholic and beaten up by a Kerala State Road Transport Corporation conductor. Ani, a 48-year-old liver patient, was returning home after visiting the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, on November 20 when he was reportedly assaulted at Vembayam by the conductor, who found him in an exhausted state on an unoccupied seat. He was later handed over to the Vattappara police. Distressed by the incident, Ani tried to kill himself later and was rushed to the MCH. He passed away on Tuesday while undergoing treatment at hospital. Commission member V.K. Beenakumari has directed the KSRTC to submit the report in four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-seeks-report-on-suicide/article37920500.ece
10 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||AKVMS to organise registration camp||The Kollam district committee of the Akhila Kerala Viswakarma Maha Sabha (AKVMS) will organise a registration camp and distribute cards for workers in the unorganised sector on December 12. Minister for Animal Husbandry J.Chinchurani will inaugurate the camp and AKVMS director board member P. Raghunathan will preside over the function. DCC president P.Rajendraprasad, BJP district president B. Gopakumar and other AKVMS leaders will speak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/akvms-to-organise-registration-camp/article37920499.ece
10 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU inks tie-up with Rubber Board||Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU), Kottayam, has inked an agreement with the Rubber Board to establish an academic and research collaboration programme. Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas signed a memorandum of understanding in this regard with Rubber Board executive director K.N. Raghavan here on Thursday. The agreement seeks to share knowledge, skill and expertise among the Rubber Research Institute of India (RRII), National Institute for Rubber Training and the university. Officials said the scope of the agreement also include sharing expertise and infrastructure for various academic and training programmes and business incubation, besides providing finishing school support to each other. Short-time continuing education programmes involving faculty members from both sides will be carried. The possibility of developing farm tourism for empowering rubber growers too will be explored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-inks-tie-up-with-rubber-board/article37920491.ece
10 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||KSRTC terminal: panel submits interim report on structural flaws||The five-member committee assigned to review the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) report on the structural flaws in the construction of the KSRTC bus terminal-cum-shopping complex here has sought more time to submit a final report, including recommendations for further action. It submitted an interim report explaining the technical issues involved in the construction of the complex. It also sought clarification on the report submitted by P. Alagusundaramoorthy, Professor, Structural Engineering, IIT-M. The report said that the pillars of the multi-storey twin tower complex were structurally weak and required immediate strengthening. A conclusive report could be submitted only after that, sources said. The terminal on Mavoor Road was constructed six years ago at a cost of Rs. 74.63 crore. The structure constructed by the Kerala Transport Development Finance Corporation (KTDFC) was inaugurated on June 1, 2015. The first tower has 10 floors, while the second has 11 floors, including parking space. The committee, constituted by the Transport Department in the last week of October, was asked to submit its recommendations on rehabilitating the building within a fortnight. However, one of the members, Prof. Nirjhar Dhang, head of the department of civil engineering, IIT Kharagpur, could not reach Kozhikode. Therefore, videos and photographs of the terminal had to be sent to him. Besides, an online meeting was held to evaluate the IIT-M report. The other members of the panel were chief technical examiner S. Harikumar (convener), T.M. Madhavan Pillai, Department of Civil Engineering, National Institute of Technology-Calicut; L. Beena, Chief Engineer (Buildings) Public Works Department, and K.R. Bindu, College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram. Meanwhile, the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) is yet to decide on a preliminary report submitted by its Kozhikode unit to take up a case on irregularities in the construction of the complex. Vigilance sources said the complex had been constructed without the prior approval of the Kozhikode Corporation. An application for the building plan was submitted only after the completion of construction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-terminal-panel-submits-interim-report-on-structural-flaws/article37920440.ece
10 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Medical college Principal orders eviction of PG doctors from hostels||V.R. Rajendran, Principal, Government Medical College, Kozhikode, has ordered the eviction of postgraduate medical students who are continuing their indefinite strike seeking fast-tracking of NEET-PG allotment and written orders on stipend hike and appointment of Non-Academic Junior Resident doctors. This follows a directive from the Director, Medical Education, and Health Minister Veena George. The order issued on Thursday said, “Some PG students are continuing their strike in spite of the assurance given by the Health Minister. It is understood that [a] majority of students of other [medical] colleges have called off their strike and reported for duty.” The principal claimed that he had been directed by the higher authorities to evacuate the students who are continuing the indefinite strike without obeying the direction of the Minister. “Under the above circumstances, it is hereby ordered to vacate the PG hostels with effect from 9.12.2021 without failure.” A representative of the Kerala Medical Post Graduate Association (KMPGA) said on Thursday that some of the hostel wardens had asked the striking students to vacate the hostel premises. But they would not be vacating the hostel. A rally was taken out on the college campus in the night by the students’ union of the college expressing solidarity with the striking doctors. The doctors have been on strike for nine days now. Though Ms. George had announced on Tuesday night after holding talks that the strike would be called off, KMPGA clarified later that they would continue with the agitation. They had been boycotting operation theatres, outpatient department and ward duty. From Friday, they have threatened to boycott emergency services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-college-principal-orders-eviction-of-pg-doctors-from-hostels/article37920442.ece
10 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||IUML to continue agitation till Waqf postings Act is repealed||In a massive show of strength, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) organised a protest rally on the Kozhikode beach on Thursday evening against the decision of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government to hand over Waqf Board appointments to the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC). Govt. warned Inaugurating the rally, IUML Malappuram district president Panakkad Syed Sadiqali Shihab Thangal said the party would not bow out from its agitation until the PSC (Additional Functions as Respects the Services Under the Waqf Board ) Act, 2021, which was passed by the Assembly a month ago, was repealed. The IUML would continue its struggle against the government if it tried to trample on the rights of the Muslim community enshrined in the Constitution, he said. Taking a dig at Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan without naming him, the Thangal said it was nothing more than wishful thinking of the Cliff House (official residence of the Chief Minister) to drive a wedge between the party and community leaders on the Waqf appointment issue. Unity of community The Thangal, also State vice president of the Sunni Yuvajana Sangham, had a cautious word for IUML-backed Samastha Kerala Jem'iyyathul Ulema which held direct parleys with Mr. Vijayan on the issue on Tuesday. Religious leaders had always supported the party in its endeavours whenever Muslims faced injustice from the ruling class, he said, adding the rally was also to stress the unity of the community and strengthen the bond of understanding among other communities. He pointed out that the argument of the government that the decision to entrust the Waqf appointments to the PSC was to improve efficiency defied logic. Of the over 5 lakh government employees, only about 2 lakh appointments had been done through the PSC. The rest were recruited through universities, boards and other bodies. “Shouldn't the government think about improving the efficiency of these appointments when the Waqf board has only 106 employees on its rolls? So this decision has been taken with ulterior motives,” the Thangal said. He said the rally was just a reminder to the government that the IUML was not organising a protest for the first time. And also not for the last time, he added. IUML leaders P.K. Kunhalikutty and M.K. Muneer, MLAs, and party general secretary P.M.A. Salam addressed the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-to-continue-agitation-till-waqf-postings-act-is-repealed/article37920510.ece
10 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||GO clears confusion in higher secondary education in Malabar||A Government Order (GO) on Thursday directing the Director of General Education to hold improvement exams for the 2021 batch of Plus One students and another notification on 79 additional batches have cleared confusion in the higher secondary education sector in the Malabar region. The order said that the students could not attend schools because of the pandemic and other natural calamities, and that they had not been able to study properly in classrooms. Thus, holding improvement exams will be necessary, it added. Earlier, when the notification for the exams for the 2021 batch was issued, it was announced that improvement exams would not be held. According to sources, there had been complaints about Plus One exams after the results were declared. Many students could not appear for the exams because of COVID-19, and some others scored less than expected marks. This led to the demand to give them another chance through improvement exams. Meanwhile, the order on additional Plus One batches too has come as a relief for students who could not secure admissions even after scoring high marks in Malabar districts. Government higher secondary schools in the region with good infrastructure will benefit from these temporary batches. Most of the additional seats will be in humanities and commerce streams and some in the science stream. A notification on the allocation of seats to various schools is expected in the coming days. Guest lecturers will have to be appointed to cater for these batches. Many students had opted for the open school system through the State Council for Open and Lifelong Education-Kerala, as they could not get admissions even one-and-a-half months after the launch of Plus One classes. Since the last date for registering with the open school system is December 15, it was feared that any delay in launching new batches would lead to more following suit. It was pointed out that students who had already secured admissions were not able to opt for changing of schools or combination of streams because of the delay in the launch of additional batches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/go-clears-confusion-in-higher-secondary-education-in-malabar/article37920445.ece
10 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Mobile veterinary units in block panchayats||Minister for Animal Husbandry J. Chinchu Rani on Thursday said the State government would consider opening mobile veterinary units in all block panchayats to ensure 24x7 service. Opening a dairy farmers’ meet at Kunnummal here, Ms. Rani said such units would offer the services of doctors at the doorstep of livestock farmers. Tele-unit She also said that there would be measures to launch tele-veterinary units in all districts. K.P. Kunhammad Kutty, MLA, chaired the event. Outstanding dairy farmers were felicitated on the occasion. E.K. Vijayan, MLA, and district panchayat president Sheeja Sasi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mobile-veterinary-units-in-block-panchayats/article37920444.ece
10 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Station masters put off hunger stir||Railway station masters have postponed a hunger strike they planned to begin from December 10 midnight demanding easing of their work pressure. All India Station Masters Association general secretary E.K. Babu said here on Thursday that the strike was put off in the wake of the talks being held between the association leaders and the Railway management in the presence of the Regional Labour Commissioner, Chennai. Mr. Babu said hundreds of station masters in the Southern Railway would go ahead with the agitation if the talks failed. The hunger strike was proposed for three days from December 10 midnight. All station masters, irrespective of being on duty or not, were to join the hunger strike. “We chose December 10 for our agitation as it is the World Human Rights Day. We are protesting against the policy of reducing the number of station masters in such a way as to seriously affect the safety of the Railways,” said Venugopal, Palakkad Railway Division president of the All India Station Masters Association. More than 2,000 station masters in six divisions of Southern Railway were to join the hunger strike demanding appointment to hundreds of vacant posts. As many as 570 station master posts are vacant in the Southern Railway and 78 of them are in Palakkad division. Mr. Babu said that they were being forced to do continuous duty, even without a weekly off, at several stations in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/station-masters-put-off-stir/article37920433.ece
10 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Job festival at Victoria College tomorrow||The District Employment Exchange will conduct a mega job fest titled ‘Niyukti 2021’ at Government Victoria College here on Saturday. District Employment Officer P.K. Rajendran said that 73 companies would participate in the fest being held after a break caused by the pandemic. More than 3,400 vacancies have been notified, and nearly 4,000 candidates have registered. Mr. Rajendran said that the vacancies were in banking, management, IT, hospitality, hotel management, sales executive, and customer relations.  Minister for Power K. Krishnan Kutty will inaugurate the fest at 9 a.m. on Saturday. C. Rama, Regional Deputy Director of Employment, Kozhikode, will explain the employment projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/job-festival-at-victoria-college-tomorrow/article37920666.ece
10 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pilgrims can stay overnight at Pampa in view of rain||Taking into consideration the plight of devotees during the rain-induced stoppage of pilgrimage, the authorities have decided to permit overnight stay of pilgrims at Pampa. The decision, taken at a high-level meeting convened by Sabarimala Additional District Magistrate Arjun Pandian, is being implemented in view of the recurring disruptions in pilgrimage due to the heavy rain that lashed the region. The pilgrims often get stranded at Pampa or Nilackal whenever it rains. The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), meanwhile, has begun restoring the rooms at the Sannidhanam in anticipation of the government permitting the stay of pilgrims at the hilltop. More bus services The meeting decided to augment the number of bus services between Pampa and Nilackal with a view to easing congestion when devotees returned in droves after darshan. It directed all departments to pay attention in ensuring the health and hygiene of permanent employees at the Sannidhanam. In connection with granting permission for devotees to take a dip in the Pampa, the Additional District Magistrate inspected a stretch of the Pampa from the Arattukadavu VCB to the Triveni bridge. Security arrangements A report would be submitted to the District Disaster Management Authority and works on setting up primary security arrangements along the river ghats would begin soon, said an official. The temple has witnessed a heavy rush of pilgrims, especially on weekends. Sources said the income during the first three weeks of the season had already crossed Rs. 21 crore, the total revenue collected during the previous season.  The pilgrims often get stranded at Pampa or Nilackal whenever it rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pilgrims-can-stay-overnight-at-pampa-in-view-of-rain/article37920256.ece
10 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Outreach programme at tribal school||With a view to creating awareness on COVID-19 and highlight the various welfare schemes initiated by the Union government, the Field Outreach Bureau, Kottayam, under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, organised an integrated communication and outreach programme at the Government Tribal Lower Primary School, Attathodu, the other day Inaugurating the programme, Ranni legislator Pramod Narayanan called upon the students to inculcate the habit of reading to acquire knowledge as a knowledgeable person could scale great heights. He appreciated the bureau for organising a painting competition for the students to convey the Swachh Bharat message and a nutritious recipe competition for mothers to impart awareness about the importance of nutritious food P.S. Mohanan, president, Perunad grama panchayat, presided over the function. Sudha S. Namboothiri, Assistant Director, Field Outreach Bureau, Kottayam, welcomed the gathering. An Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav quiz competition, Ayurveda medical camp and a cultural programme were organised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/outreach-programme-at-tribal-school/article37920486.ece
10 December 2021||THIRUAVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pipe burst hits water supply, inundates houses||An excavation undertaken by the City Corporation accidentally ruptured a main water supply pipeline, resulting in waterlogging in various parts of Vellayambalam and nearby areas on Thursday. Nearly 15 houses were inundated and several parked vehicles were damaged. The incident also had large parts of the city facing the prospect of disrupted water supply for the next two days. A 700-mm ductile iron pipe of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) was damaged at Kanaka Nagar around 5 p.m. when the road was being excavated by a contractor roped in by the local body for constructing a retaining wall. The work was apparently undertaken without informing the KWA beforehand, sources said. Despite KWA officials soon commencing efforts to plug the leak in the pipeline that supplies water from the Aruvikkara reservoir to a major portion of the city, water continued to flow out for nearly an hour. While the KWA managed to temporarily stop the outflow from the damaged portion of the pipe, officials point out that the repair could last two days. Efforts continued well into the late hours of Thursday to demolish a wall on the KWA premises in the area to access the pipe. Water supply will be disrupted until Saturday to various parts including Vellayambalam – Sasthamangalam road, Kochar road, Edappazhinji, Observatory Hills, Palayam, Assembly complex, Nandavanam, Vazhuthacaud, Thycaud, Valiyasala, Bakery, Oottukuzhy, Secretariat, Manjalikulam road, Ayurveda College, Pulimoodu, Vanchiyoor, Pettah, Chakka, Poonthi road, Veli, Vettucaud, Shangumughom, Karikkakom and other places that come under the Palayam and Pattoor sections. KWA helpline The KWA has informed that those requiring water supply through tankers can contact the helpline 8547697340. Water supply can also be sought through the water tanker service provided by the Corporation (contact numbers: 9496434488, 0471 – 2377701).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pipe-burst-hits-water-supply-inundates-houses/article37920662.ece
10 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Zooming in on lives on streets||For a documentary film focussing mostly on people forced to live on the streets, one of the most fascinating sequences in Niraj Menon’s Dastoor (Ritual) is an exchange between two women on the most comfortable locations to sleep at night. One tells the other that her family is sleeping in the upper area that night as it is more windy there. It almost sounds as if they enjoy the freedom of sleeping out in the open, with the variety of choices of places to choose from, though that is far from the truth. The documentary, screened in the Long Documentary Competition category at the 13th International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala (IDSFFK), was shot around the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, focusing on the day-to-day lives of people living in and around Thane railway station in Mumbai. Government apathy Most of those whom the makers train their lens on are forthcoming about their situation, with some of them resigned to the fact of not having a better life for themselves and dreaming of their children receiving an education to escape the streets, while others display an awareness of how the governments do not care about them, while meeting the demands of the vocal middle class and the corporates. The focus of the documentary is not just on the people living there, but also the ones who use the station. In one long sequence, a woman, who says that she is a retired teacher, talks about how they are a “nuisance” and speaks proudly of her efforts to get the policemen to drive them away. “Would that solve the problem?,” the director asks her. From her class perspective and life experiences, the people on the streets are the problem, not the economic structures that forced them to live there. Root cause However, at the same time, there are others who understand the root cause. One of those men on the streets explains succinctly the story of how he, a farmer, was forced to come to the city in search of a job after his crops failed. As academic and social critic Sunil P. Elayidom says in the film, there won’t be a drastic change in the lives of the poor in the country, unless poverty is framed and understood as a human rights issue. The documentary does manage to push the viewer to think as to the lack of focussed interventions on the part of governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/zooming-in-on-lives-on-streets/article37920488.ece
10 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UNICEF to roll out five-year plan||UNICEF India is designing an ambitious and innovative five-year country programme that has social policy as a priority across all sectors, Hyun Hee Ban, Chief of Social Policy, Monitoring, and Evaluation, UNICEF India, has said. Talking to The Hindu on a visit to the State along with K.L. Rao, Chief, Social Policy, UNICEF Office for Tamil Nadu and Kerala, Ms. Ban said UNICEF wanted to talk with all stakeholders and get insights on how what could be done better in the new environment after COVID-19 and where climate change was a major priority while designing the new country programme. Learning crisis Ms. Ban said that the pandemic and climate change had exacerbated the learning crisis. As many as 286 million children had been affected in the country. This excluded the millions out of school owing to various reasons. Kerala had made digital learning accessible but that was not case in other States where there existed a digital divide. It was a new kind of deprivation. In a study of climate effects on children, India was ranked fifth most vulnerable country to climate change. UNICEF’s overall vision on social protection was for children to live free from poverty and have access to inclusive social protection programmes, such as government’s cash grants to children who had lost their parents to COVID-19, she said. In the area of local governance, UNICEF was keen on child and young-friendly local governance initiatives that put children and adolescents at the centre so that they could raise their voice about what made a difference to their lives. Such initiatives were needed not only in rural areas but cities too where there was a lot of urban poverty and vulnerability. Governance initiatives Kerala had launched child-friendly local governance initiatives that many States wanted to replicate. Talks had been held with government officials, she said, on building on the Kerala model and extending it to the secondary generation, that is 10 to 19 year-old, by looking at adolescent health, including mental health, nutrition, and linking education with life skills and skills that led to employability. Protection of children from violence was another priority. One of the major pillars of the new country programme would be evidence-based planning. This would be done with partnerships with centres of excellence so that reports and studies could be used effectively. The large number of social security programmes would be reviewed and consolidated and a few schemes prioritised for better coverage, she said. Ms. Ban said she was very excited about being in Kerala as she has heard much about the innovative initiatives here that could be scaled up to help not only other States but also other middle-income countries. There were models in other countries such as shock-reponsive social protection programmes that also could be implemented here. The UNICEF Social Policy Chief has a personal connection to India. She is married to an Indian. She is also the daughter of former United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon who had served here as a diplomat. Her brother was born in the country. “It is a huge privilege to be in India, and hope I can make a difference in the lives of children here. My father too was thrilled for me.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unicef-to-roll-out-five-year-plan/article37920655.ece
10 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTC pay on a par with govt. staff||The government has decided to implement pay revision for Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) employees, making their pay on a par with that of government employees. The decision was taken following a discussion between Transport Minister Antony Raju and trade union leaders on Thursday. The revised salaries, with an increase in basic pay from Rs. 8,730 to Rs. 23,000, will be effective from June 2021 and paid from January 2022 onwards. The fitment allowance of 10% will be retained, while the Dearness Allowance of 137% will be merged with the new scale. Maternity leave Women employees in the posts of driver, conductor, and mechanic will be allowed six months of maternity leave and one-year leave with an allowance of Rs. 5,000. This leave period will also be considered as service period while availing service benefits. House rent allowance will be increased at a rate of 4% from a minimum of Rs. 1,200 to a maximum of Rs. 5,000. Death-cum-retirement gratuity will be increased from Rs. 7 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh. The commuted value of pension will remain at 10%. Drivers doing 20 duties per month will get an extra payment of Rs. 50 and those doing more than 20 duties will get Rs. 100. The duty pattern will be revised based on the Motor Transport Workers’ Act. Crew change system A crew change system will be implemented in inter-State buses. New cadre posts for driver-cum-conductors and the accounting wing will be created. Driver-cum-conductors will be appointed in long-distance services of up to 500 km. The mechanical wing will be restructured as two wings - mechanical general and mechanical auto. Employees above 50 years of age will be allowed up to five years of leave with 50% salary and all service benefits. Pension revision will be taken up following talks with the organisations and with the clearance of the Finance and Cooperative departments and the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rtc-pay-on-a-par-with-govt-staff/article37920513.ece
10 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IDSFFK opens without inaugural event||The 13th edition of the International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala (IDSFFK) opened at the Ariesplex SL Cinemas in the capital on Thursday. The festival, earlier scheduled to be inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, got off to a quiet start as the inaugural event was called off as a mark of respect to Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 other officers who died in the IAF helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. After offering tributes to the departed, the opening film Beirut: Eye of the Storm was screened. Lebanese history The film follows four young women artists in Beirut who document a turbulent period in Lebanese history, from the momentous October 2019 uprising against the ruling regime to the subsequent lockdown and the massive explosion at the port a few months later. A total of 33 films, including long and short documentaries, short films and campus films, were screened on the first day. Spanish film The Button , which depicts the life of a doctor who lost his job during the pandemic, received positive response. This film, directed by Adolf Penn, was screened to a packed audience. New category Filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan will inaugurate Isolation and Survival, a new category of films at the IDSFFK that features films set during the COVID-19 pandemic, at 6 p.m. on Friday. This category features 10 films based on award-winning screenplays in a competition organised by the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy last year. Mr. Gopalakrishnan will also present the best screenplay awards at the function.  A total of 33 films, including long and short documentaries, short films and campus films, screened on the first day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/13th-edition-of-idsffk-opens-without-inaugural-event/article37920490.ece
10 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Explosives recovered at Palode||Forest officials who have been probing the suspected gemstone excavation at Palode have recovered explosives that were supposedly meant for mining the semi-precious stone. The investigators stumbled upon 62 detonators and 43 packets of nitrate mixture, generally used for quarrying, lying concealed under a tarpaulin sheet close to two excavated pits that were discovered at Manachala a day ago. Pump sets were earlier found from the area. The explosives and other evidence were produced at the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court (for the trial of forest offices) in Nedumangad and subsequently handed over to the Palode police, which have registered a case under provisions of the Explosives Substances Act. Palode station house officer C.K. Manoj said efforts were on to trace the whereabouts of the nine Bharathanoor natives who had been arrested in connection with a similar attempt made to mine gemstones from the vicinity in 2014, he said. Bid to identify gang Meanwhile, officers of the Palode forest range continued their efforts to identify the gang that had managed to reach Manachala by evading detection of forest watchers and others in the area. While the area is generally accessed through the Braemore estate, the forest officials questioned the watcher of the private estate. Meanwhile, three section forest officers in the region were transferred two days ago. While the action was claimed by various quarters as linked to the Manchala incident that raised allegations of lapse in surveillance, the forest authorities maintained that the transfers had been effected on the basis of requests submitted by the officers. Those who were served the transfer orders by the Palode range officer were Bharathanoor section forest officer Ajayakumar K.G., Peringamala section forest officer Y Martin and Chekkonam section forest officer G. Balachandran Nair, who have been shifted to Peringamala, Chekkonam and Bharathanoor respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/explosives-recovered-at-palode/article37920660.ece
10 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State logs 4,169 cases||The State reported 4,169 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday when 66,715 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The cumulative case burden now stands at 51,83,061 cases. The case fatality rose to 42,239 on Thursday, with the State adding 225 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on the day. The active case pool dipped further and had 40,546 patients on Thursday. A total of 4,357 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health department, only 7.9 % of the active cases are currently in hospitals or first-line/second-line treatment centres. The current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals was 594 on Thursday. On Thursday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID-19 was 277. Hospitalisations remained below the 5,000 mark. At present, 4,601 persons are being treated in hospitals across the State. Capital tops Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 759, followed by Ernakulam 691, Kozhikode 526, Thrissur 341, Kottayam 317, Kollam 300, Kannur 287, Pathanamthitta 172, Malappuram 161, Palakkad 142, Alappuzha 141, Idukki 140, Wayanad 98, and Kasaragod 94 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-logs-4169-cases/article37920517.ece
10 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NCC observes Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav||A solemn function was organised at Sainik School, Kazhakuttam, on Wednesday as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav to commemorate the 75th year of India’s Independence. Tributes were paid to Captain R Harshan (posthumous), an alumnus of the school who laid down his life while fighting terrorists on March 20, 2007. The fallen heroes of the 1971 war were honoured on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ncc-observes-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav/article37920652.ece
10 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rs. 8 crore for renovating rivers, canals in district||Minister for Water Resources Roshy Augustine has given administrative sanction for Rs. 8 crore for flood prevention activities in rivers and canals in the district. The renovation activities are being carried out as part of attempts to prevent flooding in the city. The flood mitigation activities will be taken up in two phases. The first phase activities have been sanctioned Rs. 3.81 crore and the next phase Rs. 4.24 crore. In the first phase, Rs. 80 lakh has been sanctioned for rejuvenation of the Pazhavangady canal, Rs. 30 lakh for the Ulloor canal, Rs. 55 lakh each for the Karimadhom canal and the Kariyil canal, Rs. 18 lakh for the Thekkenallara canal, Rs. 39.9 lakh for the Killi river, Rs. 34.7 lakh for the Karamana river, Rs. 48 lakh for the Parvathy Puthanar, and Rs. 26 lakh for the Thettiyaar canal. Funds have been sanctioned for the second phase renovation of the Killi river (Rs. 2.15 crore), the Karamana river (Rs. 1.34 crore), and the Pazhavangady canal (Rs. 75 lakh). It is hoped that once the work is completed, the city will be permanently spared the flooding caused by rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-8-crore-for-renovating-rivers-canals-in-district/article37920656.ece
10 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||79 temporary batches for Plus One||Seventy-nine temporary batches have been sanctioned for the Plus One higher secondary course. A statement from the office of Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty on Thursday said the number of Science batches had been enhanced to 20 following demand from students and parents. The number of Commerce batches sanctioned was 10, while that for Humanities was 49. Earlier, the Minister had announced 72 temporary batches, of which only one was for Science. No Science batch had been allowed in Malappuram. The number of Commerce batches was the same, but that for Humanities was 61. Taluk-level data had been collected and on the Chief Minister’s directions, the department studied the seat issue and decided to sanction 79 temporary batches. Applications for school combination transfer will be invited from December 14 taking into account the vacant seats in the wake of the temporary batch sanction. Meanwhile, the department has issued orders allowing an opportunity for improvement of the results of Plus One higher secondary and vocational higher secondary examinations held this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/79-temporary-batches-for-plus-one/article37920512.ece
10 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Women to speak about surviving violence||Hundred women representing sectors that the Kerala Mahila Samakhya Society intervenes in will come together at the Jawahar Cooperative Bhavan auditorium at DPI here on Friday, Human Rights Day. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty will inaugurate the gathering ‘Karutthode Kaikorkkam,’ to be presided over by Minister for Women and Child Development Veena George. Mriduladevi S., editor,Padhabedhammagazine, will speak on violence against women and laws. Representatives of women will speak on how they survived violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/women-to-speak-about-surviving-violence/article37920651.ece
10 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister lauds initiatives by teachers’ guild||Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty inaugurated ‘Sadhyam 2021’ organised by the Kerala Catholic Teachers’ Guild here on Thursday. The Minister appreciated the programmes introduced by the guild – ‘One teacher one child,’ ‘One student one book,’ and ‘Vobiscum.’ In govt. schools too The initiatives would be introduced in government schools in the near future, a statement from the guild quoted the Minister. Mr. Sivankutty also spoke about inculcating human values such as social commitment, equality, and empathy in students instead of mere textual knowledge. Initiative details ‘One teacher one child’ involves mentoring of one child by one teacher, knowing the child close up, becoming a friend, and sharing their difficulties. It will cover more than 300 students. ‘One student one book’ is intended as a record of students’ creative writing in book form. This is intended for students to realise their talents and enhance them. Vobiscum, a Latin phrase that means ‘With you,’ is a programme for providing dinner to students who get to eat once or twice a day at the most.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-lauds-initiatives-by-teachers-guild/article37920657.ece
10 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DUK research posts||The Knowledge Centre for Software Engineering and Project Management under Digital University Kerala (DUK) has invited applications for the posts of research associate (artificial intelligence), research associate (application development), project assistant and senior research associate. For details, log on towww.duk.ac.in/careers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/duk-invites-applications-for-research-posts/article37920492.ece
10 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||759 test positive, 863 recover||The district recorded 759 COVID-19 cases and 863 recoveries even as the number of active caseload continued a downward trend to fall to 6,248 on Thursday. The test positivity rate stood at 9%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/759-test-positive-863-recover/article37920658.ece
10 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Boy electrocuted||A six-year old boy died in Vithura on Thursday afternoon in a suspected case of electrocution. The deceased has been identified as Sarang, hailing from Karuvila near Vithura. According to the police, Sarang was playing outside his house with his twin brother when he was suspected to have accidentally come into contact with an earth wire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boy-electrocuted/article37920663.ece
10 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU invites applications for internship||Innovation by Youth with Disabilities (I-YwD), a project coordinated by the National Institute of Speech and Hearing (NISH) and APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU), is offering internship for second-year BTech students of the university. According to an official release, the six-month internship is available in the areas of social media marketing, graphic design, videography and video editing, and content writing. Those interested should submit their statement of interests and work samples to internwithiywd@gmail.com. The deadline for submitting application is December 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-invites-applications-for-internship/article37920436.ece
10 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Professionals told to help ryots||Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has called for close association between the farming community and agriculture professionals. He was addressing the convocation ceremony of Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) for 2020 at the central auditorium of the university here on Thursday. “The goal of every agricultural graduate should be to help farmers. The scientific community should find solutions for the problems faced by them,” he said. Degrees were awarded to 797 students across various disciplines. While 428 students received bachelor degree, master’s degree was awarded to 264 students in the programme held in hybrid mode. Doctoral and diploma degrees were also distributed to 31 and 74 students respectively. The Minister distributed PhD degrees and awards to graduates and others received their degrees online. R. Chandrababu, Vice Chancellor, delivered the welcome speech. Revenue Minister K.Rajan gave the special address in which he recalled the importance of the Kerala Agricultural University, which is celebrating its golden jubilee. He said the university had made remarkable achievements in developing technologies and crop varieties that were widely used by the farming community in the State. Best teacher award The keynote address was given by Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary (DARE) and Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). The best teacher award instituted by the ICAR was given to T.K. Kunhamu, Professor, College of Forestry. The Sardar Patel award for outstanding students was given to five students from various disciplines. The Dr. P.K.R. Nair Prize for outstanding postgraduate research was given to two candidates from Agriculture and Forestry. The Dr. M.R.G.K. Nair Memorial Endowment Award, Dr. Manomohandas Memorial Endowment Award, and Femi Jose Memorial Merit Award were also presented by the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-link-between-farmers-professionals/article37920503.ece
10 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||SPC gets 49 complaints at adalat||State Police Chief (SPC) Anil Kant on Thursday conducted an adalat at the Thrissur City Commissioner office to solve the complaints of people. Mr. Kant considered 49 complaints received from the public. Complaints related to irregularities in investigations, money loss in various investment frauds, police conduct, petition against new traffic regulations in the city, and blade mafia were considered at the adalat. The SPC ordered a detailed investigation into the complaints. Stringent action would be taken against the blade mafia, Mr. Kant said. Raids would be conducted in the firms, which levied exorbitant interest rates for loans, he said. Thrissur range DIG A. Akbar and City Police Commissioner R. Aditya participated in the adalat. The DGP interacted with the police officers and gave instructions after the adalat. He asked the police officers to consider complaints of women with immediate effect. Stringent action should be taken against sexual offices against children. Time-bound investigation should be conducted in POCSO cases, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spc-gets-49-complaints-at-adalat/article37920618.ece
10 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||CM condoles death of Pradeep||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has condoled the death of junior warrant officer A. Pradeep, 38, in the copter crash in Coonoor. The Chief Minister called his kin over the phone. “Pradeep’s untimely death is very sad. He was a brave soldier, who served for the rescue of people when the State faced devastating floods in 2018,” he wrote on Facebook. Revenue Minister K. Rajan called on the relatives of Pradeep at his residence at Ponnukkara, Puthur, here on Thursday. Pradeep was the eldest son of Radhakrishnan Arakkal, who resides near the Maimbulli temple at Ponnukkara. Pradeep got selected to the Air Force in 2004 and later became an air crew and served the force at various places across the country. He had participated in many operations, including the one against Maoists in Chhattisgarh. He was part of a rescue mission in Kerala during the floods in 2018. He is survived by wife Sreelakshmi and sons Dakshan Dev, 5, and Deva Prayag, 2. His mother is Kumari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chief-minister-condoles-death-of-pradeep/article37920435.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Artistic expression||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/artistic-expression/article37920438.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Caught in conflict||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caught-in-conflict/article37920519.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Work at hand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-at-hand/article37920665.ece
10 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bird flu triggers alert in Alappuzha||Alappuzha district was put on alert on Thursday after an outbreak of bird flu was confirmed at Kunnumma South (Ward 10) in Thakazhy grama panchayat. District Collector A. Alexander said the presence of the H5N1 subtype of the Influenza A virus was reported in ducks. Mr. Alexander, who chaired a meeting to take stock of the situation, said that measures had been initiated to check the spread of the disease. Joseph Cherian, a duck farmer from Purakkad, who was raising around 13,500 ducks close to the outer bund of a paddy field in Thakazhy with an eye on the Christmas festive season, lost more than 10,000 birds in the past two weeks. Following the mass death of ducks, the Animal Husbandry Department (AHD) last week sent samples of dead birds to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for analyses, which tested positive for avian influenza. Rapid response AHD officials said that between 8,000 and 10,000 ducks belonging to five farmers within a one-km radius of the infected area were culled by rapid response teams as part of the containment measures. The carcasses of the culled birds were disposed of as per the standard operating procedure. The Collector has issued an order banning movement and sale of duck, chicken, quail, and other domestic birds, their egg, meat and waste (manure) in 12 local bodies (within 9 km radius of the hotspot) of Champakulam, Nedumudi, Muttar, Edathua, Veeyapuram, Karuvatta, Thrikkunnappuzha, Thakazhy, Purakkad, Ambalappuzha South, Ambalappuzha North, and Haripad municipality. Besides, the place in Ward 10 of Thakazhy grama panchayat where the disease was confirmed has been declared a containment zone. The movement of people and vehicles to and from the place has been banned. Mr. Alexander directed the assistant conservator of forests to monitor migratory birds for avian influenza. Apart from Thakazhy, duck mortality has been reported from Nedumudi in Alappuzha, Vechoor and Kallara in Kottayam district in recent days. The AHD has sent samples from these places for analyses but is yet to receive the test results. Second time this year It is the second time in less than a year bird was confirmed in the region. Earlier this year, avian flu caused by the H5N8 strain of the Influenza A virus was detected from six places in Kuttanad at Nedumudi, Thakazhy, Pallippad, Karuvatta, and Kainakary in Alappuzha district and Neendoor in Kottayam district. More than 80,000 birds, mostly ducks, died or were culled in the two districts due to the outbreak. It was the third outbreak of avian influenza reported in the region in the last seven years. In 2014, thousands of ducks had perished or were culled following a highly infectious bird flu outbreak caused by the H5N1 virus. In 2016, avian influenza caused by the H5N8 virus was detected among ducks in Kuttanad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bird-flu-triggers-alert-in-alappuzha/article37920088.ece
10 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka tops in first dose vaccine coverage||With 94.57% of the 4.89 crore eligible population in the State having been jabbed with the first dose till Thursday, Karnataka has moved up to the first position among larger States in terms of first dose vaccination. Karnataka, which stood in the third position in first dose administration till a week ago, is now followed by Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh where 94.46% and 93.83% of the target population has been covered with one dose, according to data from CoWIN. From 21,013 average vaccinations per day in January when COVID-19 vaccination was rolled out, the State’s daily average vaccinations shot up to 4,83,144 in September, the highest. September also saw 1,40,11,162 doses administered, the highest so far. While a total of 91,15,528 doses were administered in November, over 53% (48,73,88%) of this number have been administered in the last nine days alone this month. In fact, vaccinations have picked up since November 26, following growing concern over Omicron, the new variant. So far, three districts - Bengaluru Urban, Gadag, and Vijayapura - have achieved 100% coverage in terms of first dose administration. While Kodagu has covered 99% of the target population, twelve other districts including Chickballapur, Belagavi, Davangere, Udupi, Ballari, and Uttara Kannada have achieved 95% coverage and above.  With the State having administered a total of 3,31,06,589 second doses of COVID-19 vaccine as of Thursday, 67.6% of the eligible 4.89 crore population in the State has been fully vaccinated so far. Arundhathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, said the focus is now on second dose administration. “As on December 9, nearly 46,000 people who have taken their first doses are due for second doses in the next few days. We have been prioritising people who come for second doses,” she said. Pointing out that 92% of the target population in Bengaluru Urban has been fully inoculated, the official said Kodagu follows with 83% second dose coverage. By December-end “We are hoping to cover around 96%-97% of the eligible population with first doses by December-end. The remaining population that may be left out could be because of migration and contraindications. Some may not be medically fit to get vaccinated due to immunocompromised conditions or recent COVID infection,” she explained. “Our efforts to motivate and sensitise people, especially those who are due for second doses, will be further intensified through door-to-door visits and information, education and communication activities,” she said. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who tweeted about Karnataka’s first dose achievement, said: “The rate of vaccination has picked up in December due to stringent monitoring and review of the process. The Omicron scare also drove people to vaccination centres in larger numbers. As announced earlier, we have a target of completing vaccination by the end of this year and we are on track to do it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-tops-in-first-dose-vaccine-coverage/article37920078.ece
10 December 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six-member kidnapper gang busted||The Eluru Rural police arrested a six-member kidnapper gang, including a rowdy-sheeter, and rescued one Vemineedu Trinadha Rao of Eluru town. The gang allegedly demanded a ransom of Rs. 1.5 lakh from Mr. Rao’s family for his release, said Eluru Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) O. Dileep Kiran. Addressing presspersons here on Thursday, he said the gang allegedly kidnapped Trinadha Rao at NTR Colony, near Sai Baba temple on December 6 night in a car. Confined in a mill The accused took Mr. Rao to Chintalapudi, detained him in a room near Jute Mill in the town, and called the victim’s family members using the latter’s mobile phone. On knowing about the incident, the police swung into action and traced the gang. The alleged kidnappers fled the spot leaving Mr. Rao in the room. Police rescued the victim and rounded up the accused, said Mr. Dileep Kiran. The team led by Eluru Rural police arrested rowdy sheeter G. Jagadish alias Jagan, J. Durga Rao, B. Appa Rao, K. Dileep. T. Rajesh and M. Nani, all natives of Eluru. The accused were produced before the court, the DSP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-member-kidnapper-gang-arrested-man-rescued/article37920589.ece
10 December 2021||Hassan,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coonoor tragedy brings back memories of Sakleshpur crash||The tragic chopper crash at Coonoor in Tamil Nadu, in which Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and 12 others were killed, has brought back to the residents of Sakleshpur memories of a 30-year-old accident involving an aircraft of the Indian Navy. It was eventually a local resident who had helped the forces in tracing the remains of the chopper in the thick jungles. The aircraft, on a sortie from Mangaluru to Bengaluru, had crashed in the thick forests of the Western Ghats at Aramane Gudda in Sakleshpur taluk in 1991. Given the risky terrain, people from the armed forces could not locate the remains of the chopper even after weeks of search. Kishor Kumar of Hongdahalla told The Hindu that he was in high school when the incident happened. “There was a heavy movement of trucks carrying personnel to search for the remains of the chopper. A few helicopters flew in the place at low altitudes as part of the search operation. Despite their efforts, the armed personnel could not trace the chopper in the forests,” he said. Subhash Maidan, the playground in Sakleshpur, was turned into a helipad during the search operation, recalled Girish Nandan, a KAS officer and native of Sakleshpur taluk. He was then studying PUC. Local man’s role Finally, Puttasome Gowda, a resident of Vanagur, accidentally found some parts of the aircraft and informed the officers. Atul Kumar Tiwari, senior IAS officer who was Assistant Commissioner at the beginning of his career in 1992, in a Facebook post in 2017, narrated the trekking expedition he took along with other officers to reach the spot. “Mr. Gowda went hunting for wild boars in the hills and found something shining (chopper blades) on a steep cliff,” he recalled. Based on Mr. Gowda’s information, the officers’ team trekked in Aramane Gudda, amid thick grass, for two days in October 1992. “We needed ropes to go down and fetch the black box,” the officer wrote in the post. He had also recommended an award for Mr. Gowda. A senior officer of the Indian Navy travelled from Panaji to Sakleshpur and handed over a cheque for Rs. 10,000 to Mr. Gowda, recognising his role in tracing the remains of the chopper. Petition for land Mr. Gowda and his family members claim that the Union Government had assured the family a grant of four acres of land, following the incident. Till recently, Mr. Gowda met many officers with the petitions for a grant of land. Mr. Nandan, who worked as Assistant Commissioner of Sakleshpur earlier, told The Hindu that Mr. Gowda had met him with the request for land. “I had directed Sakleshpur tahsildar to look into his petition,” he said. Mr. Gowda now stays at Palya in Alur taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coonoor-tragedy-brings-back-memories-of-sakleshpur-crash/article37920076.ece
10 December 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Detained women unaware of forged visas||None of the 44 poor women detained by the Officials of Bureau of Immigration at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad, recently, were aware of the fact that their visas were forged by the agents in connivance their employers in Kuwait. The women -- mostly from East Godavari, West Godavari, Kadapa and Chittoor districts in Andhra Pradesh, and some from Tamil Nadu and Goa -- were about to board a flight to Kuwait “for work” on tourist visas. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior officer said that all the women who were in the age group of 20 to 45 years, were not aware of the immigration process for employment abroad and many of them were not even aware that they were boarding a flight on tourist visas ‘for work’ purpose, which is illegal. The relatives and friends of those women manage to get jobs for them abroad and further asked them to send the required documents to agents in Mumbai through register post. “After completing the documentation process with the help of their well-oiled network, the agents send back the documents to the victims through register post,” the officer said. He said that employer abroad pays anywhere between Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 60,000 to the agents to get the work done and book flight tickets. The fraudulent agents obtain visit visas and by using various editing tools, they forge the visas like employment visas or work visas and make them look like the original ones. They also forge return tickets, the officer said. The entire process is to avoid paying the security deposit amount to the Protector of Emigrants, which is around Rs. 2 lakh. “This literally means indigent women were being trafficked to Kuwait to take up housekeeping jobs there. It is a clear case of human trafficking,” the officer said. In the recent case, the RGI Airport police of Cyberabad are yet to arrest the main agent, and sub-agents. He said that RGIA has become the main base for trafficking people, especially women. "The gangs involved in this act also traffic people from other international airports of the country too, but in less number when compared to their activities at RGIA," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/detained-women-unaware-of-forged-visas/article37920073.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Setback for railway station modernisation plan||Habibgunj or Rani Kamlapati station in Madhya Pradesh became another modernised version of what a traditional railway station usually looks like with airport terminal like features. A Bengaluru station in Karnataka too has undergone a similar swank change along with Gandhinagar station in Gujarat, whereas the chances of Secunderabad railway station getting such a look anytime soon increasingly looks remote. All these three stations were developed under the public, private partnership mode by the Indian Railways Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) in association with the State governments. Secunderabad station, the marquee station of the South Central Railway (SCR) was also to have been redesigned and ‘modernised’ by the same railways special purpose vehicle formed by joint equity participation of IRCON International and Rail Estate Development Authority (REDA) in 2012 with the objective to give an airport look to at least 150 railway stations across the country. However, the Railway Board has shut down the IRSDC a couple of months ago, just after the agency put up a draft model concessionaire agreement up for discussion by the stakeholders to take up stations redevelopment making use of the real estate for discussion on its website. The Railway Board has now asked the general managers of the zonal railways to take up the stations redevelopment plans, and all the works or contracts being handled by IRSDC are to be taken over by the former.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/setback-for-railway-station-modernisation-plan/article37920594.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 crore doses administered in Telangana; 41 lakh shots available||Telangana has successfully administered over 4 crore COVID vaccine doses so far, with about 2.63 lakh of the targetted 2.78 lakh population taking the first dose, which is about 94%, and 51% for the second dose with 14.1 lakh of the targetted 2.78 lakh taking the second dose. Milestone Health Minister Harish Rao in a tweet on Thursday congratulated citizens for reaching this milestone and appealed to everyone to stay safe and get themselves and their loved ones vaccinated at the earliest. About 1,63,970 took the first dose on Thursday and 1,93,232 the second dose, taking the total to 3,57,202. This takes the cumulative vaccine coverage to 2,62,11,799 taking the first dose and 1,40,67,216 taking the second dose, which means 4,02,79,015 got vaccinated so far. This leaves about 15.6 lakh to take the first dose and 22.8 lakh to take the second dose and overall another 38.4 lakh for total vaccination of 18 years and above population, as per the official bulletin. There are about 35,47,400 Covishield and 5,63,500 Covaxin doses or more than 41 lakh doses available with the cold chain or district stores in the State. For first dose coverage, the top five districts are: Rangareddy 25.5 lakh covered out of 23.3 lakh target or 110%, Hyderabad 33.9 lakh of targetted 31.5 lakh or 108%, Medak 55.42 lakh of 54.8 or 101%, Warangal (Urban) 83.6 of 84 lakh or 99% and Yadadri Bhuvanagiri 42.5 out of 42.8 lakh or 99%. The bottom five districts are: Kamareddy 65-75.8 lakh or 85%, Warangal(Rural) 67.6-79.74 lakh or 85%, Adilabad 23.2-28.3 lakh or 82%, Sangareddy 59.2-72.6 lakh or 81% and Kumram Bheem 31.2-39 lakh or 80% For the second dose, the top five districts are: Hyderabad 60-79.3 lakh or 76%, Karimnagar 23.8-31.4 lakh or 75%, Rangareddy 16.9-23.3 lakh or 72%, Warangal (Urban) 59-84 lakh or 71% and Yadadri Bhuvanagiri 32-52.4 lakh or 61%. Bottom five are: Adilabad 10.8-41.5 lakh or 26%, Narayanpet 14-54.8 lakh or 26%, Vikarabad 14.5-70.9 lakh or 21%, Jogulamba Gadwal 0.9-05 lakh or 20% and Kumram Bheem 0.65-0.39 or 17%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-crore-doses-administered-in-telangana-41-lakh-shots-available/article37920074.ece
10 December 2021||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tiger on prowl triggers panic in Wayanad village||Panic gripped residents of Kurukkanmoola, near Mananthavady, under the North Wayanad Forest Division after eight domestic animals were killed by what is believed to be a tiger on the prowl in 12 days. The villagers under the aegis of an all-party action council took out a protest march and staged a dharna in front of the North Wayanad Divisional Forest Office at Mananthavady on Thursday along with the carcass of the calf, which was reportedly killed by the tiger. The killing of cattle owned by Johny of Ayyamatathil, a farmer at Kurukkanmoola, a village on the fringes of the Thrissilery section of the forest under the Begur forest range in North Wayanad Forest Division, on the day provoked the mob. Later, they detained North Wayanad Forest Divisional Officer Ramesh Bishnoi at his office. Villagers said the animal had attacked eight domestic animals at Kurukkanmoola and Mele Anpathinalu. Traffic blocked The animal had attacked another calf on Tuesday. The villagers blocked traffic on the Mananthavady-Mysore inter-State highway on Wednesday. Trap to be placed Later, Wayanad Sub Collector R. Lakshmi and Mr. Bishnoy met local leaders and assured them that all steps would be taken to capture the tiger. Round-the-clock patrol will be held in the area, and a trap will be placed. More surveillance cameras will be installed to track the predator. D.K. Vinod Kumar, Chief Conservator of Forests, Northern Circle, told The Hindu that officials had installed six surveillance cameras to monitor the movement of the big cat in the area, but they were yet to get an image of it. Wayanad harbours nearly 90 tigers and the officials are yet to identify which animal was repeatedly lifting domestic animals owing to dearth of images, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tiger-on-prowl-triggers-panic-in-wayanad-village/article37920084.ece
10 December 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC admits plea to stop OTT show of Churuli||Observing orally that the dialogues in the Malayalam film Churuli are “atrocious in nature”, the Kerala High Court on Thursday admitted a writ petition seeking a directive to remove the movie from the OTT platform immediately. According to the petitioner, the film was replete with filthy and offensive words that outraged the modesty of women and children. The movie was accessible to everyone, including children and teenagers, as it had been released on the OTT platform. Though the film was capable of invoking a sense of curiosity and mystery in the minds of the audience, it had an overdose of foul language, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-admits-plea-to-stop-ott-show-of-churuli/article37920080.ece
10 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two Kurnool devotees die in accident at Sabarimala||Two Ayyappa Swamy devotees, Sai Eshwar, 45, and Adi Narayana, 40, residents of Devanagar and Bhudavarpet in the city, died in a road accident 30 km from Sabarimala in Kerala on Thursday. The accident took place on the ghat road leading to Sabarimala, where a private travel bus hit the vehicle in which the deceased were travelling. Twelve members of a group left for Sabarimala in a vehicle from Kurnool on Wednesday and stopped their vehicle when it reportdely collided with another car. While passengers from both the vehicles were engaged in a wordy duel, a bus hit their vehicle from behind and the duo were crushed between the car and their vehicle and died on the spot, the III Town police said. The Kerala police registered a case and conducted a post-mortem and are shifting the bodies to Kurnool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-kurnool-devotees-die-at-sabarimala/article37920590.ece
10 December 2021||MULUGU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist posters appear in villages||Posters in the name of CPI (Maoist) Venkatapuram-Wajedu area committee warning “police informers” sprang up at various interior places between Kondapuram and Alubaka villages in Venkatapuram mandal in the early hours of Thursday. The posters caused a flutter in the forest fringe villages, some of which were located along the bank of the Godavari in the tribal majority district, sources said. The posters named some persons, whom the rebels branded "police informers."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoist-posters-appear-in-villages/article37920417.ece
10 December 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Campaign launched to save Chamundi Hills||Members of the Chamundi Betta Ulisi Samiti launched a signature campaign in the city on Thursday in an effort to muster public support to help save Chamundi Hills and its environment. This is part of the ongoing campaign to urge the Government to stop new projects, some of which are inimical to the environment besides eroding its green cover. The campaigners have also averred to reach out to schools and colleges besides meeting people in residential areas so as to garner traction to the movement to save Chamundi Hills. The response was warm and enthusiastic from a section of the public though many were unaware of the developments pertaining to Chamundi Hills, said Bhamy V. Shenoy, one of the activists. Many youngsters have come forward to plunge into the movement and the purpose of the signature campaign, – both online and offline, is to create public awareness about what is happening to Chamundi Betta and the imperatives of saving it from unbridled urbanisation and development, he added. The legal options will also be explored in the days ahead but garnering public support is a must, according to samiti members. The immediate triggering point for the campaign is the slew of development works that are slated to come up atop Chamundi Hills some of which have been planned without taking the stakeholders – the people of Mysuru – into confidence. What is disconcerting is the seriousness with which the State Government and the local elected representatives are going ahead in preparing the DPR for implementing new schemes under Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Heritage Augmentation Drive (PRASHAD). This, according to the Samithi members, will further concretize the Chamundi Hill whose green cover was already being shorn by such projects, they said. Chamundi Hills also witnessed a series of landslides in October and November due to erosion by run off water. This has been attributed to loss of green cover and despite such ecological havoc, the authorities are hell bent on implementing the scheme which will ruin the pristine environment of the region, according to the samiti. The DPR envisages embellishing the hills and the temple precincts with a new tower, relaying of the existing steps, an interactive museum to highlight the contribution of the Wadiyars apart from a museum to highlight the flora and fauna of the region. Activists say Chamundi Hills itself is a natural museum and efforts should be made to conserve what ever is left of the existing green cover. Environmentalists of Mysuru have documented the biodiversity of Chamundi Hills as per which it habours about 600 species of flora, 150 species of birds, 20 species of mammals, 153 species of butterflies, among others. It is not only an important watershed for Mysuru and feeds 12 lakes but also helps regulate the micro climatic condition of the region, according to environmentalists. The schemes under PRASHAD is expected to cost around Rs. 85 crore and it was preceded by a slew of similar works at a cost of nearly Rs. 80 crore which has added to the urbanisation of the region. Recently, Saraswathi Samman awardee S.L. Bhyrappa also dashed off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing his concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/campaign-launched-to-save-chamundi-hills/article37920124.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala moves SC against unwarned water release||The Kerala government has moved the Supreme Court seeking a direction to Tamil Nadu not to release a huge quantity of water in the wee hours from the 126-year-old Mullaperiyar dam, saying it causes heavy damage to the people living downstream of the dam. In an application filed in the apex court on Thursday, the Kerala government also sought a direction to the Tamil Nadu government to control the water level by releasing water from the dam throughout the day instead of releasing a huge quantity of water in the wee hours without giving sufficient warning time. A Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and C.T. Ravikumar is scheduled to hear on Friday the pleas which have raised issues about the dam, built in 1895 on the Periyar river in Idukki district. The Kerala government, in its application filed through advocate G. Prakash, said the supervisory committee is directed to act according to the interim directions of the apex court to avoid difficulties for the people who live downstream. A ‘joint technical on-site committee for spillway release’, comprising two members each from Kerala and Tamil Nadu, be constituted to decide on the quantity and time of surplus discharge through spillway shutters to Kerala. Warning sought The application said it should also be ensured that only based on the recommendation of the joint technical on-site committee, the surplus water to Kerala would be effected with sufficient warning time to the District Disaster Management Authority. “The erratic release of the heavy volume of water, that too without any intimation during the wee hours of the day for the last more than one week, caused heavy damage to the people and their property who are living in the downstream of the Mullaperiyar dam,” the application said. It said that the apex court had on October 28 ordered that for the time being, the parties would abide by the water level notified by the expert committee. From the last week of November onwards, the catchment area of the Mullaperiyar dam and places in and around Idukki district experienced heavy rainfall which resulted in the increase of water level of the dam. The top court had on November 22 said that all the issues related to the dam would be heard on December 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-moves-sc-against-unwarned-water-release/article37920083.ece
10 December 2021||PEDDAPALLI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Singareni coal production hit as workers go on 3-day strike||Coal production in the government-owned Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL)’s 45 coal mines located across six districts came to a halt as the workers struck work from the first shift on Thursday morning on the day one of the three-day strike called by five central trade unions and the TRS-affiliated Telangana Boggu Gani Karmika Sangham (TBGKS). The 72-hour strike was called by the Joint Action Committee (JAC) of all the major trade unions of the SCCL, affiliated to the INTUC, the AITUC, the CITU, the HMS and the BMS, besides the TBGKS, setting aside ideological affiliations to protest the Centre’s decision to auction four coal blocks in the state for commercial mining. The SCCL, the only state-owned coal mining company in south India, with a manpower of around 43,000, suffered an estimated production loss of a little over 1.50 lakh tonnes on the first day of the strike, sources said. The SCCL management tried to avert the strike, but in vain. The premier coal mining company operating in the coal-rich Pranahitha-Godavari valley of the state has set itself an ambitious target of enhancing coal production to 850 lakh tonnes per annum within three years. The SCCL’s coal output target for the current fiscal is 680 lakh tonnes. All the six underground coal mines and four Open Cast Projects (OCPs) in the Ramagundam region of the district wore a deserted look from the early hours of the day as an overwhelming number of workers, barring the essential staff engaged in safety and other emergency services, stayed away from their duties. Members owing allegiance to the major trade unions including INTUC, AITUC and CITU took out rallies in Ramagundam, Bellampalli, Kothagudem, Bhupalpally and other areas to press for their foremost demand to delist the four coal blocks Kalyan Khani Block-6, Koyagudem Block-III, Sattupalli Block-III and Shravanapalli in the state from the Union Coal Ministry’s auction list. The TBGKS members staged a demonstration in front of the SRP 3 and 3A incline underground mine in Srirampur area of Mancherial district demanding allocation of the four coal blocks in the state to the SCCL, which they claimed spent huge amounts on exploration of coal reserves in the four coal blocks. Sources said that the overburden removal works were also hit in several OCPs as the outsourcing/contract workers too stayed away from work in response to the JAC’s call for three-day strike. However, the SCCL sources said that the overburden removal work continued on a near normal scale. In a rare show of unity, the leaders of the major trade unions affiliated to the Left, Right and Centrist parties participated in a joint demonstration in front of the SCCL’s head office in Kothagudem of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. Addressing the striking workers at the SCCL’s head office, the CITU State general secretary M Saibabu called upon the workforce to spearhead the agitation by drawing inspiration from the historic year-long farmers’ struggle to halt the auction of the four coal blocks in the state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/singareni-coal-production-hit-as-workers-go-on-3-day-strike/article37920086.ece
10 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||No advance booking of cottages at Tirumala from Jan. 11 to 14||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has cancelled advance reservation of cottages and guest houses at Tirumala for four days between January 11 and 14, 2022. The decision was taken in the backdrop of the auspicious Vaikunta Ekadasi on January 13 and Dwadasi the following day. Common pilgrims attach immense significance to both the festival days and throng the town in large numbers. Hence, the TTD has resolved to provide cottages and guest houses only under current booking system on first come, first served basis. It has also resolved not to attach any priority to cottage and guest house donors during the period. However, special counters shall be set up at Venkatakala Nnilayam, Ramaraj Nilayam, Sita Nilayam, Sannidhanam and Govind Sai rest houses — all falling under the Padmavati guest house area — for the benefit of VIPs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-advance-booking-of-cottages-at-tirumala-from-jan-11-to-14/article37920605.ece
10 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held for tricking ATMs and stealing cash in Tirupati||Their modus operandi is to tweak the ATM machine by causing a technical snag and decamp with the money with ease. The Tirupati Urban police who arrested a duo on Thursday were shocked to find 99 ATM/debit cards in their possession. The accused, Arif Khan and Salim Khan, belong to Haryana. Three accomplices, Naqib Hussain, Ilyas and Haqmuddin are at large. The gang chooses an old ATM machine and enters a card belonging to a different bank. When the cash is released they switch off the machine and pull out the cash simultaneously, making it appear like a ‘failed transaction’ to the bank. They then lodge a complaint with their bank, which passes on the information to the bank that owns the ATM. The correspondence goes on, with no solution in sight. They play the same trick in different cities. According to the Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu, who produced the duo before the media, the five resorted to the crime during their visit to Tirupati in October. The first two came to Tirupati again on Dec. 2 and did the same at the SBI ATM at Ramanuja Circle, where they were found to have stayed from 8.50 a.m. to 8.55 a.m. Following a complaint by the bank’s manager Ramesh Kumar, the Tirupati East inspector B.V. Sivaprasad Reddy and SI G. Prakash Kumar checked the CCTV footage and zeroed in on them. Apart from seizing Rs. 20,000 from their possession, they also made the bank freeze Rs. 60,000 in their account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-for-tricking-atms-and-stealing-cash/article37920081.ece
10 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Great ideas can bring you great jobs, students told||At least two Vice-Chancellors gave some ‘gyan’ to students on the need to get off the couch and keep moving in tune with the changing technology to land a plum job. At the first graduation day of JNTUA-affiliated and autonomous Chadalawada Ramanamma Engineering College (CREC) here on Thursday, JNTUA Vice-Chancellor G. Ranga Janardhan saw a bright future with the introduction of the National Educational Policy (NEP), which he said would change the way professional education is imparted in future. He urged all colleges to function as per the norms of the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) in the interest of students. Yogi Vemana University (YVU) Vice-Chancellor M. Surya Kalavathi said students should get proactive and take a research-oriented perspective towards engineering education. She advised mentors to shun spoon-feeding methodology and told students to take a refreshingly new view of learning. “Great ideas can bring you great jobs,” was her tip. JNTU Hyderabad former Vice-Chancellor K. Rajagopal narrated several case studies of how great entrepreneurs had made a small beginning, but eventually made it big with consistent effort and perseverance. Gold medals were presented to the toppers in various streams of engineering. Educational group Chairman Chadalawada Krishnamurthy and Director Bhaskar Patel were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/great-ideas-can-bring-you-great-jobs-students-told/article37920593.ece
10 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recognition for centenarian academic remains a far cry||Recognition for K. Rajeswari Murthy, the architect of Sri Padmavathi Women’s College (SPW) in Tirupati and who championed the cause of women’s education, remains a far cry till date. Dr. Murthy’s accomplishment as the founder principal of the college that stands today as a symbol of women’s empowerment is significant. Dr. Murthy, who completes 100 years on December 10 this year and now settled in New York, was born in 1921 at Peddapuram and pursued education despite several odds. She had taken over the reins of SPW College as its founder principal in 1954 after it was established by the TTD management in 1952. USEFI recognition The pioneer introduced India’s first course on Population Studies and the State’s maiden course in Home Science, besides launching the now-famous ‘Earn while you learn’ scheme. The recognition by United States Educational Foundation in India (USEFI) in 1965 catapulted the college to global fame, by which its teachers were sent to the U.S.A. for student service training. With 21 years at its helm, she was the first to become its longest serving principal, to be followed by her successor Kamala Menon. Inspired students She prodded the graduates to enrol for PG at the same college and encouraged thirty post graduates to join as teachers to perpetuate the goal. “This way, SPW came to stay in our blood,” observes eighty-year-old D.M. Premavathy, a retired reader of Telugu, who had worked under Dr. Murthy. “The SPW alumni are spread all over, holding top positions in diverse fields, but this occasion has to be as memorable as possible,” she rues. Dr. Murthy left behind properties worth crores of rupees for the colleges in Tirupati, a lion’s share of which goes to women’s college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recognition-for-centenarian-academic-remains-a-far-cry/article37920588.ece
10 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati farmers march on despite rain in Srikalahasti||Rain made a comeback in Chittoor district on Thursday after a week’s respite, but it had little impact on the procession of the Amaravati farmers to Tirumala. On the 39th day of the mega walkathon, the farmers, demanding Amaravati as the sole capital of the State, walked on the streets of Srikalahasti town. Residents too joined the nine-km trek and extended their support to the cause. Former Minister N. Amarnatha Reddy, former MLC Beeda Ravichandra, TDP’s Chittoor and Tirupati parliamentary constituency conveners P. Nani and G. Narasimha Yadav, Srikalahasti Assembly in-charge B. Sudheer Reddy and Telugu Yuvatha State media coordinator A. Ravi Naidu joined the procession and extended their support. CPI general secretary D. Raja will meet the farmers on Friday to express solidarity to the cause of Amaravati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-farmers-march-on-despite-rain-in-srikalahasti/article37920607.ece
10 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s revenue deficit touches a whopping 816.56% by October||Andhra Pradesh’s revenue deficit had in October touched an unprecedented 816.56% of the actuals to the budget estimates for the 2021-22 financial year. While the State government had estimated that the revenue deficit would be Rs. 5,000.06 crore during the financial year, it reached Rs. 40,828.59 crore between April and October. The revenue deficit was 162.73% in September 2018 (a year before the general elections); 468% in September 2019; 246.68% in September 2020; and 662.80% in September 2021. According to information, the revenue deficit of Andhra Pradesh is the highest in comparison with the States such as Telangana, Gujarat, Kerala and Karnataka. In contrast, Odisha has registered a revenue surplus of 282.82% of the actuals to the budget estimates. The percentage of revenue deficit of Telangana in September 2021 was 119.50. The revenue deficit percentage for October 2021 for other States was as follows: Gujarat 426.91; Karnataka 31.50; and Kerala 157.98. As per the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) accounts for the first half of the financial year 2021-22, Andhra Pradesh’s total revenue was Rs. 1,04,804.91 crore, which included Rs. 39,914.18 crore borrowings. Half of the earnings – Rs. 50,419.15 crore – had been used up for freebies, payment of interest on old loans, and subsidy bills. The total expenditure, which included salaries and pensions, is rounded off to Rs. 1,04,723.91 crore. What it implies Revenue deficit, according to the officials, implies that the government needs to borrow to finance its expenses that do not increase its assets or reduce its liabilities. It indicates that the revenue receipts are not sufficient to meet the revenue expenditure. The State had targeted to borrow Rs. 37,029.79 crore during the financial year. But, it had obtained loans of Rs. 39,914.18 crore in the first six months itself. The borrowings had touched Rs. 49,756 crore by October. The borrowings were on the higher side during the 2020-21 financial year too. While the target was to borrow Rs. 48,295.59 crore, the actuals stood at Rs. 55,169 crore by September 2020 itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-revenue-deficit-touches-a-whopping-81656-by-october/article37920597.ece
10 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Permission denied for book festival at Swaraj Maidan||The calendar event, book festival, may not enthrall book lovers and exhibitors this year. The prime reason being that the State government did not give permission to the Vijayawada Book Festival Society (VBFS) to organise the event at PWD Grounds. The society has been organising the book festival at the PWD Grounds on Bandar Road here for the past three decades. This year, the society has been “denied permission” to organise the exhibition at the PWD Grounds. The PWD Grounds, popularly known as Swaraj Maidan, is the only vast lung space in the city. Though there are a few college grounds, “they are not suitable” to organise the book festival given the scale it is organised every year. Swaraj Maidan has been hosting the book exhibition from January 1 to 11 till a couple of years ago. The book festival offered books of all genres and its popularity was not confined to Andhra Pradesh alone. More than 250 stalls, including national level players, display their publications every year. According to information, the society office-bearers approached the district administration seeking permission, but in vain. The district administration suggested organising the event at other grounds like Satavahana College grounds. Subsequently, the society is making arrangements to organise the event at Satavahana college grounds “though reluctantly.” The society could not organise the book festival for the last two years owing to the COVID pandemic. When contacted, Krishna District Collector J. Niwas says “the PWD Grounds was not finalised for the book festival as the grounds was handed over to the Social Welfare Department for construction of Ambedkar statue.” The State government has chalked out plans for constructing Ambedkar Smruti Vanam project on PWD Grounds. The foundation for the project was laid by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on July 8, 2020. The project comprises installation of a 125-foot-tall statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, a park and a memorial library. VBFS president Manohar Naidu said the government did not take up any works at the PWD grounds till date. More so, the Swaraj Maidan had been synonymous with the book festival for three decades. The Vijayawada Book Festival was lauded for promoting reading habits among people of all age groups. The demand for books had not fallen and many people walk into the exhibition with a hope of finding books of their choice. The grounds in colleges in the city “are not much suitable” as the exhibition is organised on a grand scale. With more than 11 acre, the Swaraj Maidan is more spacious compared to colleges' grounds. A lot of space is required for parking itself. More than 300 stalls are expected this year, he explains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/permission-denied-for-book-festival-at-swaraj-maidan/article37920146.ece
10 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan orders review of irrigation projects||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed officials to prioritise the safety and maintenance of reservoirs and irrigation projects, many of which were neglected since bifurcation, and to recruit staff wherever required. During a meeting on the condition of irrigation projects on Thursday, Mr. Jagan ordered a comprehensive review of all the projects, and steps to undertake necessary repairs. He insisted that the projects should be properly maintained in order to make the best use of them while not compromising on the safety aspects. Officials told the Chief Minister that a committee had been set up under the chairmanship of the Chief Secretary and a separate panel headed by the Engineer-in-Chief and having experts from institutions such as the IIT and JNTU on board had been set up to look into the matter. They said the reports of previous governments were also being studied. The committee led by the Chief Secretary was focussing on an automation system that would link real-time data to the command control room, that would send alerts in the event of flash floods and heavy rains. Due attention was paid to mitigating the risks of property damages and loss of lives, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-orders-review-of-irrigation-projects/article37920600.ece
10 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Final assessment of compensation to be paid in gas leak incident awaited’||LG Polymers India Pvt. Ltd. has expressed its readiness to deposit the amounts to be realised through sale of its inventory, towards compensation to the families of those who had died in the styrene gas leak accident at its facility in Visakhapatnam last year. However, it has said that there is no final assessment of the compensation and damages to be paid by it, as the committees appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) are yet to finalise their report. During a hearing by Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and Justice B.S. Bhanumathi on an interim application filed by the company in the matter on Thursday, a senior counsel appearing for the company said the court had earlier directed the State government-appointed high-powered committee to verify the list of inventories and submit a report. In its report, the committee had mentioned that out of 88 inventory items, 22 were related to the company lying in a third party warehouse and the remaining had been imported from Seoul (South Korea )-based LG Chem Ltd., and they were liable to be returned, or re-exported, as no payments were made for them till date. In terms of G.O. RT No. 449 of 2020 issued by the State government, LG Polymers had paid an ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore each to the next of kin of the deceased, Rs. 1 lakh per case of hospitalisation for up to three days, and Rs. 25,000 for primary treatment in each one of the cases. The company had already deposited Rs. 122.07 crore with the Visakhapatnam District Collector, pursuant to the directions of the High Court and the NGT, LG Polymers deputy manager (legal) P. Arun Kumar had said in the affidavit. Upon a request, the court adjourned the matter to December 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/final-assessment-of-compensation-to-be-paid-in-gas-leak-incident-awaited/article37920603.ece
10 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Withdrawing G.O. on ‘mahila police’, govt. informs HC||The State Government informed a Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court comprising Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and Justice B.S. Bhanumathi that it is withdrawing G.O. Ms. No. 59, dated June 23, 2021, through which some amendments were made to the Andhra Pradesh (Grama Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarsi/Ward Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarsi) Subordinate Service Rules, 2019. The impugned G.O. was faulted for seeking to entrust the ward and village to Women Protection Secretaries (WPS), who were designated as “Mahila police” with certain responsibilities which was supposed to be discharged by the Police Department. The amendments were meant to give them the same authorities and powers and uniforms as the lady constables, create additional head constable posts to give them promotions and to make them representatives of the nearest police stations. 15,000 appointments Close to 15,000 women were appointed by the district Collectors in the village and ward secretariats that were newly created by the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Government in July 2019 and called the WPS. During Thursday’s hearing, the Government pleader concerned told the court that the G.O. was being withdrawn in order to think about how else to utilise the services of WPS. The court ordered that a detailed affidavit be filed within a week.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-to-withdraw-go-on-mahila-police/article37920075.ece
10 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Gen. Rawat had played vital role in Kargil war’||Bharatiya Janata Party State unit president Somu Veerraju and other party leaders paid floral tributes to the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 others, who died in a helicopter crash on Wednesday. Mr. Veerraju said it was a quirk of fate that Gen. Rawat died in the same area where he had studied (he graduated from the Defence Services Staff College at Wellington). Mr. Veerraju recalled that Gen. Rawat had played a stellar role in the Kargil war and the surgical strike in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. The Chief of Defence Staff had big plans that would reinforce the country’s defence against external aggression, Mr. Veerraju said. Party leaders V. Suryanarayana Raju, Sk. Baji, B. Sriram, Pathuri Nagabhushanam, Lanka Dinakar, D. Umamaheswara Raju and Srinivasa Raju were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-pays-tributes-to-gen-bipin-rawat/article37920148.ece
10 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy feared drowned in Ryves Canal||G. Yeswanth (10), a fourth standard student, reportedly drowned in the Ryves Canal on the city outskirts. Police and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel launched search for the body in the canal on Thursday. A resident of Vambay Colony, Yeswanth was studying in the local government primary school. The boy went missing since Wednesday, and his parents, Gunturu Shivaji and Durga, lodged a missing complaint with the Nunna police. Locals found the clothes and footwear of the boy on the canal bund. Suspecting that Yeswanth might have entered into the waters to take a bath, the NDRF 10th Battalion personnel, expert swimmers and the police were searching for the body. Missing case registered “We registered a ‘boy missing’ case and took up investigation. A few locals saw Yeswanth moving near the canal, and his clothes were traced on the bund,” a police official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ten-year-old-boy-drowns-in-canal/article37920142.ece
10 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor expresses condolences||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has expressed grief over the death of Lance Naik, B. Sai Teja, Personal Security Officer to Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, in the helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Sai Teja joined in the Army as jawan in 2013, and based on his exemplary performance, he was appointed as PSO to CDS, said Mr. Harichandan and conveyed condolences to the bereaved family members. In a statement on Thursday, the Governor expressed sadness over the demise of Junior Warrant Officer of Indian Air Force, Rana Pratap Das, who died in the mishap in Tamil Nadu. He was a native of Krishnachandrapur village, Angul district, Odisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-expresses-condolences/article37920143.ece
10 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor discharged from hospital, reaches home||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan was discharged from a private hospital in Hyderabad on Thursday. He reached Vijayawada. Raj Bhavan Joint Secretary Shyam Prasad and other officials welcomed Mr. Harichandan and his wife Suprava at the Raj Bhavan. Earlier, Special Chief Secretary to Governor R.P. Sisodia and his wife, Babita, met Mr. Harichandan at the hospital in Hyderabad and enquired about his health condition. ‘Follow COVID norms’ Speaking on the occasion, the Governor said he was fine and asked the people to follow all COVID-19 precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-discharged-from-hospital-reaches-home/article37920598.ece
10 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employees’ ‘simha garjana’ against CPS today||Andhra Pradesh Contributory Pension Scheme Employees’ Association will organise ‘simha garjana’ at Satavahana College grounds on Friday, demanding that the State government scrap the CPS immediately. Association general secretary K. Pardhasaradhi said the employees had been demanding Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy that he keep the promise he made in the run-up to the general elections but to no avail. The government was not implementing the Tucker Committee report, which had recommended that the CPS be scrapped, he said. The committee had said that reverting to the earlier scheme was the prerogative of the State government, he added. “The JAC of employees, teachers, workers, and pensioners have been asking the government to do away with the CPS,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/employees-simha-garjana-against-cps-today/article37920608.ece
10 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Several teams formed to nab ‘Chaddi gang’||The Vijayawada City Police have deployed about 100 personnel to check the activities of ‘Chaddi gang’ (robbers), who struck at different places in and around Vijayawada a few days ago. The “Chaddi gang’ struck at houses and apartments at Guntupalli, C.V.R. Flyover and at Ibrahimpatnam and reportedly escaped with valuables. Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata enquired with the police officers about the movements of the gang in Vijayawada Police Commissionerate limits. Speaking to The Hindu on Thursday, Mr. Kanthi Rana said instructions had been given to intensify patrolling at vulnerable places and on the city outskirts to prevent thefts. “Special teams have been formed to nab ‘Chaddi gang’ members. Vigil has been stepped up with over 100 police personnel of different cadres. Ten vehicles have been allotted for patrolling,” the Police Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-100-policemen-deployed-to-nab-chaddi-gang/article37920144.ece
10 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Make Energy Conservation Week a success’||Minister for Energy Balineni Srinivasa Reddy has exhorted the department officials to make the National Energy Conservation Week-2021, observed from December 14 to 20, a grand success by involving all the stakeholders in it. He said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was keen on achieving cost effective power in the State, for which the government has taken various significant steps. As part of it, the government decided to procure power from Solar Energy Corporation of India to supply power for nine hours during the daytime free of cost to the agriculture sector, and promote energy conservation and energy efficiency in a big way. At a review meeting on Thursday, Mr. Reddy stressed the need for building an energy efficiency movement in tune with the government’s objective to reduce the costs in power purchases. Every consumer in the State, local bodies and government institutions would benefit, he asserted. Energy Secretary N. Srikant and State Energy Conservation Mission CEO A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy explained the activities planned during the Energy Conservation Week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-energy-conservation-week-a-success/article37920601.ece
10 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister’s railway zone statement sparks a row||The statement of Union Minister for Railways Ashwini Vaishnaw in Parliament has stirred a hornet’s nest with people’s organisations and Opposition parties condemning the attitude of the Centre for delaying operationalisation of the South Coast Railway (SCoR) Zone, with its headquarters in Visakhapatnam. The Railway Minister, responding to a question from BJP MP from Muzaffarpur (Bihar), said that 17 railway zones were in operation in the country and that there was no proposal for any new zones in the country. Opposition leaders from the city opine that the failure of the Minister to mention about SCoR, which was already announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and former Railway Minister Piyush Goyal before the 2019 general elections, was an indication of the ‘lack of commitment’ on the part of the BJP government to operationalise the new zone. The CPI staged a protest opposite the city railway station on Thursday evening. CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy demanded early operationalisation of SCoR. He recalled that though the Officer on Special Duty (OSD), appointed to start the process of the new zone, had given a Detailed Project Report (DPR) more than one-and-a-half years ago, the Railway Ministry was sitting on the proposal. CPI(M) district secretary K. Lokanadham and Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) general secretary A. Aja Sarma deplored the attitude of the BJP government in ‘playing with the sentiments’ of the people of north Andhra. They demanded early operationalisation of the SCoR zone. “The Railway Minister has only spoken on the 17 railway zones, which are already functioning and said that there is no proposal for new zones. SCoR has already been announced, and funds were allotted in the ‘pink book’ for it in two consecutive financial years. The details of works, which are already in progress, are not given,” a railway source, who has knowledge on functioning of the Railways, told The Hindu on Thursday. “Work on Rayagada Division, which is being formed as part of the decision on SCoR zone, has started. The decision on formation of SCoR was taken by the Cabinet long ago. An OSD was appointed and a DPR was given and hence, the question of the MP and the reply of the Railway Minister have nothing to do with SCoR,” said another source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ministers-railway-zone-statement-sparks-a-row/article37920688.ece
10 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Road accidents rise this year||Visakhapatnam has seen an increase in road accident cases, with a commensurate rise in fatalities this year. Roads in the city, rural areas and the Agency areas have reported over 660 deaths in the form of road accidents with still a month to go, while in 2020, the total number of road accident deaths stood at 594. The city has seen an increase in the number of road accidents as well as deaths this year, compared to previous years. According to statistics obtained from the traffic police department, between January and November 30, 2021, the city witnessed 1,386 road accidents. As many as 333 persons had died and 1,379 persons were injured this year. During 2020, 1,146 road accidents were reported in which 261 persons died and 1,049 persons were injured. Similarly, in 2019, of 1,410 road accidents reported, 327 persons died and 1,446 were injured. A majority of the road accidents include two-wheeler accidents, as per the police officials. A total of 67 black spots have been identified by the city police. Three stretches have seen a large of number of accidents in Visakhapatnam city, according to the police. The stretch from Anandapuram to PM Palem Cricket Stadium Junction, Old Gajuwaka to Kurmannapalem Junction, and several points on the BRTS Road from Hanumanthawaka to Simhachalam and Simhachalam–Pendurthi-Convent Junction have reported many accidents. Due to overspeeding and lack of enforcement during night, a number of road accidents were also reported at night in the city limits. “A majority of accidents were reported on NH-16 which is passing through the city limits. Many two-wheelers were rammed by heavy vehicles on NH-16 while overtaking or overspeeding. The negligence of heavy vehicles also cannot be ruled out. There are many self-accidents due to overspeeding and rash driving. In several cases, lack of helmet has led to deaths,” said a senior police officer. According to Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana, curfew and COVID-19 restrictions in the two years have made the difference leading to a slight increase in road accident numbers. He added that steps are being taken to reduce the number of fatalities due to not wearing helmets. It is a similar story in the rural parts of the district. The rural and Agency limits have reported 674 road accident cases from January 1 to October 31, 2021. In these accidents, as many as 332 persons have died and 750 persons have received injuries. During 2020, the district has reported 826 cases (January to December 31, 2020), in which 333 persons died and 865 were injured. Similarly, 370 people died in 2019. The district police have identified 40 black spots in Yelamanchali, Anakapalle, Sabbavaram, Chodavaram, Narsipatnam (Rural) and Nakkapalle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/road-accidents-rise-this-year/article37920693.ece
10 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Soldiers who died in 1971 Indo-Pak war remembered||In December of 1971, Sepoys Nadagana Appanna and Gondesi Paidayya from Visakhapatnam district were posted at Basantar on the western front. Both Appanna and Paidayya were sepoys in the 16 Madras battalion and had played an active role in the Battle of Basantar, fought between December 4–16 in 1971, in the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971 which resulted in the creation of Bangladesh. While Nadagana died defending his post despite being outnumbered, Paidayya died while clearing the minefield. As part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav and 50 years of victory in the Indo-Pak war, the family members of the fallen soldiers were felicitated by the 2(A) Artillery Battalion of NCC at the TLN Sabha Hall in Andhra University, here on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, Captain (Indian Navy) Niraj Sirohi, Group Commander NCC Group Headquarters, Visakhapatnam, said that the martyrs of the 1971 war are being identified and their family members are being felicitated as part of the ‘Vijaya Shrankhala’ programme, across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/soldiers-who-died-in-1971-indo-pak-war-remembered/article37920698.ece
10 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fake GST invoice network busted||Officers of the anti-evasion wing of Visakhapatnam Central GST have detected a fake invoice racket involving a network of companies. After an investigation and raids on Krishna Sai Constructions Pvt. Ltd and Dew Drops Granite Pvt. Ltd, sleuths unearthed a fake GST credit racket worth more than Rs. 18 crore. The racket involves creation of transaction by making fictitious invoices without actual supply of goods or services. Three persons, including the alleged mastermind Madan Mohan Reddy, were arrested and produced before the Economic Offences Court in Visakhapatnam on Wednesday. The magistrate has ordered judicial custody of the accused for 14 days and sent them on remand. They were sent to the Central Prison in Visakhapatnam. Further investigation is on into the case and officers are not ruling out the involvement of several fake firms operating in A.P. and Telangana in the racket, and say that the quantum of fraud is likely to go up. Explaining the modus operandi, the officers said that shell companies are being floated without any real business or supplies and are creating fake GST invoices. Through these, fraudulent tax credit is passed on and utilised by other entities leading to evasion and huge revenue loss to the government. They added that the department is using data analysis to detect these fake networks and as per law, the persons involved can be arrested if the amount exceeds a stipulated limit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fake-gst-invoice-network-busted/article37920686.ece
10 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Akhanda’ film crew prays at Simhachalam||‘Akhanda’ film crew – actor N. Balakrishna, director Boyapati Srinu, and producer M. Ravinder Reddy – visited the Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple here at Simhachalam and offered special prayers on Thursday. The temple officials extended them a warm welcome. Later, addressing the media, Mr. Balakrishna, who is also TDP Hindupur MLA, said they had come on a thanksgiving visit after the success of his latest film. “A success meet will be held at MGM Park in the evening,” Mr. Balakrishna added. Fans take selfies A large number of fans arrived at the temple to have a glimpse of the actor, and a few of them took selfies with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/akhanda-film-crew-prays-at-simhachalam/article37920610.ece
10 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU pays rich tributes to Gen. Bipin Rawat||Officials from Andhra University paid rich tributes to deceased Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat in a condolence programme organised by Military Veterans League in association with Centre for Defence Studies, AU, here on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, Vice-Chancellor Prof. P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy said that AU had a strong association with General Rawat, who extended his full cooperation in establishing a Centre for Defence Studies at AU and was also instrumental in getting a record 22 Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) signed between AU and the Armed Forces for various educational programmes. Registrar Krishna Mohan lauded the foresight and efforts of General Rawat for providing higher education opportunities to ex-servicemen through various MoUs with AU. Dr. Ujjwal Ghatak, Academic Adviser, Centre for Defence Studies, said that around 2,000 defence personnel have qualified in various programmes conducted by the Centre for Defence Studies, and presently 21 officers of Air Force and 10 officers of Army and Navy are undergoing research studies in Andhra University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-pays-rich-tributes-to-gen-bipin-rawat/article37920690.ece
10 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students protest poor food quality at hostels||A large number of students from Government Tribal Welfare Ashram (Girls) School in Paderu staged a protest at the office of the Integrated Tribal Project Officer (ITDA) on Thursday. The girl students informed reporters that the rice served to them at the hostel is inadequate and that they regularly come across small pebbles in it. The cooking staff do not cook in accordance with the prescribed menu of the government, they said, adding that even the eggs being provided to them are improperly boiled. They also sought to drew attention to other problems ailing them at the hostel, such as sanitation. Some girl students alleged that despite bringing the issues before the school authorities, no action was taken. They alleged that the head of the school had asked them to leave the school by taking a transfer certificate whenever they tried to raise the issues. Collector A. Mallikarjuna had directed authorities to ensure that food is cooked properly at hostels in the Agency, after 117 girls from KBG Vidyalaya in Paderu suffered food poisoning recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-protest-poor-food-quality-at-hostels/article37920691.ece
10 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three of a family run over||Three members of a family were killed in a road accident on National Highway-16 in Madhurawada, after the two-wheeler on which they were travelling was allegedly hit by a speeding lorry, on Thursday. The deceased were identified as P. Ramana (48), his wife P. Lakshmi (38) and their daughter P. Santhi Kumari (23). The family hails from Polipalli village of Vizianagaram district and were residing at Paindorapeta in One Town area of Visakhapatnam. According to PM Palem Police Station Inspector Ravi Kumar, the couple and their daughter had gone to Polipalli village on Wednesday to attend a wedding. The accident occurred on Thursday morning when they were returning home on their two-wheeler. A lorry heading towards the city allegedly hit their two-wheeler from behind and ran over them near ZP High School at Chandrampalem at around 6.45 a.m. All three persons reportedly died on the spot. The bodies were sent to King George Hospital for post-mortem. The driver of the lorry has been taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-of-a-family-run-over/article37920692.ece
10 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Siblings electrocuted at Anandapuram||Two members of a family were reportedly electrocuted at Mutcherla village in Anandapuram mandal of Visakhapatnam district on Thursday morning. According to sources, G. Gurumurthy (56) and his brother G. Satyam (48) were heading towards their agricultural fields at Mutcherla village at around 5.45 a.m. on Thursday. The duo accidentally stepped on livewires near the fields and were electrocuted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/siblings-electrocuted-at-anandapuram/article37920689.ece
10 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Newlywed man ‘ends life’||A 26-year-old man reportedly ended his life at his residence at Tailors Colony in Madhurawada under PM Palem police station limits, in the wee hours of Thursday. The deceased was identified as S. Phalguna Rao, hailing from Banjarupeta village in Saravakota mandal of Srikakulam district, and residing in Tailors’ Colony in the city. Phalguna Rao was working as a sales executive at a private company in Madhurawada. According to reports, Phalguna Rao was married in January this year. On Wednesday night, he returned home from work and slept without having dinner. At around midnight, his wife saw his body hanging from the ceiling and alerted locals. After a preliminary inquiry, police said that Phalguna Rao was reportedly in love with a woman before his marriage but was not able to marry her. His body was sent for post-mortem. Those suffering from depression or battling suicidal thoughts are urged to call the 100 helpline for counselling,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/newlywed-man-ends-life/article37920694.ece
10 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU alumni meeting tomorrow||The Andhra University Alumni Association annual meeting will be conducted on December 11 at 5.30 p.m. in virtual mode, said Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy on Thursday. He said that Union Minister of State for Skill Development, Entrepreneurship, Electronics and Information Technology Rajeev Chandrasekhar will attend the programme as the chief guest. The V-C added that High Court Judge Justice D.V. Somayajulu, and Director of Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology Nandicoori Vinaykumar will be the guests of honour. Founder Chairman of Andhra University Alumni Association G.M. Rao, and Prof. B. Satyanarayana and Prof. R. Venkata Rao will attend the meeting, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-alumni-meeting-tomorrow/article37920695.ece
10 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||28 new COVID cases||The district recorded 28 new COVID-19 cases and 12 recoveries in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,59,115. The death toll stands unchanged at 1,104 after no death was reported in the last 24 hours. Active cases stand at 237.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/28-new-covid-cases/article37920696.ece
10 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||OTS evoked good response: Collector||The Vizianagaram district administration has been giving top priority to creating awareness among the public about the benefits of the Jagananna Sampoorna Gruha Hakku scheme under which the beneficiaries have to pay a ‘nominal’ amount to get registration documents. Vizianagaram Collector A. Suryakumari has been monitoring the scheme on a day-to-basis by holding review meetings with officials concerned. She said that over 8,000 people had already applied for the OTS and received documents from the government. “Many beneficiaries are living in the houses constructed by the government long ago. But they don’t have proper documents. They are unable to know the status of their loans. With the payment of the stipulated amount, the beneficiaries can enjoy the property as they wish. There will not be any objection to the sale of property too. Moreover, there are no registration charges,” she said. As part of creating awareness, she is visiting various villages. Recently, she visited Boppadam village in Nellimarla mandal and directed the secretariat staff to clarity the doubts of beneficiaries so that they need not worry about paying the amount which is meagre and is also being collected for their benefit, Ms. Suryakumari said. Joint Collector Mayur Ahok and Parvatipuram ITDA Project Officer R. Kurmanath are also visiting villages to monitor the implementation of the scheme. They suggested to volunteers to study all the details of the scheme thoroughly so that they would be in a position to explain them in a better way. Meanwhile, MLAs are also holding review meetings in their respective Assembly constituencies over the OTS-Gruha Hakku scheme. S. Kota MLA Kadubandi Srinivasa Rao alleged that the opposition parties were trying to mislead the people over the scheme although it would put a full stop to many problems being faced by the beneficiaries. “Many beneficiaries do not have the documents of their properties. The scheme helps them to get registered documents which will be valid for future transactions,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ots-evoked-good-response-collector/article37920643.ece
10 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special prayers offered at Subrahmanya Swamy shrine||Sri Valli Devasana Subrahmanyeswara Swamy temple located at Phool Bagh in Vizianagaram wore a festive look with the offering of special prayers on the temple premises on Thursday on the occasion of Subrahmanya Shashti. The statue of the deity, at a height of around 60 feet, draws the attention of devotees from different parts of North Andhra region. Temple chief priest Karri Venkataramana Siddanth and temple trust board president Beta Krishna Rao made elaborate arrangements for the devotees who thronged to offer special prayers. “Pancharatra Puja Mahotsavams will be held between December 9 and 15. Kalyanam will be performed to the presiding deity with Sri Valli and Devasana on the last day of the celebrations,” said Mr. Venkataramana. Meanwhile, Goddess Lakshmi temples also witnessed heavy rush of devotees on Thursday with the offering of special prayers on the occasion of Margasira Lakshmivaram. Special prayers were performed at Astalakshmi Sameta Aishwarya Venkateswara Swamy temple located at Ayyannapeta in Vizianagaram. Temple trustees Durga Balaji and D. Uma Devi coordinated arrangements on the temple premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-prayers-offered-at-subrahmanya-swamy-shrine/article37920639.ece
10 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to Bipin Rawat in Vizianagaram||Several public representatives and academicians offered tributes to Chief of Defence Staff of the Indian Armed Forced Bipin Rawat in separate condolence meetings in Vizianagaram. SITAM College Director Majji Sasibhusana Rao, Principal D.V.Ramamurthy and faculty members observed two minutes’ silence at the college while recalling his service to the nation. At another meeting, YSRCP senior leader and Maitri media director Avanapu Vikram said that Gen. Rawat’s untimely death was a big loss for the country. He said that the Indian Army had grown from strength to strength under his leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-bipin-rawat-in-vizianagaram/article37920641.ece
10 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. forcing people to opt for OTS: TDP||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) senior leader Boddula Narasinga Rao on Thursday alleged that the State government was harassing people by forcing them to opt for the One-Time Settlement (OTS) to get rights over the houses which were sanctioned during the previous TDP government. Speaking at a meeting held in Biyyalapeta village of Vizianagaram mandal, Mr. Narasinga Rao said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, instead of building houses for the poor, had started harassing those who were beneficiaries of the welfare schemes that were implemented in the previous government. Party local leaders Padagala Ramakrishna and Taddi Sriramulu urged the TDP activists to highlight the State government’s debt trap and ‘poor governance’ of the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-being-forced-to-opt-for-ots-tdp/article37920644.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Outpouring of anger||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/outpouring-of-anger/article37920612.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Theatre as canvas||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/theatre-as-canvas/article37920090.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Online complaint mechanism not yet functional in TS RERA||Real Estate Regulatory Authority, which was conceptualised as a powerful tool in the hands of home buyers for protection against devious machinations of real estate developers, has remained a non-entity in Telangana. Four years after the State government had framed the Telangana State Real Estate Regulation and Development Rules-2017 under the central RERA Act, the State body has no permanent leadership nor expert members. While a large number of projects are being registered under TS RERA, no complaint mechanism is in place for any buyer to bring his/her grievances to the notice of the authority. In fact, the hyperlink to download the rules on the TS RERA official website draws a blank. Same is the status of Citizens’ Complaints section on the website, notwithstanding the provision that the grievances under RERA are to be registered online. There are a total 3,715 projects registered under RERA across the State, with a majority of them in and around the city. “I had a complaint against my builder, who is delaying the hand over unendingly. When I opened the website to lodge my grievance, I found that nothing is working there. I visited the RERA office to lodge a physical complaint, and was told that I need to do it with the Chief Secretary because he is the chairperson. Now, I am back to mulling over lodging a complaint in consumers’ grievance redressal forum,” said M. Srinivas, a home buyer with a prestigious project in LB Nagar zone. TS RERA has no members except a chairperson and a secretary, for both of whom it is an additional charge. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar is the acting chairperson, while Director, Town and Country Planning K. Vidyadhar is the secretary. Two full-time member posts are vacant. There is no trace of the selection committee which ought to recommend the full-time chairperson and members. When contacted, Mr. Vidyadhar claimed that the authority is fully functional, and the complaints are being accepted in person though online links are not working. So far, over 100 complaints have been received and over 75 resolved, he said.  The authority is fully functional, and the complaints are being accepted in person though online links are not working. K. Vidyadhar, TS RERA secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/online-complaint-mechanism-not-yet-functional-in-ts-rera/article37920402.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State CREDAI conclave on Dec. 23||The State unit of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) said on Thursday that its first State-level conclave, STATECON 2021, will be held at HICC, Madhapur, on December 23 and will be followed by the third edition of ‘CREATE’ awards, which will be given away to the promoters of best practices, delivering quality and bringing innovation to the industry in the State. While CRISIL rating agency will be the knowledge partner and provide details to the jury about the best projects according to various categories to decide the award winners, there will be a special report ‘Future of real estate in Telangana’ to be released during the conclave prepared by real estate consulting firm, Anarock, said its chairman Ch. Ramachandra Reddy, president D. Murali Krishna Reddy, president-elect E. Premsagar Reddy, secretary K. Indrasena Reddy and others at a press conference. Objective of conclave The conclave objective is to educate the builder fraternity across the 14 chapters and 800 members the standard operating procedures (SOP’s) and checklist to ensure adherence to the prescribed norms. A book, compiled by the association will be unveiled on the occasion. Technical sessions on the global trends in construction technology will be part of the meeting, they said. Telangana economic growth of 20.9% as against 3% growth at the national-level, has triggered demand for real estate projects. The conclave will help incoming members about approvals required to undertake a project under TS-RERA, nuances for project finance and accessing latest technologies to improve the quality and speed of construction, said Mr. Ramachandra Reddy. Word of caution The real estate body cautioned new comers about selling undivided share projects or those yet to be approved by TS-RERA as it causes “unwanted disruption” in the market. CREDAI mandates all members to follow the ethical code of conduct and adherence to the prescribed guidelines by the authorities, said Mr. Murali Krishna Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-credai-conclave-on-dec-23/article37920398.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘30 lakh members a birthday gift to Sonia’||Telangana Congress launched its digital membership drive at a Dalit Basti in Kodangal constituency with an aim to enrol 30 lakh members marking the birthday of AICC president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy said December 9 was the day when Sonia Gandhi announced granting statehood to Telangana against odds and braving political backlash just to keep the promise she had made to people of Telangana. “Congress will achieve the target of enrolling 30 lakh members and gift it to Ms. Sonia Gandhi,” he said while launching the drive along with AICC leader Praveen Chakravarty and Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee leaders H. Venugopal, Deepak John, Shiv Sena Reddy and Chamala Kiran Reddy among others. Before launching the drive, Congress leaders paid rich tributes to Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat and 12 others who were killed in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. Mr. Reddy said Sonia Gandhi had decided to grant statehood for Telangana region to put an end to the era of discrimination and injustice and to enable Telangana youth to prosper on a par with others turning a 60-year old dream into a reality. However, the Telangana Rashra Samithi (TRS) government had failed to fulfil the aspirations of common people and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had treated Telangana as his personal fiefdom making a mockery of the dream. Now it was the duty of Congress to ensure that Telangana was taken back from KCR’s family, he said. The Congress chief said every enrolled member would get a life insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh. He recalled the role played by Rajiv Gandhi in bringing the IT revolution and initiating the digital literacy programme. As a result, India was known as technology hub and this effort resulted in top tech companies being headed by Indians. Earlier, Mr. Praveen Chaktravarty said the membership drive was emerging a model in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/30-lakh-members-will-be-a-birthday-gift-to-sonia/article37920415.ece
10 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Qawwali and jazz concert exude Hyderabad’s pre-pandemic mojo||A qawwali performance inside a restored stepwell, a jazz concert in an open pavilion and a poetry workshop inside a 200-year-old wooden pavilion over the last one week appeared to show that Hyderabad has regained its pre-pandemic mojo. All the events were full house with the audience wearing masks. A treat to watch “It was incredible. Locals sitting and enjoying jazz, children and adults alike, apart from the regular music lovers. This was a treat to watch. Women in burkhas and men. You wouldn’t traditionally see them at this kind of a gig. Curiosity brought them in, music made them stay. There was a floating crowd of 1,000-1,200 people. And most of them sat for 4.5 hours,” says Anuj Gurwara, emcee of the jazz concert at the Deccan Park, who kept a steady tempo of history lessons of Hyderabad on the occasion. Interestingly, this was only the second occasion when the Deccan Park amphitheatre was used for a public event, the earlier one being a performance by a Sufi singer. At the restored stepwell at Bapughat, the voice of Amjad Warsi and his brother boomed and echoed as they sang some well known compositions from their repertoire. “I quite enjoyed their performance. The rhythm and rousing performance suited the beautiful ambience. An unusual setting, with a hopeful story/message woven around heritage, water and restoration, with Hyderabad’s very own qawwali duo made for a magical evening,” says Kobita Das, a member of the audience. While the two locations were the newest addition to the cultural milieu of the city, the use of Raja Bhagwandas’ wooden pavilion for Urdu poetry session was mesmerising. “I am worried how this place would be used. As there was no loudspeakers or lights, I agreed it to be used for the poetry session,” said Satish Shah, owner of the garden which has a beautiful carved wooden pavilion laden with Rajasthani jharokas. “First, the location itself made for a great setting. There are so many options they could choose from even in terms of heritage but the organisers made a perfect choice — unique in terms of heritage, and very comfortable with the light and air circulation,” said Maleeha Fatima, who attended the session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/qawwali-jazz-concert-exude-citys-pre-pandemic-mojo/article37920386.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS adds another 201 cases||Telangana recorded 201 new COVID cases on Thursday, taking the total number of active cases to 3,887. One person succumbed to the virus and that took the total number of fatalities in the State to 4,003. A total of 36,900 tests were conducted but results of 2,128 were awaited, according to the official Health bulletin. The total number of people infected with COVID since March 2020 is 6.78 lakh and 6.70 lakh people recovered with 184 on Thursday. About 312 passengers arrived at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) from ‘at risk’ countries and none of them had tested positive. About 2,567 passengers have been tested so far, and none of the 13 people who tested COVID positive, as was already reported, got infected with the Omicron variant. GHMC continues to log in the highest number of cases a day with 76 on Thursday, but it is lesser compared to 82 one week ago. There has been a slight spike in Rangareddy district with cases rising from 18 last week to 24 on Thursday, where as it is at a constant nine cases in Malkajgiri-Medchal district. Other districts reporting more cases are Nalgonda (3 to 11 in one week), Hanamkonda (11 to 15), Khammam (7 to 9) and Mahabubabad (1 to 4). No cases have been reported from Vikarabad, Rajanna-Sircilla, Kumram Bheem-Asifabad, Kamareddy, Jogulamba Gadwal, Jayashankar Bhupalapally and Jangoan. The DPH has advised patients with moderate to severe symptoms, with or without COVID positive report to go to any notified government COVID hospital where elaborate arrangements have been made for testing and treatment. Based on clinical requirements, beds will be provided and free treatment will be given.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-adds-another-201-cases/article37920394.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fate of Nampally Serai hangs in balance||The heritage structure of Nampally Serai is in cross-hairs after the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC)’s Standing Committee gave assent to construction of a Transit Dorm for women at the location. The Standing Committee resolution approved on December 8: “Construction of new RCC building for proposed transit dorms with 187 beds for women at Nampally Serai.” However, the resolution is ambiguously worded: “Dismantling old dilapidated building/office rooms and using the existing vacant land behind the existing heritage structure by including the provisions for firefighting system, building elevation… The Central and State governments’ share will be arrived to proposed 60:40 ratio after obtaining necessary administrative sanction from the government.” Nampally Serai was included in the list of protected heritage structures by the Municipal Administration and Urban Development department in 2006 via GO Ms No. 185. Earlier, when the State government planned to demolish the Irrum Manzil, another Grade IIB heritage structure, the Telangana High Court scuppered the State’s plan. “Even if a part of the heritage building is being retained, the proposal has to be approved by the Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) before implementation,” says Sajjad Shahid of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage. “The HC had ruled that Regulation 13 stands and the only body that can take a decision regarding this would be the HCC. But the newly-constituted HCC doesn’t follow the norms laid for constitution of HCC as per the statute,” said Mr. Shahid, adding that demolition of the heritage structure would be contempt of court. The double-storied Nampally Serai was built along with the railway station for the Nizam’s Guaranteed State Railway. While the station began functioning from 1907, the serai was completed sometime in 1910. Also known as Tipu Khan Serai after its benefactor Tipu Khan, an equestrian trainer for the Sixth Nizam, there is an attached masjid called Masjid-e-Tipu Khan Serai across the road. “This is part of an ongoing effort to erase the city’s heritage. First they stop maintenance and once the building looks old they abandon it and the next step is a plan to demolish it. It will be big loss for the city if this plan goes ahead,” said convenor of INTACH Anuradha Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fate-of-nampally-serai-hangs-in-balance/article37920396.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Expedite work on new secretariat, says CM||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the officials concerned to expedite works on construction of new integrated secretariat complex and make it operational at the earliest. The Chief Minister, accompanied by Ministers Vemula Prashanth Reddy and P. Sabita Indra Reddy, and senior officials including Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, inspected the ongoing works on the new complex. He expressed satisfaction over the fast pace at which the works were under progress and appreciated the Minister and officials concerned in this regard. Mr. Rao inspected the concrete structures that were reaching final stages and discussed the progress of works with representatives of work agency, engineers and Roads & Buildings officials. He reviewed the works on the Ministers’ chambers, chambers planned for secretaries and VIPs as well as parking areas and gave suggestions on the improvements that could be made. The Chief Minister, according to an official release, visited the corridors, ground floor and first floor of the new complex where the slab works relating to the seventh floor are nearing completion. He gave suggestions regarding elevation and other final touches. He wanted them to take steps to ensure that elevation was bright and steps should be taken to beautify the entire premises. After visiting the exhibition of tiles, granite and other material put up by the officials concerned, the Chief Minister selected models of granites, UPVC windows, aluminium fabrications and other material that should be used in the construction. The Chief Ministr also inspected model water fountains, landscape, restrooms, meeting halls, sky lounge and other structures that were being developed as part of the Rs. 616-crore project. He expressed satisfaction that the design of the building would enable employees to work peacefully. Appreciating Mr. Prashanth Reddy and R&B engineer-in-chief Ganapathy Reddy for the progress achieved in the work duly following the suggestions he made, Mr Rao exhorted them to continue the works with the same pace. He wanted officials to ensure the new secretariat became one of its kind in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expedite-work-on-new-secretariat-says-cm/article37920412.ece
10 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Homage paid to Bipin Rawat||Congress leaders across the State paid tributes to Chief od Defence Staff Bipin Rawat and the other soldiers who lost their lives in the helicopter crash. TPCC chief A. Revanth Reddy paid tributes at a programme held at Kodangal in Vikarabad district while the Mahila Congress held a programme at the Gandhi Bhavan recalling his services to the nation. Later, they also distributed blankets at Niloufer hospital as a tribute to him and also to mark the birthday celebrations of AICC president Sonia Gandhi. AICC spokesperson, Sravan Dasoju also held a programme in Khairatabad where Congress workers condoled the death of the soldiers. TPCC senior vice president G. Niranjan paid tributes to Bipin Rawat at the Charminar where people joined to offer floral tributes to the soldiers. One of the deceased in the crash Sai Teja hailed from Chittoor of Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/homage-paid-to-bipin-rawat/article37920420.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC MD goes to office by bus||Officers and staff of administrative offices of road transport corporation travelled to their work places by corporation buses on Thursday, which will be observed as `bus day’ every week as a matter of practice to encourage them to use public transport and take passenger feedback on the services. Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of the corporation V.C. Sajjanar himself boarded an ordinary bus of Mehdipatnam depot at Telephone Bhavan and got down at a bus stop close to his office premises, Bus Bhavan at RTC crossroads. He enquired from commuters at Telephone Bhavan bus stop about availability of buses, punctuality and behaviour of crew, a release said. On board bus - 113 I/M, he interacted with passengers and took their feedback on cleanliness, upkeep and cargo services. He complimented the bus driver on his driving skills and conductor for his courteous behaviour after alighting at Bus Bhavan. Later, he requested the general public to travel in RTC buses for safe and hassle-free journey. Also, it’s a cheap mode of transport, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rtc-md-goes-to-office-by-bus/article37920400.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Timely sowing yields bumper harvest||Many a times, the advices of experts are kept a side for various reasons. But time proves that they are right and then everyone follows that. Take the case of Mashetti Havappa, a progressive farmer of Chapta B in Kangti mandal. On October 24, he sold cotton grown in his 2.23-acre field. The cotton crop weighed 21.5 quintals and he was offered a price of Rs. 7,400 per quintal. He got a total revenue of Rs. 1,59,100. On November 8, he sold about 2.7 quintals and the amount for quintal was Rs. 8,250 and the total amount he received was Rs. 22,275 from Shrisamarth Cotex Private Limited. The total revenue he generated stood at Rs. 1,81,375. After deducting the investment cost of Rs. 45,000, he benefited to the tune of Rs. 1,36,375. This was despite having heavy rains. Getting considerably good revenue was possible because of timely sowing of cotton seed. Several other farmers got less than six quintals of yield per acre G. Santosh, Agriculture Extension Officer (AEO), Kangti, under Narayanakhed constituency of Sangareddy district suggested progressive farmers of Tadkal and Chapta .B villages for early sowing of cotton crop. It was the exact time of sowing the crop and the farmers followed the suggestion. They were asked to sow the cotton seed after the first rain took place on May 28.. As much as 13.2 m.m. rain fall was recorded. The next day the seed was sown as the field was already tilled for the purpose. He had the highest yield compared with other farmers who sowed late. There were a lot of variations in parameters like yield per plant and ball weight and number of balls per each plant. “Time of sowing plays important role in productivity of cotton though its effect on duration for vegetative and reproductive phases and thus duration of crop. Demonstrated fields escape from loss due to heavy rains during September 2021 with rainfall of 367mm. Other fields are adversely affected by rains. Higher yields are made possible due to early sowing of cotton as the crop uses early season sunlight with the longest day light period of the year,” Mr. Santosh told The Hindu, adding that early sowing initiated reproductive growth earlier and produced more blooms to set more cotton bolls to produce higher yield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/timely-sowing-yields-bumper-harvest/article37920648.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC notices to DC, real estate company||Telangana High Court on Thursday issued notices to State government in a PIL petition seeking cancellation of allotment of 6,5357 square yards of land at L.B. Nagar in Hyderabad to Deccan Chronicle Holdings Private (DCHPL) Limited and recovery of the same from the latter. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice N. Tukaramji, after hearing the petition filed by BJP leader and social worker Perala Shekhar Rao, instructed the government to respond to the notices. According to the petitioner, the then State government of undivided Andhra Pradesh in 2009 allotted the land to DCHPL at the rate of Rs. 7,000 per square yard. The land was supposed to be used for the purpose of publication of newspaper. Mr. Shekhar Rao contended that, however, the DCHPL did not use it for the said purpose. It entered into an agreement with TNR Constructions, a real estate company, to develop the allotted land for commercial purpose, the petitioner maintained. He stated that DCHPL also entered into the field of Indian Premier League and owned a team christened Deccan Chargers. The petitioner claimed that due to mismanagement of the matters relating to IPL, the company slipped into a debt trap and could not repay the loans secured from public and private banks. The CBI had registered criminal cases in this regard against the company while the Enforcement Directorate (ED) authorities attached 19 of the company’s immovable properties along with nine movable properties. However, the ED did not attach the land allotted to the company at L.B. Nagar.  The bench posted the matter for February 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-notices-to-dc-real-estate-company/article37920407.ece
10 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||State’s revenue in October stable at Rs. 8,338 crore||The State Government’s tax revenue during October remained stable at Rs. 8,338.93 crore, a shade higher than Rs. 8,268.66 crore registered during September. The total revenue receipts at the end of October stood at Rs. 62,208.76 crore, realizing 35.32 per cent of the budget estimates of Rs. 1.76 lakh crore for the current financial year. The State registered highest revenue of Rs. 9,000 crore in a month during August since the lifting of restrictions imposed on account of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, but the revenue remained stable around Rs. 8,000 crore in the next two months. Revenue through Goods and Services Tax inched closer to Rs. 18,000 crore mark reaching Rs. 17,799.69 crore at the end of October, crossing the half way mark of Rs. 35,520 crore projected in the budget estimates. Revenue through State Excise duties were pegged at Rs. 8,611.81 crore, 50.66 per cent of the projected Rs. 17,000 crore for the current year. Stamps and Registrations department continued its impressive run registering revenue of Rs. 5,880 crore at the end of October as against Rs. 12,500 crore estimated during the current fiscal, according to the monthly key indicators released on the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. The department reached Rs. 7,000 crore mark by the end of November registering Rs. 1,100 crore revenue in November. Revenue through sales tax showed a healthy growth crossing Rs. 15,000 crore mark at the end of October marking realization of 56.68 per cent of the budget estimates of Rs. 26,500 crore. The State’s share of Union taxes during the period reached Rs. 4,207.43 crore less than half of the projected Rs. 8,721 crore for the year. Revenue from other taxes and duties was Rs. 2,678 crore, just around 40 per cent of Rs. 6,652 crore projected in the budget estimates even after completion of seven months of the financial year. Non-tax revenue too was not up to the expected levels pegged at Rs. 2,854 crore against the estimated Rs. 30,557 crore for the financial year. Borrowings and other liabilities, listed under capital receipts, reached Rs. 28,349 crore against the projected Rs. 45,509 crore till the end of October, marking 62 per cent realization of the target. A major chunk of the revenue expenditure during the first seven months was on account of interest payments and expenditure on payment of salaries, wages and pensions. While the interest payments were to the tune of Rs. 10,411.78 crore for the first seven months, salaries/wages accounted for Rs. 17,005 crore and pensions another Rs. 5,603 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revenue-in-oct-stable-at-rs-8338-cr/article37920408.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Faculty shortage hits Computer Science engineering courses||Poor response to Mechanical, Electrical and Civil engineering streams from students who moved to Computer Science related courses has led to severe shortage of qualified Computer Science teachers. Colleges are finding it difficult to recruit new faculty members required for Computer Sciences. Several colleges have started a combination of courses with Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Data Science in a new stream format as the existing Computer Science Engineering (CSE) has a very high demand. “Finding qualified teachers is a huge problem, given the shortage while good faculty are being poached at better salaries,” agrees the correspondent of an engineering college. All the seats of AI and ML stream are taken in his college but he is finding it extremely difficult to find teachers now. This year in Computer Science Engineering (CSE), 17,596 seats were filled out of 19,101 while in CSE – (AI & ML) 6,377 were filled out of 7,759. In Information Technology (IT), 4,872 seats were taken as against 5,350 seats. The seat taken percentage in all computer related courses is above 85%. On the other hand, Electrical Engineering was opted by just 2,991 out of 7,142 available seats with 41.88% and Civil Engineering was chosen by 2,391 of the 6,243 seats registering 38.31%. Mechanical was the worst hit this year with just 28.18% seats filled and only 1,663 seats taken out of 5,902. So the obvious shift was towards Computer Sciences. How did the colleges get permission for additional seats and new courses? An official explains that the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has been giving permission for new courses and additional intake based on what is uploaded on the college website rather than personal inspection. “It’s been three years since there is no inspection by the AICTE at all,” he said seeking anonymity. In fact, when JNTU-Hyderabad (JNTU-H), the affiliating university, refused permission for additional intake in these courses, some colleges got a ‘favourable’ order from the High Court that questioned the varsity’s role when the AICTE had permitted them. However, the varsity moved the Supreme Court and got a stay on the order stating that JNTU-H had the right to affiliate after inspecting the facilities. JNTU-H Vice Chancellor Katta Narsimha Reddy acknowledged the shortage and said that the varsity has allowed 1% of the staff to be engaged in inter-disciplinary courses to overcome the shortage. As per the first year syllabus, teachers from Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry should suffice. “From second year, they will study engineering subjects and if colleges fail to recruit Computer Science teachers, the courses will not be renewed,” he warned. Director of NIT Warangal N.V. Ramana Rao advises colleges to send their staff for Faculty Development Programmes being conducted by IITs and NITs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/faculty-shortage-hits-computer-science-engg/article37920387.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court dismisses PIL plea over DGP appointment||Telangana High Court on Thursday dismissed a PIL petition filed more than two years ago challenging the appointment of M. Mahender Reddy as Director General of Police (DGP) of the State. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice N. Tukaramji, delivering the verdict, said that the Supreme Court had earlier observed that service matters were not maintainable as PIL petitions. Telangana government on November 12, 2017 appointed senior IPS officer Mr. Mahender Reddy as DGP in-charge. Subsequently, he was made DGP (Head of Police Force) on April 12, 2018. A private employee Vijay Gopal of Secunderabad approached the HC by filing a PIL plea challenging Mr. Reddy’s appointment as DGP. He contended that, as per the norms, the State should have selected as DGP one of the three senior most police officers who were empanelled for that rank by the Union Public Service Commission. However, the State government appointed Mr. Reddy by enacting the Telangana Police (Selection and Appointment of Director General of Police (Head of Police Force) Act-2018, the petitioner stated contending that this was done to by-pass the norm of selecting one of the three senior most police officers. The petitioner’s counsel Yakarapu Sheelu contended that even that Act was challenged before the Supreme Court. The apex court was yet to deliver verdict on that issue. Moreover, Mr. Reddy’s appointment was in violation of the rules laid down by the Supreme Court in the matter of Prakash Singh and others versus Union of India. Defending the government’s decision, Advocate General B.S. Prasad said the appointment of DGP was a service matter and the apex court had already passed orders stating that PIL pleas on service matters were not maintainable. The CJ sought to know as to “how the petitioner was aggrieved by the appointment of the DGP”. “What is the public interest involved in it..? I want to know the public interest involved in this petition..?”, the CJ said. Dismissing the petition, the bench said it did not want to interfere in the matter since the apex court was already examining the issue of appointment of the DGP in a different petition. As the petitioner counsel continued to present the contentions, the bench said its order can be challenged in the apex court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-court-dismisses-pil-plea-over-dgps-appointment/article37920406.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Security at reservoirs to be beefed up||Managing Director of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) M. Dana Kishore announced a slew of measures to beef up security at service reservoirs of the water board, in view of the recent incident in Musheerabad where a body was found inside Risalagadda tank. A security audit will be undertaken at all the reservoirs within the Outer Ring Road in the coming three days, and 21 teams have been formed for this purpose with CGMs, GMs and vigilance officials. After audit, they will have to compile a comprehensive report for improved security, Mr. Dana Kishore informed, after conducting a special meeting with the directors of the water board. Calling the incident unfortunate, Mr. Dana Kishore said it happened despite all security measures being in place. Among the 378 service reservoirs in the city, 100 are in the complexes which also house the local water board offices, hence, are provided with 24 hour security. Measures will be taken to provide 24 hour security at the remaining reservoirs too in order to prevent such incidents, he said. A total 100 private security guards will be deployed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/security-at-reservoirs-to-be-beefed-up/article37920405.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KRMB to meet towards month-end||A three-member committee of Krishna River Management Board on Thursday decided to meet towards the month-end to finalise the water requirements of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in river Krishna to wet the present rabi crop and also for drinking water purposes till May. The committee under the chairmanship of KRMB member-secretary Raipure held a meeting on Thursday to discuss the indent of Andhra Pradesh for 23 tmc ft water for irrigation purposes till December 15. The proposal was moved by the State’s Engineer-in-Chief Narayan Reddy. Mr. Reddy’s Telangana counterpart C. Muralidhar suggested that instead of considering an indent for a few days, a broadbased meeting to look into water requirements of both States not only for irrigation but drinking purposes be considered towards the month-end. He said Telangana would require 170 tmc ft, including 151 tmc ft for irrigation and 19 tmc ft for drinking and Mission Bhagiratha project, till May. The member-secretary of the board agred to his proposal, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/krmb-to-meet-towards-month-end/article37920413.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Coffee table book on millets released||The Millet Movement in India, the first coffee table book on the increasingly popular superfood, has hit the stores. It makes a clear case for consuming millets to overcome anaemia and promote healthy growth in children by presenting scientific evidence, from various studies, including the first school feeding study with millets, undertaken by the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) and Akshaya Patra Foundation. “I am confident the coffee table book will provide valuable insights into our cultural culinary landscape and help increase awareness about our ancient wisdom of food processing,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said about the book that brings to the fore chefs who are giving millets a modern makeover, farmers who are keeping traditions alive and entrepreneurs taking millet foods to consumers in umpteen ways, every day. Liam Wright, a photographer from New Zealand who has covered India extensively through his work, and Sangeetha Parthasarthi, a social scientist from Bengaluru who previously worked with ICRISAT, authored the book with former assistant director general of ICRISAT Joanna Kane-Potaka. “As 2023, the International Year of Millets, approaches, this book is a timely read for everyone,” says Ms. Kane-Potaka. ICRISAT DG Jacqueline d’Arros Hughes avers, “Millets are an opportunity right at our doorstep to create new exciting products and markets.” NITI Aayog member Ramesh Chand noted, “Millets are indeed superior cereals in terms of nutrition and resilience and also in terms of sustainability. They are ideally suited to address child under-nutrition and fit very well in nature-friendly production”. The book is also supported by ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, whose director Vilas Tonapi says, “India has the largest biodiversity of millets in the world as well as the largest range of millet products. We can leverage this to become a global leader in millets.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/coffee-table-book-on-millets-released/article37920384.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS challenge to BJP MPs||Chevella member of Parliament, Ranjit Reddy has questioned the silence of the BJP MPs on the Central government’s decision to privatise four coal blocks in Telangana for commercial mining. Speaking to reporters here along with Venkatesh Nethakani, MP, Gandra Venkataramana Reddy, MLA and M. Srinivas Reddy, TRS general secretary, he challenged the BJP MPs to raise the issue in Parliament and the TRS would support them. Mr. Ranjit Reddy said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had written to the Prime Minister in 2015 itself to allocate the coal blocks to Singareni but there was no response. When coal blocks in Gujarat and Rajasthan could be allocated to the respective states why were they inviting private players in Telangana, he asked. Privatisation was not the issue of Telangana alone, he said and asked how can national resources be privatised when SCCL was doing wonders. About 70,000 people were dependent on Singareni directly and indirectly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-challenge-to-bjp-mps/article37920416.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PG College alumni meet tomorrow||The alumni meet of Post Graduate College, Secunderabad, will be held on December 11 (Saturday). Former students of PGC, a constituent college of Osmania University that was established in 1947 and completed 74 years of its glorious existence, have come together to hold the annual meet. The first alumni meet of PGC was held last year, according to renowned magician Samala Venu, a graduate from the college. According to him, over 100 alumni of the college situated at Paradise junction have registered for the meeting to be held at New Club, Marredpally. Former president of the college students’ union E. Ravishanker Reddy said that efforts have been made to make the alumni meet a regular feature and not a yearly one. Pain-staking efforts of the organising committee ensured that several pass-outs of the college were contacted through social media platforms and brought together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pg-college-alumni-meet-tomorrow/article37920388.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||29 from TS in Hurun India’s 500 most valuable firms||A total of 29 companies from Telangana figure in the 2021 Burgundy Private Hurun India 500 companies, the first edition of most valuable firms in India. The cumulative value of the firms from the State stood at Rs. 6.9 lakh crore with Divi’s Laboratories (Rs. 1,36,699 crore); Hindustan Zinc (Rs. 1,31,598 crore) and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories (Rs. 77,540 crore) the top three in the list. In terms of industry distribution, healthcare, including pharmaceuticals, was the biggest contributor to the list from the State with 15 companies followed by software and services, chemicals and infrastructure. Megha Engineering and Infrastructure was the most valuable unlisted company from Telangana, followed by Hetero Labs, MSN Laboratories, vaccine maker Bharat Biotech and Deccan Fine Chemicals. In terms of growth, Brightcom Group topped the list from Telangana, followed by Tanla Platforms, Suven Pharmaceuticals. By absolute value, the biggest gainers were Divi’s Laboratories, Hindustan Zinc and Laurus Labs, a Hurun press release said. Total sales of companies from the State in 2021 Burgundy Private Hurun India 500 List stood at Rs. 1.8 lakh crore, equivalent to 18% of state’s GSDP. They employ two lakh people in total. The 500 companies were ranked according to their value, defined as market capitalisation for listed companies and valuations for non-listed companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/29-from-ts-in-hurun-indias-500-most-valuable-firms/article37920389.ece
10 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||14 held, 336 kg of ganja seized||Seven women, six men and a minor boy, all members of an inter-State ganja supplying gang, were arrested by Government Railway Police at Lingampally railway station on Wednesday. 336 kg of ganja was seized from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/14-held-336-kg-of-ganja-seized/article37920403.ece
10 December 2021||Bhopal,||Ken-Betwa project a boon for Bundelkhand, says CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Thursdaythat the Ken-Betwa river link project will lead to prosperity for the drought-prone Bundelkhand region. The Chief Minister thanked the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari and the Union Cabinet for approving the project. The Centre on Wednesday cleared the funding and implementation of the project and sanctioned Rs. 39,317 crore for it. Chhatarpur, Panna, Tikamgarh, Niwari, Damoh, Sagar, Datia, Shivpuri, Vidisha and Raisen districts of Madhya Pradesh would benefit upon completion of the river link, said an official. In addition, 103 mega watt of hydropower and 27 mega watt of solar power will be generated from the project, he said. A tripartite memorandum of understanding (MoU) has been signed in the presence of the Government of Madhya Pradesh, Government of Uttar Pradesh and the Prime Minister to prepare the detailed DPR of the project. Mr. Chouhan said the linking of rivers will increase agricultural production and lead to prosperity. A new dawn of development and progress will be ushered in Bundelkhand when the project takes shape. Ken-Betwa link is the first endevour under the National River Linking Project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ken-betwa-project-a-boon-for-bundelkhand/article37920292.ece
10 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||NGT directs Hindalco, REL to pay Rs. 10 crore||A special bench of the National Green Tribunal has directed Hindalco Industries Limited and Raipur Energen Limited (REL) to pay Rs. 10 crore interim compensation for violating environmental clearance (EC) norms on the functioning of the open-cast mine in Sambalpur district. The coal mine falls in an area designated as critically polluted industrial cluster, having a score of more than 70 that requires extra mitigation measures for operating any polluting activity. As per EC conditions, preparation of progressive mine closure plan based on the quantum of coal extracted from the mining area was required and overburden generated was required to be backfilled. The entire mining area was required to be backfilled up to the ground level. However, the companies allegedly violated the condition and dumped the overburden on agricultural fields, adversely affecting land fertility and resulting in soil contamination. Besides, the companies built an earthen bund by encroaching private land. The NGT directed Hindalco to deposit an interim compensation of Rs. 7.5 crore and Rs. 2.5 crore for REL to meet the assessed compensation and cost of remediation. It further directed that compensation for past violations and cost of remediation should be worked out and restoration plan prepared by a six-member expert committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ngt-directs-hindalco-rel-to-pay-rs-10-crore/article37920304.ece
10 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Ex-AAP Punjab convener joins Akali Dal||Former convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Punjab, Sucha Singh Chhotepur on Thursday joined the Shiromani Akali Dal ahead of the Assembly polls. Mr. Chhotepur, who was AAP’s Punjab convener was removed from the post in 2016, following which he formed his own political outfit —Apna Punjab Party. Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced that Mr. Chhotepur has been appointed as a senior vice president of the party and that he would also be the party’s candidate for the Batala Assembly seat. “Chhotepur Sahib has always been a champion of Punjabi pride and has done the most to expose outsiders’ conspiracies to divide the people of the State along communal lines. I have profound satisfaction today that the champion of unity of all Punjabis returns home when I am the chief sevadar of the party,” said Mr. Badal. Mr. Chhotepur said that the future of Punjab’s unique cultural identity as well as peace, progress and prosperity were in danger of being hijacked by a vicious three-pronged attack by non-Punjabi invaders, which include the Congress, the Bharatiya Janta Party and the AAP. “All three want to usurp the destiny of Punjab by creating divisions, hatred and misunderstandings not only between two brotherly communities, the Hindus and the Sikhs, but also by engineering a civil war within the Sikh quom,” he said. Hitting out at AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Mr. Chhotepur said the latter was only interested in becoming Chief Minister himself. “This is why he sits on stage with Bhagwant Mann and Harpal Cheema and states that the party is searching for a capable person. Kejriwal hated Punjab and Punjabis from the core of his heart and heaps contempt and humiliation on every Punjabi leader in AAP who tries to raise his or her voice in favour of the State,” alleged Mr. Chhotepur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ex-aap-punjab-convener-joins-akali-dal/article37920285.ece
10 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Chhotepur joins Akali Dal||Former Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Sucha Singh Chhotepur joined the Shiromani Akali Dal in the presence of party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal here on Thursday and will contest the upcoming polls from the Batala Assembly seat. He was removed from his post by the AAP leadership in August 2016 on charges of corruption. The leader was accused of accepting money from a ticket aspirant ahead of the 2017 Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chhotepur-joins-akali-dal/article37920477.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,||T.N. Govt. submits file on ICC inquiry to HC||The Tamil Nadu Government on Thursday submitted before the Madras High Court the entire file related to an inquiry conducted by an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) against suspended special Director General of Police (DGP) Rajesh Das. The committee had found prima facie material to initiate disciplinary proceedings against him for allegedly making sexual advances towards a woman IPS officer. Justice V. Parthiban had called for the files to look at the procedure adopted by the ICC before recommending disciplinary proceedings. Accordingly, Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram submitted three volumes of documents and said the question of allowing the suspended DGP to cross-examine witnesses did not rise, since no punishment had been imposed on him on the basis of the ICC inquiry report. He said the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act of 2013, and the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules of 1969 permitted the ICC itself to conduct disciplinary proceedings. Therefore, the government had asked the ICC, headed by IAS officer Jayashree Raghunandan, to hold a disciplinary inquiry against the suspended DGP and submit a detailed report. “The disciplinary inquiry is under way. The petitioner herein will be given an opportunity to inspect the relevant documents, in consonance with the guidelines issued by the Government of India,” the A-G said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tn-govt-submits-file-on-icc-inquiry-to-hc/article37920293.ece
10 December 2021||Darjeeling/ Kolkata,||‘He promised to take us on vacation’||A pall of gloom descended on Takdah, a sleepy hamlet in West Bengal Darjeeling district, on Thursday as locals learnt about the death of Havildar Satpal Rai who was among the 13 people killed in the helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu’s Coonoor. Rai, who was a native of Takdah, is survived by wife, a daughter and a son who is also in the Army. Rai’s distraught widow said that he had last come home during Deepavali. “He was supposed to come home in April again and had promised us a vacation to some place,” she said. His body is likely to arrive in Takdah on Friday, a neighbour of the Rai family home said. CM expresses grief Expressing deep condolences, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Rai’s mother. “I sincerely express my deepest condolence to the unfortunate and sudden demise of Late Havildar Satpal Rai due to the helicopter crash yesterday at Coonoor, Tamil Nadu at the age of only 40 years,” an official statement quoted Ms. Banerjee as saying. Rai was in the personal security of Chief of Defence Staff General Rawat, she said. The Chief Minister said that Rai's sacrifice for the country will never be forgotten. “The demise of this brave son of the hills is an irreparable loss. We will always remember the sacrifice of Bengal’s brave son Satpal Rai,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/he-promised-to-take-us-on-vacation/article37920280.ece
10 December 2021||Jaipur,||Co-pilot’s village in Rajasthan gets ready to bid him farewell||In a village 50 km from Rajasthan’s Jhunjhunu district headquarters, grieving relatives of Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, who was the co-pilot of the IAF helicopter that crashed in Tamil Nadu, and residents were on Thursday busy preparing for his cremation. Singh’s last rites will be conducted at the Mahatma Gandhi Government School ground in his Ghardana Khurd village and thousands are expected to gather to bid him farewell. Village sarpanch Ummed Singh Rao said the Education Department has given its nod for Singh’s cremation at the site. His statue will also be installed in the school. “This is very sad news for everyone in the village. As soon as the news of Singh’s death was confirmed on Wednesday evening, his relatives started reaching the village,” he said. “The entire village is engaged in making arrangements for the funeral procession and the cremation," he added. Mr. Rao said Singh’s father had retired from the Navy and many of his cousin brothers are also serving in different arms of the armed forces. His father and other members of the family live in Jaipur, while his extended family lives in Ghardana Khurd. “Singh's father is currently said to be in Delhi,” he said. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 other people on board an IAF MI-17 helicopter died on Wednesday after it crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu.  Governor condoles death Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra condoled Singh’s demise. “The Governor Kalraj Mishra has condoled the martyrdom of Squadron Leader Kuldeep Rao, resident of Ghardana Khurd, Jhunjhunu, in a helicopter accident in Tamil Nadu,” an official statement said. Former Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje took to Twitter to pay a tribute to Singh. “Deeply saddened to learn that #Rajasthan too has lost a brave-heart in the helicopter crash that claimed the life of CDS #BipinRawat & others. I salute the martyrdom of Squadron Leader Kuldeep Rao, a resident of Ghardana Khurd, Jhunjhunu,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/co-pilots-village-in-rajasthan-gets-ready-to-bid-him-farewell/article37920288.ece
10 December 2021||Jamshedpur,||BJP youth leader stabbed in Jamshedpur||A BJP youth leader died at a hospital in Jharkhand’s East Singhbhum district on Thursday morning after being stabbed with a dagger, police said. Suraj Kumar Singh, 26, the BJYM general secretary of the district, succumbed to injuries at the Tata Main Hospital here, they said. He was allegedly stabbed by one Sonu Singh and his accomplices on Tuesday in Harharguttu when he was returning home, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-youth-leader-stabbed-in-jamshedpur/article37920290.ece
10 December 2021||JHAJJAR,||JJP holds foundation day rally in Hooda’s bastion||The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), the junior partner in the ruling coalition in Haryana, on Thursday sent out a political message hinting at its intentions to expand beyond its bastion by holding a rally in South Haryana’s Jhajjar district, the stronghold of former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. The supporters at the rally, which coincided with its third foundation day anniversary, however, sounded a word of caution saying that “less than expected” turnout could be the hint of erosion in support and should serve as a “wake-up call” for the party. In a scathing attack on the former CM at “Jan Sarokar Rally” here, party’s national president Ajay Chautala said that Mr. Hooda had bought thousands of acres of agricultural land across the State at throwaway prices rendering the farmers penniless, adding that those who usurped the farmers land were now claiming to their well-wishers. Attack on INLD Mr. Chautala also attacked the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) saying that the party’s present condition was not hidden from anyone. “When we left the INLD to launch JJP, we handed them over the party’s flag and funds, but they could not handle it,” he said. The choice of rally’s venue, which shares border with Gurugram, Rewari and Mahendragarh districts, also hints at the party plans to explore possibilities for expansion in these districts dominated by the Ahirs. Harping on the ruling coalition’s development works, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala explained how his party managed to get law passed for 75% reservation in private companies despite several difficulties. He said that while the others spoke about region, religion and caste, his party was only concerned with the development. He pointed out that the past one year was not easy due to ongoing farmers agitation and opposition to the party leaders, and thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for making a decision that “touched the people’s hearts”. However, the supporters said the attendance at the rally was less than the expected. “The rally was meant to show strength, but the attendance is not as per the expectations. The party’s support has eroded for not taking a stand on the farmers agitation and the farming community is angry,” said Rajesh, a resident of Sonipat’s Bhainswal village, claiming to be a staunch supporter of the JJP. JJP spokesperson Deepkamal Saharan said the farmers unions meeting to withdraw the agitation also impacted the turnout, and a large number of them got diverted to the agitation sites at borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jjp-holds-foundation-day-rally-in-hoodas-bastion/article37920286.ece
10 December 2021||Mumbai,||Cong. dumps official candidate on eve of Council elections||With just a day to go for Legislative Council polls in Maharashtra, the Congress on Thursday announced its support to Independent candidate Mangesh Deshmukh in Nagpur instead of the official party candidate Ravindra Bhoyar. An statement issued by the Maharashtra unit of Congress said Mr. Bhoyar has expressed inability to contest polls, following which it has decided to extend support to Mr. Deshmukh. Mr. Bhoyar, a veteran BJP leader, had joined the Congress just a day before filing of nomination papers for the Council election. There was resentment over this and several Congress leaders had, over the past two weeks, been expressing displeasure over the functioning of Mr. Bhoyar. The term of eight sitting MLCs is set to expire in January, 2022. However, with regard to local authorities’ constituencies election, the ECI has laid down the guidelines that if at least 75% of the local authorities in the constituency are functioning, and in addition at least 75% of the electors are available, then electorate is treated as available for electing MLC. Based on this, only five out of seven local authorities fulfil the criteria leading to election on only six seats, instead of eight. The seven local authorities include, Mumbai (Ramdas Kadam of Shiv Sena and Bhai Jagtap of Congress), Kolhapur (Satej Patil of Congress), Dhule-cum-Nandurbar (Amrishbhai Patel, Congress-turned-BJP), Akola-cum-Buldhana-cum-Washim (Gopikishan Bajoriya of Shiv Sena), Nagpur (Girish Vyas of BJP), Solapur (Prashant Paricharak, Independent) and Ahmednagar (Arunkaka Jagtap of NCP). As per the ECI, elections will not be held in Solapur and Ahmednagar. The date of poll is December 10 and result will be declared on December 14. Candidates in four out of six Council seats have already been declared elected unopposed. The two seats in Mumbai have already gone to Sunil Shinde of Shiv Sena and Rajhans Singh of BJP, while the Congress and BJP retained Kolhapur and Nandurbar-Dhule seats respectively. Election will now be held for Nagpur and Akola Council seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/congress-dumps-official-candidate-on-eve-of-council-poll-in-nagpur/article37920295.ece
10 December 2021||Mumbai,||Cheating complaint filed against producers of 83||A United Arab Emirates-based finance company has filed a cheating complaint before a magistrate’s court here against the makers of the upcoming Bollywood film 83 . Future Resource FZE has moved the Andheri Metropolitan Magistrate’s court, seeking action against the makers of the film under IPC Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. Among others, the complaint named Vibri Media and its directors. The complaint, filed through advocate Rizwan Siddiquee, claimed that the accused produced the film 83 and made plans to cheat the complainant of its rights in the film.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cheating-complaint-filed-against-producers-of-83/article37920302.ece
10 December 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra Govt. seeks stay on local body polls||A day after all political parties demanded a stay on election process until reservation for OBCs in local body polls is resumed, Maharashtra Government on Thursday said it also holds similar view. “State Government is firm on the stand that either the elections should be held on all seats or no election should be held,” said Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. Mr. Pawar said that Supreme Court has not scrapped the State Government ordinance, but stayed elections on OBC-reserved seats only. “The judiciary has given a different verdict for Maharashtra while similar laws of other States have been upheld. As a Government, we think of all communities. It is not justified to hold elections only for general category, Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe and omit the OBCs,” said Mr. Pawar. The Maharashtra State Election Commission stayed elections to local body seats reserved for OBCs based on the Supreme Court order on the State’s ordinance giving 27% reservation for OBCs. Political parties have already demanded a stay on the entire poll process to avoid injustice to OBCs. The State Government will also be filing a review petition in the Supreme Court. A total of 106 municipal panchayats, Bhandara and Gondiya zilla parishad and 15 panchayat samitis under these ZPs are going to polls on December 21. In addition, bypolls will also be held for four municipal corporation seats and 7,130 vacant posts in gram panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-govt-seeks-stay-on-polls/article37920294.ece
10 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘My comments about Mayor distorted’||BJP MLA Ashish Shelar on Thursday claimed his comments pertaining to Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar were distorted, a day after an FIR was registered against him in the matter. Senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis also said Mr. Shelar's remarks were misinterpreted and that no BJP leader would make indecent comments against any woman. Pednekar, a Sena leader, had filed a complaint against Mr. Shelar, following which a case under sections 354 A (4) (making sexually coloured remark) was registered against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/my-comments-about-mayor-distorted/article37920476.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers to take home Singhu memories||The song and dance had started the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the repeal of the three farm laws but the roar of “ Jo Bole So Nihal ... Sat Sri Akal ” was loudest on Thursday when a speaker announced from the main stage at the Singhu border that all their demands have been accepted and they will leave for their homes on Saturday. Farmers camping at the protest site for the last 378 days broke into a celebratory dance as beats of drums played in the background. Removing the tarpaulin from his makeshift accommodation, Kuldeep Singh, 40, a farmer from Patiala, said he will miss the place a lot but is happy to return home. “Who could have imagined seeing so many trucks and trolleys and flags together at one place. I will miss this the most,” he said. “I am upset,” said Gandhi Vir Bhan from Haryana’s Kaithal, trying hard to hide his smile. “ Free main zameen mil gayi thi Delhi mein. Ab chhorni padegi (We had got free land to stay in Delhi. Now we will have to leave that),” he laughed with his peers. “It’s been a remarkable one year and probably the most memorable one of our lives,” he said. Life Care Foundation Hospital, which has treated thousands of people at the protest site in the last one year, will wrap up once all the farmers leave, said Avtar Singh, the man running the hospital. “We’ll go back with fanfare. There will be DJs on ‘Kisan Express’ and ‘Kisan Metro’ (trucks named so as they ferried protesters to the main stage),” said Mr. Avtar. The legacy of the hospital and Jangi Kitab Library — which have been a permanent feature at the site— will be memorialised at Cholang village in Jalandhar where a farmer has reportedly offered land for the memorial. “The replicas will be installed and every year, on November 26, we will gather there,” he said. Looking back, Mr. Avtar said not only farmers, but also the local residents had became the hospital’s regular patients. “We lost a little over 700 people during the protest. The numbers may have gone up drastically if not for the hospital.” According to Mr. Avtar, the protest was a success because of the elderly who didn’t budge. “If they would have given up and left because of circumstantial reasons, the protest would have fallen apart.” It was this protest that made Jagdev Singh, 55, from Barnala pick up his camera again after 20 years. Sharing his story, Mr. Jagdev said he was a wedding photographer for 10 years before he met with an accident and injured his leg. He quit photography and became a full-time farmer. “A year ago, when I came for the protest, I picked up my camera again and I don’t think I’ll stop now,” he said. The protest has also given life-long friendships to many. Jagtar Singh, 22, from Sangrur hugged his friend Jagmeher Singh, 47, from Patiala as he said: “We have become lifetime friends here. I know I have someone for me in Patiala and he knows he has me in Snagrur.” Mixed emotions As the protest comes to an end, the street vendors at the site are upset, while the shop owners in the vicinity are happy. Ramvir Singh, who had been setting up his stall at the Singhu border for a year now, said he and his family ate all the meals at the site and his business had also been going well. “I’ll now go back to the junction about a km from here and see how it goes there,” he said. Naresh Kumar, 42, a grocery store owner at Kundli junction, said his shop had been shut for over a year due to the protest and he is hoping to to revive his business now. “People lost their money and livelihood. Many shopkeepers left permanently because they couldn’t afford the rent. Now, there’s some hope,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farmers-to-take-home-singhu-memories/article37920276.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||BJP awaits poll outcomes in U.P., Punjab to play its cards in Delhi||Following repeal of the three farm laws, the BJP’s hope of retaining sway over the Capital’s civic bodies hinges largely on its performance in Uttar Pradesh, the Aam Aadmi Party’s success or lack thereof in Punjab and a routine electoral exercise in Delhi. According to party sources, its dented public perception following the repeal of the three “black laws” is as dependent on poll results in the neighbouring States as it is on the rotation of municipal wards in Delhi which is scheduled early next year. Sources said this rotation will come in handy in avoiding bad press the party usually generates whenever it announces replacement of sitting leaders to combat anti-incumbency as part of a considered and successfully tested strategy. “Electoral success, the party has observed time and again is contagious. How well we win in Uttar Pradesh and how badly the AAP fares in Punjab will be significant factors for the Delhi municipal elections,” a party leader said. Ward rotation “Between January and February next year, civic wards will be rotated, which will help the party escape the slight negativity with which voters view the replacement of sitting civic body leaders as a sly ploy to counter anti-incumbency,” another leader said. Responding to the notion of a possible delimitation process, an official at the Delhi’s State Election Commission said, “There will be no delimitation exercise prior to the civic elections.” “There will be a reservation of wards which will be done based on the figures from the census of 2011. Reservation of seats in wards, for women, SC/ST, will be based on the census of 2011,” said a senior official. “There will be rotational reservation which means that if a seat was previously reserved for women candidates, then it is likely that the seat might be reserved in another category but there might be some repetitions as well,” the official said. East Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Standing Committee chairman B.S. Panwar said the rotational revision of the seats “will not affect our political prospects”. ‘No benefits’ “There is no question of gaining benefits because it’s an exercise that is conducted by the State Election Commission. There have been instances where seats have remained in the same category for many years and then suddenly the repetition stops. But we are not worried about having to change candidates according to the rotations,” said Mr. Panwar. South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Standing Committee chairman B.K. Oberoi too said that he was doubtful on whether the rotational exercise would benefit the party. However, a senior leader said, “We will decide on the quantum and the details of the faces who will be replaced based on the results of the exercise which will probably be after the civic polls in Punjab in February.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-awaits-poll-outcomes-in-up-punjab-to-play-its-cards-in-delhi/article37920266.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||Couple killed after dumper crashes into car||A couple died after a dumper crashed into their car in south-west Delhi’s R.K. Puram around midnight on Wednesday. Their six-year-old daughter was rescued safely, the police said. According to DCP (SouthWest) Gaurav Sharma, a call about the accident was received at R.K. Puram police station around 12 a.m. A team reached the spot and found that the dumper carrying stone rodi had hit the road divider, overturned and landed on the car, leaving the family stuck inside. In a three-hour rescue operation involving the fire brigade, the dumper was removed using a hydraulic crane. The couple, identified as Manish Sharma and his wife Shipra, and their daughter were taken to AIIMS. While the parents succumbed to their injuries, the six-year-old has been discharged from the hospital. The driver of the dumper has been arrested and has been booked under Sections, including 304A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving), of the Indian Penal Code. Manish worked as a senior legal adviser at Jindal Polyfilms, while Shipra was a homemaker. They used to live in Noida. The DCP said that the accident occurred when the car was trying to overtake the dumper. As a result, the dumper, in order to prevent a collision, changed the lane and hit the divider. “Subsequently, it overturned and fell over the car, which was right behind it,” the DCP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/couple-killed-after-dumper-crashes-into-car/article37920270.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||FORDA suspends boycott for a week; some RDAs to continue stir||The Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) on Thursday suspended for a week its ongoing boycott of work over delay in PG NEET counselling. But resident doctors’ associations (RDA) of some hospitals said they will continue their boycott of routine services, except emergency issues. “A plea was issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for fast-tracking the court hearing (related to PG NEET counselling) and we were assured by the Union Health Minister that the Office of the Prime Minister is also looking at the issue and the process will be completed within a week. Considering the above and looking at the security situation of the nation owing to the untimely demise of [the] Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, and other army personnel in a tragic accident yesterday, FORDA has decided to hold the agitation for a period of 1 week after discussing with State RDA representatives,” FORDA said in a statement. The Association said that resident doctors will be resuming all services with immediate effect and in case the issue of PG NEET counselling is not addressed by December 16, they will be forced to call for a complete shutdown of all services except COVID-related duty. But all RDAs have not suspended the strike. ‘Only emergency service’ “We will be continuing the boycott tomorrow (Friday) also. We have de-escalated the strike to resume emergency services from tomorrow. However, all non-emergency work will be boycotted,” said Dr. Keshav, president of the RDA of Maulana Azad Medical College and associated hospitals. Dr. Aditya, president of the RDA of GTB Hospital, too said they would continue the boycott of routine services, but doctors will attend emergency work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/forda-suspends-boycott-for-a-week-some-rdas-to-continue-stir/article37920277.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||Low-intensity explosion on Rohini court premises leaves one injured||A low-intensity explosion occurred inside a laptop bag at a courtroom on the Rohini court premises on Thursday, injuring a naib court, the police said. The incident occurred around 10.25 a.m. inside courtroom number 102 on the first floor, presided over by Metropolitan Magistrate Preetu Raj. The spot was cordoned off and a forensic team and the National Security Guard were called in. During investigation, a black bag was found lying on the spot. The naib court, identified as head constable Rajeev, sustained minor injuries and is receiving treatment at a hospital. The police said that the forensic team collected the debris for test. According to a senior police officer, an assembled device has been found inside the bag and it has been sent for examination. The officer said that the police are still ascertaining whether it was an explosive device. Sources, however, ruled out the angle of gang rivalry behind the incident and said that a forensic report of the object that exploded is awaited. Meanwhile, lawyers called the incident another case of security lapse, coming just months after a shoot-out on the court premises where Delhi gangster Jitender Gogi was shot dead by rival gang members who posed as lawyers. Rohini Court Bar Association president Inder Singh Saroha said all the lawyers practising at the court and the judges are concerned over the repeated security lapses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/low-intensity-explosion-on-rohini-court-premises-leaves-one-injured/article37920271.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||North municipal corporation planning to sell 132 plots at throwaway rates: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday alleged that the BJP-governed North Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to sell 132 plots in Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar at “throwaway price to fill its own pockets”. AAP MLA Dilip Pandey claimed that 94 of these 132 plots marked for sale by the BJP were meant for building hospitals, toilets and night shelters for the poor. “Why is the North MCD going to sell 132 plots at throwaway prices? Now that it is certain that they [BJP] will be kicked out, they are plundering whatever is left after their 15-year-long pillaging to fill their pockets,” Mr. Pandey said. The AAP leader said the BJP was selling land which could have generated much-needed revenue. He added that the BJP had already handed over a substantial chunk of land demarcated for building schools and health centres to the parking mafia. BJP’s rebuttal Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the party strongly condemned “the daily diatribe of AAP leaders” against the North MCD. “Today in this series Dilip Pandey levelled unfounded allegations regarding plots allocation at Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar. Same allegations were earlier levelled by Durgesh Pathak and Saurabh Bharadwaj,” Mr. Kapoor said. He said if AAP leaders believed that there is an irregularity in any property deal of North MCD, then they should ask the Delhi Government to order an inquiry. “Similarly if AAP leaders have even an iota of sympathy for civic employees, then instead of doing lip service they should ask Delhi Government to release accumulated municipal funds,” Mr. Kapoor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/north-municipal-corporation-planning-to-sell-132-plots-at-throwaway-rates-aap/article37920273.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||Witness statements fabricated, says Khalid||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid on Thursday told a Delhi court that witness statements recorded by the police in the riots conspiracy case were “fabricated”. Mr. Khalid and several others have been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), a stringent anti-terror law, and are accused of being the “masterminds” of the riots which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. Arguing his bail plea before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat, senior advocate Trideep Pais, representing Mr. Khalid, said that the witness statements were “inconsistent with each other, and will not stand the test of law.” He read out a statement of one of the witnesses and said, “Even a 12-year-old would know this is a fabrication. They (prosecution) should be ashamed. Not even a shred of physical evidence.” Mr. Pais added, “I recently watched a movie called ‘The Trial of Chicago 7’ where witnesses of the State had already planned to be the witnesses of the State.” The lawyer was addressing the allegation levelled by the police against Mr. Khalid that he and his father were present at a protest organized by the Welfare Party of India at Jantar Mantar, wherein children and women were taken in buses. ‘How is that an offence?’ “I am not even admitting to that but advocacy that persons should protest against CAA, how is that an offence?" he said and concluded his arguments. He had begun his arguments on the bail plea on August 23. Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad will commence the arguments on the behalf of police on January 5, 2022. The Delhi Police had earlier said that the bail plea has no merit and that it will demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the charge sheet filed in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/witness-statements-fabricated-says-khalid/article37920283.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||Sharjeel gets bail in Jamia violence case||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to Jawaharlal Nehru University PhD scholar Sharjeel Imam in a case related to violence on the Jamia Millia Islamia campus in December 2019. The bail was granted by the court of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar. CMM Kumar said, “Considering the nature of offence, and the fact that he was not arrested during investigation, the application is allowed.” Mr. Imam was granted bail subject to furnishing a bail bond of Rs. 25,000 with one surety of the like amount. In the present case, he has been booked under Sections pertaining to rioting, attempt to commit culpable homicide among others of the Indian Penal Code. Mr. Imam will continue to stay in jail because of other cases. In October, a Delhi court had dismissed Mr. Imam’s bail in a case where he allegedly delivered inflammatory speeches and incited violence during the anti-CAA-NRC protests in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sharjeel-gets-bail-in-jamia-violence-case/article37920272.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||If bill is high, DJB to give explanation||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) will give an explanation if the water bill is more than 1.5 times the previous one, Water Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. “The DJB today has revised the billing system. Now your bill cannot be more than 1.5 times the previous one. If it crosses this, an explanation will be provided to the customer and he/she can put in grievance for the same,” Mr. Jain said. He added that the Government has started treating wastewater coming from Haryana. “Haryana discharges 15MGD of wastewater in Delhi through dra-in number 6. We have started treating this,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/if-bill-is-high-djb-to-give-explanation/article37920274.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||Conman’s aide arrested, actor grilled||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday arrested an associate of alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar in a money laundering case and questioned actor Jacqueline Fernandez for the second consecutive day in connection with the probe into it, officials said. Pinky Irani was placed arrested under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). According to officials, Ms. Irani was allegedly not cooperating and hence was taken into custody. The probe agency had earlier arrested Mr. Chandrashekhar, his actor wife Leena Maria Paul and two associates. Meanwhile, the agency continued to record the statement of 36-year-old actor. She had spent about eight hours at the agency's office on Wednesday as she was questioned and her statement recorded in multiple sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/conmans-aide-arrested-actor-grilled/article37920279.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||Maintain COVID-19 protocols in Sadar Bazar, HC tells police||The Delhi High Court has directed the Commissioner of Police and the Station House Officer of Sadar Bazar to ensure compliance of COVID-19 protocols by vendors at the market. It gave the direction on a plea highlighting laxity in enforcement of COVID-19 behaviour in Sadar Bazar by the local police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maintain-covid-19-protocols-in-sadar-bazar-hc-tells-police/article37920267.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||EDMC launches pilot project for maintenance of parks||East Delhi Municipal Corporation Commissioner Vikas Anand on Thursday said the civic body has launched a pilot project for maintenance of parks under its jurisdiction. Based on the PPP model, it will allot eight of its parks to private nursery owners for a period of five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/edmc-launches-pilot-project-for-maintenance-of-parks/article37920268.ece
10 December 2021||Panaji,||Goa CEC asks banks to monitor cash transfers||Goa’s Chief Electoral Officer Kunal has appealed to officials of all banks to keep an eye on unusual and suspicious cash transactions in the wake of the State Assembly polls due early next year. During a meeting with representatives of various banks on Wednesday, the official pointed out that there are chances of distribution of gifts and goodies during the election period. He urged all banks to ensure proper documentation is done during the transaction of cash and its transportation by vans for filling the ATMs. While delivering cash at other branches, the outsourced private agencies or bank vans have to carry proper documents issued by the bank, the State Information Ad Publicity Department said in a release. During the meeting, the Chief Electoral Officer appealed to all bankers to monitor the unusual and suspicious cash transactions and ensure free and fair conduct of the upcoming State polls. He said if any such transaction is identified, the State poll machinery will promptly react. He also urged banks to take appropriate measures and also directed them to submit a report in such a case. Citizens can also complain about any violation of poll norms on the ECI’s cVIGI app, he added. The Goa Assembly elections are due in February next year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/goa-cec-asks-banks-to-monitor-cash-transfers/article37920301.ece
10 December 2021||Tarn Taran,||Punjab village mourns loss||Dode Sodhian village here is saddened by the death of Naik Gursewak Singh, who was killed in the helicopter crash. Singh had joined work only two weeks ago after being on leave. He is survived by his father Kabal Singh, wife Jaspreet Kaur, daughters Simratdeep Kaur (9), Gurleen Kaur (7) and son Fatehdeep Singh (3), local authorities said. He also leaves behind five brothers and two sisters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjab-village-mourns-loss/article37920278.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Democracy doesn’t happen by accident’||U.S. President Joe Biden kicked off Day One of his Summit for Democracy, calling on countries to make “concrete commitments” to reaffirm their democratic values. Over 100 countries have been invited, as well as civil society actors, members of various parliaments and the private sector. “Democracy doesn't happen by accident. We have to renew it with each generation,” Mr. Biden, sitting beside his Secretary of State Antony Blinken, told over 50 world leaders who could be seen on a large screen. “We have to stand for justice and the rule of law for free speech, free assembly, a free press, freedom of religion, for all the inherent human rights of every individual,” the President said. The purpose of the gathering was not to assert that any of the participant countries were perfect democracies, Mr. Biden said, but “to lock arms and reaffirm our shared commitment to make our democracy better” and to share ideas and make “concrete commitments” on combating authoritarianism, fighting corruption and promoting human rights – the three themes of the summit. Fund allocation Mr. Biden said he was launching the Presidential Initiative for Democratic Renewal, which, along with the U.S. Congress would commit $224 million toward various democracy related projects including transparency, fair elections and free and independent media. (A White House factsheet released on Thursday said the Initiative would involve $424.2 million. The White House clarified for The Hindu that this was the correct amount). Calling a free and independent press the “ bedrock of democracy”, Mr. Biden said the U.S. was launching a multilateral effort to enhance independent media. He also described a recently announced defamation defence fund by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to protect journalists from “nuisance lawsuits designed to prevent them from doing their work and vital work around the world.” While the Summit is likely to see commitments, in addition to the launch of initiatives, plans to make these commitments binding appear not to be on the cards. Following the Summit, there would be “a year of consultation, coordination and delivery” a senior administration official told reporters on Monday. Second summit Last week U.S. officials had told reporters that there would be a “ written, non-binding code of conduct” on human rights parameters for the export of technologies that could be used for repression. Additionally, this week, the U.S. released a strategy on countering corruption. There is a second summit planned for a year from now, where countries are expected to discuss progress on their commitments. However, the monitoring mechanism seems to rely on civil society actors holding governments accountable, rather than there being any binding mechanism that emerges from the discussions. “And our hope is that through the entirety of this process, we can really have a dialogue between participating governments and civil society, and that civil society will hold all of us accountable,” one official said during Monday’s briefing call. Another official said that coalitions like the Open Government Partnership (India is not a member) or the Universal Periodic Review (a periodic review of human rights records of UN member states) could be leveraged for monitoring. “ …We do intend to host this summit with humility,” one official said. “We see ourselves as a democracy not with all of the answers, but with openness and transparency about our efforts to overcome challenges at home…” Earlier this week, the White House released another ‘fact sheet’ saying the Biden administration is strengthening democracy at home, with details of its work on the infrastructure bill, Build Back Better (not yet passed), voting rights, strengthening unions and other themes Mr. Biden also mentioned during his Thursday launch speech. Thursday’s agenda included two plenary sessions, one hosted by Mr. Biden and the second, by European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. Pre-recorded interventions by world leaders have been scheduled for Thursday and Friday, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention scheduled for Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/democracy-doesnt-happen-by-accident/article37919842.ece
10 December 2021||COLOMBO,||Controversial ex-Navy chief is Gotabaya’s pick as Governor||Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Thursday appointed a former Navy chief, previously accused of abduction and conspiracy to murder, as Governor of the North Western Province, delivering what victims’ families called “yet another blow” to their 12 year-long fight for justice. Wasantha Karannagoda rendered “a great service to the Motherland during the humanitarian operation as the Commander of the Navy,” a statement from the President’s office said, of the man named 14th suspect in a gruesome case now commonly referred to as “Navy 11” case. This is Mr. Rajapaksa’s second controversial appointment in recent months. In October, he chose a reactionary Buddhist monk Galagodaatte Gnanasara, earlier convicted for contempt of court, and accused of inciting violence against Muslims, to chair a panel on key legal reforms.  In the years 2008 and 2009, 11 youth — most of them in their late teens and coming from Sinhala, Tamil, and Muslim families — went missing across in different suburbs around Colombo. With witness accounts and the body of evidence pointing to the apparent involvement of a team of naval officers, the Attorney General’s Department, in November 2019, indicted over a dozen high-ranking naval officers on charges of abducting and conspiring to murder the 11 young men. The list of suspects, of high-ranking naval officers, included Mr. Karannagoda, who was Navy Commander at the time of the abductions. Activists and lawyers consider the case “emblematic” of the alleged criminal conduct of military during civil war years. It also drew notice for the rare progress made by way of evidence gathering and prosecution in court. However, in a puzzling U-turn this August, the AG’s Department said it had decided not to proceed with the charges against the admiral. Short-lived hopes After giving families some reason for hope by serving indictments — on 667 charges — in the high-profile case, the AG’s decision to spare one suspect alone of the grave charges drew wide attention. Including from the UN Human Rights Chief Michelle Bachelet, who expressed concern over developments in judicial proceedings “in a number of emblematic human rights cases” in Sri Lanka. From the families’ perspective, the AG’s decision delivered “a severe blow” to the case. They challenged it at Sri Lanka’s Court of Appeal, which subsequently dismissed their petition on grounds that the AG’s department had the discretion to drop charges against a suspect. Even as hearings on the original case are set to continue – the charges against the other 13 officers remain and the admiral is yet to be acquitted – victims’ families are appalled at Thursday’s appointment. ‘Completely unfair’ “This is completely unfair,” said Jenifer Weerasinghe, mother of Mohammed Dilan Jamaldeen, one of the 11 disappeared youth. “The admiral was the navy commander when my son was abducted. He certainly knows what happened to him and the others. That is why he was named a suspect. How could they give him a post like this?” she asked, terming the development “another huge blow”. The President’s appointment of the admiral as Governor also adds to the list of military men given civilian positions in recent years. Since 2020, Mr. Rajapaksa has appointed at least 28 serving or former military and intelligence personnel to key administrative posts, the UN Human Rights Chief Bachelet noted in a report early this year. Mr. Karannagoda’s appointment is “a double whammy”, according to human rights lawyer Bhavani Fonseka from the Colomb-based NGO Centre for Policy Alternatives. “It further entrenches impunity and militarisation,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/controversial-ex-navy-chief-is-gotabayas-pick-as-governor/article37919839.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi lauds U.S. for summit; Imran to give it a miss||Prime Minister Narendra Modi “commended” the U.S. for holding a summit for democracies that was inaugurated by U.S. President Biden on Thursday, even as Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has decided to skip it, making India one of only three South Asian nations attending the two-day event. “PM Modi said the democratic spirit, including respect for rule of law and pluralistic ethos, is ingrained in Indians,” MEA sources said. “The PM had spoken about the need for democracy in global governance and for technology companies to “contribute to preserving open and democratic societies,” they added. Mr. Modi is due to make his “national statement” on Friday where all leaders are expected to make specific commitments on promoting democracy, on the lines of the climate change summit, officials aware of the agenda said. “Certainly India is going to be playing a prominent role. We would encourage those who weren’t [invited] to work on commitments to democracy,” U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Jennifer Larson said. While India, Pakistan, Nepal and the Maldives were invited to the summit, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Sri Lanka were not among about 100 countries on the list. When asked, Jennifer Larson admitted that limits on the number of invitees on the list had been “arbitrarily placed”. She expressed hope that other democratic countries in the region would be invited to the next summit. Pakistan’s decision not to attend comes on the back of severe criticism of the summit plans from China, which has not been invited, along with Russia, presumably as they are Communist single-party states. “We remain in contact with the U.S. on a range of issues and believe that we can engage on this subject at an opportune time in the future,“ the Pakistan MFA said on Thursday, but did not give a specific reason for missing the summit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/imran-to-skip-bidens-democracy-summit/article37919843.ece
10 December 2021||Bangkok,||Myanmar troops burn alive 11 civilians||Myanmar government troops raided a small northwestern village, rounding up civilians, binding their hands and then burning them alive in apparent retaliation for an attack on a military convoy, according to witnesses and other reports. A video of the aftermath of Tuesday’s attack showed the charred bodies of 11 victims, some believed to be teenagers, lying in a circle in Done Taw village in Sagaing region. Outrage spread as the graphic images were shared on social media over what appeared to be the latest of increasingly brutal military attacks in an attempt to put down stiffening anti-government resistance following the army takeover in February. Human Rights Watch called for the international community to ensure that commanders who gave the order are added to targeted sanctions lists, and more broadly, efforts are stepped up to cut off any source of funding to the military. “Our contacts are saying these were just boys and young people who were caught in the wrong place at the wrong time,” a spokeswoman for the group, Manny Maung, said. “This incident is quite brazen, and it happened in an area that was meant to be found, and seen, to scare people,” she said. The images could not be independently verified, but an account by a person who said he was present when they were taken generally matched descriptions of the incident carried by independent Myanmar media. The government has denied that it had any troops in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-troops-burn-alive-11-civilians/article37919840.ece
10 December 2021||Washington,||Biden to call Ukraine leader amid Russia row||U.S. President Joe Biden will call Ukraine’s leader on Thursday in a show of support, after warning Vladimir Putin of sanctions “like none he’s ever seen” if Russian troops attack Ukraine. After talking to Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky, Mr. Biden will call nine Eastern European NATO members, including Poland and the Baltic states, to discuss the video conference he held with Mr. Putin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-to-call-ukraine-leader-amid-russia-row/article37919834.ece
10 December 2021||Doha,||Saudi prince discusses security with Qatar on his first visit after blockade||Saudi Arabia’s de facto leader has discussed regional security with Qatar during his first visit since the kingdom ended a four-year blockade, official media said. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman arrived late on Wednesday as part of a Gulf tour, nearly a year after relations were restored between the two nations in January. Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt cut ties with Doha over allegations it supported extremists and was too close to arch-rival Iran — allegations Doha denied. During talks with Qatar’s emir, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, the two sides exchanged views on “everything that would protect stability and security in the region”, the Qatar News Agency said. Prince Mohammed’s tour had been overshadowed by France’s arrest of a man suspected of involvement in the 2018 killing of Saudi Arabian journalist Jamal Khashoggi. However, it later turned out to be a case of mistaken identity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/saudi-prince-discusses-security-with-qatar-on-his-first-visit-after-blockade/article37919837.ece
10 December 2021||United Nations,||UN chief to attend Beijing Olympics||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres will attend the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics, his spokesman said, after the United States announced a diplomatic boycott. The United States said that it would not send a diplomatic delegation in a protest against rights abuses by China. Australia, Britain and Canada also announced diplomatic boycotts. France has no plans to join the boycott, President Emmanuel Macron said, calling such a move “insignificant.” China warned nations that they would “pay the price” for boycotts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-chief-to-attend-beijing-olympics/article37920112.ece
10 December 2021||Hong Kong,||Jimmy Lai among three Hong Kong activists convicted over Tiananmen vigil||Jailed Hong Kong media mogul Jimmy Lai was among three democracy campaigners convicted for taking part in a banned Tiananmen vigil as the prosecution of activists came to a conclusion.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/jimmy-lai-among-three-hong-kong-activists-convicted-over-tiananmen-vigil/article37919836.ece
10 December 2021||Washington,||U.S. authorizes Pfizer Covid booster for people aged 16 and 17||The U.S. Food and Drug Administration expanded authorisation of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID booster for 16- and 17-year-olds, amid growing concern over the Omicron variants .AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-authorizes-pfizer-covid-booster-for-people-aged-16-and-17/article37920114.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Does the Omicron variant make a case for booster doses?||If conversations around booster shots to tackle COVID-19 were loud earlier, the emergence of the new variant, Omicron, has ensured that the clamour for booster shots has reached a fever pitch. The Health Minister stressed that India’s priority is to fully vaccinate all adults and not administer booster shots even though adequate vaccines are available. He also said that any decision on booster doses will be based solely on scientific recommendations. At a recent meeting, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation maintained that it was not recommending a booster dose for any section of the population, priority groups included, in the absence of evidence. In a conversation moderated by R. Prasad , Chandrakant Lahariya and Satyajit Rath discuss whether booster doses are required, and when and to whom they should first be given when there is enough evidence recommending their use. Edited excerpts: What is the primary objective of a booster dose — to prevent symptomatic infection or to prevent moderate or severe disease and death? Satyajit Rath:First, let me raise what I suspect is going to be an elephant in the room during this entire discussion. Are we talking about the purpose of vaccination with outcomes at the community level or are we talking about the outcomes of vaccination in terms of protection at the individual level? This is going to remain a point during any discussion about booster shots. The evidence so far is that we are far more efficiently protected against severe illness, hospitalisation and death by being full vaccinated than infection and transmission. The expectation from boosters is that they will proportionately increase protection against infection and transmission. However, the evidence that booster doses do this is fragmentary. Chandrakant Lahariya:I would approach this in a different way. We know that boosters are being considered globally for a different set of populations. And when we think of the purpose of boosters, we have to go back to the purpose of the COVID-19 immunisation programme. The purpose is to reduce hospitalisation, severe disease and death. Now, that purpose can be achieved through administering full vaccination. So, the booster dose does not have a separate purpose; it is intended to fulfil the overall objective of the COVID-19 vaccination programme. We really do not know whether giving booster shots adds any value to the primary purpose of the immunisation programme. How much do we know about the effectiveness of Covishield and Covaxin in preventing symptomatic infection and severe disease? In the absence of many studies on vaccine effectiveness, what will be the basis on which a decision on booster doses will be taken? CL:We know that there is evidence indicating that while the antibody level goes down over a period of time, protection against severe disease and hospitalisation remains unchanged. So, unless we change the purpose of the vaccination programme, which is to reduce symptomatic disease, the need for a booster shot is not going to be altered. SR:In real-life effectiveness studies, while one can debate endlessly on just how much evidence is enough evidence, I don’t have any difficulty in accepting that both Covaxin and Covishield provide a significant measure of protection against severe illness and death. We don’t have reliable evidence about [protection against] infection and transmission and mild or asymptomatic disease. But none of that gives us evidence for how to decide about a booster dose. Because, if we are looking for protection against hospitalisation, we already have a vaccination campaign that in the first place is not complete, and where vaccines have been administered, we have every expectation that they are going to be effective. So I’m not certain of what the evidential or the tactical basis for discussing a booster dose inclusion in a vaccination campaign is. India has administered over 1.26 billion doses, and the vaccination programme has been going on for about 11 months. At this point, should we not have had several effectiveness studies looking at different aspects which should have helped us decide about booster doses? SR: Certainly. But even if we have data about the effectiveness of two doses of Covishield or Covaxin in preventing hospitalisation and death, how does that tell us whether boosters will work or not? Even if it turns out that we don’t have reasonable protection in real-life circumstances against hospitalisation and death with two doses of the vaccine, that doesn’t automatically tell us that the booster is going to work. CL:We need to remember that vaccine effectiveness remains unchanged over a period of time against hospitalisation and death. But the bigger point when deciding about a booster dose is: where is the cut-off for saying that this much protection is enough and this is what we want to achieve? Second, how do we decide what level of effective benefit or protection we want to achieve through the booster? Finally, do we have data for these vaccines [used in India] or different vaccines that giving a booster shot will result in improved protection? There is some data that a booster shot of the Pfizer vaccine produces improved protection. But we don’t have that kind of data for other vaccines. So, all these studies should be done, analysed and interpreted in combination with other factors. Only then can a decision be made. Does the emergence of the Omicron variant make it necessary to administer a booster dose? SR:The emergence of the new variant makes the case for a global inclusive primary vaccination campaign for COVID-19 even more compelling than it was. Does it separately make a specific case for a booster dose programme more compelling? I don’t think so, for all the reasons discussed so far. You’re going to have a little more transmission and hospitalisation, but protection against that [hospitalisation] is likely to be higher. For booster doses, evidence for protection is scarce. What Omicron does is make the case for primary global inclusive vaccination more compelling rather than specifically increasing the pressure to plan for boosters. CL:We know that the ability of the available vaccines in reducing transmission is limited. We also know that based on available data, Omicron causes mostly mild disease. Currently licensed vaccines have a proven role in reducing severe disease, hospitalisation and death. So, there is definitely a clear disconnect that because of Omicron there would be any additional advantage in reducing any kind of illness. The focus has to be on ensuring that everyone receives a primary schedule of vaccination. There is no additional value in administering a booster because of the Omicron variant. Who do you think should be the first to get booster doses — immunocompromised people, people older than 60 years, or those with comorbidities? SR:We really don’t have good evidence. For example, there is evidence that booster doses increase antibody levels. But do they increase antibody levels in specifically immunocompromised individuals who have not responded well or have not responded for a long duration to the primary vaccine schedule? We don’t know. Of course, if we had achieved proper universal primary immunisation coverage and if vaccine supplies were available and approved, it would be nice to have boosters available for identified categories of particularly vulnerable people. But no conditionality — the supply conditionality, the primary vaccination campaign success conditionality, or the conditionality of evidence for boosters working in these categories of people are being fulfilled. CL:The need for a booster can be assessed based on the pattern of breakthrough infections or which population group over a period of time is reporting more severe disease. These would also vary according to the type of vaccine used. So, we need more granular data on epidemiology, disease burden, and breakthrough infections before we identify age groups. This is also true for vaccine-specific data — protection, efficacy, effectiveness, and duration of protection. Next, we need to know about the performance of booster doses. We need to know that the vaccines perform when booster doses are given to different sets of population. It is not necessary that the protection will be similar in each age group, but we need to know that. We need to know what the optimal timing after the second dose should be — six months, nine months or a year. And whether it should it be a homologous or heterologous booster dose because the majority of countries are giving booster doses using either a different vaccine belonging to the same platform or vaccines from a different platform. We need to explore whether booster doses should be of the same amount of vaccine or a dose-sparing formulation. Another key factor is the duration between the completion of the primary immunisation schedule and the planned booster dose. So, by that standard, if you look at the Indian example, of course health workers and front-line workers who received the vaccine long before anyone else might come in the category of people who should receive a booster dose before other groups. Also, the elderly. But the elderly may require far more boosting. I also want to bring the final and slightly related point which is relevant. There is an ongoing discussion and broader consensus that while booster doses require more thinking, an additional dose or third dose as part of the extended primary immunisation schedule for those adults of any age group who are immunocompromised or who could not develop the immune sufficient antibody after two shots of primary schedule should be considered. Should the focus not be on primary vaccination of the global community, especially in Africa where only a very small percentage of people have been vaccinated? Should India not be focused on distributing vaccines globally than on administering booster doses especially when there is no evidence of benefit? CL:There is enough evidence to say that primary immunisation prevents severe disease, hospitalisation and death. That should be the core focus no matter which part of the world people are living in. Ensuring vaccine availability in different parts of the world should be the priority of all countries. Of course, during a pandemic, countries would want to prioritise their own population first and then share vaccines. I believe that now India can assure primary immunisation for the adult population and it has more vaccines. So, India’s priority should be to revive the Vaccine Maitri initiative in an accelerated and sustained manner. This becomes especially important as new variants are emerging most likely from settings where there is low vaccination coverage. Even if new variants are not emerging from such settings, their impact would be far worse in those settings. So, if the world wants to halt the pandemic, countries need to vaccinate their own populations but also share vaccines with the rest of the world before considering booster doses. And even when evidence on boosters emerges, there is far greater evidence on the benefit of primary immunisation and that points to the importance of sharing vaccines. India should definitely share its vaccines and now is the time.  The focus has to be on ensuring that everyone receives a primary schedule of vaccination. There is no additional value in administering a booster because of the Omicron variant. Chandrakant Lahariya||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/does-the-omicron-variant-make-a-case-for-booster-doses/article37919833.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Children and schooling in the post-COVID-19 era||When someone in the family falls sick, all normal routines and arrangements are affected. And then, the deeper problems that lay hidden under the momentum of routine lie exposed and revealed. The same applies to an epidemic. The term currently used is ‘pandemic’ because it covers the whole world, but one cannot forget that even a universal illness manifests itself in regionally specific, local ways, exposing the problems to which societies had become accustomed. In our case, the pandemic has revealed the limits of our wherewithal to look after the collective needs of children during a calamity. A child in the family has a radically different status from that accorded to children as a collective entity in our country. The pandemic has revealed that society and state institutions prefer to ignore the conditions under which the family copes with the demands of childhood. Peripheral concern Children’s education and health are two major domains in which welfare policies of the modern state are expected to support and enhance the family’s role. In both these domains, the policy framework reflects a minimalist stance, both in terms of financial investment and institutional strength. In policies as well as in their execution, there is considerable diversity and disparity among the States. The overall picture suggests that childhood is of peripheral concern. Gains made in this context have proved difficult to sustain. The pandemic’s deep effect When the Right to Education (RTE) Act was promulgated over a decade ago, it seemed like a breakthrough. This perception was grounded in the structures and procedures created under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan during the decade preceding the RTE. These structures were not perfect, but they marked a new beginning in the direction of local autonomy and devolution of power. These fragile structures required nurturing on a long-term basis. Neglect and decay set in quite soon in regions where the system was weak to begin with, and then came COVID-19. Several recent surveys show that the pandemic has left the entire system ravaged. Even something as basic as a meal for the youngest age group ceased. Teaching switched wholesale to the online mode, leaving it to the family to cope with the demands hidden in this medium. A flat discourse pervaded the ethos, offering few choices or clues to enhance them. India was unique in the fact that even the very youngest age group was covered by online teaching. With the reopening of schools, the outcomes of prolonged exposure to digital devices in confined spaces have started to be revealed and documented. The vast majority of children from lower socio-economic backgrounds could not access online teaching for reasons totally beyond their control. And among those who did have access to online lessons, rates of comprehension and progress were quite low. Studies show that academic losses are compounded by emotional problems. A survey carried out by the Vipla Foundation has traced the kinds of stress children experienced at home. Exposure to domestic violence, prolonged hours in front of TV, especially among boys, and addiction to digital sources of entertainment are among the various outcomes of COVID-19 confinement. A recovery plan Systemic recovery will undoubtedly prove arduous. The time required for recovery will depend on imagination and resources. A significant beginning has been made in Tamil Nadu. A committee chaired by Professor R. Ramanujam has been asked to prepare a three-year recovery plan and a new curriculum. A major problem this committee will need to address is the addictive effect of prolonged online teaching. Devices such as the smartphone induce small children into a seductive bond that may not be easy to shake off. Restoring children’s innate desire to relate to the world physically and socially surrounding them will constitute a major step towards educational recovery. This will demand de-addiction from digital instruments. The COVID experiment of exclusive dependence on digital machinery has resulted in a radical expansion of its market. It has also permitted digital activism to mutate into an ideological doctrine of progress. The Ramanujam committee may not find it easy to deal with this doctrine. Its believers and new recruits must be persuaded to listen to child psychologists and teachers of young children. Their voices, feeble though they are at present, offer the best promise of healing our injured system. It was not a strong and resilient system to begin with. Its key functionaries — the teachers — had little say in decisions and no autonomy to do their best. Distrust in the teacher cuts across the deep divisions that characterise the system. On one side of the divide are government schools of various types, with differential levels of funding but common norms of governance. On the other side are private schools ranging from shoestring budget schools to the well-endowed, elite institutions. What sustains this straggling order of institutional outfits is the grand national fantasy that even an inadequate system such as India’s can generate a sufficient number of good doctors, judges, teachers, engineers, civil servants and so on. Shifting of children No description can capture the differential realities of experience that COVID-19 imposed on this vast range of institutions. Nor is there a comprehensive study to tell us how parents belonging to different socio-economic classes coped with their anxieties. We now know that financial constraints have forced a considerable proportion of children studying in private schools to shift to government schools. What this shift implies for the children and for the schools they will now attend needs more than speculation. Indeed, the shift itself remains a raw reality. In a recent webinar, Professor Shantha Sinha, former head of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, spoke about the astonishing demand faced by parents who wanted to transfer their children from a private to a government school. As many private schools run entirely on the strength of the fees they collect, they had to close down during COVID-19. The digital record of children’s enrolment maintained in some States continues to show their names in a private school. Seeking a transfer requires deletion from this record. Prof. Sinha said that many private schools in her region demand recovery of the COVID-19 period fee for granting deletion of the child’s name. This is just one instance of the hundreds of bitter experiential facts we will need to gather from every part of the country in order to prepare a post-COVID-19 recovery plan of any credible and practical value. Insightful report For now, the best we can do is to browse through a new United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) report titled “No Teacher, No Class” (https://bit.ly/31HJFKi), and heed its sane recommendations. Prepared by a team of scholars at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, this report tells us that India is facing a shortfall of at least one million school teachers. The report makes several key recommendations. The first is: “Improve the terms of employment of teachers in both public and private schools.” Some of the other recommendations are: value the professional autonomy of teachers, build career pathways, and, above all, recruit more teachers. If sound, research-based advice is what we need for rebuilding the system, it is available in this excellent report. Krishna Kumar is a former Director of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). He is the author of ‘Smaller Citizens’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/children-and-schooling-in-the-post-covid-19-era/article37919822.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting a handle on the battle for Uttar Pradesh||If one is to go by the number of political parties contesting elections in Uttar Pradesh, it may be seen to be a multi-cornered contest. But the way alliances have been formed, the Assembly elections to be held next year seem to be headed for a clear bipolar contest — between the Samajwadi Party (SP) on the one hand and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the other hand. Having formed alliances with various smaller regional parties, the SP has been able to create a strong perception of being the only challenger to the BJP. The BJP remains a formidable force being the ruling party, having registered three formidable victories in the State, i.e. the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections and the 2017 Assembly elections. There seems to be some unhappiness with the Yogi Adityanath government, but I do not get a sense of there being strong anti-incumbency against the ruling BJP government, which may be required to defeat this government. The BJP has also managed to form alliances with smaller regional parties which would only help the party in consolidating its support base. The stepping back by farmers in terms of slowly withdrawing their agitation may help in mellowing down Jat anger against the BJP in western U.P., a region that had voted for the BJP in large numbers in the earlier election. The other contenders for power, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Congress, seem to be getting marginalised as except for their core supporters, other voters may not vote for either of these parties as it would be seen as their vote getting wasted. Evidence from surveys conducted by the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS) suggest that nearly a quarter of non-committed voters vote for the party which they think is winning an election as they do not want to waste their vote. Since the BSP and the Congress are seen as parties out of the electoral contest, it would be difficult for these parties to attract votes beyond their core supporters. The SP’s plan With the election clearly becoming a bipolar one, these are the questions that are being asked: Has the SP established a lead over the BJP? Is the BJP still firmly holding ground? Will U.P. now be a neck-and-neck contest? It would certainly be difficult to say how the U.P. election is pitched at this moment, but various political developments in the State give one a clear picture. When compared to the 2017 Assembly elections, the support base of the SP is on the rise, while the BJP seems to be vulnerable given some unhappiness with the government among various sections of voters. It is important to note that the SP has formed an alliance with the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), the Aam Adami Party (AAP), Om Prakash Rajbhar’s Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and Krishna Patel’s Apna Dal (Kamerwaadi). This will help the SP in mobilising votes of various Other Backward Classes castes besides the Yadavs who are its core supporters. An alliance with the RLD would help in mobilising the Jat votes in its favour. Since Jats and non-Yadav OBCs had voted for the BJP in large numbers, this alliance may be able to dent the non-Yadav OBC and Jat support base of the BJP, as there would be some shift among these voters. An alliance with Om Prakash Rajbhar will help the SP in mobilising the votes of Rajbhar community with its sizeable presence in about 20 Assembly constituencies of eastern Uttar Pradesh. An alliance with the Apna Dal (Kamerwaadi) will also bring some Kurmi votes in its fold. The SP is also in talks about forming an alliance with the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia headed by Shiv Pal Yadav and Janwadi Party-Socialist headed by Sanjay Singh Chauhan. Though there have been large crowds in the various rallies of Akhilesh Yadav, crowds do not always turn into voters. There may be strong supporters, but there are also a sizeable number of “hired people”. The proportion of such a “hired crowd” in election rallies may differ from one party to another. A study of rallies by the CSDS during the 2019 Lok Sabha election showed that 25% of those attending election rallies confirmed having been called or brought to the rally by the party concerned based on some promise or other. The study also indicated that nearly a third of those participating in the rally might attend the rally of other parties as well. Past experiments Concerns are being raised why the SP’s Akhilesh Yadav did not even make an attempt to form an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party or with Congress, or with both these parties to consolidate his position. Would not an alliance with the Congress or the BSP, or both, have helped the SP in mobilising greater support, rather than stitching up an alliance with smaller regional parties? The experiment of contesting elections based on an alliance with the Congress and the BSP has failed miserably in the past. The SP-Congress alliance managed to win only 54 Assembly seats (the SP 47, the Congress 7) during the 2017 Assembly election with a 28.1% vote share (the SP 21.83%, the Congress 6.25%). Similarly, the SP-BSP alliance failed during the 2019 Lok Sabha election — the SP won only 5 seats and polled 19.26% votes while the BSP won 10 Lok Sabha seats, polling 17.96% votes. Going with an experiment which had failed in the past would not have been a sensible strategy despite looking strong on paper; voters would not have trusted such an alliance. Perception plays an important role in Indian elections. BJP’s outreach Despite its getting a number of parties as allies, the SP must note that the BJP too has managed to build similar alliances with various other regional parties. The BJP’s alliance is with the Apna Dal (Sonelal) led by Anupriya Patel, the Nishad Party led by Sanjay Nishad, the Bharatiya Manav Samaj Party led by Kewat Ramdhani Bind, the Shoshit Samaj Party led by Babulal Rajbhar, the Bharatiya Suheldev Janata Party led by Bhim Rajbhar, the Bharatiya Samata Samaj Party led by Mahendra Prajapati, the Manavhit Party led by Krishna Gopal Singh Kashyap, the Prithviraj Janshakti Party led by Chandan Singh Chauhan, and the Musahar Aandolan Manch (also known as the Gareeb party) led by Chandramani Vanvasi. These parties do not have a very large support base but are popular among some marginal OBC castes and Dalits. In a way, these alliances would help the BJP in counter-balancing the SP’s alliance with smaller parties. Finally, the electoral contest in U.P. remains wide open with the BJP having a slight edge as farmers appear to be satisfied with the Government’s move on repealing the farm laws. Sanjay Kumar is a professor at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), Delhi and a political analyst. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/getting-a-handle-on-the-battle-for-uttar-pradesh/article37919825.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Not a compromising position||A recent meeting of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat with a select group of journalists in Delhi raised a few eyebrows. What should be the desirable terms of engagement between journalists and their interlocutors is a rather complicated question. The fall of journalistic standards is a reality of our times, and too much proximity between journalists and the people they write on — politicians, businessmen, bureaucrats, etc. — is one reason for this. But the increasing tendency to look for sinister conspiracies in such meetings is silly. It is like looking for a scam in every government decision. True, if the invitees at a select briefing are vetted based on their willingness to be pliable in the past, then the meeting is no longer a credible exercise. That said, my complaint about Mr. Bhagwat’s meeting with journalists is not that some people participated in it, but that I was not invited! Let me explain. The RSS is the most influential organisation in the country today. Its views shape not only our present and future, but also our notion of the past. I have striven hard to meet leaders of the RSS and been occasionally successful. But with Mr. Bhagwat, never. Once, I tried to meet the former chief K.S. Sudarshan without an appointment at the RSS office in Delhi, but was rebuffed by a stern elderly man who lashed out at me for my ignorance about the culture of the Sangh. I tried to reason that I wanted to overcome my ignorance, but it did not cut much ice. To make up for this limited access, I listen to the numerous speeches that Mr. Bhagwat and his colleagues give. A journalist has no commitment to the person he meets or interviews. Again, it is sad that actors across sectors and political parties try to predetermine the agenda and outcome of their meetings with journalists and vet questions before interviews. This is truer for films and business than politics. Journalists who are competing for a scoop often give in. This has led to the understanding now that if you are meeting someone, that ought to be an act of compromise in itself. The absolute requirement of separation between paid advertisement and editorial content is also being stretched by grandstanders: whether paid advertisement is nationalistic and patriotic enough, whether the advertisement is true or not, whether an ad is moral or not. But how does a platform distinguish between the claim of an advertiser that karva chauth is a great tradition and another that proclaims the virtues of a soap or soft drink? An attempt to understand I have met convicted murderers, law-evading scoundrels, kidnappers, fraudsters, and underground activists besides several prominent shapers of Indian politics over the years, and all that has helped me understand how they think and function. That is very essential to my own functioning as a journalist and hence, I am relentless in pursuing meetings, even when people are not initially welcoming. Among the people whom I have tried hard to meet but have not been able to until now include Steve Bannon and Mayawati. The RSS chief is on top of the list of the people I would greatly value meeting, but alas! The danger to journalism or democracy is not that journalists are meeting political actors. The danger is that they are not meeting enough, they are not being allowed to meet, or are being allowed meetings only with conditions. The moral police among the tribe need to take a deep breath and relax. varghese.g@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/not-a-compromising-position/article37919828.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A tragic loss||India has lost a capable and experienced military leader in the tragic death of the country’s first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Bipin Rawat, in a helicopter crash near Coonoor in the Nilgiris on Wednesday. His wife, Madhulika, and 11 others also perished when the Indian Air Force’s Mi-17V5 helicopter came down in a heavily wooded area. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has announced in Parliament that a tri-service inquiry, headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Training Command, of the IAF, will take place into the incident. The IAF chief, Air Chief Marshal V.R. Chaudhari, has already visited the crash site; the cockpit voice and flight data recorders have been recovered, which would give investigators insights into how the crash occurred. It is imperative that the inquiry be done both thoroughly and speedily. Without speculating on the cause, it needs to be stressed that speedy course corrections in training or hardware are imperative given that these Mi-17VF choppers are being used to ferry top military leaders across the length and breadth of the country. Gen. Rawat had not even completed two years as CDS when the Coonoor tragedy happened. After completing his tenure as Army Chief on December 31, 2019, he slipped into his new role as CDS the very next day. Many of his plans to give India genuine tri-service operational capabilities are still to be realised. In such a situation, the Government should not lose time in appointing his successor to ensure that the plans on the drawing board do not suffer. An aggressive China and a still belligerent Pakistan define India’s security challenges. The situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) continues to be tense with Indian and Chinese troops staring down each other. Gen. Rawat, known to have been proximate to the ruling establishment, had never minced words while speaking about the challenges facing the country and had waded into political controversies. Though the concept of having a CDS was recommended by a Group of Ministers in 2000 after the Kargil war, it took another 20 years for one to be appointed. The CDS, who functions as Principal Military Adviser to the Defence Minister, is expected to work in tandem with the three service chiefs who continue to operate in their respective domains — a role and function that is still in the making. To ensure that the new CDS and the service chiefs function as a team, the Government would do well to keep in mind the principle of seniority while choosing Gen. Rawat’s successor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-tragic-loss/article37919817.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Omicron shadow||The RBI’s latest monetary policy action, of maintaining status quo on benchmark interest rates, the policy stance, as well as the full-year GDP growth and inflation projections, stems largely from a wariness of the risks posed by the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus. Announcing the bimonthly policy, Governor Shaktikanta Das observed that ‘headwinds from global developments’ were the main risk to the domestic outlook, which was now “somewhat clouded by the Omicron variant of COVID-19”. With the key drivers of demand in the economy — private investment and private consumption — still lacking meaningful momentum, the Monetary Policy Committee had opted to continue with its growth supportive ‘accommodative’ policy stance so as to enable a durable and broad-based recovery, he said. While it may sound churlish to question the MPC’s stand, given that the ongoing recovery from last fiscal’s record contraction is still yet to register an across-the-board expansion from pre-pandemic levels, the fact that one of the six members of the rate-setting panel has dissented on the policy stance for a third consecutive time, cannot be ignored. Positing in October that the ‘upside risks to long-term inflation and to inflation expectations had become more aggravated’, external member Jayanth Varma had at the time cautioned the committee against falling into “a pattern of policy making in slow motion” guided by an excessive desire to avoid surprises. And while his specific reasons for voting against the grain this week are not immediately available, that the MPC is for now prioritising growth over price stability is clear. Governor Das, who acknowledged the criticality of taming inflation when he asserted “price stability remains the cardinal principle for monetary policy as it fosters growth and stability”, however, seems to be sanguine about the outlook for retail prices. Contending that winter arrivals would help bring down vegetable prices, which had spiked in October contributing to a marginal quickening in headline CPI inflation that month, Mr. Das has banked on optimism in asserting that the ‘slack in the economy’ may limit the pass-through of cost-push pressures that have kept core retail inflation persistently high for 17 months. The RBI’s November round of ‘Inflation Expectations Survey of Households’ shows that households expect inflation to accelerate in the near and medium term. The median inflation expectation of respondents polled in an extension survey earlier this month, in order to factor in both a possible Omicron impact and the softening in fuel prices in the wake of the cut in excise duty, projects the three-months ahead rate at 10.8% and the one-year ahead reading at 10.9%. And though the RBI has begun to slowly tighten the liquidity spigot it opened in the wake of the pandemic last year, a more robust response to ward off price pressures will become imperative sooner rather than later. For a delay risks undermining precisely what Mr. Das said was the RBI’s motto at this juncture, ensuring “a soft landing that is well timed”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/omicron-shadow/article37919818.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Impact of a week’s war on Pakistan||New Delhi, Dec 9: It will be a week to-morrow since Pakistan started a full-scale war with pre-emptive bombing raids on a dozen Indian airheads and intensive shelling all along the border in the West and got it back in full measure on both the fronts. From India’s point of view, the war is proceeding very satisfactorily with very few setbacks or surprises which had not been forseen — and, as expected, with a devastating impact on Pakistan’s capacity to fight simultaneously on both the fronts. According to Indian and foreign military experts here, the overall situation is good and it will get better in the next few days before the fighting on the ground reaches its climax in the west with the virtual conclusion of the fighting in the east. The present position in the eastern front is that except in Dacca the enemy resistance has crumbled and the trapped Pakistani army, now scattered all over Bangla Desh, is no longer an organised force under an integrated command, fighting doggedly to hold its ground or falling back in a disciplined fashion to regroup itself and resume the flight. The trapped enemy troops are either fleeing helter-skelter or withdrawing in scattered groups to make a dash to the exit points to stage a Pakistani-style Dunkirk down the Bangla Desh river system, little knowing that the Indian forces pursuing them are already astride the Padma, the Brahmaputra and the Megna to block their escape.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/impact-of-a-weeks-war-on-pakistan/article37919826.ece
10 December 2021||mumbai,||Imports made up 86% of gold supply in 2016-20, says WGC||Imports made up 86% of India’s gold supply between 2016-2020, and inbound shipments continue to grow despite high import duty, as per a report by the World Gold Council (WGC). Since the first duty hike in 2012, India has imported some 6,581 tonnes of gold, averaging 730 tonnes per annum, as per WGC’s ‘Bullion Trade in India’ report. In 2020, India imported 377 tonnes of gold bars and dore from over 30 countries, of which 55% came from just two countries — Switzerland (44%) and the UAE (11%). One important change that has taken place in India’s gold market is the growth in gold dore imports. The increase reflects the government’s accommodative stance towards gold refining, the report said. In the last five years, gold dore imports made up 30% of the total official imports of the yellow metal. Duty benefits led to a massive expansion of refining capacity in the country as the number of refineries grew from three in 2012 to 32 in 2020. With lower duty on gold dore, its share of gold imports has increased from 11% in 2014 to 29% in 2020. “As the second largest global market, Indian gold demand is heavily dependent on bullion and dore imports. Looking at current market trends, we expect gold imports to be stronger in 2022, as compared to this year. “Bullion industry has developed over the last three decades in India with a significant addition to organised refining capacity and an LBMA-accredited refinery,” WGC regional CEO, India, Somasundaram P R said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/imports-made-up-86-of-gold-supply-in-2016-20-says-wgc/article37919812.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||HMD to export Nokia phones from India||HMD Global, which sells Nokia mobile phones, on Thursday said it would begin exporting ‘Made in India’ products as it looks to integrate ‘priority market’ India in its global supply chain. “India is one of our top priority markets, not only from a consumer standpoint as it is the second-biggest smartphone market globally but also as a country… We want to leverage India as a global supply chain hub,” HMD Global vice-president (India and MENA) Sanmeet Singh Kochhar. Mr. Kochhar added HMD would start with exports for Nokia 105, which is the top-selling feature phone in India as well as globally. The devices will be exported from HMD’s partner factory in Sriperumbudur to the United Arab Emirates. Though the feature phone market was declining, there were still strong use cases for the devices and demand was driven by low entry cost, longer battery life, need for secondary devices as well as by people wanting a ‘digital detox’, he pointed out. “Not just in India, feature phones are a big market globally,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hmd-to-export-nokia-phones-from-india/article37919802.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Clarify tax relief rule for SEZ projects with WfH’||The National Association of Software and Services Companies (Nasscom) has submitted recommendations for the upcoming Budget, including clarification on availability of income tax relief in projects for which staff Work-from-Home (WfH), reduction in compliance burden and certainty to taxpayers. Nasscom said the industry had potential to grow twofold in revenue to $350 billion by FY26, and favourable consideration to the suggestions would help reach the goal. It sought clarification as to whether WfH by employees of units in Special Economic Zones (SEZs) would not affect eligibility for tax holiday available under to Sec. 10AA of the Income Tax Act (I-T Act). “Emerging from the pandemic, industry is implementing a hybrid working model ... work will happen both onsite and remotely as a matter of routine. Earlier, this was considered ‘temporary’... but now it will just be a way of working.” Nasscom also pitched for lowering the compliance burden, urging amendments to allow depreciation on goodwill from transactions that took place before April 1, 2021.  Nasscom said it wanted impetus to help the industry achieve $350-bn revenue by FY26||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/clarify-tax-relief-rule-for-sez-projects-with-wfh/article37919803.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. mulls 5G test bed roll-out in early January||The government is planning to roll out a 5G test bed in early January to enable small and medium enterprises and other industry players to test their solutions on a working platform, a top Department of Telecom official said on Thursday. To promote 5G indigenous technology, DoT had in March 2018 approved a multi-institute collaborative project to set up a 5G Test Bed at a total cost of Rs. 224 crore. A test bed consists of a specific environment including hardware, software, operating system and network configuration to test a product or service. “One more effort that we have taken in the recent past is setting up a 5G test bed. We hope to roll out this 5G test bed in early January which will enable SMEs and other parts of industries to come and test their solution on a working platform,” DoT Secretary K. Rajaraman said at the India Mobile Congress. At present, the DoT has allocated spectrum to Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio, Vodafone Idea and MTNL for 5G trials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-mulls-5g-test-bed-roll-out-in-early-january/article37919806.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||Coal at power units rises to 10-days cover: Minister||Coal stock at thermal power plants improved to 20.98 million tonnes (MT) on December 5, which is sufficient to run the plants for an average of 10 days, Power Minister R.K. Singh said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. on Thursday. The Central Electricity Authority (CEA) monitors fuel stocks of 136 coal-based thermal power plants with total generation capacity of more than 166 GW. Coal stock available with power plants monitored by the CEA was 41.6 MT as on November 30, 2020, which declined to 31.9 MT on March 31, he wrote. Also, with increased power generation and some interruption in supply of coal by companies mainly due to heavy rains and increase in prices of imported coal, stock at the plants slumped to about 11.4 MT as on September 30, 2021, he said. Subsequently, with the efforts of the Ministry of Power, Ministry of Coal, CEA, Coal India Ltd. and the Railways, coal stock had started improving, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/coal-at-power-units-rises-to-10-days-cover-minister/article37919808.ece
10 December 2021||CHENNAI,||TVS Motor boosts Central America reach||TVS Motor Company has strengthened its presence in Central America by sealing a distribution partnership with Active Motors SA, an arm of Grupo Q, for Nicaragua and Costa Rica. Grupo Q is a leading distributor of motor vehicles in Central America. Active Motors SA would support TVS Motor with dedicated sales, service, spares and customer relationship management. As a part of this association, Active SA Motors will facilitate the opening of three flagship outlets and about 50 dealerships for the Indian firm in a phased manner across Nicaragua and Costa Rica, as per a statement from TVS Motor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-motor-boosts-central-america-reach/article37919799.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Equity MF inflows rise to 4-month high||Net flows into equity mutual funds rose to a four-month high of Rs. 11,615 crore in November on a strong SIP book despite extreme volatility in markets. This was also the ninth consecutive monthly net inflow,data with the Association of Mutual Funds in India showed on Thursday. In comparison, equity mutual funds logged net inflows to the tune of Rs. 5,215 crore in October, Rs. 8,677 crore in September and Rs. 8,666 crore in August. November saw the highest monthly net infusion since July, when equity-oriented mutual funds witnessed net inflow of Rs. 25,002 crore. Equity schemes have been witnessing net inflows since in March this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/equity-mf-inflows-rise-to-4-month-high/article37919804.ece
10 December 2021||new delhi,||SEBI proposes rules for retail algo trading||Capital markets regulator SEBI on Thursday proposed a regulatory framework for algorithmic trading (algo trading) by retail investors to make such trading safe and prevent market manipulations. In market parlance, algo trading refers to any order that is generated using automated execution logic. The algo trading system automatically monitors the live stock prices and initiates an order when the given criteria are met. In its consultation paper, SEBI has proposed a framework for algo trading done by retail investors, including the use of Application Programming Interface (API) access.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-proposes-rules-for-retail-algo-trading/article37919813.ece
10 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Dr. Reddy’s to sell Prestige’s cancer drug||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories (DRL) has entered into a partnership with Prestige BioPharma under which it will get exclusive rights to supply and commercialise the Singapore firm’s proposed trastuzumab biosimilar in select Latin American and Southeast Asian countries. Prestige BioPharma’s trastuzumab (HD201) is a proposed biosimilar to Roche’s Herceptin. It can be prescribed for treatment of HER2 positive breast and metastatic gastric cancer, the two companies said in a release. The license agreement grants Dr. Reddy’s exclusive rights to commercialise the proposed biosimilar in the select countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dr-reddys-to-sell-prestiges-cancer-drug/article37919816.ece
10 December 2021||Mumbai,||EV firm Macstar Auto plans to raise $8 mn to fund R&D, expansion||Macstar Auto India Pvt. Ltd., that makes electric vehicles under the Mac Auto India brand, is planning to raise about $8 million to fund its expansion plans, a top official said. “We are aiming to raise up to $8 million through equity funding next year,” said Abhijeet Wassan founder and director. “The funds will be utilised for R&D and to increase our production capacity as well as to get into overseas markets,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ev-firm-macstar-auto-plans-to-raise-8-mn-to-fund-rd-expansion/article37919797.ece
10 December 2021||Mumbai,||Mahindra Manulife unveils open ended fund||Mahindra Manulife Investment Management Private Ltd. has unveiled ‘Mahindra Manulife Balanced Advantage Yojana,’ an open- ended fund. “The scheme is suitable for investors seeking capital appreciation while generating income over medium to long term by investing in equity and equity-related instruments and debt and money-market instruments,” the firm said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mahindra-manulife-unveils-open-ended-fund/article37919798.ece
10 December 2021||Chennai,||Prodapt acquires U.K.-based SLR Dynamics||Digital transformation services provider Prodapt said it has acquired U.K.-based software solutions firm SLR Dynamics for an undisclosed sum. This acquisition will result in protecting more than 100 jobs at SLR Dynamics. Over the next three years, Prodapt plans to grow the U.K. team by adding 400-500 employees with a plan to invest £50 million, the company said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/prodapt-acquires-uk-based-slr-dynamics/article37919800.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||Bharat Bond ETF oversubscribed 6 times against base size of Rs 1,000 cr||The Finance Ministry on Thursday said that the third tranche of Bharat Bond ETF was oversubscribed 6.2 times against the base issue size of Rs. 1,000 crore. “Overwhelming response seen in Bharat Bond ETF 2032 NFO. Total collection over Rs. 6,200 crore. Issue ... subscribed more than 6.2x against the base issue size of Rs. 1,000 crore,” DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharat-bond-etf-oversubscribed-6-times-against-base-size-of-rs-1000-cr/article37920111.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||No vendor authorised by MNRE for rooftop solar, pay only rates decided by discoms: Advisory||The new and renewable energy ministry said that no vendor has been authorised by it for the installation of rooftop solar. The clarification came after it found some vendors claiming they were authorised by the Ministry of New & Renewable Energy to instal rooftop solar under grid-connected rooftop solar scheme.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/no-vendor-authorised-by-mnre-for-rooftop-solar-pay-only-rates-decided-by-discoms-advisory/article37919810.ece
10 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Manipur beats Railways, claims 21st title||There is no stopping Manipur. The women from the North-East made it 21 out of 26 at the National senior football championship on Thursday. They defeated Railways in a final that failed to produce a goal in 120 minutes. Struggle The players on either side had so forgotten how to put the ball into the net, they struggled to do it even from the penalty spot in the shoot-out. Railways struggled more, as it finished runner-up for the second time in a row. The Railways women converted only one of their kicks. That had more to do with poor shooting, but they were denied also by some fine work by the Manipur custodian Okram Roshini Devi, who emerged as her team’s hero. She didn’t have to do anything spectacular, though, to stop the last kick from Railways. Gentle kick Suprava Samal’s kick was gentle and straight at her; she gathered it after a bit of a fumble. It took some time before her teammates to realise that the match was over and the trophy was theirs. They may have needed the shoot-out to win their 21st title — and they were runner-up on four occasions — but this was a remarkable performance still, for they were without many of their main players, who are away on national duty. They had more reasons to celebrate at the closing ceremony. Roshini was named the tournament’s best goalkeeper and captain Irom Prameshwori Devi the most valuable player.  The result (final):   Manipur bt Railways 2-1 on penalties (0-0 in normal time).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manipur-beats-railways-claims-21st-title/article37920152.ece
10 December 2021||Brisbane,||Head’s rapid-fire ton puts Australia in command||Travis Head blasted a rapid-fire century to crush England’s hopes on the second day of the opening Ashes Test at the Gabba on Thursday. At the close of play Australia was 343 for seven, a lead of 196 on England’s dismal first-innings total of 147. Head was on 112 off 95 balls, alongside Mitchell Starc (10). Robinson’s two in two England had threatened a comeback after tea when Ollie Robinson took two wickets off consecutive balls, but Head’s aggressive innings put paid to any hopes of a miracle recovery. Head came to the crease with Australia 189 for three after Steve Smith edged Mark Wood to ’keeper Jos Buttler just before tea. He then watched David Warner (94) and Cameron Green depart to Robinson’s accurate seamers after the break. But the 27-year-old Head attacked from the outset and was particularly harsh on spinners Jack Leach and Joe Root. He smashed two sixes and 12 fours in his century, his third overall and his first since the Boxing Day Test against New Zealand in 2019. Leach, one for 95 from 11 overs, failed to assert any control and with Ben Stokes also struggling for fitness, skipper Root had to rely heavily on his three-man seam attack. Warner rode his luck in the first two sessions. He was bowled off a no-ball by Stokes before lunch, then dropped by Rory Burns in the first over after the break, before Haseeb Hameed bungled a simple run-out when Warner was on 60. No-ball drama Warner’s good fortune began in the opening session when Stokes bowled him when he was on 17, but the all-rounder had overstepped to give the Australian opener a reprieve. Television replays showed that Stokes had also overstepped on the first three balls of his over, but nothing was called. That led to suggestions that had he been called earlier, he would have adjusted his run-up and Warner’s prized wicket — off Stokes’ fourth delivery — may have stood. Marnus Labuschagne contributed 74 before slicing an attempted cut off Leach to Wood at backward point.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/heads-rapid-fire-ton-puts-australia-in-command/article37920094.ece
10 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Tilak presents his credentials||Nineteen-year-old Tilak Varma staked his claim to be one of the sought-after choices at the IPL mega auction next year after his knock of 139 off 123 helped Hyderabad beat a strong Delhi by 79 runs on Thursday. With Lucknow and Ahmedabad becoming home to the two newest IPL franchises, scouts from four teams watched as Tilak sizzled with the bat in the Vijay Hazare Trophy Group C fixture. After a convincing victory against Jharkhand in the opening fixture, Delhi skipper Pradeep Sangwan won the toss and inserted Hyderabad. Captain Tanmay Agarwal fell early in the innings. But Tilak, batting at No. 3, looked composed before flexing his muscles. Even though Delhi bagged a couple of quick wickets, Tilak partnered with Chandan Sahani (87, 74b) to launch a fightback. The former India U-19 player made the most of the good batting surface. Despite a couple of half-chances, Tilak targetted Simarjeet Singh and Kulwant Khejroliya, while ensuring that the seasoned Sangwan did not make further inroads. With fine footwork and solid defence, Tilak kept the scoreboard ticking. From 94 for three in 22.5 overs, Hyderabad was cruising at 246 for three in the 42nd over, with Tilak and Sahani stitching a solid 152-run partnership. Though Khejroliya dismissed Sahani and Buddhi Rahul in quick intervals, Tilak ensured the team was on course for a big total. By the time Sangwan cleaned him up, Hyderabad had reached the 300-run mark. Delhi pinned its hopes on Shikhar Dhawan (12, 11b), who looked promising with a couple of boundaries. With Chetan Sharma — the chairman of the national selection committee — present at the venue, it was an opportunity for Dhawan to prove a point ahead of India’s tour of South Africa. But before he could get going, Dhawan was caught at cover point by Sahani off Kartikeya Kak. A couple of overs later, Kak removed Dhruv Shorey, and Delhi was suddenly reeling at 29 for two. Even though last match centurion Himmat Singh (47, 65b) forged alliances with Lalit Yadav and Anuj Rawat, the efforts were not enough. Pacers Kak and C.V. Milind claimed two wickets apiece, while left-armer Tanay Thyagrajan picked up three to furrow the Delhi tail and keep Hyderabad unbeaten.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tilak-presents-his-credentials/article37920300.ece
10 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||India-A edges India-D, wins title||C.H. Jhansi Lakshmi (64, 70b, 9x4) and Yastika Bhatia (86, 102b, 10x4, 1x6) helped India-A score a three-wicket win over India-D in the final of the BCCI senior women’s Challenger Trophy one-day cricket championship at the Mulapadu Cricket Complex here on Thursday. Chasing 220, India-A was in a spot of bother at 30 for two as off-spinner Keerthy James struck twice in the seventh over. Then Jhansi and Yastika added 95 for the third wicket. Left-arm spinner Rajeshwari Gayakwad impressed for India-D, returning figures of four for 36. However in the final moments, Sushree Dibyadarshini’s sweep off Rajeshwari and a straight six off Saika, which was the winning boundary, saw India-A achieve the target in style. Earlier, a chancy knock by opener S. Meghana (45, 44b, 7x4), who was dropped thrice, and a handy contribution from Amanjot Kaur (55 n.o., 74b, 6x4) helped India-D post 219 for eight in 50 overs after being asked to bat. Meghana finished the tournament with scores of 60, 102, zero and 45. At 91 for one in 16 overs, India-D looked good for a big score but the advent of spinners put the brakes on the scoring rate.    The scores (final):   India-D 219/8 in 50 overs (S. Meghana 45, Amanjot Kaur 55 n.o., Disha Kasat 3/39) lost to India-A 224/7 in 45.4 overs (C.H. Jhansi Lakshmi 64, Yastika Bhatia 86, Rajeshwari Gayakwad 4/36).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-a-edges-india-d-wins-title/article37920092.ece
10 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mittal beats Bhardwaj for trap gold||Ankur Mittal, the reigning double trap World champion, won the trap gold in the 64th National shooting championship at the New Moti Bagh Gun Club in Patiala on Thursday. In a very competitive field of 221, the 29-year-old Mittal topped the ‘single barrel’ final with 43 to beat Aditya Bhardwaj by three points. Qualification topper Zoravar Singh Sandhu was pipped to the bronze by Rayyan Rizvi, while Aakash Kushwaha and Danish Ahmad finished fifth and sixth respectively. A regular in the national team, Prithviraj Tondaiman shot 115 and missed the final by one point. Olympian Kynan Chenai and Asian Games silver medallist Lakshay Sheoran shot 114 and finished 10th and 11th respectively. Former World champion and multiple Asian and National champion Manavjit Sandhu shot 109 and finished 35th. Former Asian champion Anwer Sultan (109), the only Indian shooter to win an Olympic quota for the Sydney Olympics in 2000, also shot 109 for the 40th place. Olympian and national coach Mansher Singh and former national champion Anirudh Singh shot 108 and placed 41st and 43rd respectively. The president of the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI), Raninder Singh, two-time silver medallist in the national championship, shot 95 and placed 95th. Athens Olympics silver medallist in double trap, Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore shot 93 for the 133rd spot. In the junior section, another double trap shooter, 19-year-old Shapath Bhardwaj won the gold as he pipped Vivaan Kapoor 4-3 in the shoot-off after the two were tied on 41 in the final. Meanwhile, in the 50-metre rifle prone event in Bhopal, Bandhvi Singh won the women’s and junior gold medals with a score of 626.0.  The results: At Patiala: Trap: Men: 1. Ankur Mittal 43 (117); 2. Aditya Bhardwaj 40 (117); 3. Rayan Rizvi 33 (116).   Juniors: 1. Shapath Bharadwaj 41(4) 113; 2. Vivaan Kapoor 41(3) 113; 3. Aakash Kushwaha 30 (117).   At Bhopal: 50m rifle prone: Women: 1. Bandhvi Singh 626.0; 2. Surabhi Bhardwaj 623.7; 3. Ankita Gupta 620.3.   Juniors: 1. Bandhvi 626.0; 2. Surabhi 6-23.7; 3. Ashi Chouksey 619.0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mittal-beats-bhardwaj-for-trap-gold/article37920259.ece
10 December 2021||SOLAPUR,||Pranjala eases past Sai||Champion of the last tournament fourth seed Pranjala Yadlapalli cruised past Sai Samhitha 6-0, 6-3 in the pre-quarterfinals of the Jamshri $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament at the MSLTA Solapur District Complex on Thursday. In the quarterfinals, Pranjala will be challenged by the sixth seed Vaidehi Chaudhari. Top seed Rutuja Bhosale, second seed Zeel Desai, and third seed Sowjanya Bavisetti also moved into the quarterfinals. Rutuja will play eighth seed Elena Jamshidi of Denmark in the quarterfinals. Sowjanya will be up against Sathwika Sama who beat Humera Baharmus after losing the first set. Zeel will play Akanksha Nitture who beat left-hander Saumya Vig in straight sets.  The results: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Rutuja Bhosale bt Ramya Natarajan 6-2, 6-2; Elena Jamshidi (Den) bt Nidhi Chilumula 6-3, 6-3; Sowjany Bavisetti bt Soha Sadiq 7-6(2), 6-3; Sathwika Sama bt Humera Habarmus 3-6, 6-2, 6-1; Vaidehi Chaudhari bt Farhat Aleen Qamar 6-4, 6-3; Pranjala Yadlapalli bt Sai Samhitha 6-0, 6-3; Akanksha Nitture bt Saumya Vig 6-2, 6-4; Zeel Desai bt Pooja Ingale 6-1, 6-3.   Doubles (quarterfinals): Sharmada Balu & Sowjanya Bavisetti bt Kashish Bhatia & Bela Tamhankar 6-3, 6-4; Vaidehi Chaudhari & Mihika Yadav bt Pragathi Prasad & Prathiba Prasad 6-1, 6-1; Sai Samhitha & Soha Sadiq bt Pooja Ingale & Akanksha Nitture 7-5, 7-6(7); Ramya Natarajan & Sathwika Sama bt Humera Baharmus & Sai Dedeepya 6-1, 5-7, [10-4] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pranjala-eases-past-sai/article37920563.ece
10 December 2021||kochi,||Kerala probables for junior Nationals||The Kerala Basketball Association announced 16 probables each in the boys and girls sections for the State coaching camp for the National junior championships which will be held in Indore in early January. The players were selected during the State junior championships which concluded at the St. Berchmans College, Changanassery, on Wednesday. The boys’ State camp will be held at St. Berchmans College and the girls camp will be at the St. Joseph’s College, Irinjalakuda.  The probables: Boys: Pranav Prince, U. Arjun, Nabeel Nazar, Allan Aloshius (all Tvm), C.K. Abhinav, Deepak S. Vettikattu, Karthik Jayasankar (Tsr), Ajin P. Reji, Adarsh Kappen, K.S. Ananthu (Ktm), Nithin Baby, Krishna Lal Mukesh (Koz), Jordan Cherian Eapen, Sreehari Vijayan (Pta), Sayan Muhammed (Ekm), Emmanuel T. Shaibu (Idk).   Coach: Dimal C. Mathew (Kerala Sports Council).   Girls: P.S. Jesly, Swapna Merin Jiju, Irin Elsa John, K. Sreelakshmi (Ktm), R. Abhirami, V. Chinnu Koshy, Amrita P. Prasad, Nandana J. Mohan (Tvm), Aleena Antony, P.J. Shilpa, Lakshmi Raj, M.S. Hridaya (Tsr), Avani Nanda, Neha K. Rafeeque (Koz), Aiswarya Susan Mathew (Pta), Amanda Maria Rocha (Ekm).   Coach: Prem Kumar (Ktm) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-probables-for-junior-nationals/article37920422.ece
10 December 2021||Rajkot,||Venkatesh proves too hot for Kerala||Venkatesh Iyer can hardly put a foot wrong these days. From the Kolkata Knight Riders’ bench to the India T20 playing XI, it has been an incredible journey for the seaming all-rounder. A week ago, he saw his IPL salary go up from Rs. 20 lakh to Rs. 8 crore. On Thursday he showed why the KKR management wanted to retain his services at such a high price. He scored an 84-ball 112 (7x4, 4x6) and then took three wickets to power Madhya Pradesh to a 40-run victory against Kerala in the Vijay Hazare Trophy match here. Much-needed win After losing its first match on Wednesday to Maharashtra by five wickets — despite posting 328 for six batting first — it was a much-needed win for Madhya Pradesh. In this game, its 329 for nine proved enough. Venkatesh reached the middle in the 20th over at the fall of opener Abhishek Bhandari (49, 65b, 4x4, 2x6). Though he saw Rajat Patidar (49, 54b, 5x4) heading back to the pavilion soon, he forged what would turn out to be a match-winning partnership of 169 for the fourth wicket with Shubham Sharma (82, 67b, 9x4, 1x6). Kerala needed a partnership like that. But it never came. After Rohan Kunnummal (66, 76b, 7x4, 1x6) and Mohammed Azharuddeen (34, 23b, 4x4, 1x6) put on 68 for the first wicket inside 10 overs, the chase failed to keep the momentum. Kerala’s hopes rested largely on Sachin Baby (66, 66b, 2x4, 3x6), but he was sent back by Venkatesh in the 43rd over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/venkatesh-proves-too-hot-for-kerala/article37920506.ece
10 December 2021||BENGALURU:,||Medora may score an encore||Medora, who is in fine fettle, may score an encore in Bangalore 1000 Guineas (1,600m), the chief event of the races to be held here on Friday (Dec 10). There will be no false rails.  KRISHNA PLATE (Div. III), (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 2.00 p.m.: 1. Areca Angel (4) H.M. Akshay 60.5, 2. San Bernardino (3) P. Siddaraju 58.5, 3. Quick Shots (7) Vishal Bunde 57, 4. Rightly Noble (9) Saddam H 57, 5. Stunning Beauty (5) L.A. Rozario 57. 6. Florencia (10) Salman Khan 56.5, 7. Top News (11) Tausif Khan 56.5, 8. Ultimate Power (2) Chandrashekar 56, 9. Star Citizen (1) Likith Appu 55.5, 10. He’s The One (6) S. Saqlain 54 and 11. Prime Star (8) J.H. Arul 52.  1. RIGHTLY NOBLE,   2. ARECA ANGEL,   3. TOP NEWS   FRANKEL PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 2.30: 1. Baba Voss (8) Mark 57, 2. Purple Legend (6) S. Saqlain 57, 3. Siege Perilous (7) Dhanu Singh 57, 4. Tactical Command (1) Darshan 57, 5. Ultimate General (5) Rayan Ahmed 57, 6. Demeter (3) B. Harish 55.5, 7. Only You (2) Neeraj 55.5 and 8. Pink Jasmine (4) Akshay Kumar 55.5.  1. SIEGE PERILOUS,   2. ONLY YOU,   3. PINK JASMINE   KRISHNA PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 3.00: 1. Commandpost (5) H.M. Akshay 61, 2. Nostradamus (9) Likith Appu 60.5, 3. Beautiful Oblivian (11) Vishal Bunde 58.5, 4. Chisox (1) J.H. Arul 58.5, 5. Embosom (4) Shreyas Singh 58, 6. Niche Hemp (8) L.A. Rozario 58, 7. Tifanny (6) Tousif Khan 58, 8. Max Mueller (3) Chandrashekar 57.5, 9. Orogenesis (2) Ikram Ahmed 57.5, 10. Glorious Logan (7) Salman Khan 57 and 11. Smile Around (10) S. Saqlain 57.  1. CHISOX,   2. COMMANDPOST,   3. EMBOSOM   SEATTLE SLEW PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3.30: 1. Evaldo (1) Akshay Kumar 57, 2. Flying Quest (3) Md. Akram 57, 3. Prince Abir (8) P.S. Chouhan 57, 4. Super Kind (5) Mark 57, 5. The Omega Man (6) Naveen Kumar 57, 6. Analect (7) Darshan 55.5, 7. Muirfield (4) Antony Raj 55.5, 8. Perfect Justice (10) P. Sai Kumar 55.5, 9. Star Of The Hills (2) Kiran Rai 55.5 and 10. The Sense (9) Vinod Shinde 55.5.  1. EVALDO,   2. MUIRFIELD,   2. ANALECT   CHIEF MINISTER’S TROPHY (1,600m), 3-y-o & over, (Terms), 4.00: 1. Point To Prove (1) S. John 60, 2. Automatic (3) A. Qureshi 59, 3. Pissarro (4) Akshay Kumar 59, 4. Speedster (5) Yash 57.5 and 5. Silvarius (2) Antony Raj 54.5.  1. POINT TO PROVE,   2. SILVARIUS   BANGALORE 1000 GUINEAS (1,600m), 3-y-o Indian Fillies (Terms) 4.30: 1. Allamanda (4) Neeraj 57, 2. Brunhild (5) Dhanu Singh 57, 3. Eternal Blaze (8) C.S. Jodha 57, 4. Faith Of Success (1) Kiran Rai 57, 5. Kensington Court (2) Akshay Kumar 57, 6. Medora (6) P.S. Chouhan 57. 7. Moon’s Blessing (9) Suraj Narredu 57, 8. Pecanwood (3) Yash 57, 9. Prefect Empress (7) A. Imran Khan 57 and 10. Winmylove (10) Antony Raj 57.  1. MEDORA,   2. KENSINGTON COURT,   3. MOON’S BLESSING   CHITRADURGA PLATE (1,400m), rated 40 to 65, 4-y-o & over, 5.00: 1. Peluche (9) A. Imran Khan 60, 2. Silver Dew (7) Kiran Rai 59.5, 3. Starry Wind (1) Md. Akram 57, 4. Frist Impression (8) Antony Raj 56, 5. Whizzo (2) Vinod Shinde 56, 6. Dr Logan (5) S. Shareef 55.5, 7. Royal Resolution (6) H.M. Akshay 54, 8. The Sovereign Orb (3) Akshay Kumar 53.5 and 9. The Strength (4) Ajeet Kumar 51.5.  1. THE SOVEREIGN ORB,   2. FIRST IMPRESSION,   3. PELUCHE   KRISHNA PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 5.30: 1. The Inheritor (9) L.A. Rozario 62.5, 2. Twilight Fame (2) P. Siddaraju 62, 3. Country’s Jewel (8) H.M. Akshay 61.5, 4. Welcome Surprise (6) Tousif Khan 61.5, 5. Impeccable (1) Vishal Bunde 61, 6. Ultimate Choice (7) Saddam H 60.5, 7. Formidable Star (4) Salman Khan 59.5, 8. Galactical (10) J.H. Arul 59.5, 9. Zhu Zhu Zest (3) S. Saqlain 59.5 and 10. Sir Jersey (5) Shreyas Singh 58.5.  1. IMPECCABLE,   2. GALACTICAL,   3. COUNTRY’S JEWEL  Days best: SIEGE PERILOUS  Double: THE SOVEREIGN ORB - IMPECCABLE  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: 3, 4 & 5; (ii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/medora-may-score-an-encore/article37920150.ece
10 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Spinners script Tamil Nadu’s win||The southern derby turned out to be a damp squib as Tamil Nadu scored a clinical eight-wicket win over Karnataka in the Elite Group B match of the Vijay Hazare Trophy cricket tournament at the Sports Hub here on Thursday. Fine spell For the second successive day, the Tamil Nadu spinners fashioned the victory. Left-arm spinner M. Siddharth was the stand-out bowler with figures of four for 23. R. Sai Kishore (three for 28) and Washington Sundar (one for 27) lent able support. The Tamil Nadu medium-pacers Sandeep Warrier and R. Silambarasan exploited the conditions to dismiss the Karnataka openers cheaply. But Manish Pandey (40) and Rohan Kadam (37) added 67 for the third wicket to resurrect the innings. Floodgates open However, Rohan perished trying to cut Siddharth off a ball that kept low and it opened the floodgates. The Karnataka batters didn’t distinguish themselves with their shot selection. Manish was bowled through the gate playing back to another low delivery, while J. Suchith was stumped down the leg-side stepping out to Siddharth. Wickets tumble In between, Karun Nair was snapped up brilliantly by a diving Sai Sudharsan at square-leg as Karnataka lost the last eight wickets for just 35 runs to be bowled out for 122. Captain N. Jagadeesan fell to the vagaries of the pitch, bowled by a ball that kept low from Vidyadhar Patil and Sudharsan had his stumps knocked down by Suchith as TN was reduced to 58 for two. However, B. Indrajith (51 not out) and Washington (31 not out) added 65 to complete the victory before the rain came. At the St. Xavier’s College ground, Mumbai defeated Baroda by 13 runs through the VJD method after the match was called off due to rain. Chasing 211, Mumbai was 100 for three at the end of the 23rd over when the match was abandoned. Pondicherry also was a beneficiary of the VJD method as it beat Bengal by eight runs. Pondicherry, chasing 265, was 132 for two in 30 overs when heavy rain forced the match to be called off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spinners-script-tamil-nadus-win/article37920098.ece
10 December 2021||New Delhi,||We couldn’t have had two white-ball captains: Ganguly||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president Sourav Ganguly on Thursday said that once Virat Kohli refused to continue as India’s T20 captain, the selectors made up their mind to hand over the ODI reins to Rohit Sharma as the national team couldn’t afford “too much leadership” with two separate captains in the limited-overs format.  Decision accepted The BCCI on Wednesday named Rohit as ODI captain going into the 2023 World Cup and Ganguly, in an interaction with PTI, opened up on the issue, asserting that the incumbent was spoken to and duly accepted the decision. “We had requested Virat not to step down as T20 captain, but he didn’t want to continue. “So, the selectors felt that they cannot have two white ball captains in two white-ball formats. That’s too much of leadership,” the BCCI president and former India skipper said. Ganguly said the selectors felt that multiple leaders in the white-ball format would lead to confusion and that’s why the Chetan Sharma-led committee suggested that it’s better to have one leader. Meanwhile, the BCCI on Thursday thanked Kohli for displaying “grit, passion and determination” during his tenure. “A leader who led the side with grit, passion & determination. Thank you Captain @imVkohli,” the Board tweeted”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-couldnt-have-had-two-white-ball-captains-ganguly/article37920096.ece
10 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Taide sends records tumbling||Atharva Taide's unbeaten 164 (123b, 15x4, 5x6) helped Vidarbha chase down 288 against Andhra at the Brabourne Stadium on Thursday with eight wickets and more than eight overs to spare. It was Vidarbha's second consecutive Group A win in the Vijay Hazare Trophy. This was Vidarbha's highest successful chase in List A cricket, overhauling the total of 272 it achieved against Madhya Pradesh in Indore in February 2007. On Wednesday, versus Himachal Pradesh in Thane, Taide had failed to convert a good start into a hundred. Stylish opener But on Thursday, with a group of IPL scouts and national selectors in attendance, the stylish opener ensured he continued his good work from the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy. He thus became the first Vidarbha batter to cross the 150-mark in List A cricket. Vidarbha’s previous highest was Taide’s 148 not out versus Himachal Pradesh in Alur (Bengaluru) in September 2018. Taide’s magnificence overshadowed C.R. Gnaneshwar’s impressive 93 (126b, 7x4) at the start of Andhra’s innings. While the opener laid the foundation, Ambati Rayudu’s fifty (53, 49b, 2x4 and 3x6) and P. Tapaswi’s cameo (45 n.o., 25b, 6x4) ensured Andhra put on a respectable 287 for eight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/taide-sends-records-tumbling/article37920596.ece
10 December 2021||Paris,||Barca loses to Bayern, crashes out||Barcelona crashed out of the Champions League in the group stage for the first time in over 20 years with a 3-0 defeat at the hands of Bayern Munich on Wednesday, as Benfica, Lille and Red Bull Salzburg all qualified for the last 16. Meanwhile, Chelsea missed out on first place in its group to Juventus after conceding a late equaliser away to Zenit Saint Petersburg, while snow in northern Italy forced the postponement of Atalanta’s decisive game against Villarreal. Barcelona started the day in second place in Group E but had to win away to Bayern Munich to be sure of going through, otherwise it risked being overtaken by Benfica. Xavi Hernandez’s side was duly outclassed by an already-qualified Bayern, which made it six wins out of six in the group, with Thomas Muller’s 34th-minute header crossing the line before Ronald Araujo could clear. Leroy Sane’s powerful strike doubled the lead before the break and Jamal Musiala made it 3-0 just after the hour. The Catalans were knocked out as Benfica beat Dynamo Kiev 2-0 in Lisbon and took the second spot. Barcelona last went out of the Champions League in the group stage in 2000/01 when a team featuring a 20-year-old Xavi finished third in its section behind AC Milan and Leeds United. In contrast Lille is through to the Champions League knockout stages for the first time in 15 years after beating Wolfsburg 3-1 in Germany to top Group G. Salzburg also progressed, thanks to a 1-0 win over Sevilla.  The results: Group H: Juventus 1 (Kean 18) bt Malmo 0; Zenit St-Petersburg 3 (Claudinho 38, Azmoun 41, Ozdoev 90+4) drew with Chelsea 3 (Werner 2, 85, Lukaku 62).   Group E: Benfica 2 (Yaremchuk 16, Gilberto 22) bt Dynamo Kiev 0; Bayern Munich 3 (Muller 34, Sane 43, Musiala 62) bt Barcelona 0.   Group F: Manchester United 1 (Greenwood 9) drew with Young Boys 1 (Rieder 42); Atalanta vs Villarreal match snowed off.   Group G: RB Salzburg 1 (Okafor 50) bt Sevilla 0; Wolfsburg 1 (Steffen 89) lost to Lille 3 (Yilmaz 11, David 72, Gomes 78) .    Pre-quarterfinalists   Group winners: Manchester City, Liverpool, Ajax, Real Madrid, Bayern Munich, Manchester United, Lille, Juventus.  Runners-up: Paris Saint-Germain, Atletico Madrid, Sporting Lisbon, Inter Milan, Benefica, Salzburg, Chelsea, Atalanta/Villarreal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barca-loses-to-bayern-crashes-out/article37920110.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A high stakes clash||When Odisha FC takes on Northeast United FC in Goa on Friday, a lot will be at stake for both side in the Indian Super League. Kiko Ramirez’s boys come into the match wounded after a 1-2 loss to Kerala Blasters, its first loss this season. Aridai Cabrera is expected to lead the team’s attack, as the coach confirmed Jonathas is ruled out with an injury.  Odisha, having scored nine goals in its first two games, will look to return to winning ways with Javier Hernandez weaving his magic in the midfield, while Aridai handles the attack — both of whom are joint second-highest goal scorers in the league so far, with three goals each. Northeast United, on the other hand, will arrive with a ray of optimism, handed to it in the last match, in which it secured it first win this season. While the team will miss its midfield talisman Federico Gallego, Khalid Jamil looks to have found a way around it, managing the win without him the last time. The NEUFC coach clarified that the entire squad will be available for selection, except Gallego. A win here for Northeast United can take it, not just over Odisha on the table, but also into the top four if it wins with a margin of more than two goals. A win for Odisha will propel it right on top of the table level on points with Mumbai City FC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-high-stakes-clash/article37920465.ece
10 December 2021||Miami,||Woods to return from injury next week||Tiger Woods said on Wednesday he would make his return to competitive golf at next week’s PNC Championship in Florida. The former World No. 1, who has not played since suffering career-threatening leg injuries in a car crash 10 months ago, will play in the December 16-19 tournament alongside his son Charlie.  “Although it’s been a long and challenging year, I am very excited to close it out by competing in the PNC Championship with my son Charlie,” Woods announced on Twitter. The PNC Championship, part of the PGA Tour Champions series, sees 20 Major champions team up with a relative of their choice. Woods played in the 2020 event alongside son Charlie, 12, a tournament won by Justin Thomas and his father Mike. The PNC Championship offers Woods the prospect of a gentle return to tournament golf. The two-day event comprises two rounds of scramble golf, and Woods will be allowed to make use of a golf cart. News of Woods’ return was greeted with enthusiasm by fellow professionals. “This is awesome. Welcome back,” 2020 US Open champion Bryson DeChambeau tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/woods-to-return-from-injury-next-week/article37920154.ece
10 December 2021||PUNE,||Chirag ousts Woobin||Chirag Duhan knocked out top seed Woobin Shin of Korea 6-3, 6-4 in the Aryan Pumps ITF Asian junior tennis quarterfinals at the Deccan Gymkhana here on Thursday. Second seed Nishant Dabas and Saheb Sodhi also reached the semifinals and will play each other. Chirag will next challenge Max Batyutenko of Kazakhstan, who stopped Aman Dahiya in three sets. In the girls’ section, Shruti Ahlawat sustained the Indian hopes as she beat Zhanel Rustemova of Kazakhstan after losing the first set.   The results (quarterfinals):   Boys: Chirag Duhan bt Woobin Shin (Kor) 6-3, 6-4; Max Batyutenko (Kaz) bt Aman Dahiya 6-4, 4-6, 6-2.   Saheb Sodhi bt Denim Yadav 6-4, 6-2; Nishant Dabas bt Yuvan Nandal 7-6(4), 1-0 (retired).   Girls: Hayu Kinoshita (Jpn) bt Aruzhan Sagandikova (Kaz) 4-6, 6-4, 6-1; Shruti Ahlawat bt Zhanel Rustemova (Kaz) 5-7, 6-4, 6-4.   Sara Saito (Jpn) bt Sandugash Kenzhibayeva (Kaz) 6-2, 4-6, 6-4; Yu-Yun Li (Tpe) bt Suhitha Maruri 3-6, 6-4, 6-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chirag-ousts-woobin/article37920155.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||MCFC eases past JFC||Mumbai City FC opened up a four-point lead at the top of the ISL table with a 4-2 win over Jamshedpur FC in Fatorda on Thursday. The victory, MCFC’s third on the trot, saw it move to 12 points while Jamshedpur remained second with eight. Cracking start The defending champion got off to a cracking start as Cassio Gabriel scored his first ISL goal in the third minute. It was a goal that came from a classic training ground routine as Ahmed Jahouh played short a corner quickly to Cassinho at the edge of the box. The Brazilian made room for himself and unleashed a right-footed drive from 30 meters that sneaked past Jamshedpur ’keeper T.P. Rehenesh. Cassio turned provider in the 17th minute with a relentless burst of pace. He chased down Eli Sabia into his box and then dispossessed his countryman before squaring it for Bipin Singh to tap the ball into an empty net. Igor Angulo joined the party seven minutes later as he produced a classy finish. It was another goal that came from MCFC’s high press as Raynier Fernandes won the ball in midfield and played it to Cassio. The Brazilian crafted a finely weighted pass for Angulo, who worked the ball onto his favoured left foot and curled it past Rehenesh. Jamshedpur had a few chances in the opening period but struggled to convert. The second half, though, was a different story. Komal Thatal picked up Greg Stewart’s pass and scored in the 48th minute to reduced the margin for the Red Miners. Sabia further reduced the deficit in the 55th minute when he netted the third goal of his ISL career. Neither of those two strikes mattered, though, as substitute Ygor Catatau scored from an acute angle to make it 4-2 in the 70th minute.  The result: Mumbai City FC 4 (Gabriel 3, Bipin 17, Angulo 24, Catatu 70) bt Jamshedpur FC 2 (Komal 48, Sabia 55).   Today’s match: Odisha FC vs NorthEast United FC, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mcfc-eases-past-jfc/article37920105.ece
10 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM:,||Haryana beats Karnataka||Haryana beat Karnataka by 141 runs win over in the Cooch Behar Trophy (u-19) four-day Group E match on Thursday. Chasing a target of 295, Karnataka folded up for 153 in second innings.  The scores:   Haryana 208 in 98.3 overs & 235 in 75 overs bt Karnataka 149 in 65.2 overs & 153 in 75.5 overs (Mayank Shandilya 4/16, Saksham Gupta 3/36).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/haryana-beats-karnataka/article37920156.ece
10 December 2021||Karachi,||West Indies arrives in Pakistan||The West Indies cricket team arrived in Pakistan on Thursday for a visit which local officials hope will scotch bitter memories of a New Zealand tour abandoned on security grounds. On its first visit since 2018, the West Indies will play three Twenty20 and three One-Day Internationals — all in Karachi — starting on Monday. A Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) official said the 26-member party had been escorted under heavy security to the team hotel. The series comes three months after New Zealand quit its first tour of the country in 18 years shortly before the opening match was due to start following a security alert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/west-indies-arrives-in-pakistan/article37920187.ece
10 December 2021||BLOEMFONTEIN,||Third ‘Test’ ends in a draw||Sarel Erwee (97) and Zubayr Hamza (125 not out) flayed the India-A bowlers as South Africa-A declared at 311 for three in its second innings on the fourth and final day of the third ‘Test’ here on Thursday. Pursuing a target of 304, India-A finished at 90 for three when the match was called off. Prithvi Shaw made 38 off 34 balls with eight fours before falling to Senuran Muthusamy. Abhimanyu Easwaran (19) and Devdutt Padikkal (15) were the other batters dismissed. Hanuma Vihari (13) and Ishan Kishan (0) were unbeaten as the contest ended in a draw.  The scores: South Africa-A 268 & 311/3 decl. in 86 overs (Sarel Erwee 97, Zubayr Hamza 125 n.o.) drew with India-A 276 and 90/3 in 17 overs (Prithvi Shaw 38).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/third-test-ends-in-a-draw/article37920104.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Eagles cruise past Young Challengers||Bangalore Eagles FC registered a 2-0 win over Young Challengers FC in the BDFA Super Division League at Bangalore Football Stadium on Thursday.  The results: Bangalore Eagles FC 2 (Dorjee Wangahu Khong Rieju 15, Cletus Dominic Jacob Paul 36) bt Young Challengers FC 0; MEG & Center FC 2 (C.M. Rohith 64, Arjun Madhu 71) drew with Kodagu FC 2 (Sangay Dundal Bhutia 5, H.R. Vinu 32); Thanco’s Students Union FC 2 (R. Subin Raj 35, K. Sujith Kumar 75) drew with BUFC 2 (Guy Herman Beleck 26 & 31) .      Santhosh scored two goals as BOYKA Academy thrashed CAP Football Academy 5-1 in the KSFA Youth Premier League football tournament.  The results: BOYKA Academy 5 (Pavithran 30, Santhosh 40 & 47, Prakyath 72, Goutham 90) bt CAP Football Academy 1 (Anup 48).     The Karnataka State cross country championship, scheduled to be held on December 19 at Yallapura, Uttara Kannada district, has been postponed to Dec. 27. Entries close on Dec. 23. For details, call A. Rajavelu (94484 38276)/Sadanand Naik (94480 14307)/K.R. Naik (98458 46351).   Karnataka’s Tanishka Kalabhairavi secured a bronze medal in the under-11 category at the National-ranking table tennis tournament being held at Dehradun. In the last-four clash, Tanishka lost to Ankolika Chakraborty 3-11, 9-11, 3-11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eagles-cruise-past-young-challengers/article37920153.ece
10 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||J&K’s Moomin stars in draw against Puducherry||Moomin Muzaffar cracked a century (112, 278b, 18x4) for Jammu & Kashmir against Puducherry in the drawn match of the Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) four-day cricket championship Group E match at the Kandukuri Cricket Academy here on Thursday.  The scores:   Group E: J&K 205 in 52 overs & 346/8 in 112 overs (Moomin Muzaffar 112, Shivansh Sharma 77, S. Rohan 3/55) drew with Puducherry 334 in 134.2 overs (Ranjit Singh 4/92, Mohammad Manzir 3/28) .      Left-arm spinners P. Vignesh and B. Aaditya scalped five wickets each to bowl Tamil Nadu to an innings and 49 runs win over Goa on the final day of the BCCI under-19 Cooch Behar Trophy match here on Thursday.  The scores:   Goa 251 & 259 in 81.2 overs (Veer Yadav 34, Kaushal Hattangadi 59, Udit Yadav 33, P. Vignesh 5/75, B. Aaditya 5/85) lost to Tamil Nadu 559/4 decl.   Points: TN 7 (8); Goa 0 (0) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vignesh-and-aaditya/article37920191.ece
10 December 2021||CHANGANASSERY,||Pranav, Jesly bag MVP awards||International Pranav Prince from Thiruvananthapuram and Kottayam’s P.S. Jesly won the Most Valuable Player award in the boys and girls sections respectively at the State junior baketball championships on Wednesday. Thrissur’s C.K. Abhinav and Thiruvananthapuram’s R. Abhirami were adjuded the most promising players.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pranav-jesly-bag-mvp-awards/article37920421.ece
10 December 2021||KOCHI,||Coronation Club badminton from today||The Coronation Club all-Kerala badminton tournament for men and women begins at Mattancherry on Friday. Competition will be held in singles and doubles and nearly 60 players will be in action in the three-day event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coronation-club-badminton-from-today/article37920426.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Process of realisation||Realisation is first hand experience of the Absolute Truth. The goal is not impossible to reach but the journey is long and arduous even for the determined seeker, say the sastras, pointed out Swamini Satyavratananda Saraswati in a discourse. The Gita shows the efficacy of the paths of karma, jnana and bhakti, each of which is useful to the aspirant. Worship of God through puja, japa, dhyana, etc, are advised to be incorporated as one’s daily duties, as these are sure to instil bhakti and jnana. In addition, to reap the full benefits of spiritual realisation, sravana, manana and nidhidyasa are to be practised. Sravana is listening to explanations on the scriptures and discourses on the Puranas and the Itihasas. It slowly makes untold impact on the listener when at some point of time what is heard enters the heart and mind and stirs the spiritual seeking. In due course, sravana morphs into manana. The student goes over in his mind what has been heard and tries to reason out the validity of it. Every single spiritual effort is valuable and is reckoned as the sadhana for the individual. It is carried over to future births until perfection is attained. This is the reason behind the varied levels of spiritual leanings in individuals. Some might have gained proficiency in sravana alone and will continue with manana while those who have mastered these practices begin with nidhidyasa in their next birth. The Aitareya Upanishad speaks of Vamadeva who gains realisation even when in the womb. It shows that he had to be born to complete whatever nidhidyasa was remaining. Among countless aspirants may be one strives to gain jnana and even for him it may take many births for the jnana to become an inner awareness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/process-of-realisation/article37919881.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 07:29 IST,||Sudoku — December 10, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-10-2021/article37920833.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Dinner slows down||“Oh, come all ye faithful,” a trio tomato rasam made with lentils, will be one of the dishes at a 10-course sit down festival menu at Farmlore in Bengaluru this Christmas. Curated by Chef Johnson Ebenezer, the festive menu is part of an immersive dining experience launched in mid-2019 when he co-founded Lore, an outfit that tells stories with food. He was unaware then that he would be doing mainly sit-down dining and silver service for the next couple of years, after the pandemic altered dinner parties and gatherings through 2020 and 2021. Last year when travel came to a standstill, Lore offered communal dining based on the theme — Around the world in 80 days. Menus were printed as boarding passes of each aerodrome. The format limits itself to a range of 16 to 24 diners, says Johnson, who organised the event along with his business partners Chef Mythrayie Iyer and Chef Avinash Vishaal. “The sit-down layout gives people time and closeness to have long and slow conversations,” adds Johnson. There are two styles to a plated menu experience, says Shreeya Adka, chef and partner of The French Door in Coimbatore. “While one is about the experience and enjoying the company of people, where we have relaxed gaps between courses. The other one is synchronised service at private sit down dinners. Here, timing becomes important and challenging. The food has to go in one shot and you have to time it in such a way that when they finish the last bite of one course, the next plate is ready. ” Recently, Shreeya curated a seven-course meal for a wine pairing event at a private dinner. “We started with cheese gougeres, a platter of cheese and freshly baked bread for people to snack on before the meal. Then, we had beetroot and crumble feta soup for the second course, then the date, fig and orange salad with citrus dressing,” explains Shreeya, adding how some of the food pairing, for example New Zealand lamb rack with cabernet sauvignon was done along with inputs from the sommelier on flavour notes. With small groups, it is possible to create multi-course degustation menus that immerse guests in a dining experience for two to three hours. In Hyderabad, Lore hosted Omnisense, offering a menu that was crafted around the five senses. In Bengaluru, their seven-course dinner based on ‘birth to rebirth’ was customised for individual groups and held at different locations. Earlier in September, Mumbai -based experimental chef Prateek Sadhu celebrated his fine dining, ingredient driven restaurant, Masque turning five with a five-city tour. This included pop-up dinners in Delhi, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Chennai and Ladakh. Set in the middle of an idyllic apricot orchard the Ladakh dinner was particularly unique because the menu was almost entirely planned around foraged and local ingredients. Noticing a definite uptick in private dining requests since pandemic restrictions eased, Sadhu says, “A meal like this means someone is setting aside the time to invest in an experience. They’re committing themselves to you for two to three hours, and leaving themselves at your mercy and that’s a responsibility we don’t take lightly. We discuss every aspect of the tableware and service style before launching a new menu, because everything surrounding the food is what also builds the experience.” Chef Vikramjit Roy, who set up Hello Panda, a gourmet pan-Asian delivery service in June 2020 has been organising sit down dinners during the pandemic for couples, and bigger groups of 50 to 60 people. According to Vikram, food is only 30%of the experience. The rest lies in service, tableware and styling. “The server, who originated from the butler of yore, is very knowledgable about the food that’s served. He should have the ability to interact with guests in an easy way, explaining the nuances of the meal,” says Vikram, who has done elaborate multi-course events across India, from the metro cities to tier-II cities like Ludhiana andLonavala. Experiences are the happiness boosters, says Sareeka John, founder of Guestronomy in Kochi, a bespoke dining venture. “Earlier meal times were elaborate. We are now looking for such intimate experiences that infuse closeness and a bonding that had gone missing. I believe there is a market opening for this slow and stylish meal time after the pandemic.” She planned an exotic do, with 12 guests, for her mother’s 70th at The Periodic Table, a fine dining restaurant in Ooty, for which she carted table runners, seat covers, printed menus and a home-baked cake from her home in Kottayam. With guest’s nameplates in calligraphy, which were also takeaways, the dinner looked into every little detail of tableware and styling. As Sareeka works with hotels to curate bespoke dinners, she says that guests are just discovering this aspect, “that something interesting, thoughtful and fun can be done away from the fixed dining formats that hotels offer.” Such experiences can cost between Rs. 2,500 and Rs. 10,000.  Call for innovation  Mayank Kulshreshtha, Executive Chef ITC Grand Chola, says chefs have introduced innovations like platter-to-plate silver service, and thali service. Seating arrangements like the round, V, block table and the E shape too are back in vogue. As examples of innovation, he talks about techniques like the slow infusion of ghee from a lit ghee candle placed on a dish or active charcoal smoking a dish as dramatic interventions. Though big hotel groups like ITC typically do not cater to home dinners, during the pandemic they did send teams of chef and steward to unravel and explain their menus to guests at home. There is definitely a growing market for such experiences, adds Shreeya. “In Coimbatore, we have done six to seven sit-down course by course meals in a year. It can bring about a big change in the food and dining scene when more people start offering such services,” she says, adding, “Though it’s a niche crowd that wants to go in for such intimate experiences, the trend is here to say.” W ith inputs fromK Jeshi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/dinner-slows-down/article37920060.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Chilli flakes on my phone||We sit muttering under our breath as we wait for food to be served in our car at Pillar-129, the new drive-in restaurant in town. It is a sultry evening, and a portable table has just been placed for those of us in the front seat. The unfortunate two at the back will have to make do eating with their plates in hand. It is not exactly the most comfortable position to eat in. But determined to try the drive-in experience, we give the dine-in space a miss. The restaurant serves Mediterranean, Continental, Pan Asian, and North Indian, and has been named after the 129th pillar of the under-construction fly-over that it faces. The concept of a drive-in is not entirely new to the city, according to P Mohan Chandar, the managing director of Nikvin Hospitality Services that runs the restaurant. “We had them some 20 years ago in Coimbatore; I was a regular at one opposite my property,” he recalls. “A drive-in will help people enjoy their meal in their personal space, with less contact during the pandemic,” he adds. The menu is elaborate: with vegetarian and non-vegetarian options under each cuisine, it is not easy to make up one’s mind. We start with stuffed baked mushrooms and stir fried prawns from the Mediterranean section. The mushrooms have gooey parmesan and mozzarella centres, and are enveloped in a crunchy coating of herbed crumbs. The prawns — cooked with a drizzle of lemon zest, garlic and parsley — are perfectly done. They boast a mellow tanginess and the flavour of garlic holds the spices together. Next up is pasta Alfredo: we polish it off in minutes. The dish, neatly done, is a good choice to be had after the flavourful prawns, we realise. And so we gradually stop complaining about the heat and our stiff necks, turn up the volume in the car stereo: 90s Tamil songs are playing on the radio. The chef also whips up salt-free French fries for the four-year-old in our company. Burmese chicken curry noodles, served separately with a creamy sauce, fried garlic, chopped coriander leaves, and chilli flakes as accompaniments, follows. The noodles, punctuated by chunks of crispy fried garlic, when had with a generous portion of the sweetish, nutty, curry — the base is coconut milk — is comforting. For dessert, we go in for the tried and tested: Caramel custard and crème brulee. Both dishes live up to our expectations. Admittedly, by the end of our meal we have weathered several accidents. One of them involving the four-year-old, white sauce, and a once clean car seat; and the other, a clumsy hand, chilli flakes, and a mobile phone. Let’s just say that we drove out with a car that smelled of cheese, coconut, and chillies and a lesson — never dine inside your car with a child in tow, even during a pandemic.  The restaurant is located on Avinashi Road, adjacent to National Model School. The drive-in facility can accommodate 24 cars. For bookings call: 7373591119, 2575555. A meal for two is priced at Rs. 2,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/chilli-flakes-on-my-phone/article37920047.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Season of the arts||Margazhi has arrived, ringing in a month-long celebration of the arts. Shivanjali’s Temple of Fine Arts presents Margazhi Sangamam, a music and dance festival to be hosted by restaurant Annalakshmi. The event will see a host of new artistes, including “promising upcoming talent from Coimbatore, who might not be well-known names, but are dedicated to their craft,” according to Gayathri Prakash, secretary, Temple of Fine Arts. This includes performers from Temple of Fine Arts, as well as students from other institutes in the city. Performances include Bharatanatyam, Odissi, Carnatic and Hindustani vocals, veena and violin recitals and a sitar duet. The event will be for a small gathering of 30, followed by dinner at the restaurant. Viewers can pay as they wish for the evening, including dinner. “We are hoping that those who missed the arts in their lives due to the pandemic will be drawn to the festival,” says Gayathri, adding that they are looking at making the Margazhi Sangamam a yearly affair.  The event is on from December 16 to January 13, 6.30 pm onwards, at Annalakshmi restaurant, Race Course. Prior booking is needed. For details, call 9843021844, 9944407493.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/season-of-the-arts/article37920050.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Marriage shenanigans||Comedian Praveen Kumar is delighted to be back on the stage again. Like the rest of his stand-up peers, Praveen, too, had to perform to an audience watching from a screen. It was better than nothing, he admits. It helped him pay the bills and satiate his urge to perform. But the virtual set-up, he says, has just “40 to 50%” of a live event. In the new normal, he is unable to see the smiles on masked faces. But he is glad to be in the midst of people, performing his latest special, Kancheepuram Maapla, in which he narrates the funny incidents on his wedding day. He excitedly shares his offline tour: He has already performed in Chennai and Bengaluru. On Saturday, he will be in Coimbatore. The next day, he flies to Hyderabad and the following week, to Dubai… “Is the new COVID variant a cause of concern?” we interject. “Yes! Oh my god!” he exclaims, before correcting himself, “Yes! Omicron!” “Even if there is no lockdown, if people are scared to come out, it will be a problem. We don't know how things will be in January. So, as of now, I just want to perform in Dubai and see how it goes from there.” So, what is Kancheepuram Maapla about? “I will be narrating incidents spanning over 24 hours during my wedding. The night of the reception, the kind of dress I wore, the people ... all that. So, I wanted to do a one-story show. I tried different ideas like the ‘day I quit my job’. But I thought the wedding day was more relatable. Initially I thought of narrating incidents from my friend’s wedding. But someone asked me, ‘why don't you talk about your own wedding?’” So, Praveen dusted off his wedding album and DVD. There was, however, a problem: he did not have a DVD player. So, he borrowed an old laptop from a friend that could play DVDs. “So, it’s basically the current ‘me’ making fun of the past ‘me’ — wait, I think I am starting to sound like Nithyananda here.” Apart from himself, a few other family members will be a part of his jokes. “My brother-in-law, for instance, will be kind of an antagonist.” But will this not create fissures within the family? “Well, they know I am hopeless,” he laughs, adding, “I mean, they understand what I do and know it’s all fun.” Meanwhile, apart from stand-up, Praveen, during the lockdown, had a few interesting collaborations. One of which was discussing the Indian Premier League with Indian cricketer Ravichandran Ashwin on his YouTube channel. “To collaborate with a legend like him was a dream come true. He had seen and liked my work. So, he just pinged asking, ‘Are you interested to talk about cricket?’. I told him, ‘Of course, I am an Indian.’ So, we got on a video call… That’s how it happened. It was fun. He is a natural at holding conversations.” Ashwin has promised to watch one of his shows live after the pandemic abates. Praveen is keeping his fingers crossed. For now, however, he is looking forward to performing in Coimbatore, which, he says, is one of his favourite venues. “I have never had a bad show so far. Touchwood, I hope that continues.” Tickets for Kancheepuram Maapla at Kasthuri Sreenivasan Art Gallery & Textile Museum (Culture Centre) on December 11, 6.45 pm, is available oninsider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/marriage-shenanigans/article37920055.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Showcasing fine handlooms||“A traditional Kanjivaram saree with bandhini or a Paithani in bandhini...these are some of the fusion sarees you can choose from at the pop-up show,” says fashion designer and influencer Aparna Sunku who brings a curated collection of hand weaves including ajrakh, Benarasi, double ikats, jamdani, patolas and more. Designer Mandira Bansal of Weave India has designed the collection. Weave India revives hand weaving traditions across the country like Benares, Rajasthan, and Patan to name a few as well as experiments with a range of textiles and colour scheme. “We rework antique designs in contemporary style that intrigues the young and old alike,” says Mandira. Along with fusion sarees, there are kurits, lehengas, dupattas and ready-to-wear blouses. Designer ensembles from Sakshi Girri and accessories from Dyelogue and Douxamour are also a part of the show.  The pop up show starts at 10am on December 15 at Taj Vivanta. To know more, call 9944994165.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/showcasing-fine-handlooms/article37920044.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||In rewind mode||The A side first song of Lagaan was ‘Ghanan Ghanan’. The B side first song of Kandukondein Kandukondein was ‘Konjam Mainaakale’. Terms like ‘A side’ and ‘B side’ might be unfamiliar for Gen Z but for those from the ’80s and ’90s, they are an inseparable part of growing up. The makers of Hridayam hope to tap into that nostalgia. Directed by Vineeth Srinivasan and starring Pranav Mohanlal, Darshana Rajendran and Kalyani Priyadarshan, this upcoming Malayalam film will have all its 15 tracks on audio cassettes and CDs on sale for listeners. The idea was the result of a discussion between director Vineeth and composer Hesham Abdul Wahab when they were taking a stroll on the streets of Istanbul in Turkey, where they had gone to record a few instruments. “We spotted shops selling CDs and cassettes, and we became nostalgic about our own experiences with music,” recalls Hesham, who grew up in Riyadh, where access to entertainment channels was limited. “My only gateway to music was through cassettes and CDs, which I used to buy whenever I came to India for vacations. Those experiences will never go away from my heart,” he says. The team wanted to see if it was possible to make audiences relive that experience. Thanks to Chennai-based music label Think Music and an association with a Japanese manufacturer of audio cassettes, Hridayam will now have its music on cassettes and CDs. “Any composer who has lived in the ’80s and ’90s would have this dream to bring their music in the form of cassettes, and I’m glad to be living that dream,” says Hesham. The announcement of pre-orders has already received an overwhelming response, according to Santhosh Kumar of Think Music. He says, “We have already received 1,000 pre-orders for cassettes and 500 for CDs, from listeners across Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka,” he says. Vinyl recordings of Hridayam also will be available after the movie’s release. So, how do audiences listen to the songs when they are unlikely to still own audio cassettes and CD players? Santhosh says, “As a music label, our scope ends with making the cassettes and CDs. The availability of electronic equipment is not in our purview, but we do know that there are many households that still have cassette players. They are also available in some electronic shops and can be ordered online.” Hesham has already got his old Walkman fixed and is waiting for the first batch of Hridayam cassettes to arrive, so that he can relive what he felt as a listener two decades ago. He mentions that cassettes/CDs of the Tamil film Boys and the Hindi flick Jodhaa Akbar find pride of place in his studio. “Take  A.R. Rahman’s Jodhaa Akbar , for instance. When we listen to the first song (‘Azeem-O-Shaan Shahenshah’), we are being introduced to the world of Jodhaa Akbar and get a peek into what the film is about. We then move on to the love song (‘Jashn-E-Bahaaraa’) and then to ‘Khwaja Mere Khwaja’. This slowly prepares you for the film and leaves to your imagination on what kind of visuals will go with it. All this gives you a unique musical experience, something which modern musical streaming apps cannot provide,” he says.  Cassettes and CDs are available for pre-order in www.thinkmusic.in at Rs. 199, excluding shipping.   Any composer who has lived in the ’80s and ’90s would have this dream to bring their music in the form of cassettes, and I’m glad to be living that dream Hesham Abdul Wahab Music composer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-rewind-mode/article37920467.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Ninety and living it||In September this year, Sowcar Janaki returned to Chennai from a solo trip to Coonoor and informed her family she had a surprise for them: that she was back from a shooting stint! Janaki, who turns 90 on December 12, is well known in her family for being independent. “Of course, she assured us that she was well taken care of on set,” laughs the actor’s elder daughter, Yagna Prabha, amid preparations for a get-together to celebrate Janaki’s birthday. The actor was shooting with director Nandini Reddy in Coonoor. She plays actor Rajendra Prasad’s aunt in his upcoming project titled Anni Manchi Sakunamule. “I was hesitant initially but the makers insisted I play the role and I was touched. I left my fate in God’s hands and took the chance,” says Janaki, adding, “it’s nice to be on the set. It feels gratifying.” Nandini says, “The role required an independent, individualistic and strong matriarchal personality whose words have an impact on the family, and we could not think anyone beyond Janaki amma . Though she was reluctant initially, she agreed after becoming fully vaccinated.” In order to make the veteran actor comfortable, Nandini shot only two hours a day, ensuring that there were breaks in between takes. Janaki made her debut in the L.V. Prasad-directed Telugu film Shavukaru in 1950, which got her the moniker ‘Sowcar’. Apart from playing lead roles in her 70-year career, Janaki has portrayed multiple character roles and is well known for her light-hearted role in Thillu Mullu co-starring Rajinikanth, with whom she shares her birthday. She was last seen in Tamil films like Thambi (2019) and Biskoth (2020).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ninety-and-living-it/article37920581.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||A dream as big as the ocean||Imagine mastering the toughest of skating moves and not being able to afford a good pair of shoes, or even a skateboard for that matter. This is a challenge for many of the young fishermen of Mamallapuram who take an interest in the sport. Teenagers B. Sivaraj, M. Harish, and A. Manikandan, all of them higher secondary students, are no exception. Sivaraj, for instance, goes fishing on weekends and had to drop out of school two years ago to support his family. But a scholarship seat awaits him at a city college, all thanks to his skateboarding and surfing abilities. The three boys are set to travel to Dhelpur in Punjab to represent Tamil Nadu at the National-level Skateboarding Championship. “This is important on many levels for the boys,” says Aine Edwards, an Irish national based in Mamallapuram, who put up a crowd-funding campaign to support their expenses for the trip. “If they win, they could get a Government job, go to university, show their parents who did not even want them to take up the sport, become heroes in the village,” says Aine. That Mamallapuram is home to some of our country’s best surfing and skateboarding talent is no secret. “Boys here pick up the tricks of the sport from travellers who visit from across the world,” says Mukesh Panjanathan, a fisherman-turned surfing instructor, who runs Mumu Surf School at the fishing village. Mukesh has trained several fisher boys, providing them free boards to practice on. “Surfing and skateboarding have similar moves,” he points out. “Except that the latter is done on land instead of water.” He built a skateboarding ramp inside the fisherfolk settlement at Mamallapuram in 2015. “Surfers practise at the ramp when there are no waves to catch,” he says. The ramp has been a huge help for boys such as Sivaraj. Not that he needs it, though. Give him any surface, and he will glide across on his skateboard. “It is a little rough,” says Sivaraj about the road in his neighbourhood — the first surface he ever skated on. “The board tends to shake,” he admits. But that did not stop him from skating on it day and night. Mukesh says that this tournament is important to the boys who were “physically and mentally affected by COVID-19 since they could not go fishing”. Aine says, “Sport can change their destiny. These are the future leaders of Mahabs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-dream-as-big-as-the-ocean/article37920466.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||On the road again||Out with the old and in with the new! Lucky Ali will be signing off 2021 with an all-India tour that will spill over into the new year. The Lucky Ali India Tour, which commences on December 12, will see the singer perform in Delhi, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Goa, after a hiatus. “Amongst my first releases for this tour will be my compilations with Michael McCleary who produced most of my early work. This album is a continuation of the work that we have done. The music has been in the making for a while now and we were just waiting for the right time to release it,” says Lucky Ali, talking about the upcoming event and the unnamed album. “Although it is fun to release a whole album, we now have the luxury of being able to release a single track, work on it, film it and later on compile it into an album. That makes more sense. If you’ve noticed, all our music follows a similar line of thought and these songs are no different.” Though only four cities are currently part of the tour, the organisers will be adding other cities to the event that will conclude by the end of February. According to the singer, fans can follow updates of his recent releases on his social media sites and he says his team is working on releasing their latest compilation as a vinyl. “My songs reflect a constant sense of self searching, and a love for travelling, they are about communication and relationships. Inspiration is something that happens when it does. When you are compiling an album, the songs stem from that perspective. You make it, break it, remake it. Basically, it is a work in progress. Even after a song is released, it is a work in progress because it has another life on stage.” Ali says the India tour is so called not due to geographical confines alone — it caters specifically to an Indian audience. “The set up is unique to this particular tour and promises to be an audio-visual experience,” he says, adding that none of the current material will be heard at concerts abroad, at least for the time being. “The tour will be an audio-visual journey that will take the audience through time, as it will focus on the journey of music and the way each song is performed. Each section has a mood and accompanying visuals, promising to make it an immersive experience.” “Apart from being an extraordinary challenge, we also get to enjoy the audience being a very big part of the entire experience. They sing our songs with us, they interact and communicate with us. India may have seen plenty of audio-visual events, but for our set, it is going to be different affair,” admits the singer candidly, adding, “normally, we would just get together and jam, but this time round there would be a little more discipline to the playing.”  Tickets to the Lucky Ali India Tour are available on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/on-the-road-again/article37920468.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Sirivennela Sitarama Sastry’s last song to feature in Telugu film ‘Shyam Singha Roy’||The last song penned by well-known lyricist and Padma Shri awardee Sirivennela Sitarama Sastry, who passed away recently, will feature in the Telugu film Shyam Singha Roy . The film, directed by Rahul Sankrityan, features this melody to trace the romance between the characters essayed by actors Nani and Sai Pallavi. Recently, Rahul and Nani released a video detailing how the lyricist worked on the song despite his health constraints. Rahul stated in the video, “On November 3, Sirivennela garu informed me that he could not complete the song because of his health condition. However, we requested him to write. I was woken up by his call the very next morning, on Deepavali, and he asked me to write down the ‘pallavi’. One line had his name Sirivennela. When asked, he laughed and said that this might be his last song. The irony is that his last rites were performed on the day the song was recorded.” ‘Sirivennela’ has been composed by Mickey J. Meyer and sung by Anurag Kulkarni. The film will also feature another song penned by the late lyricist.  Shyam Singha Roy also stars Krithi Shetty, Madonna Sebastian, Rahul Ravindran, Murali Sharma and Leela Samson. The film will release in theatres on December 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sirivennela-sitarama-sastrys-last-song-to-feature-in-telugu-film-shyam-singha-roy/article37920469.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Vineet’s magic mantra Locking his charm||The story so far: Vineet has been using the magic mantra to make his life easier.  Vineet had become extremely possessive of the piece of paper with the magic mantra. He double checked every time he changed his clothes, ensuring that it was always in his shirt or pant pocket and seldom let it far from his sight. Once, when Vineet was washing his face, he splashed water on his shirt. “Oh no!” he said, quickly drying his hands. Slowly, he pulled the folded piece of paper out of his pocket and saw that a tiny corner had become wet. He opened it out and laid it over his study table, and weighted it down. Half an hour later, the paper had dried. But he still didn’t fold it. He let it dry some more. The accident had made him quite upset. “I need to find a permanent solution for this. What if it gets wet or gets misplaced or what if one day I forget to remove it before throwing my clothes into the laundry basket?” Vineet muttered. Problem solved Finally, he had an idea. “This is the perfect solution to my problem?” he danced around his room, laughing. After chanting the mantra a few times, he pitched the idea to his mother. “Mom, for my last birthday, you bought me a small silver locket, inside which were my nana’s and nani’s photos,” he said. “I remember,” his mother replied. “But you said you didn’t want it.” “I want it now,” Vineet replied. “But how will you wear the locket? Your school does not permit jewellery or gold chains,” she frowned. “I’ll wear it on a long black thread,” he replied. “As it is winter, we are always wearing our sweaters over our school uniforms, so no one will see it. I’ll think of something for next term.” Later in the evening, his mother gave him the locket attached to a black thread. Once in his room, Vineet transferred the folded piece of paper into the locket. Knotting the two ends of the thread together, he dropped it over his head. The thread settled around his neck, while the locket sat gently on his chest; a constant reminder of the power he wielded over people. Sighing with relief, Vineet kissed the locket. Now, he had nothing to fear.  The End||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/vineets-magic-mantra-locking-his-charm/article37920717.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Chronicles in stone||Three architectural marvels that have stood the test of time are the Great Living Chola Temples: the Brahadeeswarar, Gangaikondacholapuram and the Airavatesvara. All three are part of the UNESCO’s World Heritage Sites list. These structures were built by kings of the Later Chola dynasty who ruled in South India between 1070 to 1279 CE. The Big Temple Originally known as the Peruvidaiyar Kovil, the Brahadeeswarar temple in Thanjavur is also popularly known as the Thanjai Periya Kovil and Rajarajeshwaram Koil. Its tower ( vimana ) is the tallest in the world at 200ft. It holds an 80-tonne stone ball on top, which is known as the kumbam . A statue of Nandi, the sacred bull, at the entrance has been carved out of a single stone. The statue weighs 20 tonnes and is 16ft in length and 13ft in height. Nestled in the sanctum in a linga soaring to a height of 29ft. Conqueror of the Ganga Situated 36 km from Kumbakonam, in Ariyalur district, is Gangaikondacholapuram, built by Raja Raja Chola’s son Rajendra Chola. Gangaikondacholapuram means “the city of the Chola who conquered the Ganga” and was meant to commemorate his victory over the Pala rulers of West Bengal. The temple here is smaller than the Thanjavur temple and researchers say that Rajendra Chola did this out of respect for his father. The lingam here is 13 ft tall and has a base circumference of 59ft. Divine elephant The third temple in the Golden Triangle is the Airavatesvara located in Darasuram, Kumbakonam built by Rajaraja Chola II. This incorporates a chariot structure with the morning and evening sun dials as the wheels. According to mythology, Indra’s elephant Airavata, after whom the temple is named, bathed in the temple tank. This legend is depicted in carvings in the inner shrine. On the base are reliefs that show the stories of the 63 Nayanars. The steps leading to the bali pitham (sacrificial place) are intricately carved and produce musical notes when one walks on them. Therefore they are known as Singing Steps. Though in ruins, the temple holds its own among the Chola temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/chronicles-in-stone/article37920725.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Case of the missing stamp album||I was spending my summer holidays at Uncle Robert’s house. “May 4, 1990. My father was 14 years old. He had a stamp album that had stamps from 30 different countries. My father showed it to his friend Anil and then kept it on the table in his stiudy. After lunch, the album was missing! He searched all over the house but couldn’t find it,” said my cousin Ajay. “Mr. Anil is the thief!” declared Rohan. “No. My father clearly remembers that, after his friend left, the album was still on the study table. My grandparents and my father’s younger sister, Aunt Stella, were also in the house on that day,” said Ajay. “Your aunt must have stolen it!” said Rohan. “Don’t accuse my mother!” I said angrily. “I am sorry, Nivin,” apologised Rohan. But I stormed out to the garden. There were three mango trees in the garden. I climbed onto the middle one. Muthu, who worked as a gardener in Rohan’s house, came to return an empty basket. Every year during summer, my grandma would send a basket of mangoes to all her neighbours. Muthu also climbed the mango tree to pluck some mangoes. After Muthu descended from the tree, I carefully walked on the branch and jumped into Ajay’s study through the window. This had been Uncle Robert’s room. The thief must have climbed the mango tree, entered through the open window like I just had and stolen the album. Clue from the past Next day, atop the mango tree, I told Muthu about the missing stamp album. “May 4 is my birthday and I turned 16 that year. I still remember everything that happened that day. I came to return the empty basket to your grandma and told her it was my birthday. She gave me Rs. 50,” recalled Muthu. He was silent for a while. “Kasi!” he said angrily. “He must have stolen it. Kasi did odd jobs in Rohan’s grandfather’s house. He accompanied me that day and wanted to pluck some mangoes and told me not to wait for him. Later that day, I also remember Vinay sir giving him a new watch. I was upset. Vinay sir didn’t give me anything for my birthday but gave him a watch.” Vinay was Rohan’s uncle. Muthu confronted Kasi who now lived next door to him. Kasi confessed and said that he had stolen the album, as instructed by Rohan’s uncle who knew where and how to find it. Muthu and I informed Rohan and his father about what we had discovered. They felt guilty because of what Vinay — who now lived in Singapore — had done. After a few days, a parcel arrived from Singapore. There were tears in Uncle Robert’s eyes, as he took out the faded green stamp album. There was also an apology note from Vinay. Uncle Robert and Ajay looked at Muthu and me with gratitude.  My father clearly remembers that, after his friend left, the album was still on the study table.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/case-of-the-missing-stamp-album/article37920747.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Stand up for your rights||On December 10, 1948, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). This document proclaims the rights everyone is entitled to regardless of race, colour, religion, sex, language, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. Available in more than 500 languages, it is the most translated document in the world. The theme for 2021 is Equality: Reducing inequalities, advancing human rights. Let’s look at some of the issues that we face today. Source: UN News||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/stand-up-for-your-rights/article37920755.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Drama in the skies||Acelestial drama unfolds at the year end as three bright planets, the crescent Moon, two meteor showers and an eclipse woo sky gazers.   Geminids Meteor Shower:  The king of the meteor showers, it produces up to 120 multicoloured meteors per hour at its peak. The result of the debris left behind by an asteroid known as 3200 Phaethon, which was discovered in 1982, the shower runs annually from December 7 to 17. This year, it peaks on the night of December 13 and morning of December 14. The waxing gibbous moon will block most of the fainter meteors. But the Geminids are so numerous and bright that this could still be a good show. Meteors will radiate from the constellation Gemini, but can appear anywhere in the sky.  Full Moon: The Moon will be located on the opposite side of the Earth as the Sun and its face will be will be fully illuminated on December 19. Early Native American tribes called it the Cold Moon because it occurs just as winter settles in and the nights become long and dark. It is also known as the Long Nights Moon and the Moon Before Yule.  December Solstice: December 21 is the first day of winter (Winter Solstice) in the northern hemisphere and the first day of summer (Summer Solstice) in the southern hemisphere. The South Pole will be tilted toward the Sun, which will have reached its southernmost position in the sky and will be directly over the Tropic of Capricorn at 23.44°.  Ursids Meteor Shower:  A minor meteor shower producing about 5 to 10 meteors per hour, it is the result of dust grains left behind by Comet Tuttle, which was first discovered in 1790. The shower runs annually from December 17 to 25 and will peak on the the night of December 21 and morning of December 22. The nearly full moon will block all but the brightest meteors. Meteors will radiate from the constellation Ursa Minor, but can appear anywhere in the sky.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/drama-in-the-skies/article37920783.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Adventures galore||Forever daydreaming, Dev floats off to places all over the world and has wonderful, bizarre adventures. Set out with Dev on a solo expedition to reach the South Pole and report back to his teacher on global warming. Find out which Dev finds more terrifying — going down a volcano or the baffling fact that a girl from his street has arrived there with him! Join Dev and his trivia mad friend OP as they become the first space stowaways on a moon landing mission. Along with the challenges of all this, he also needs to avoid the wrath of teachers and make Amma and Baba proud. Whenever curious Nida wants to do something new — like riding a bicycle or climbing a tree — Abba is scared for her and says NO NO NO. But Nida needs to learn and do new things — so the only way is for her to persuade her over-protective Abba. Can she find a way? Kiki Kallira is more of a worrier than a warrior. Did she lock the front door? Is there a terrible reason her mum is late? Recently her anxiety has been getting out of control, but one thing that has always soothed her is drawing. Kiki’s sketchbook is full of fantastical doodles of the Hindu myths and legends. But the mythical beasts she loves to draw have come to life, and she is the only one who can defeat them. Can Kiki must overcome her fear and anxiety to save both worlds — the real and the imagined?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/adventures-galore/article37920766.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Countries and capitals||Across  1 The first carbon-negative country in the world (6) 3 The Fertile Crescent lies partly in this country (4) 5 Desert country bordering Egypt (5) 7 Count Dracula is from this country (7) 8 The ‘U’ in UK (6) 9 Japan is known as the Land of the Rising ___ (3) 11 The ‘S’ in USA (6) 14 French-speaking West African country (5) 15 Second most populated country in the world (5)  Down  1 Country known for its chocolate (7) 2 Tashkent is the capital of ____ (10) 3 West Asian country formed after WW II (6) 4 Oil-rich Middle Eastern country (5) 6 Diego Maradona is from this country (9) 9 KSA: The Kingdom of ____ Arabia (5) 10 Mount Everest is located in this country (5) 12 ___ Lanka, formerly known as Ceylon (3) 13 ___ Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/countries-and-capitals/article37920728.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are.||Why is it harmful to look at the Sun directly during a total solar eclipse?  When you expose your eyes to the sun without protecting your eyes, especially during a solar eclipse, it can cause retinal burns, also known as solar retinopathy. In simpler terms, it can cause “eclipse blindness” . This exposure can damage or destroy cells in the retina, which transmit what you see to the brain. What makes this dangerous is that no pain will be felt; but, the damage can be temporary or even permanent.   Whoinvented Google?  Google Inc. was founded by Sergey Brin and Larry Page, who met at Stanford University. Its history dates back to 1995 when LPage was a Ph.D. student at Standford University, and Brin was considering studying there. In 1996, they began work on a search engine called BackRub. They eventually decided in Google, a play on googol , a mathematical term for the number 1 followed by 100 zeros. It is said to reflect the founders’ mission to collate the vast amount of information available on the Internet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article37920714.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Get Lucky winners: India’s Adventures in Space||Congratulations to the winners of the Flying High in the Sky contest published in the Young World on November 12. You will receive a copy of the book India’s Adventures is Space. 1.Amber Raina,IV, The he Bishop's Co - Ed School, Pune, Maharashtra 2.K. Prathyush, V, Vriksha Patashala, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu 3.Aditya Nandan, VIII, The Mother's International School, New Delhi 4.Prisha Gupta, III, National Public School, HSR, Bengaluru, Karnataka 5.Arav Srivastava, VI, D.A.V. Centenary Public School, Srinagar Siwan, Bihar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/get-lucky-winners-indias-adventures-in-space/article37920703.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||NICK Get Lucky winners||Congratulations to the winners of the ‘NICK Chickoo aur Bunty’ contest contest published in the Young World on November 12. For the full list, visit: ywc.thehindu.com/results/get-lucky-contest-by-nick -november-12-2021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/nick-get-lucky-winners/article37920704.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Right to life, liberty and security of person||Since the outbreak of the pandemic, there have been several reports of attacks on people of Chinese origin in the U.S. The case of Justin Tsui in New York is just one. At a train station, he was threatened and asked to go back to where he came from.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/right-to-life-liberty-and-security-of-person/article37920756.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Right to Information||In Ethiopia, millions of people lived under a months-long government-imposed shutdown of Internet and phone services. They were denied information, and international and local aid groups were unable to monitor disease outbreaks or provide help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/right-to-information/article37920757.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Right to a standard of living adequate for health and well-being||The Taliban victory in Afghanistan has been followed by deprivation and famine stalking the land. There have been accounts of orphaned children starving to death, families selling their meagre possessions, and sometimes even their daughters, to get money for food. There is a gradual collapse of the social fibre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/right-to-a-standard-of-living-adequate-for-health-and-well-being/article37920758.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Impacting basic human rights||Climate change is depriving people of the right to life. As in the case of Ioane Teitota. A native of Kiribati, he sought asylum in New Zealand as his home country was becoming uninhabitable due to scarcity of land and the rise in sea level rendering the land unfit for agriculture. However, he was turned down. When he approached the UN Human Rights Committee, they said New Zealand could not deport him, as they were violating his right to life. This was the first-ever ruling on a complaint by an individual seeking asylum from the effects of climate change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/impacting-basic-human-rights/article37920759.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights||In 2015, Guatemala’s Congress voted to raise the country’s minimum legal age for marriage to 18! While this was exciting news for the people of Guatemala, this is the legal age of marriage in every other country. However, all over the world, girls are forced into marriage every two seconds. This impacts access to education, limits chances of employment and is dangerous to physical and mental health too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/all-human-beings-are-born-free-and-equal-in-dignity-and-rights/article37920760.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article37920710.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article37920732.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Desert notes||Lakha Khan had just wrapped up his riyaaz on the Sindhi sarangi — one of the few musicians who play the instrument — when I called. The 76-year-old from Rajasthan was awarded the Padma Shri this year. For those familiar with his music, the recognition was long overdue, but Khan shrugs off all such comments gently. “Music is the reason I am here today, it is the reason I have got the recognition,” he says, “As long as we have our music, our tradition, we will be fine.” And then, as if on cue, he answers my query on his favourite bhajan by singing in his earthy voice, ‘Bhajan bin baawre...’ Songs for all occasions Undoubtedly, music is the language Khan is most comfortable in, although he sings in multiple languages — Marwari, Sindhi, Punjabi, Hindi and Multani. His voice accompanies the tunes on his Sindhi sarangi, and together they sing about nature, about the depth of human emotions; they sing in praise of Hindu deities, about festivals, about their patron families, and about life in the Thar. The Manganiyar community, to which Khan belongs to, are the oral historians of the desert. Their songs have been passed down through generations and often document life as they see it at that time.  “The Manganiyars are a community of hereditary musicians,” says Kuldeep Kothari, secretary of Rupayan Sansthan (Rajasthan Institute of Folklore and Museum), “Their repertoire of songs is varied, but mostly about the life cycle — birth, wedding, death — about fairs and festivals, about katha and gatha (tales and epics).” Through generations, the community’s patrons have largely been local Rajput families and wealthy landlords and the Manganiyars often perform for them on all important occasions and also for their guests. Although Muslims, invoking Krishna at the beginning of a performance is a common practice. There are around 8,000-10,000 Manganiyar families in Rajasthan, most of them in the western regions of Barmer and Jaisalmer. Like them, the Langas too are a hereditary musician community, but their population is not as scattered as the Manganiyars. “Traditionally, the Manganiyars play the Kamaicha, a 17-stringed, bowed instrument. The musicians take great care in the making of the instrument and sit with the carpenter when it being made,” says Kuldeep, whose late father and Padma Bhushan awardee, Komal Kothari, had set up Rupayan Sansthan. “It is a difficult instrument to play and the number of Manganiyars playing it is shrinking. Many are taking to the harmonium instead, although the octave on both instruments are different.” Lakha, who he calls a “genius with an amazing memory” is one of the few who has mastered the Sindhi sarangi. The moving away from a traditional instrument, however, is indicative of the transitionary phase that the Manganiyars find themselves in. Lakha Khan lamented that the “business of music” is often a deterrent to folk music. Folk musicians have to often abide by organisers and play popular Hindi movie songs when they are invited to hotels and other places to perform. Children of the Manganiyar families, who learn music as naturally as we learn the language spoken at home, are also aspiring for a better life, with education and jobs. Traditionally, patron families have looked after the musicians, gifting them with portions of the harvested crops, or, during weddings and festivities, with clothes and money. It would take care of their basic needs. “But now both patronage is weakening, as well as they (the Manganiyar children) want more,” says Kuldeep. A few years ago, Lakha Khan’s son, Dane Khan, started a tour business, but when he found it difficult to juggle work and music, he gave up the latter. The last two years have been particularly devastating for the community, with hotels shut down and music festivals cancelled. Rupayan Sansthan is supporting an initiative to record and digitise Rajasthani folk music, to preserve the cultural tradition of the desert region. The initiative, by the Archives and Research Centre for Ethnomusicology at the American Institute of Indian Studies, has involved 600 musicians in western Rajasthan, including the Manganiyars. Meanwhile, Dane Khan, inspired by his father, has returned to music — to the dholak, to be specific — while his younger brother has taken to playing the Sindhi sarangi.  The Jodhpur-based writer is a freelance journalist.   Music is the reason I am here today, it is the reason I have got the recognition”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/desert-notes/article37920024.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebrating classicism||Sadly for connoisseurs of Carnatic music, who would congregate every December in Chennai from different parts of the world, Margazhi 2021 is playing out in a hybrid mode. So while there are a few opportunities to listen to and discuss music as a shared experience, at the sabha or the canteen, most of it still online. . While listening to the virtual violin concert by the Mysore Brothers — Nagaraj and Manjunath — hosted by Kartik Fine Arts, some imaginary conversations came to the mind. The concert opened with raga Sindhu Ramakriya (‘Sudha Madhurya’, Tyagaraja), a raga not heard often on the concert stage. “Mali would play this beautifully, the higher notes also...,” from paati , who had hoisted her sari a foot above her ankles and waded her way to the sabha through waterlogged roads. A nod from me, while the friendly young man on my left, surfing Facebook, tells her about MS singing ‘Devadideva Sadashiva’. “It is available on YouTube paati , brilliant! Rajiv Gandhi, MGR, P.V. Narasimha Rao and P. Chidambaram were in the audience.” As this reverie broke, the brisk rendition was coming to an end and the brothers had moved on to Vasantabhairavi, a janya of the beautiful Vakulabharana. Soulful rendition A soulful short alapana was followed by the composition, ‘Nee Dayaradha’ (Tyagaraja), in madhyama kala, rendered with poise and balance. A concert by the Mysore Brothers is always marked by skill, virtuosity and adherence to classicism. Trained by their scholar-father Prof. Mahadevappa, the bothers have ably carried forward the legacy. It is also significant that they have enhanced their traditional grooming with a creative spirit and individual imagination, making their renditions at once emotive and intellectual. Sahana was proof of this — Nagaraj painted a leisurely and reflective picture of the raga, developing each note with restraint. Unlike today’s trend of breathless renditions, the alapana was woven with pauses, and Manjunath joined him to elaborate the gamaka phrases, each extending the other’s meaning. Even the kriti and the swaraprastara preserved the sobriety of Sahana. Manjunath raised the pace to third speed and managed to keep the mood intact. Purvikalyani was the masterpiece. The bothers took turns to delineate the raga in this RTP — it unfolded meditatively, presenting the uniqueness of the raga in its various prayogas. Barring some phrases in the higher octaves, it was an aesthetic and melodious piece of work. The overall structure of the tana had a judicious blend of reflection and felicity. Their rendition was also a demonstration of their perfect understanding, always working complementary to each other and never overshadowing. The pallavi ‘Madhura puri nivasini mampahi’ was sweetly sung by Manjunath before they began to play it. They wove in Dwijavanti, Saveri, Kantamani, and Desh, making it the most memorable piece of the concert. Arjun Kumar on the mridangam and Giridhar Udupa played a brilliant tani avartanam for the RTP set to the complex khandajati triputa tala. In fact, they extended a mellow and tempered support through the concert, never taking attention away from the main artistes.  Paati called out to the young man. “Can I listen to this concert again on YouTube,” she asked, pulling out her android phone from a cloth bag. We exchanged seats, and the tutoring began.  The Bengaluru-based journalist   writes on art and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/celebrating-classicism/article37920031.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The ancient and the now||Man-woman love and its vicissitudes came alive on two consecutive evenings at ‘Bhava Bhavanam Anubhavam’, Kalakshetra’s three-day Kathakali festival. While one story was conceived three centuries ago, the other is barely three years old. The inaugural show featured ‘Nalacharitam’, penned by Unnayi Variyar (1674-1754). The popular classic has strengthened its presentation structure down the ages, yet it largely sticks to conventional aesthetics, as reiterated by the maestros at the festival. Pushing the envelope further came ‘Soorpanakhangam’, staged 24 hours later. Sadanam K. Harikumar’s early-2019 work bore cutting-edge features in both costume and choreography, lending Kathakali certain new-age sensibilities. The event, inaugurated by culture scholar Sudha Gopalakrishan of Delhi’s India International Centre (Research Division), began with the invocatory Purappad that energised the stage with eight Kalakshetra students — four in Krishna costume and the others as female characters. Unnayi’s magnum opus climaxes in the reunion of the focal couple: King Nala and Damayanti. Unusual poignancy defines Nalam Divasam, which essays this part of the Mahabharata sub-story. Sadanam Krishnankutty donned the protagonist’s role with the characteristic vibrancy that belies his age (80). With body movements reiterating his basic adherence to the dense Kalluvazhi school, the eclectic actor conveyed the travails of Bahuka (Nala in snake-bitten disguise) in the run-up to meeting his wife in a terribly awkward situation — as charioteer to a king who is keen to wed Damayanti after her husband’s desertion. Kalamandalam Rajasekharan performed the heroine’s role, emoting with streaks of realism integral to the Kaplingadan style of his native Travancore region. A retired principal of his alma mater, Rajasekharan’s hand gestures bear a straightened-out quality, adding to their clarity. Young Kalamandalam Adithyan, with poise beyond his experience, jelled well in his interactions as palace maid Kesini. Latest trends Kottakkal Madhu and Sadanam Sivadas showcased the latest trends in Kathakali vocals. Chenda percussionist Kalamandalam Unnikrishnan and his brother, Kottakkal Ravi (maddalam), complemented each other with ease (even as the online video cruelly edged them out of frame). Greenroom chief Kalamandalam Sudheeshkumar did a fine job. ‘Soorpanakhangam,’ which is Harikumar’s 17th Kathakali work, is the art-form’s first-ever adaptation from Kamba Ramayana. The 12th-century Tamil work has its share of deviations from the Valmiki epic. Hence Harikumar’s play has Sambhukumaran coming in as the son of Soorpanakha, the sister of Lanka king Ravana. The youngster’s penance in the forest gets disturbed at the unexpected sight of Sita with her husband Rama and brother-in-law Lakshmana — all three banished from their kingdom. The verses where Sambhukumaran initially wonders about the identity of the new faces has the character (by Sadanam Manikandan) on stage dancing iratti-s, hitherto untried in Kathakali’s medium-tempo songs set to 14-beat adanta. Earlier, the opening scene begins with a novel Pravesam (entry) of Rama (Sadanam Vipin Chandran) and Sita (Kalamandalam Arunraj) along with Lakshmana (Sadanam Akshay). Equally refreshing is the nine-minute choreography of the siblings’ subsequent making of the hermitage — something that is a traditional piece (Parnashalankam) in the ancient Koodiyattam. The fight between Lakshman and Sambhukumaran, too, weaves in innovative details. Soorpanakha’s arrival in the woods to meet her son leads the demoness to fall in love with Rama. He rejects her proposal and suggests that she try her luck with Lakshmana, only to be snubbed again. What’s more, Lakshmana, on learning her identity, shows Soorpanakha the ornaments of the late Sambhukumaran. The playwright has given the demoness a make-up and costume that are remarkably different from any Kathakali character. A theatrical technique called Dandakam fast-forwards the plot to where Soorpanakha meets Rama after he kills Ravana in the Lanka war. Still in no mood to accept her, the lord is cursed to be burdened with too many wives in his next birth (as Krishna). ‘You will be one (spiritually),’ says Rama, referring to the hunchbacked Kubja of Mathura. Jyothish Babu and Vignesh Harikumar sang in ways that added to the melodrama. Sadanam Akademi’s Ramakrishnan, Jithin, Devadas and Jayaraj were the percussionists, while Kalanilayam Rajeevan did the facial chutti work.  The writer is a keen follower of Kerala’s performing arts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-ancient-and-the-now/article37920041.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Festival on Vedic wisdom||The fourth edition of Vedic Wisdom Festival, organised by the Aarsha Vidya Foundation, will be held virtually on December 11 and 12. The event focuses on how traditional knowledge can help as the world seeks to find its equilibrium in the wake of the pandemic. “The aim,” says Swami Brahmavidananda Saraswati, the founder of the festival and the foundation, “is to provide authentic knowledge on what the Vedic tradition is about, especially in today’s world when there is so much confusion regarding Hinduism and the Vedas.” Explaining how the programme is conceived, co-founder Swamini Brahmaprajnananda says that while the emphasis is on Vedanta, other components of Vedic wisdom are also examined. “Every year, we bring together teachers who have studied in a guru-shishya parampara in different disciplines to talk about Vedanta, Vedangas and auxiliary disciplines such as Upavedas (Ayurveda), Dhanurveda (warfare), Gandharva Veda (Music and Dance), Sthapatya Veda (Architecture), Itihaasa (Ramayana and Mahabharata), and so on.” This year, Swami Brahmavidananda will offer personal insights in the session ‘How does Vedanta work for me’, while Swamini Brahmaprajnananda will speak about ‘The lessons the Bhagavad Gita holds for us today’. Dr. Parthasarathy, director and Chief Medical Officer of SDJ Ayurvedalaya, Coimbatore will focus on Ayurveda and mental health. A lec-dem on the ancient martial art of kalarippayattu by Belraj Soni, a presentation on temples by well-known historian Chithra Madhavan, the connections between yoga and Vedanta by Gloria Arieira, a talk on Sanskrit by Anantharama Iyer, and Swami Atmatrptananda’s discourse ‘From Music to the fulfilment of Vedanta’ are also part of the two-day programme. The festival is open to all. For details, visit https://www.vedicwisdomfestival.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/festival-on-vedic-wisdom/article37920037.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||All in the voice||Mudhra’s 27th Fine Arts Festival featured a virtual concert by vocalist Srirangam R. Venkatanagarajan. . The singer made good use of a voice that traverses the full range to render some unusual songs. He began with the Ata tala Muthiah Bhagavatar varnam in Mohana, ‘Mana Mohana’, in which musicians do not usually sing swarakalpanas, but Venkatanagarajan did. ‘Sriramam Ravikulapthi’ in raga Narayanagowla was sedate while the Varali raga exposition carried the conventional phrases with the kriti chosen being Tyagaraja’s ‘Ne pogada kunte’. The swaras were at ‘Neeraja nayana Tyagaraja’. Venkatanagarajan sang alapana for Ritigowla, Purvikalyani and Karaharapriya, which was the centre piece. The Ritigowla kriti ‘Manjanamaada nee vaarai kanna’ by Oothukadu Venkatakavi came with two catchy madhyama kala segments. He also rendered ‘Paraloka sadhaname’ by Tyagaraja in Purvikalyani with brisk swaras in the pallavi. Swara matrices For Karaharapriya , Venkatanagarajan chose Swati Tirunal’s ‘Satatam tavaka’. The niraval and swara matrices were at ‘Mamahruti vasanisam’. Thayumanavar’s verse ‘Kanthukak kariyaiyum’ was presented as virutham in ragas such as Kamboji, Dhanyasi, Begada, Bhimplas, Behag and Kurinji. The concluding kriti was Sivan’s ‘Engum nirainthirukkum en deivam’ in Kurinji. There is a thin dividing line between open-throated and loud singing. Venkatanagarajan needs to keep this difference in mind in the raga alapana and swaraprastara segments. Ragas like Ritigowla and Varali demand gentle, sruti-aligned karvais instead of fast flashy brigas. Internalisation of ragas and sahitya is crucial to expressive and emotive singing. Musicians should pay more attention to raga bhava. Mantha Sriramya on the violin played with composure. Her raga essays and swara repartees were marked by poise and perfection. R. Rohit on the mridangam and N. Rajaraman on the ghatam were enthusiastic accompanists. Their thani had verve and control.  The Chennai-based writer reviews Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/all-in-the-voice/article37920033.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Time for The Hindu and Saregama M.S. Subbulakshmi Awards||This annual competition is not just about recognising young talent but helping them draw inspiration from the iconic M.S. Subbulakshmi, after whom it is named, the singer who made Carnatic music accessible to the common man and popularised it around the world. The ninth edition of The Hindu and Saregama M.S. Subbulakshmi Awards for aspiring Carnatic musicians, presented by Parry’s Amrit Sugar, will be held in a hybrid format. The grand finale of the much-awaited competition will take place at The Music Academy in Chennai, on January 7, 2022. The prize also offers the winner an opportunity to record an album by Saregama. Interested participants, aged between 18 and 26, can send in a recording of their kriti rendition  with alapana, niraval and swaraprastara .  Participants are required to upload the audio or video onto a Google drive and share the link of the audio/video on the registration page. Registrations will be accepted till December 15, 2021. Participants can submit only one entry each. To participate, visithttps://bit.ly/MSSTHor scan the QR code here. Musician K. Krishnakumar, who has been part of the selection panel for the past eight years, says “This competition offers a platform for aspiring musicians to showcase their skills. It serves as a perfect launchpad.” Prof. S. Rajeswari, who teaches music and is one of the panellists, says this competition encourages youngsters to hone their skills and motivates them to stay focused and practise regularly to perform better. “Whether they emerge as winners or not, the contestants get a chance to listen to the concerts of many vidwans and learn a variety of songs while preparing for the annual competition,” she adds. The event sponsors are: Title sponsor: Parry’s Amrit Brown Sugar; Powered by: Gopuram Turmeric Powder Kumkum; In Association with Ruchi Magic (Pickle), Happy Senior Homes. Partner: Ashiana Shubham Maraimalai Nagar Chennai; Wellness Partner: Kauvery Hospital; Banking Partner: State Bank of India; Eye Care Partner: Dr. Agarwals Eye Hospital; TV Partner: Sankara TV. For further information, call 98410 11949.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/time-for-the-hindu-and-saregama-ms-subbulakshmi-awards/article37920027.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Ode to scholars||Rasika Ranjani Sabha in its annual festival is paying tribute to the genius of the vaggeyakaras who have enriched Carnatic music repertoires through lecdems and concerts. Scholars will speak about their compositional abilities in the morning session and artistes will sing their songs at the evening concerts. Inaugurated on December 4, the programme is being held at Kamakoti Triveni Sri Chandrasekarendra Saraswati Hall in Mylapore. Here is the schedule for the next seven days: Dec 10: Guru R.S. Jayalakshmi speaks on Patnam Subramanya Iyer, and Mahathi sings kritis of Patnam Subramnaya Iyer, Mysore Vasudevachar and Harikesanallur Muthiah Bhagavatar. Dec 11:Ramnad Krishnan lecdem by Savita Narasimhan and Ramakrishnan Murthy’s concert. Dec. 12:Gayathri Venkataraghavan’s concert dedicated to MLV. Dec. 13:Lecdem on D.K. Pattammal and Nisha Rajagopalan’s concert. Dec. 14:Madurai Mani Iyer lecdem by Vishnuram Prasad, and Surya Prakash’s concert. Dec. 15:Dr. Sunder’s lecdem on D.K. Jayaraman and Vijay Siva’s concert.  Dec 16: The series will conclude with Aravind Ranganathan’s lecdem on Thirvottriyur Tyagayyar. Finally, a five-day discourse by Dushyant Sridhar titled ‘Purusha Shuktam’ (December 16 to 20, 6.15 p.m.) and Kalaamritha’s playMahaperiyavaon December 26 at 6.30 p.m. will draw the cultural festival to a close.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/ode-to-scholars/article37920035.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Bhavan’s dance fest||Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan will conduct ‘Naatya Utsav 2021’ from December 16 to 26 at Bhavan’s main auditorium, Mylapore. Dr. Preetha Reddy, executive vice-chairperson, Apollo Hospitals, will inaugurate the event and Padma Subrahmanyam,  president, Nrithyodaya, will be the guest of honour. The festival opens with the performances of Kayalvizhi Kabilan (6 p.m.) and Urmila Satyanarayanan and her students present ‘Godha’ (7 p.m.). The festival will feature 27 solo and group performances in different classical styles. The non-ticketed event will also be webcast on www.bhavanschennai.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/bhavans-dance-fest/article37920029.ece
10 December 2021||December 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Open-air music series||Sunaadalahari, the music wing of the Indira Ranganathan Trust (IRT), conducts this year’s Margazhi music festival from December 15 to 28, live at 52, C.P. Ramaswamy Road, Alwarpet. The fundraiser concert will support marginalised artistes. The festival, which features concerts and lecdems, will also be streamed live and begins with Aishwarya Sankar’s performance on December 15, 6 p.m. December 16 will have performances by the students of Sunaadalahari (4.30 p.m.) and a flute concert by Hemanth and Heramba (6.30 p.m.) To book the limited seats and the livestreaming / replay options, log on to linktr.ee/sunaadalahari. For details, contact 93445 35941.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/open-air-music-series/article37920038.ece
