11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM moots social media, cryptocurrency norms||Democracies should jointly deal with social media and cryptocurrencies, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his Official Intervention at the Summit for Democracy, convened by U.S. President Joe Biden. Mr. Modi said India is the largest democracy in the world which has 2,500-year-old democratic traditions, and proposed to share India’s democratic experience through digital solutions. “We must also jointly shape global norms for emerging technologies like social media and cryptocurrencies, so that they are used to empower democracy, not to undermine it,” Mr. Modi said. The summit was convened by President Biden to strengthen democracy around the world. Opening the summit on Thursday, he announced the establishment of the Presidential Initiative for Democratic Renewal, under which the administration plans to provide $424.4 million to support free media, fight corruption, strengthen democratic reforms, for the use of technology for democracy and for the defence of free and fair elections. Mr. Modi said democracy had taken various shapes across the world and that there was a need to work on the democratic practices. Mutual learning “Different parts of the world have followed different paths of democratic development. There is much we can learn from each other. We all need to constantly improve our democratic practices and systems. And, we all need to continuously enhance inclusion, transparency, human dignity, responsive grievance redressal and decentralisation of power,” the Prime Minister added. Mr. Modi referred to the civilisational tradition of democracy in India, citing the ancient city states under the Lichhavis and other people that flourished in India during the late Vedic and Buddhist period and continued to the early medieval period. He said democratic traditions had made ancient India the “most prosperous”. “Centuries of colonial rule could not suppress the democratic spirit of the Indian people. It again found full expression with India’s Independence and led to an unparalleled story in democratic nation building over the past 75 years,” Mr. Modi said. Sharing experience The Prime Minister said India would be happy to share “expertise” in organising “free and fair elections” and in increasing “transparency in all areas of governance through innovative digital solutions”. “Democracy is not only of the people, by the people, for the people but also with the people, within the people,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-moots-social-media-cryptocurrency-norms/article37929666.ece
11 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Tenders called for converting Malpe-Hebri stretch into four lanes||Widening of National Highway 169A (Malpe-Tirthahalli via Udupi) into four lanes between Malpe and Hebri in Udupi district has reached a decisive stage with the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways agreeing to release Rs. 355 crore for the project. While four-lane work on NH 169A between Karavali Junction in Udupi and Parkala is almost completed except for a 900-m stretch, widening work between Malpe Beach and Karavali Junction (3.7 km) and Parkala-Hebri (25.4 km) will be taken up with this approval. The National Highways Division of the Public Works Department on Monday invited tenders for the project under Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) mode and the last date to submit bids is January 25, 2022. Inviting the bids, Executive Engineer, NH Division, Shivamogga, L.C. Bharamaraddi said that the total cost of civil works has been pegged at Rs. 258.04 crore. The project involves widening the highway into four lanes with paved shoulders and improvement of junctions. While Rs. 53 crore will be spent for land acquisition, the balance amount will cover agency charges, ambulance provision, five-year maintenance, afforestation expenses, among others. Crucial road NH 169A has been a crucial stretch connecting Udupi district with neighbouring Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru districts via Agumbe Ghat. The traffic volume has increased considerably over the years with a rise in the number of patients visiting hospitals in Manipal and pilgrims travelling between Sringeri and Udupi. The narrow Hiriyadka-Hebri stretch with many curves poses a challenge to drivers. Specifications The project highway will be 24 m wide with a 9 m carriageway on each side, 1.5 m median in urban and 4 m median in rural areas, followed by paved shoulders and shoulder drains. The department requires 21.49 hectares of land, including 10 hectares of government land, for the widening work. While the stretch between Malpe and Parkala will have concrete surface, the one between Parkala and Hebri will have bitumen surface. Private land is required on the Malpe stretch and at Hiriyadka, Perdur and Hebri and involves construction of major bridges at Putthige near Hiriyadka and Shivapura near Hebri. The existing road will be realigned wherever possible to eliminate sharp curves. While the last date to receive bids was January 25, 2022, the contract could be awarded in about two months thereafter. The chosen contractor will have 24 months to complete the project after the letter of consent is issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tenders-called-for-converting-malpe-hebri-stretch-into-four-lanes/article37930115.ece
11 December 2021||MANGALURU,||Five taluks record 100% polling||The election to the Legislative Council from the dual-member local authorities constituency of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi was peaceful on Friday. The constituency recorded 99.55% polling and there was 100% polling in five taluks. Of the total 6,040 voters in the constituency, 6,013 voters exercised their franchise between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., according to the Assistant Returning Officer of the constituency. Counting will be taken up on Tuesday at Rosario Pre University and Degree College here. 100% polling A 100% polling was recorded in Byndoor and Hebri taluks in Udupi district and at Moodbidri, Bantwal and Kadaba taluks in Dakshina Kannada. Polling was held in 14 taluks in the twin districts. The lowest polling of 98.96% was recorded in Kaup taluk of Udupi district. Polling was above 99% and below 100% in eight other taluks in the constituency comprising Kundapur, Brahmavar, Udupi, Karkala (all in Udupi district), Mangaluru, Belthangady, Puttur and Sullia. A majority of polling stations recorded 99% polling and some, 100% by noon. ‘BJP will win 15 seats’ Meanwhile, president of the State unit of the the BJP Nalin Kumar Kateel voted at a polling station in Mangaluru City Corporation. Speaking to media persons after casting his vote, Mr. Kateel exuded the confidence that the party will win 15 of the 20 seats it has contested in the State. Mr. Kateel, who is also a Member of Parliament from Dakshina Kannada, said that the party fielded its candidates in 20 of the total 25 seats in the State. If the party wins 15 seats, it will be enough to get a majority for the BJP in the Council, he said. He said that he is confident that Minister for Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary from the BJP, who is facing the election from the local authorities constituency of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi for the fourth term in a row, will win the election this time too with a huge margin. Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath and Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharat Shetty cast their votes at the corporation polling booth in the city and Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader voted in the Ullal City Municipality polling booth. The Congress has fielded Manjunath Bhandary, founder and chairman, Bhandary Foundation, which manages Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management, and the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), which is contesting this election for the first time, has fielded Shafi Bellare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-taluks-record-100-polling/article37930118.ece
11 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||99.68% polling in Dharwad constituency||Polling in the election to the Dharwad Local Authorities Constituency of the Legislative Council concluded peacefully in the three districts of Dharwad, Haveri and Gadag on Friday with 99.68% of voters turning up to exercise their franchise. Of the total of 7,476 voters, including 3,617 male and 3,859 female, 7,448 voters [3,608 male and 3,840 female] came out to cast their votes. According to a press release, Haveri district recorded the highest polling percentage of 99.85 followed by 99.59% in Gadag and 99.31% in Dharwad district. Beginning on a slow note in the morning, polling picked pace later and crossed the 50% mark by 1 p.m. In the post-lunch session, polling picked up further and concluded with 99.68% at the end of the day. The dual-seat constituency sitting MLC Pradeep Shettar is seeking re-election as BJP candidate, while Congress has fielded Saleem Ahmed in the place of Srinivas Mane, who got elected from Hangal Assembly segment. The other candidates in the fray are Shivakumar Talawar, Fakkereddi V. Attigeri (both Janata Party), Irapppa Gubber, Basavaraj Kotagi, Mallikarjun Haveri, Mahesh Joshi, Manjunath Admani and Virupakshagouda Patil (all Independents). Polling was held in 504 polling stations in the constituency as per COVID-19 protocol. Chairman of Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, the former Chief Minister Jagadeesh Shettar, Handloom and Textiles Minister Shankar Patil Munenakopp, Members of Legislative Assembly Arvind Bellad, Amrut Desai, Prasad Abbayya, Srinivas Mane, C.M. Nimbannavar, Prasad Abbayya and others cast their votes. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad and Returning Officer Nitesh Patil visited several polling stations in the district and monitored polling. Elaborate security arrangements had been made to ensure free and fair elections. There were no reports of any untoward incident. Counting Counting of votes will take place on Tuesday next at the University of Agricultural Sciences in Dharwad. As ballot papers are used to cast preferential votes, counting is likely to take time to conclude.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/9968-polling-in-dharwad-constituency/article37929904.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU to have common entrance test||The Academic Council of Delhi University on Friday passed a proposal to hold a common entrance test (CET) for undergraduate admissions to the university. The proposal was based on a report submitted by a nine-member committee constituted by Vice Chancellor Yogesh Singh after the university dealt with the problem of “over” and “under” intake in the recent admission season due to the cut-off system. In a dissent note, 16 members of the Academic Council pressed on the administration not to change the tried and tested admission procedure of the university in a rushed manner. The committee report, after analysing the data of admissions done under the current cut-off system, said that “as long as undergraduate admissions in the university are cut-off based, there is no way that fluctuations, sometimes significant, can be avoided to maintain equity”. The committee suggested that the university conduct a central admission test through a well-devised internal arrangement or through any external agency so that it may impart “substantial objectivity” to the process of admission. It added that the test could be followed by declaration of a list of eligible candidates for admission under various courses of study spanning across all the colleges and departments of the university where undergraduate courses are run. The dissenting members said that the report proposing CET has based its findings only on the academic season 2021-22, which took place during the pandemic period. Any change in the process that has successfully churned out generations of meritorious students can only be justified after considering data analysis for a substantial period of time, they submitted. The members added that the report was silent on the total expenditure by the university on conducting such an examination, its mode and format, number of centres required as well as how students who want to shift streams would be assessed by a central examination. Question over ‘merit’ Criticising the report that mentions “merit and only merit of a prospective applicant… will be the benchmark of undergraduate admissions”, the members in their dissent note said, “Does this mean that students who were admitted are not meritorious? Does this mean that the report is alleging that the admission system that the university has been following since many generations was not based on merit?” “CET for undergraduate admissions will lead to mushrooming of coaching institutes that will be particularly bad for socially and economically disadvantaged students and girl students,” said Mithuraaj Dhusiya, an Academic Council member who was among the signatories to the dissent note.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/du-to-have-common-entrance-test/article37929811.ece
11 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Polling for Council seats under LAC quota peaceful||Polling for six vacant seats of the Legislative Council under the local authorities constituency ended peacefully on Friday with over 90 per cent voting reported in all the districts. The elections, with MPTCs, ZPTCs, ward members, councillors and other elected representatives of the local bodies as voters, was held for two seats in the erstwhile Karimnagar district and one seat each in Adilabad, Medak, Khammam and Nalgonda districts. In all, 26 candidates are in the fray for the six seats where polling was held from 8 am to 4 pm. The election authority had arranged 37 polling booths for total voter strength of 5,326 and webcasting of the poll proceedings were arranged in the booths. In addition to elected representatives of the local bodies, MPs, MLAs and MLCs cast their votes as ex-officio members. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao did not exercise his franchise though he was an ex-officio voter in the erstwhile Medak district. Karimnagar reported highest voting percentage of 99.7 per cent with 1,320 of the 1,324 electors casting their votes and Medak reported 99 per cent voting with 1,016 of 1,028 members casting their votes. This was followed by Nalgonda which registered 97 per cent, Khammam, 96 per cent and Adilabad 91 per cent, according to officials. Chief Electoral Officer Shashank Goel monitored the election process by personally visiting Adilabad while elaborate arrangements had been made in other districts for peaceful conduct of the election. Counting of the votes was scheduled to be held on December 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/polling-for-council-seats-peaceful/article37929979.ece
11 December 2021||MYSURU,||99.73% polling in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar dual seat||Elections to the Legislative Council from the local authorities’ constituencies in Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Mandya, and Kodagu districts went off peacefully on Friday. Though the voting for Mysuru and Chamarajanagar dual seat took off on a dull note it picked up pace later in the day. Polling was held in 393 polling booths —259 booths in Mysuru district and 134 booths in Chamarajanagar district. The dual seat consisted of 6,771 voters — 4,502 in Mysuru district and 2,269 in Chamarajanagar district. Polling was held from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. The fate of the candidates contesting the seats is sealed in the ballot boxes and all eyes are on December 14, the day on which the counting of votes will be taken up. In Mysuru city, polling began at 8 a.m .in the booth set up at the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC). There was tight police security there. At the end of polling, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts recorded 99.73 per cent voting. As many as 6,769 voters, including 3,244 men and 3,524 women, exercised their franchise. The total number of voters in Mysuru district was 4,512, and 4,501 voters, including 2,162 men and 2,338 women, exercised their franchise. Chamarajanagar district had 2,275 voters, and 2,268, including 1,082 men and 1,186 women, cast their ballots. The poll percentage in Mysuru district was 99.67 while Chamarajnagar recorded 99.69. Together, the dual seats’ poll percentage was 99.73. Congress MLA Tanveer Sait, BJP MLA L. Nagendra, Mayor Sunanda Palanetra, councillors belonging to the Congress, JD (S), and the BJP stood in a queue to cast their vote at the MCC in the morning. JD (S) MLA G.T. Deve Gowda, who has distanced himself from the party, and JD (S) MLC Sandesh Nagaraj, who could not seek re-election from Mysuru and Chamarajanagar seat as he did not get the party ticket, also voted at the MCC booth. Like in other districts, women voters outnumbered men in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar seats. The Congress has fielded D. Thimmaiah, the BJP Raghu Kautilya, and JD (S) C.N. Manjunath. Vatal Nagaraj of the Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha and a few Independents are also in the fray. Mandya witnessed brisk polling in the morning. Out of 4,024 voters, 4,018, including 1,926 men and 2,092 women cast their ballots. The poll percentage was 99.85. Nagamangala, Maddur, Malavalli, and Pandavapura recorded 100 per cent polling. Kodagu recorded 99.70 per cent polling. A total of 1,325 voters, including 687 women and 638 men, exercised their franchise. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha cast his vote at a polling booth in Madikeri. Former Speaker K.G. Bopaiah, MLA, cast his vote at Virajpet town panchayat booth. Apacchu Ranjan, MLA, exercised his franchise in Madikeri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/9973-polling-in-mysuru-and-chamarajanagar-dual-seat/article37930138.ece
11 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Oversee everyday policing keenly: SPC||A top-level law enforcement conference held here on Friday deliberated matters relating to public safety and police misconduct amid allegations of high-handedness against individual officers. State Police Chief Anil Kant, who chaired the meeting, resolved to oversee everyday policing intensely. He stressed the need to expedite the registration, investigation and disposal of cases relating to atrocities against women, including dowry harassment and domestic violence. Mr. Kant also sought a standard operating procedure for the police, who citizens often summon to arbitrate in family disputes. Pink police He also demanded a timely investigation of crimes against children, particularly Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) cases. He called for a review of the Pink police scheme involving women officers in the wake of a complaint that a woman officer had accused a Dalit child of mobile phone theft in the presence of its parent. The SPC laid particular stress on preventing crimes against the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The police should protect their constitutionally guaranteed special rights and ensure they feel welcome at station houses. Mr. Kant called a review of pending complaints and cold cases gathering dust in station houses. He insisted that the police gave priority to petitions received at the public grievances redressal cell of the Chief Minister’s Office. The police should present their cases vigorously and factually at the High Court. There was no space for laxity in the matter. Notably, the SPC called for a detailed intelligence appraisal of police functioning at multiple levels. He also ordered a review of police constructions to pre-empt shoddy work and corruption accusations. Auditing of police modernisation funds was on the cards. The police decided to enhance their presence on the street at all hours by overt deployment and vehicle checking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oversee-everyday-policing-keenly-says-state-police-chief/article37930043.ece
11 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Namaz in the open cannot be tolerated: Haryana CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Friday said that the offering of namaz in the open could not be tolerated and a fresh approach would be taken to work out an amicable solution to the matter. He added that all designated places for namaz in Gurugram have been withdrawn. “The tradition of offering namaz in the open cannot be tolerated, but an amicable solution will be found to it. We will try to find how they can get back the encroached Waqf Board land, or they can offer namaz at their homes. We will not allow any confrontation. Some decision was reached after the talks, but the designated places have been withdrawn. We will approach the matter in a fresh manner,” said Mr. Lal, speaking to media persons after a meeting of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority. On December 6, a group of imams aided by the “RSS-inspired” Muslim Rashtriya Manch in a joint meeting with the district administration and right-wing groups had agreed not to hold Friday prayers at 20 designated open places and instead sought half-a-dozen new places on rent. A day later, the Gurgaon Muslim Council rejected the proposal as “fraudulent” and said Muslims would continue to offer Juma Namaz at all the 37 sites agreed upon in 2018. Mr. Lal said he had directed the Deputy Commissioner and the Police Commissioner to resolve the matter. The Chief Minister added that all religious activities should be confined to religious places only. ‘Allocate us land’ Responding to the CM’s statement, Gurgaon Muslim Council member Altaf Ahmed said the Muslims of the city were forced to offer Juma Namaz in the open as the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) had not allocated land to them and all their applications were rejected and earnest money refunded, including the latest application submitted in October this year. “The Waqf Board and administration have not been able to get Waqf properties back from encroachers for a very long time. Now the Chief Minister has said that 37 approved sites in the open need to be reworked between the administration and the Muslim community. We request him to instruct HSVP to allocate us land in multiple sectors to build multi-storey mosques and that shall be the end of the Juma Namaz row,” said Mr. Altaf, in a statement to the media. Protests continue Earlier, the protests against the offering of Friday prayers in the open continued for the third successive week in Sector 37. The Council decided in the morning not to offer Juma Namaz in Sector 37 in view of the right-wing groups’ plan to hold a programme of devotional songs at the site. The protesters parked several trucks and cars at the namaz site in the sector and also held a condolence meet paying tributes to Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and others who died in a helicopter crash on Wednesday. Though the Council had urged Muslims to stay away from Sector 37 until the situation defuses, a few reached the site to offer prayers, leading to a verbal confrontation between the two groups. Mr. Ahmad said Friday prayers were offered at 15-odd places in the city.  We will try to find how they can get back the encroached Waqf Board land, or they can offer namaz at their homes Manohar Lal Haryana Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/namaz-in-the-open-cannot-be-tolerated/article37929809.ece
11 December 2021||Bengaluru,||HC directs Escoms to clear dues to power generators without delay||The High Court of Karnataka has directed all State-owned Electricity Supply Companies (Escoms) to henceforth make prompt, regular and timely payments in favour of the power generators without any delay in relation to all future bills/invoices of the power generators. Also, the court directed Escoms to forthwith open/renew monthly irrevocable letters of credit in terms of the Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) in favour of the power generators to enable and ensure payments of all amounts due to the power generators from Escoms. Besides, the court said that all Escoms should honour and discharge their duties, obligations and liabilities under the PPAs between the power generators and Escoms. Justice S.R. Krishna Kumar issued the general guidelines for all Escoms after observing that Hubballi Electricity Supply Company Ltd. (Hescom) and Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company Ltd. (Gescom) had a consistent pattern of failure to make payments to various wind and solar power generators. The court passed the order on the petitions filed by Renew Power Pvt. Ltd., and several other companies seeking directions to Hescom and Gescom to make payment of around Rs. 250 crore due to them though there was no dispute over the amount payable. The two Escoms contended that the petitioner companies could not knock the doors of the court as they had to first approach the tribunal as per the PPA. Non-payment of dues by local bodies and the State Government had resulted in default in payment due to power generating companies. However, the court found that there was no dispute about amount payable as Escoms had not disputed the bill/invoice submitted by the petitioner companies and hence there was no bar on the court to entertain the petitions. “...failure to make payments in a timely manner has serious ramifications on the petitioners’ ability to continue to generate energy...,” the court observed while noticing that the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy in April 2020 had asked all Escoms to pay dues to renewable energy generators regardless of the moratorium granted to Escoms in the wake of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-directs-escoms-to-clear-dues-to-power-generators/article37929697.ece
11 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Governor lashes out at govt. over higher education policy||In a sign of growing discontent with the government’s policies in the higher education sector, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has formally conveyed his annoyance at various issues, including the appointment of Vice Chancellors of Kannur University and Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit. In a rather caustic letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on December 8, which has been accessed by The Hindu , Mr. Khan, who is also the Chancellor of State universities, took a sarcastic swipe as he “advised” him to assume the position of the Chancellor by amending university Acts to “carry out your political objectives without any dependence on the Governor.” In a similar vein, he “promised” to sign an Ordinance to transfer the powers of the Chancellor to the Chief Minister since it has become “impossible to protect the universities from the baneful continuous political interference and erosion of their autonomy.” Putting pressure Expressing dismay at the goings-on in the sector, Mr. Khan claimed that he was pressurised to execute steps that violated the prescribed rules and procedures. He also lamented that universities were “packed with political nominees” and “non-academics have been taking academic decisions.” VC reappointment Asserting the reappointment of Gopinath Ravindran as Vice Chancellor of Kannur University was “against his better judgement,” the Governor said he had been advised by the government to take a decision that was not consistent with the rules and contrary to the law. He had apparently signed the order to steer clear of a dispute with the government. Referring to the appointment process of the Vice Chancellor of the Sanskrit university, he alleged violation of the University Grants Commission guidelines with the selection committee headed by the Vice Chairman of the State Planning Board recommending only a single name for the position, despite the norms mandating a panel of three names. AG’s opinion This was despite the Advocate General’s opinion that the UGC regulations shall prevail over the provisions of the Act of any State University, the letter said. He also found fault with the government’s decision to pass an amendment to the University Act, which has not only taken away the power of the Chancellor to appointment the University Appellate Tribunal, but has also done away with the requirement to consult the High Court in the matter. “How can you dispense with the consultation with the High Court in a matter of appointment of a tribunal which will exercise judicial authority,” he asked, while adding the government will have absolute power to appoint tribunals if the amendment became law. Questioning the government’s commitment towards higher education, the Governor cited the non-payment of salary of the Vice Chancellor of the Sree Narayana Guru Open University as an example of its lackadaisical stance. Besides, the government gave clearance for faculty appointment over a year after the university came into existence. It risked the possibility of being unable to launch its academic programmes even in its second year, Mr. Khan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/governor-slams-higher-education-policy/article37929992.ece
11 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||GHMC should protect park land, says High Court||Observing that 600 square yards of land meant for park in survey no. 168 in Nagarjuna Nagar of Tarnaka in Secunderabad should be protected, the High Court said the GHMC should be free to construct a compound wall around it. Disposing of a batch of writ petitions over attempts to illegally occupy the park land, a bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice N. Tukaramji said the Directorate of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) is free to evict encroachers in another 2,400 square yards of land (meant to be open space) in Nagarjuna Nagar. Complying with the due process of law, the DTCP should complete eviction of encroachers and construct a boundary wall around the entire space within three months. The same should be informed to the Registrar (Judicial) of the HC, the bench said in its order. Residents of Nagarjuna Nagar moved the HC stating that some persons were attempting to occupy the park land. They claim that the land in question is not a park as per the Zilla Parishad lay-out plan dated February 7, 1978. The bench noted that the GHMC affidavit, however, revealed that the ‘so-called ZP lay-out’ was illegal since it was created after the DTCP lay-out approval given in 1968. The HC held that the DTCP plan clearly showed 3,000 square yards of open land pertaining to survey nos. 166, 167 and 168. Of this, 600 square yards of land in survey no. 168, before open plots from 9 to 11, was meant for park. The GHMC affidavit disclosed that “in spite of several attempts to illegally occupy the open space meant for park, the vigilance of the colony welfare association has successfully safeguarded this open space.” However, the rest of the 2,400 square yards of land was already illegally occupied. Constructions on this land were completed long back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ghmc-should-protect-park-hc/article37929960.ece
11 December 2021||THANJAVUR,||‘Governor was merely enquiring with teachers’||State Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi described Governor R.N. Ravi’s recent action of meeting with college teachers as mere “enquiries.” The Minister made this remark on Friday when his attention was brought to the demonstrations staged by the DMK during the previous AIADMK regime when the then Governor had conducted similar meetings. “He (Mr. Ravi) had made some enquiries and in future things might change,” Mr. Ponmudi said, and added that the Governor should support the Tamil Nadu government. The Chief Minister, M.K.Stalin, had also met him and discussed various issues, including the NEET, the Minister said. Later, Mr. Ponmudi delivered the 29th convocation address at the Periyar Maniammai Institute of Science and Technology, Vallam, where he pointed out that the institution was founded with the prime objective to assist women to free themselves from the clutches of social slavery through education. Hailing the institution for its contribution to the development of rural students, he called upon the graduates to fulfil the dreams of their parents and also work towards the welfare of society. A total of 1,000 students received their degrees.Chancellor K. Veeramani, Vice-Chancellor S. Velusami, pro-Chancellor A. Rajasekaran, board members V. Anburaj and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/governor-was-merely-enquiring-with-teachers/article37929778.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Interim stay on felling of trees in Auroville||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered an interim stay on felling of trees by the Auroville Foundation. It has also directed that status quo be maintained till December 17, in the interest of protecting the environment. The application was filed by Navroz Kersasp Mody and Sandeep Vinod Sarah, residents of Auroville, against the ongoing illegal clearing of forests in Auroville by the Auroville Foundation for the construction of a ring road named ‘Crown Road’. Impact assessment The applicants submitted that no feasibility impact assessment study or even a detailed project report had been prepared for the chosen alignment for the construction of the proposed road. The Foundation arbitrarily commissioned the project and earthmovers were employed in clearing forests, demolishing structures at great speed, the applicants said. No approval The case relates to Auroville Foundation developing a township on the basis of a master plan that was not approved by any authority. The applicants, Navroz Kersasp Mody and Sandeep Vinod Sarah, residents of Auroville, moved the Tribunal stating that the Foundation had done some construction work alone, but now had proposed to cut a large number of trees under the guise of providing a ring road named ‘Crown Road’. The applicants said if these trees were allowed to be cut without obtaining necessary permission, it would have a great impact on the environment. The applicants moved the Tribunal seeking a direction to the Foundation to prepare a detailed development plan, including a mobility plan that was based on and respects the present day ground realities, to be approved as mandated in the master plan. It should implement the project based on such plan after necessary impact assessment and feasibility studies in an environmentally sustainable manner. The applicants further submitted that though certain objections were raised before the authorities, no action was being taken. “Considering the urgency of the matter, we feel that an ex-parte interim order will have to be passed, as, if no interim order is passed then it is likely to cause greater damage to the environment,” the Bench said. The Tamil Nadu government submitted that it had no interest in the matter and though part of the area was within Tamil Nadu, the area where activities were going on was exclusively in the possession of Auroville Foundation. The Bench ordered notice to Auroville Foundation to file its response or objection to the allegations during the next hearing. A copy of the application was also directed to be provided to the Department of Environment, Tamil Nadu, for its information and getting its stand on the matter. Activists write to Stalin Meanwhile, 12 individuals and activists, including Vasanthi Devi, former Chairperson, State Commission for Women, retired Justice D. Hariparanthaman, retired IAS officer M.G. Devasahayam, have written to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and Tamil Nadu Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu urging them to take note of the developments in Auroville seriously and intervene with the Union government to ensure that decisions about Auroville are taken in consultation with the residents of Auroville and with the State government. They pointed out that the Auroville Foundation controlled 2,500 acres in Tamil Nadu but did not have even one representative of the State or local government, or even the local elected representative. They also claimed that the Foundation’s governing council was filled with hand-picked members with right-wing Hindutva leanings. The master plan of Auroville has to be in line with the overall development plans for the region and State and cannot be seen in isolation and in line with the infrastructural vision, aspirations of villages that is set amidst and the cultural ethos of Tamil Nadu. “The open threats, caught on video camera, issued by Tamil Nadu police to deport the very residents that make this township international are deplorable,” they said. Meanwhile, earlier in the day, residents of Auroville staged a silent protest as the Auroville Foundation resumed work the Crown (Right of Way) project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ngt-orders-interim-stay-on-felling-of-auroville-trees/article37929726.ece
11 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||Offline exams will be held as scheduled: KSLU||Amid the continued protest of law students seeking cancellation of offline examinations, Karnataka State Law University (KSLU) has issued a circular to affiliated colleges saying that the offline examinations to begin on December 15, will be held as scheduled. However, the protesting students have decided to continue the agitation till their demand is met. Terming it as an unilateral and wrong decision taken without taking the interests of students into account, the law students have decided to intensify the agitation from Saturday. After students tried to lay a siege to the university in Hubballi on Thursday, Vice-Chancellor of the university P. Ishwara Bhat assured them of holding further consultation on the issue with legal experts. And, he told them that he would revert to them within two days. On Friday, a circular approved by the Vice-Chancellor and signed by the Registrar (Evaluation) was sent to the principals of the affiliated law colleges across the State, stating that the examinations will be held as per the timetable announced earlier. In the circular, it has been communicated that following the order of a Division Bench of the High Court of Karnataka (in WA No 0001245/2021, 1269/2021 & 1259/2021 of November 24, 2021) and subsequent consultation with senior legal experts and legal authorities, it has been decided to hold the examinations from December 15 as scheduled. The legal experts and the authorities concerned have felt that conducting examinations was mandatory, the circular has said. Agitation to continue Meanwhile, the protesting students have decided to continue the agitation even as law student Santhosh and two others are on indefinite fast seeking cancellation of offline examinations. A delegation of ABVP State office-bearers, including State president Viresh Balekai, secretary Prathik Malvi and others met Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi in Hubballi seeking his intervention to resolve the deadlock. Mr. Joshi has reportedly assured the delegation of raising the issue with the Chief Minister. In another development, the law students are planning to launch Suvarna Soudha Chalo to Belagavi on the first day of the legislature session. Earlier, the Vice-Chancellor is said to have told Member of Legislative Assembly Prasad Abbayya and Member of Legislative Council S.V. Sankanur, who have extended support to the protesting students, that a decision will be taken as per the advice of the experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/offline-exams-will-be-held-as-scheduled-says-kslu/article37929901.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Omicron tally rises to 32, symptoms mild: Centre||With the detection of seven new cases of the Omicron variant of novel coronavirus in Maharahstra, the total number of cases in the country touched 32 on Friday. Maharashtra now has 17 cases, followed by nine in Rajasthan, three in Gujarat, two in Karnataka, and one in Delhi. In Maharashtra, three new cases, including a three-and-half-year-old child, were reported from Mumbai, and four from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. Addressing a press conference on COVID-19 management, Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry, said, “Mainly mild symptoms have been seen in the cases of Omicron variant detected so far.” “Clinically, Omicron so far hasn’t posed burden to the healthcare system but we have to be vigilant,” cautioned Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director-General Balram Bhargava. He added that vaccination and COVID-appropriate behaviour continue to be the best protection against the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-tally-rises-to-32-symptoms-mild-centre/article37930197.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,||NGT pulls up State for poor waste management||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has pulled up the State government for not taking effective steps to implement the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The Southern Bench of the tribunal, comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Satyapal Korlapati, recently pointed out that the action plan (for implementation of the waste management rules) submitted by the Chief Secretary “is not satisfactory as it is evident from the timelines submitted”. “No proper scrutiny was made him or by the Principal Secretary concerned. We do not wish to point out the oddities in the timelines indicated in the report, instead we leave it to the Chief Secretary to go through the action plan once again and submit a realistic report considering that the implementation of solid waste management is very poor for long time,” said the latest order issued by the court in a case related to the non-implementation of the solid waste management rules in the State. The tribunal said that no ground-level improvement had taken place, though the waste management rules had come into force in 1998 and later superseded by the 2000 rules and then by the 2016 rules. ‘No effective steps’ “The government has taken no effective steps to implement the same in letter and spirit. Further, being a literate State, they are expected to achieve the implementation of the solid waste management rules and they are not able to achieve the target or procure the award that is being declared by the Central Ministry in this regard,” it said. “Unless some effective steps are taken by them, the slogan of Malinya Muktha Keralam or ‘Clean Kerala’ will not be possible by merely creating some Sena [Haritha Karma Sena] that will also be another waste of public money, unless it is being properly implemented,” the order said. The Bench asked the Chief Secretary to look into the issues and direct local bodies to ensure day-to-day collection of waste as required under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. These included collection of both biodegradable and non biodegradable waste from households. Otherwise, the tribunal would not accept whatever report submitted by them without achieving 100% compliance, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ngt-pulls-up-state-govt/article37929990.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Omicron tally rises to 32, symptoms mild: Centre||With the detection of seven new cases of the Omicron variant of novel coronavirus in Maharahstra, the total number of cases in the country touched 32 on Friday. Maharashtra now has 17 cases, followed by nine in Rajasthan, three in Gujarat, two in Karnataka, and one in Delhi. In Maharashtra, three new cases, including a three-and-half-year-old child, were reported from Mumbai, and four from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. Addressing a press conference on COVID-19 management, Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry, said, “Mainly mild symptoms have been seen in the cases of Omicron variant detected so far.” “Clinically, Omicron so far hasn’t posed burden to the healthcare system but we have to be vigilant,” cautioned Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director-General Balram Bhargava. He added that vaccination and COVID-appropriate behaviour continue to be the best protection against the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-tally-rises-to-32-symptoms-mild-centre/article37929662.ece
11 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||207 more COVID cases in Telangana||There has been a slight uptick in COVID with 207 cases reported in Telangana on Friday, taking the active caseload to 3,897. This includes two cases from among the 668 passengers who arrived from ‘at risk’ countries. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to check for Omicron variant. One death was recorded on Friday, taking the total official death count to 4,004 since March 2020. About 38,467 tests were conducted and results of 3,044 are yet to be declared, said the official bulletin issued by Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao. There have been 196 recoveries taking the total number of recoveries to 6.71 lakh, while the total number of those infected has risen to 6.78 lakh. The Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) saw 3,235 passengers coming in till date and 15 have tested positive with none found to be infected with Omicron. The GHMC saw a rise in the number of COVID cases with 82, followed by Rangareddy 19 and Karimnagar 16. Bhadradri-Kothagudem also recorded an increase with 14 cases on Friday. Double digit numbers were found in Hanamkonda 12 and Medchal-Malkajgiri 11. No cases have been reported from Adilabad, Jayashankar Bhupalapally, Kumram Bheem-Asifabad, Mulugu, Narayanpet, Nirmal, Rajanna-Sircilla and Wanaparthy districts. Dr. Rao has urged patients with moderate to severe symptoms, with or without COVID positive report to go to any notified government COVID hospital where elaborate arrangements for testing and treatment have been made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/207-more-covid-cases/article37929949.ece
11 December 2021||hyderabad,||Drama at former official’s house||Around 2.45 a.m. the CID team led by the inspector (Economic Offence Wing-II) G.V.V. Satyanarayana reached the Jubilee Hills residence of Lakshminarayana with a search warrant, but the latter and his family members tried to prevent the officers from entering the house. However, after a few hours, the team with the support of Jubilee Hills police started the searches for ‘incriminating documents, valuable securities and other material objects’ pertaining to the case. Upon receiving the information about the searches, the managing director of a vernacular media house and a close confidant of Mr. Chandrababu Naidu reached Dr. Lakshminarayana’s house with his video journalists and stayed there for more than four hours. After the media tycoon left the house, around 4.30 p.m. the former bureaucrat fainted reportedly due to a sudden drop in blood sugar levels and was rushed to a corporate hospital at Banjara Hills for immediate medical assistance. During their searches which came to an end around 6 p.m., the CID recovered and seized several incriminating materials, including electronic devices. Later, a summon notice was issued and the former IAS officer was asked to appear at their Mangalagiri office on December 13 for questioning. Meanwhile, family members of Dr.Lakshminarayana accused the CID team of planting the documents in their house and later showing the same as seized material.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drama-at-former-officials-house/article37929661.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Omicron tally rises to 32, symptoms mild: Centre||With the detection of seven new cases of the Omicron variant of novel coronavirus in Maharahstra, the total number of cases in the country touched 32 on Friday. Maharashtra now has 17 cases, followed by nine in Rajasthan, three in Gujarat, two in Karnataka, and one in Delhi. In Maharashtra, three new cases, including a three-and-half-year-old child, were reported from Mumbai, and four from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. ‘Not a burden’ Addressing a press conference on COVID-19 management, Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry, said, “Mainly mild symptoms have been seen in the cases of Omicron variant detected so far.” “Clinically, Omicron so far hasn’t posed burden to the healthcare system but we have to be vigilant,” cautioned Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director-General Balram Bhargava. He added that vaccination and COVID-appropriate behaviour continue to be the best protection against the virus. Dr. Bhargava said the ICMR “will test efficacy of the vaccines against Omicron while following protocol”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-tally-rises-to-32-symptoms-mild-centre/article37929694.ece
11 December 2021||GUNTUR,||Five students, teacher drown in the Krishna||Five students aged between 13 and 15 years, of Shweta Srungachalam Veda Patasala at Atchampeta village in Madipadu mandal of the district, and a teacher drowned in river Krishna while having a dip during “Sandhya vandanam” on Friday evening. The students were from Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. The bodies of Harshid Shukla, Subham Trivedi, Anshuman Shukla, Shiva Sharma and Nitesh Kumar Dikshit have been retrived, while the teacher is yet to be traced. The incident took place when the students went for a dip in the river near the school. The students appeared to have been pulled by strong currents. The police pressed local divers into the river to trace the bodies. MLA of Pedakurapadu Namburu Sankara Rao expressed shock over the incident. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan express shock over the incident and conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-students-teacher-drown-in-the-krishna/article37929654.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre says no proposal to scrap sedition law||Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju on Friday told the Lok Sabha that the Ministry of Home Affairs had no proposal under consideration to scrap Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code that deals with sedition. Mr. Rijiju also informed the House that “the question of law” regarding Section 124A was pending for adjudication before the Supreme Court. Ajmal’s question The Minister was responding to a question from Assam MP and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) chief Badruddin Ajmal on whether the Supreme Court had recently termed the sedition law as colonial and made an observation that it was being misused, and whether the court had directed the Government to submit its response on the necessity and validity of the law. “No such observations have been found in any judgment or order delivered by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India,” the Law Minister said in a written reply. Ambit and parameters However, Mr. Rijiju said that in a writ petition, the top court had observed that the “ambit and parameters of the provisions of Sections 124A, 153A and 505 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 would require interpretation, particularly in the context of the right of the electronic and print media to communicate news, information and the rights, even those that may be critical of the prevailing regime in any part of the nation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-proposal-to-scrap-sedition-law-rijiju-informs-lok-sabha/article37929668.ece
11 December 2021||KHAMMAM,||Returns from UK to vote||Lankapalli MPTC member Ch. Shyamala had come all the way from London to Kallur where she exercised her franchise in the biennial election to the Legislative Council from Khammam Local Authorities Constituency on Friday. According to sources, she had gone abroad on a short visit in connection with further studies a few months ago. Realising the importance of right to vote for a vibrant democracy, she arrived in her native village in Penuballi mandal two days ago to exercise her voting right, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/returns-from-uk-to-vote/article37929980.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,||2.14 kg of gold seized at airport||About 2.14 kg of gold worth Rs. 93.14 lakh was seized by Air Customs at Chennai airport. A passenger from Dubai, who arrived here on Thursday, had concealed 459 grams of gold in a hard disc. In two other cases, two passengers from Colombo and Sharjah were held for hiding 690 grams of gold in the form of paste in their rectum. Another passenger was caught carrying 995 grams of gold in paste form in his innerwear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/214-kg-of-gold-seized/article37929742.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Salute to CDS||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/salute-to-cds/article37929659.ece
11 December 2021||London,||Assange can be extradited to U.S., rules U.K. court||WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange on Friday moved a step closer to facing criminal charges in the U.S. for one of the biggest ever leaks of classified information after Washington won an appeal over his extradition in an English court. U.S. authorities accuse the Australian-born Mr. Assange of 18 counts relating to WikiLeaks’ release of vast troves of confidential U.S. military records and diplomatic cables which they said had put lives in danger. At the Royal Courts of Justice in London, the United States won an appeal against a ruling by a London District Judge that Mr. Assange, 50, should not be extradited because he was likely to commit suicide in a U.S. prison. The judge said he was satisfied with assurances given by the U.S. about the conditions of Mr. Assange’s detention, including a pledge not to hold him in a maximum security prison in Colorado.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assange-can-be-extradited-to-us-rules-uk-court/article37929670.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||Centre looking to use stubble as biofuel||The Union Government is working on a plan to use stubble as a biofuel and manure as part of an effort to deal with stubble burning that was often cited as a source of pollution in northern India, Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav told the Lok Sabha on Friday. The Minister said the Centre had “decriminalised” stubble burning in the Air Quality Commission Act. He said the National Thermal Power Corporation had procured 3,000 tonnes of stubble to be used as bio-fuel and would study the results. A sum of Rs. 700 crore had been allocated to get rid of stubble. About one lakh acres of manure and compost from stubble were used in Punjab and Haryana, while Uttar Pradesh used it in six lakh acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-looking-to-use-stubble-as-biofuel/article37930072.ece
11 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Omicron: Discharge after 2 negative RT-PCR tests||Omicron-infected hospitalised patients can be discharged if symptom-free 10 days after onset only if they test RT-PCR negative twice 24 hours apart, according to guidelines issued by the Health Department of Karnataka here on Friday. India’s first two Omicron patients were reported from Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-discharge-after-2-negative-rt-pcr-tests/article37929693.ece
11 December 2021||Patna,||Man accused of stealing cattle lynched in Bihar||The Fulkaha police in Bihar have filed an FIR against unknown persons for lynching Mohammad Siddiqui, 52, who was accused of stealing cattle in the State’s Araria district on Wednesday. The incident came to light on Friday. “He was beaten up with sticks and fists and he died of his injuries,” a policeman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-accused-of-stealing-cattle-lynched-in-bihar/article37930073.ece
11 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||AAP announces second list for Punjab election||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday announced the names of 30 candidates in their second list for next year’s Punjab Assembly election. AAP had earlier announced 10 candidates in their first list on November 12, which included sitting party MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aap-announces-second-list-for-punjab-election/article37930074.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition plans to take protest outside||Ten days into the protest against the Government for the “illegal” suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs, a section of the Opposition feels there should be a parallel agitation outside Parliament to make an impact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/opposition-plans-to-take-protest-outside/article37930075.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||Crackdown on tandoors singes vendors||The crackdown by civic bodies on coal-based clay ovens (tandoors) in Delhi has left small-scale food vendors unhappy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crackdown-on-tandoors-singes-vendors/article37929812.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition plans to take protest outside||Ten days into the protest over the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs, a section of the Opposition feels there should be a parallel agitation outside Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/opposition-plans-to-take-protest-outside/article37929813.ece
11 December 2021||BELAGAVI,||Rally to seek repeal of State’s farm laws||A federation of farmers’ associations will hold a rally seeking repeal of farm laws in Karnataka, in Belagavi on Sunday. Ashok Dhavale, Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader from New Delhi and Allamaprabhu Bettaduru, writer, will address the rally. Proper flood relief, fair price of sugarcane, early resolution to Kalasa-Banduri nala project, will be covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rally-to-seek-repeal-of-states-farm-laws/article37929897.ece
11 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||Music festival in Dharwad||A music festival will mark the 70th birthday celebrations of Pandit Ganapati Bhat Hasanagi in Dharwad on Sunday. Addressing presspersons, musician and organiser of the event Sripad Hegde said that the one-day fest will be at Srujana Rangamandir on Karnatak College in Dharwad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/music-festival-in-dharwad/article37929898.ece
11 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘Farmers Session’ in Belagavi tomorrow||Seeking repeal of the amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, APMC Act and Cow Slaughter (Prevention) Act and demanding immediate crop loss compensation and fulfilment of other demands, a “Farmers Session” will be held in Belagavi on Sunday, ahead of the winter session of the State Legislature on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-session-in-belagavi-tomorrow/article37929902.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||President calls for a debate on right to climate justice||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday said time was running out for preserving nature for future generations, and called for a debate on the right to climate justice. Speaking at the Human Rights Day event here of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Mr. Kovind said while the world was waking up to harsh realities, decisive changes were yet to be made. ‘Human dignity’ The President said while non-discrimination was the first condition for absolute respect for human dignity, the world was beset with countless prejudices. He said the world needed to debate and discuss the “right to a healthy environment and climate justice”. “We owe it to our children that we save Mother Nature from the worst effects of industrialisation. The time is running out,” Mr. Kovind said, while noting India’s progress in the matter, particularly in its leadership of the International Solar Alliance. The President said while the human rights discourse was justifiably focused on rights, India had always understood that rights and duties were two sides of the same coin. Earlier in the event, NHRC Chairperson Justice Arun Kumar Mishra (retd.) said tolerance and inclusion were non-negotiable human rights. Mr. Mishra said it was necessary “to provide remedy to the victims of unfair economic structure and business-related human rights violations”. “The NHRC Chairperson said freedom of speech is the most cherished value and fundamental right to be protected. However, the extent of freedom of cyberspace both online and offline is a matter of debate, as it has fuelled grave apprehension of its misuse, violating the sovereignty, integrity of the country, public order, decency and morality,” an NHRC statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-calls-for-a-debate-on-right-to-climate-justice/article37929573.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition plans to take protest outside||Ten days into the protest against the Government for the “illegal” suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members, a section of the Opposition feels there should be a parallel agitation outside Parliament to make an impact. At the morning meeting of the Opposition floor leaders, according to the sources, CPI(M) MP Elamaram Kareem suggested two options: one, to organise a day-long agitation at Jantar Mantar where leaders of all Opposition parties and the suspended MPs can congregate. The second was to hold seminars highlighting how the suspension is “unconstitutional and illegal”. Congress’s role The growing sentiment is that the Congress is not shouldering its responsibility of gathering forces to raise the decibel levels both inside and outside Parliament on the issue. Many in the Congress and outside have also complained of lack of clarity in the party on the protest. On Thursday, the protests were halted for the day in tribute to General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others who were killed in a helicopter crash at Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. There was a difference of opinion in Friday’s meeting over whether the protest should be suspended for another day, since Gen. Rawat and others’ funeral was under way. The Congress, the Samajwadi Party and the AAP suggested that protests both inside and outside the House must be suspended. But the Trinamool Congress, the Left parties and the Shiv Sena did not agree. Inside the Rajya Sabha too, there was divergence in the Opposition strategy. “Since the last rites of Gen. Rawat and others are being conducted this afternoon, out of profound respect, Opposition will refrain from its protests against the unconstitutional and illegal suspension of 12 Opposition MPs in the Rajya Sabha today as well,” Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh tweeted. Inside the House, the Congress participated in the proceedings, while the Trinamool Congress staged a walkout. “On Thursday, we cooperated with the Government because of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s statement on the Coonoor helicopter crash. But the Government availed the opportunity to run the House in complete ignorance of 12 of our colleagues who are sitting outside,” Trinamool MP Sushmita Dev said. The winter session is halfway through and with nine more sittings to go, fatigue has set in among the protesters too. On Friday, only a few lawmakers like Karti Chidambaram and Benny Behanan (both Congress), Sougata Roy, Sukhendhu Shekhar Roy, Ms. Dev, Jawahar Sircar, Mausam Noor and Nadimul Haque (Trinamool Congress), Jaya Bachchan (Samajwadi Party), Sanjay Singh (AAP) and Manoj K. Jha (RJD) visited the dharna site The suspended MPs together visited the residence of General Rawat to pay their last respects. Mr. Kareem and Binoy Viswam (CPI) though did not accompany the others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-plans-to-take-protest-outside/article37929596.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||In LS, Minister lists steps for supplementary child nutrition||The Government on Friday avoided a direct response to a question whether there was a rise in malnutrition during COVID-19. In the Lok Sabha, Congress member Deepak Baij asked whether malnutrition among children had increased during the pandemic period. Minister for Women and Child Development Smriti Irani said, “To ensure continuous nutritional support to beneficiaries, anganwadi workers and helpers distributed supplementary nutrition at the doorstep of beneficiaries once in 15 days during COVID-19 as all anganwadi centres across the country were closed to limit the impact of the pandemic.” The Minister added that anganwadi workers and helpers also assisted the local administration in community surveillance, creating awareness as well as doing other work assigned to them from time to time. Studies have shown that the pandemic could lead to increase in malnutrition due to loss of livelihood, disruption in food and health services. A paper published in July 2021 in British journal Nature and authored by Saskia Osendarp of the Micronutrient Forum stated that based on predicted declines in gross national income (GNI) in 118 countries included in the study, in 2022 compared to 2019 the number of children under five years with wasting could increase by an additional 9.3 million; an estimated 2.6 million additional children were likely to be stunted; and there would be roughly 1,68,000 additional deaths of children under five years. “It is really important that we have data on what has been going on with children and families in what has been a challenging time. There are methods for collecting rapid data during emergencies, but there was no surveillance. I would have liked to see rapid surveys in the context of COVID-19 and that data made public,” says Purnima Menon, Senior Research Fellow, International Food Policy Research Institute. Family Health Survey Though the National Family Health Survey-5, which was made public recently, measures malnutrition indicators, researchers argue that there are difficulties in studying the impact of COVID-19. “There are challenges in understanding NFHS-5 data. We have to compare the data district by district to understand the changes in relation to what was happening during COVID-19 in those districts. Moreover, we need to account for seasonality in data collection since that could also differ between survey rounds for the same geographic areas. There can be vast differences if data are recorded during the monsoon season when there can be paucity of available food versus post-harvest season when diets are relatively better,” says Dr. Menon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-ls-minister-lists-steps-for-supplementary-child-nutrition/article37929610.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||Centre looking to use stubble as biofuel||The Union Government is working on a plan to use stubble as a biofuel and manure as part of an effort to deal with stubble burning that was often cited as a source of pollution in northern India, Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav told the Lok Sabha on Friday. The Minister, who is yet to make a detailed reply to a discussion on climate change, stated that the Centre had completely “decriminalised” stubble burning in the Air Quality Commission Act. Mr. Yadav was responding to Shiromani Akali Dal member Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who alleged that farmers from Punjab and Haryana were being “defamed” by the Delhi Government for causing air pollution and criminal cases are filed against them. Making a short intervention during a discussion on climate change in the Lower House, the Minister said the National Thermal Power Corporation had procured 3,000 tonnes of stubble to be used as bio-fuel and would study the results. A sum of Rs. 700 crore had been allocated to get rid of stubble. About one lakh acres of manure and compost from stubble were used in Punjab and Haryana, while Uttar Pradesh used it in six lakh acres. Taking a dig at the Aam Aadmi Party Government, Mr. Yadav claimed that Delhi used only 4,000 acres but put out big advertisements on utilising stubble as manure. The discussion, which was started on Wednesday and continued on Friday, also saw Opposition members questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a ‘Net Zero’ target of 2070 at the climate summit in Glasgow. Trinamool member Saugata Roy said, “Even a week before the COP 26, the Government of India did not show any inclination to announce ‘Net Zero’ target. Actually, the Environment Secretary had ruled it out in the media. What prompted and under what pressure the Prime Minister did a volte-face in Glasgow and announced ‘Net Zero’ target in 2070?” N.K. Premachandran of the Revolutionary Socialist Party accused the developed nations of diluting their climate commitments over the past three decades. Agatha Sangma, MP, urged the Centre to reconsider the palm oil mission and do proper consultation before implementing it in the northeast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-looking-to-use-stubble-as-biofuel/article37929578.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||CDS, wife cremated with full military honours||The nation on Friday bid farewell to its first Chief of the Defence Staff (CDS), General Bipin Rawat, as he was cremated with full military honours along with wife, Madhulika Rawat. Brigadier L.S. Lidder, Military Adviser to the CDS, killed in the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash in Coonoor, Tamil Nadu, was also cremated with full military honours. Earlier in the day, Gen. Rawat’s mortal remains were laid in state at his residence to enable people to pay homage. A total of 12 officers from the three Services of the rank of Brigadier and equivalent were on vigil duty over the mortal remains. Several dignitaries, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, paid their last respects to Gen. Rawat and wife at their residence. “Gen. Rawat was the epitome of bravery and courage. It was very unfortunate to lose him so early. His commitment towards the motherland will forever remain in our memories,” Mr. Shah said on social media afterwards. Mr. Gandhi tweeted, “I extend my condolences to the family of Gen. Bipin Rawat and his wife. This is an unprecedented tragedy and our thoughts are with their family in this difficult time. Heartfelt condolences also to all others who lost their lives. India stands united in this grief.” Military procession Around 2 p.m., the remains were taken in a military procession from his residence to the Brar Square crematorium in Delhi Cantonment. It was accompanied by a huge wave of people chanting slogans. Six officers, two each from the Army, Navy and the Air Force, of the rank of Lieutenant-General and equivalent were the pall-bearers. In all, 99 personnel from the three Services and 33 members of the tri-services band formed the front escort, while 99 all ranks formed the rear escort. The gun carriage was provided by the Ceremonial Battery of the Army’s 2233 Field Regiment. Several dignitaries paid their last respects at the crematorium by laying wreaths, including Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Ambassadors, in addition to family members. At the funeral, a total of 800 Service personnel were in attendance and Gen. Rawat was accorded a 17 gun salute, as per laid down protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cds-wife-cremated-with-full-military-honours/article37929594.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 cases could rise next year: expert||Coronavirus cases in India are expected to rise by early next year following the experience of Israel and the United Kingdom (U.K.) with the Omicron variant, an expert said at an online discussion on Friday organised by the Ashoka University, Sonepat, Haryana. India is currently adding a little under 10,000 cases a day and has about 88,000 active cases. Omicron cases in the U.K. could exceed 1 million by the end of the month on the current trajectory, U.K. Health Secretary Sajid Javid said this week in a statement delivered to the House of Commons. The online discussion was between Shahid Jameel, Director, Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University and Gautam Menon, Professor of Physics and Biology, Ashoka University. “Before the emergence of the troubling variant of SARS-CoV-2 named Omicron, it was expected that people in India may be able to return to a life similar to pre-pandemic days by early next year, but this possibility now seems distant,” said Dr. Jameel. “The nature of Omicron mutations suggests increased efficiency of infection, transmission and evasion of antibodies and interferon, an early innate antiviral response.” Early lab results from South Africa and Pfizer show a 40-fold and 25-fold drop in virus neutralisation ability of the Pfizer vaccine. According to various studies, booster shots have shown to increase the number of antibodies and cut reinfection rates. Given these results, it is now time that India devises policies on booster shots and vaccination for children, Dr. Jameel added. “The news of emergence of the new Omicron variant from South Africa is worrying. We will know more in the coming weeks, but what we know so far is that this variant spreads more efficiently and can evade immunity even from an earlier infection of COVID-19 and vaccination. “There are some positive indications, such as the severity of the illness being possibly less than that caused by Delta variant, but this requires confirmation. In India, it is essential for us to now step up the vaccination programme to vaccinate around 15% of India’s totally unvaccinated adults and also administer the second dose to the remaining population,” Dr. Jameel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-cases-could-rise-next-year-expert/article37929608.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||99 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus airlifted||After being stranded in Kabul for nearly four months, 99 Afghans belonging to the Sikh and Hindu communities arrived here on Friday afternoon, Puneet Singh Chandhok, coordinator of the evacuation, said in a public statement. This is the first evacuation after August when the Taliban took over Kabul and deposed the Government of President Ashraf Ghani. The passengers were earlier driven from the gurdwara of Kabul where they had gathered. The Government of India chartered a Kab Air flight (RQ 4401), which flew them to Delhi. The passengers carried two Sri Guru Granth Sahib that were worshipped in gurdwaras in Afghanistan. India evacuated several hundred Sikhs and Hindus of Afghanistan in August but the airlift operation could not be completed as the Taliban failed to open the airport in Kabul after the U.S. withdrew all military personnel from Afghanistan. Hundreds of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus still remain in the crisis-torn country. The Taliban set-up has not been recognised by the international community and there are several difficulties in establishing an aviation connection with Afghanistan. The Sikhs and the Hindus were not harassed by the Taliban, barring a few incidents where Taliban guards entered the gurdwara in Kabul and a businessman being kidnapped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/99-afghan-sikhs-and-hindus-airlifted-to-india/article37929381.ece
11 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Gauhati HC quashes three FT orders||The Gauhati High Court has, in less than a month, picked holes in the orders of three Foreigners’ Tribunals (FTs) declaring as many people foreigners. The court found these orders to be erratic, incomplete or sent to the wrong address. In November, the court noted how Puspharani Dhar, a woman in her late 70s, was harassed since 2000 when an FT in western Assam’s Bongaigaon district served her a notice. She was declared a foreigner in 2017. The court found that Ms. Dhar had sufficient documents to prove her citizenship. These included a 1966 certificate of her father Hirendra Nath Pal from the Bengal Medical Union and papers pertaining to the employment of her husband Mrinal Kanti Dhar in the railways in 1962. “I could have been saved the harassment had the FT examined the documents like the court,” Ms. Dhar said. The court found the order of a 2016 FT in Hailakandi district to be incomplete. The order had declared Sukdev Ree, a tea garden worker and resident of the district’s Mohanpur village, a foreigner, and he served imprisonment for three years. The court directed the FT to reopen Mr. Ree’s case on December 3, days after he had died of cardiac arrest. Members of his family have been asked to appear before the FT again on December 14. “He was declared a foreigner in an ex part e decision. It is unfair that Indian citizens, especially illiterate or barely literate daily wagers, are given the foreigner tag when they miss a date or fail to appear for a hearing,” a Silchar-based social activist, representing Mr. Ree’s family, said. The court later set aside the ex parte order of an FT in southern Assam’s Cachar district against Silchar resident Jantu Das. Mr. Das had approached the court after the tribunal notified him a foreigner in 2017. The court found that the FT had been sending notices to the address of another person whose father’s name was the same as Jantu Das’s. “After going through the documents submitted, we have learnt that the petitioner never received any notice from the foreigners’ tribunal and, as such, the ex parte order is illegal and liable to be set aside,” the Bench of judges N. Kotiswar Singh and Malashri Nandi observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gauhati-hc-quashes-three-ft-orders/article37929585.ece
11 December 2021||Patna,||Man beaten to death in Bihar alleging cattle theft||The police have filed a first information report against unknown persons for lynching a man alleging cattle theft in Araria district of Bihar on Wednesday. The incident came to light only on Friday. According to the police, Mohammad Siddiqui, 52, was lynched at Bhawanipur village in the Fulkaha police station limits of Forbesganj sub-division of Araria on Wednesday. Beaten with sticks “A villager raised an alarm after he spotted some men stealing buffaloes and bullocks owned by his co-villager Sanichar Bariyet and when they started chasing thieves, one of them fired in the air to scare them away but Mohammad Siddiqui was caught by the villagers while others managed to escape. Mohammad Siddiqui was beaten up with sticks and fists and he died of his injuries,” Fulkaha police station inspector Nagina Kumar said. He also said an FIR had been lodged against unknown persons. Villagers said thieves often sold stolen cattle to slaughterhouses in areas bordering Nepal. The victim has been identified as a resident of the neighbouring district of Supaul. “We are questioning villagers to identify attackers as there were around 100 people gathered at the spot when the incident had happened,” the police officer said. “No arrest has been made yet in the case.” Regular thefts “We keep getting complaints of cattle theft regularly in the area but not of mob lynching. Arrests will be made soon in the case,” a senior police official of the district said. In a similar incident last year, a 53-year-old man was beaten to death by a mob on suspicion of cattle theft at Simarbani village in Araria district. The incident came to light only after a video of the murder went viral on social media.  ... there were around 100 people gathered at the spot when the incident happened Senior police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-beaten-to-death-in-bihar-alleging-cattle-theft/article37929590.ece
11 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||More Congress leaders flow to Trinamool in Meghalaya||The western half of Meghalaya comprising five Garo Hills districts has become “Congress-free”. The damage has been done by the Trinamool Congress, and not the BJP that has coined the slogan. The Garo Hills are dominated by the Garos, one of the three matrilineal communities of Meghalaya. On Thursday evening, 11 members of the Garo Hills Autonomous District Council (GHADC) quit the Congress to follow all the eight MLAs of the region to the Trinamool. The eight MLAs, including former Chief Minister Mukul M. Sangma, were among 12 of Meghalaya’s 17 Congress legislators to switch over to the Trinamool overnight. The Trinamool is now the State’s principal Opposition party. During the intervening period, 400 Youth Congress members resigned as did 600 members of the National Students’ Union of India. This is for the first time that the GHADC, formed in 1952 when Meghalaya was a part of Assam, does not have an elected Congress representative. In the last GHADC election held in April, the Congress emerged as the single largest party by winning 12 of the 30 seats. One of them defected to the regional United Democratic Party to contest the October 30 byelection. Two days ago, Mr. Sangma made an offer to the remaining five Congress MLAs to join the Trinamool. “Understand the ground reality and take a conscious decision. If you mean business and want to serve their people, you should jump the Congress ship,” he said. The trouble for the Congress in Meghalaya began two months ago when Shillong MP Vincent H. Pala was appointed party State chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-congress-leaders-flow-to-trinamool-in-meghalaya/article37929589.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘80% of funds for Beti Bachao was spent on media campaigns’||The Government spent 80% of the funds under the ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao ’ (BBBP) scheme on media campaigns and must now revisit this strategy and invest in measurable outcomes in health and education for girls, the Parliamentary Committee on Empowerment of Women has noted in its report tabled in the Lok Sabha on Thursday. “The Committee finds that out of a total of Rs. 446.72 crore released during the period 2016- 2019, a whopping 78.91% was spent only on media advocacy. Over the last six years, through focussed advocacy BBBP has been able to capture the attention of political leadership and national consciousness towards valuing the girl child. Now, it is time to focus on other verticals by making ample financial provisions to help achieve measurable outcomes related to education and health envisaged under the scheme,” it said. The committee is chaired by Heena Vijaykumar Gavit and the report is titled “Empowerment of women through education with special reference to Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao .” The scheme was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in January 2015 with the aim to address sex-selective abortion and the declining child sex ratio, which was at 918 girls for every 1,000 boys in 2011. The programme is being implemented across 405 districts. The total utilisation under the scheme was also poor — the committee found that since the inception of BBBP in 2014-15 till 2019-20, the total budgetary allocation under the scheme was Rs. 848 crore, excluding the COVID-19-stricken financial year of 2020-21. During this period, Rs. 622.48 crore was released to the States but only 25.13% of the funds, i.e. Rs. 156.46 crore, had been spent. The committee noted that the massive spend on advertisements was despite the clearly laid down formula for utilisation of funds – Rs. 50 lakh a year is earmarked a district for utilisation under six different components. Of this, 16% is for inter-sectoral consultation or capacity-building, 50% for innovation or awareness generation activities, 6% for monitoring and evaluation, 10% for sectoral interventions in health, 10% for sectoral interventions in education and 8% as flexi funds. Advocacy and media campaigns include television publicity, outdoor and print media, SMS campaigns, radio spots and community engagement through exhibition vans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/80-of-funds-for-beti-bachao-spent-on-media-campaigns/article37929612.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||Only 27% of funds allotted for Ladakh used: panel||A year after Ladakh was turned into a Union Territory, the Centre-run administration could spend only 27% of its allocated budget in the fiscal year 2020-21, a report by a parliamentary panel has said. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) attributed the “less expenditure” to short working seasons, unavailability of technical field staff, lack of labour and contractors and COVID-19. The report tabled in the Rajya Sabha on Friday, comes at a time when there is growing discontent in Ladakh as influential civil society groups have revived their demand to restore the newly created Union Territory’s Statehood. A complete shutdown of Ladakh has been announced on December 13. The Home Ministry informed the Parliamentary Committee on Home Affairs that it has approached the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir to depute officers and engineers to Ladakh for “efficiency and effectiveness in execution of the projects.” The total budget for Ladakh in fiscal 2020-21 was Rs. 5,958 crore. Burgeoning vacancies The two powerful civil society groups — the People’s Movement for Sixth Schedule for Ladakh, a group comprising all political parties and the influential Buddhist Association, and the Kargil Democratic Alliance are also demanding inclusion under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution and filling 12,000 vacancies. The 235th report on action taken by Government on recommendations contained in the 231st report on Demands for Grant (2020-21) of MHA tabled in the Parliament on Friday said that “out of 236 villages (in Ladakh) only 172 villages have telecom infrastructure” and “only 24 and 78 villages have 3G and 4G internet connectivity respectively.” The Ministry informed the panel that Ladakh depends on labour coming from outside. “Due to lockdown and pandemic-related restrictions on movement of labour, the execution of works was affected. As a result of this, the responses to the tenders were also affected,” the MHA said. It said that not enough technical field staff such as draftsmen, junior engineers with various State and Central executing agencies were posted in Ladakh during the period. The Ministry said construction agencies also took time to set up their offices in Ladakh. The panel asked the MHA to increase sanctioning powers delegated to the engineering cadre and financial power of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Councils (LAHDC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-27-of-funds-allotted-for-ladakh-used-panel/article37929615.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Don’t use state force on political opinion: SC||The Supreme Court in an order has said that “state force” should not be used to “browbeat a political opinion” and journalists should not be made to suffer the consequences of reporting on what is already in the public domain. The court observed that the political class across the country should introspect on the “debasement” in dialogue which was taking place. “State force should never be used to either browbeat a political opinion or journalists suffer the consequences of what is already in public domain,” a Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul stated in an order. The court hastened to add that “this does not take away the responsibility of journalists in how they report matters, more so in a ‘Twitter age’.” The court order said it could not “let go off the opportunity of saying something which is troubling society and the court. It is undoubtedly the debasement in the dialogue which is taking place which needs introspection from the political class across the country”. Essence of democracy It noted, “In a country which prides itself on its diversity, there are bound to be different perceptions and opinions which would include political opinions. That is the very essence of a democracy.” The Bench stressed that political exchanges may get heated, but should not explode. “No doubt by the very nature of the job required to be performed by the political class, at times their exchanges may get heated. But it should not explode. We are sure difference in perceptions can be expressed in better language.” The order came after West Bengal informed the court that it had no objection to the quashing of FIRs registered on the basis of reports in ‘OpIndia’ portal. ‘OpIndia’ editor Nupur Sharma and other petitioners had moved the court, saying the FIRs amounted to an abuse of law and suppression of Press freedom. Quashing the FIRs, the court said that what the petitioners had done was to “reproduce what the political class has stated against each other and which is already in public domain”. West Bengal’s stand to not proceed with the FIRs was “better late than never and should be a model for others to follow”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-use-state-force-on-political-opinion-sc/article37929592.ece
11 December 2021||Srinagar,||Two policemen killed in J&K militant attack||Two police personnel were killed in a militant attack in Bandipora of north Kashmir on Friday afternoon. “Two police personnel, senior constable Muhammad Sultan and constable Fayaz Ahmad received critical gunshot injuries in the attack. Both the injured were shifted to a nearby hospital, but died of their injuries,” a police spokesman said. The incident took place around 5.15 p.m. near the busy Gulshan Chowk area of Bandipora. “Investigation is in progress and officers continue to work to establish the circumstances, which led to this terror crime,” police said. “No words are strong enough to condemn the heinous terrorist attack on our brave J&K police jawans. We are firmly resolved to avenge this barbaric action by the enemies of peace and determined to completely dismantle the terror ecosystem. J&K administration will extend all possible support to the martyrs' families,” Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha said. J&K regional parties, including the National Conference, the Peoples Democratic Party, the J&K Apni Party and the Peoples Conference, have condemned the attack. “I condemn the militant attack on the police in Bandipore area. May Allah grant them jannat and may their families find strength at this time,” NC vice-president Omar Abdullah said.  No words are strong enough to condemn the heinous terrorist attack on our brave J&K police jawans Manoj Sinha Lieutenant-Governor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-policemen-killed-in-jk-militant-attack/article37929382.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Omicron tally rises to 32, symptoms mild: Centre||He added that vaccination and COVID-appropriate behaviour continue to be the best protection against the virus.  Dr. Bhargava said the ICMR “will test efficacy of the vaccines against Omicron while following protocol”.  In a note of caution, Mr. Agarwal said international passengers coming into India were not always giving their correct address. “This makes it a challenge to then track and treat these cases. You have to help the Government help you,” he said. He added that it was the responsibility of every individual to ensure that the community does not suffer because of their shortcomings. India has now given two doses of the COVID vaccination to over 50% of its adult population, Mr. Agarwal said. Districts of concern According to data released by the Ministry, India reported fewer than 10,000 cases for 14 days in a row, with 52.8% of the total cases in the past week reported in Kerala. The Ministry added that eight districts in Mizoram, Sikkim and Kerala continued to report more than 10% weekly positivity and remained districts of concern. Critical zone “But that should not allow us to be complacent and remove the mask and stop adhering to the COVID appropriate behaviour. We continue to be in a critical zone till the virus is around and to be cautious is only prudent,” said V.K. Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog. “These numbers are no indication to lower our guards. Mask usage is declining in India. We have to remember that both vaccines and masks are important. As far as protection capability is concerned, we are now operating at a risky and unacceptable level. Usage was optimum during the second surge but was low just before the second wave surge. We are seeing a dip in usage now according to a survey and this low level of usage is risky and unacceptable. We should learn from the global situation. The World Health Organzation (WHO) is warning against the decline in mask usage as the global scene of Omicron is disturbing,” Dr. Paul said. Europe surge Stating that the WHO has highlighted that public health measures should be followed by all on a continual basis, besides vaccination, Mr. Agarwal said laxity in public health measures could be one of the reasons behind the surge in cases in Europe. The Omicron variant has been detected in 59 countries so far with 2,936 confirmed cases, he added. Health surveillance “In India surveillance, effective screening, monitoring of international travellers and health infrastructure upgradation is being done. States have been notified to increase surveillance and actively test passengers arriving from other countries,” he said. “Across the world 78,054 probable cases have also been detected and their genome sequencing is under way. Currently the United Kingdom, Denmark, and South Africa are the top three countries with highest Omicron cases.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-tally-rises-to-32-symptoms-mild-centre/article37929384.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||DGCA to probe Spicejet MAX 8 air turnback||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is investigating an incident involving SpiceJet’s Boeing 737 MAX 8 aircraft, which was forced to turn back shortly after taking off from Mumbai as the pilots decided to shut down one of the engines after a glitch. The airline resumed flying Boeing 737 MAX 8s last month, after it was grounded the world over in March 2019 following its involvement in two crashes that killed more than 300 people. SpiceJet’s Mumbai to Kolkata flight (SG-467) took off from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport on Thursday at 6.55 p.m. Shortly after, the pilots turned back, and declared “PAN PAN”, or the international standard signal for urgency and the aircraft landed at the Mumbai airport at 7.50 p.m. “The aircraft has been grounded,” DGCA chief Arun Kumar told The Hindu . “We are investigating in consultation with OEMs [original equipment manufacturers]. Further action shall depend on the outcome of the investigation,” he said. He explained that the air turnback was caused because the “No.2 engine oil filter bypass light got illuminated in cruise.” A SpiceJet spokesperson said the aircraft landed safely in Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dgca-to-probe-spicejet-max-8-air-turnback/article37929575.ece
11 December 2021||United Nations,||UN confers Observer Status on Solar Alliance||The UN General Assembly has conferred Observer Status on the International Solar Alliance (ISA), a historic decision which India said would help provide for a well-defined cooperation between the alliance and the UN that would benefit global energy growth and development. The ISA was conceived as a joint effort by India and France to mobilise efforts against climate change through the deployment of solar energy solutions. It was presented by the leaders of the two countries at the 21st Conference of Parties (COP21) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) held in Paris in 2015. “I am taking the floor on behalf of India and France. I take this opportunity to thank the entire UN membership for adopting the resolution conferring Observer Status to the International Solar Alliance (ISA). I am particularly happy that such a historic decision has been taken by the UN General Assembly under your [UNGA President Abdulla Shahid] leadership, under the Presidency of Hope,” Permanent Representative of India to the United Nations Ambassador T.S. Tirumurti said in a statement on Thursday. “Congratulations! Today, the General Assembly, based on the Sixth Committee report, adopted resolution 76/123 & unanimously decided to invite the International Solar Alliance to participate in the sessions & work of the General Assembly in the capacity of an ‘Observer’,” UN General Assembly President Shahid tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/un-confers-observer-status-on-solar-alliance/article37929576.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre says no proposal to scrap sedition law||Section 124A says, “Whoever by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise, brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards, the Government established by law in [India], shall be punished with [imprisonment for life], to which fine may be added, or with imprisonment which may extend to three years, to which fine may be added, or with fine.” He was responding to a question from All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) member from Assam, Badruddin Ajmal, on whether the Supreme Court had recently termed the sedition law as colonial and made an observation that it was being misused, and whether the court had directed the Government to submit its response on the necessity and validity of the law. “No such observations have been found in any judgment or order delivered by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India,” the Law Minister said. However, he said, in a writ petition, the top court had observed that the “ambit and parameters of the provisions of Sections 124A, 153A and 505 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 would require interpretation, particularly in the context of the right of the electronic and print media to communicate news, information and the rights, even those that may be critical of the prevailing regime in any part of the nation”. The Minister said the top court, in a writ petition (criminal) issued notice to the Government, in which the petitioners have made a prayer before the Supreme Court for an appropriate writ, order or direction declaring Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 to be unconstitutional and void. “Upon hearing the matter, the Hon’ble Supreme Court vide order dated July 12, 2021 has granted time for filing written submissions and counter affidavit in the matter on behalf of the Union of India,” he said. “The Writ petition (Civil) No. 682/2021 has been tagged with other matters wherein similar question of law has been raised and are pending for consideration before the Hon'ble Supreme Court,” Mr. Rijiju’s reply noted. In response to another question on the creation of an All India Judicial Services (AIJS) on the lines of other all-India services, the Law Minister said that the States were divided on the issue, with eight States objecting to such a proposal and two States supporting the idea. While two High Courts were in favour of constituting AIJS, 13 were not, Mr. Rijiju added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-proposal-to-scrap-sedition-law-rijiju/article37929385.ece
11 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||AAP announces second list of 30 for Punjab polls||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday announced names of 30 candidates in their second list for next year’s Punjab Assembly election. AAP had earlier announced 10 candidates in their first list on November 12, which included sitting party MLAs. Friday’s list includes former Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who was a member of the Special Investigating Team (SIT) probing the 2015 Kotkapura-and Behbal Kalan police firing incidents. He would be contesting from Amritsar North seat. Mr. Singh had in April this year taken premature retirement after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed a report by the SIT of Punjab Police into the firing incident. Key candidates The other key candidates include Vibhuti Sharma from Pathankot, Raman Behl from Gurdaspur, Shamsher Singh from Dina Nagar, Jagroop Singh Sekhwan from Qadian, Sherry Kalsi from Batala, Balbir Singh Pannu from Fatehgarh Churian, Dr. Inderbir Singh Nijjar from Amritsar (South), and Laljit Singh Bhullar from Patti Assembly segment. Balkar Singh, Dr. Ravjot Singh and Lalit Mohan Pathak will be AAP candidates from Kartarpur, Sham Chaurasi and Nawan Shehr seat respectively. Punjabi singer Anmol Gagan Mann will be fighting from Kharar constituency. Chadha hits out Meanwhile, AAP co-incharge for Punjab Raghav Chadha hit out at the ruling Congress Government, accusing it of “patronising the sand mafia”. Terming the announcement of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to give a reward of Rs. 25,000 if proof is provided in video or any other form about illegal sand mining as a gimmick, Mr. Chadda alleged that illegal sand mining was continuing in Chief Minister’s Assembly constituency. “Punjab CM Charanjit Channi Sahab has made an announcement saying that anyone who contacts the Punjab Government with proof or information regarding illegal sand mining in the State will be rewarded with Rs. 25,000. But I would like to point out to Channi Sahab, that illegal sand mining practices are taking place at various sites within his own Assembly constituency Chamkaur Sahib. Till date, you have not taken any action against these illegitimate practices taking place under your own nose. And now you are asking people for proof, for information about the presence of the sand mafia?” said Mr. Chadha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-announces-second-list-of-30-for-punjab-polls/article37929597.ece
11 December 2021||Mumbai,||Aryan seeks relaxation in conditions of bail||Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, moved the Bombay High Court seeking minor changes in the bail conditions imposed on him by the court in the drug racket case against him. On October 29, a Single Bench of Justice Nitin Sambre granted bail to Mr. Khan, 23, and two others and directed that they be released from the Arthur Road Jail after executing a cash bond of Rs. 1 lakh with one or more sureties. Mr. Khan sought a relaxation in the conditions requiring him to appear at the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai office every Friday between 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. In the application filed on Thursday, Mr. Khan said the cruise ship drug heist case was now being probed by a special investigation team based in Delhi. He also urged the court that there should be police presence when he attended the NCB office because of the heavy media presence there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aryan-seeks-relaxation-in-conditions-of-bail/article37929601.ece
11 December 2021||Mumbai,||Malik apologises to HC on Wankhede comment||Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik tendered an “unconditional apology” to the Bombay High Court on Friday for “wilfully breaching” his undertaking given to court that he would not make statements against Dhyandev Wankhede, father of Narcotics Control Bureau zonal director Sameer Wankhede, and his family. It was not his intention to dishonour the court by breaching his own undertaking, Mr. Malik said in the three-page affidavit. But he also contended that he made the comments in question during an interview and they were not part of social media posts, or public comments. “I offer my unconditional apology to this court in terms of breaches of the undertaking given on November 25 and November 29,” he said in the affidavit. He said he would not make any personal comments about the Wankhede family until the High Court heard the defamation suit filed against him. The court accepted the apology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/malik-apologises-to-hc-on-wankhede-comment/article37929602.ece
11 December 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata rebukes Mahua Moitra||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has issued a stern message to Krishnanagar MP Mahua Moitra on factionalism in the party, emphasising that there should be no difference of opinion and the party will decide on the candidates for the upcoming civic polls. The incident occurred during an administrative meeting at Krishnanagar in Nadia district on Thursday, where Ms. Moitra was seated on the stage along with Ms. Banerjee. “Mahua, let me give a clear message here. I do not need to see who is with or against whom. If someone does not like a person, he or she puts up some news on YouTube. This kind of politics can go for one day but not forever. And for only one person to be in the same place forever, that is also not acceptable,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-rebukes-mahua-moitra/article37929582.ece
11 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Student mixes pesticide in drinking water||A student in Odisha mixed pesticide in drinking water and offered it to classmates so that his school could remain shut for some time. About 19 students fell sick after drinking the adulterated water and are now under observation. The student had taken admission to Standard XI in the Kamgaon Higher Secondary School in Bargarh district. He had gone to his village on December 4 and returned on December 6. According to school authorities, the boy was eager to return to his village. “He was apparently elated by fake news circulated on social media that COVID-19 lockdown may return by December 19. When it was clarified that the news was fake, he became depressed,” said Premananda Palei, principal of the school. Mr. Palei said the boy kept telling his friends that he would make the school close. On December 8, the boy mixed pesticide in a bottle of water and persuaded his hostel mates to drink it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/student-mixes-pesticide-in-drinking-water/article37929606.ece
11 December 2021||London,||Balkrishna Doshi wins top honour||Architect Balkrishna Doshi will receive the Royal Gold Medal, 2022, one of the world’s highest honours for architecture, the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) announced. RIBA said on Thursday that with a 70-year career and over 100 built projects, 94-year-old Mr. Doshi has influenced the direction of architecture in India and its adjacent regions through both his practice and his teaching. Given in recognition of a lifetime’s work, the Royal Gold Medal is approved personally by Queen Elizabeth II and is given to a person or group of people who have had a significant influence on the advancement of architecture. “I am pleasantly surprised and deeply humbled to receive the Royal Gold Medal from the Queen of England. What a great honour,” Mr. Doshi said, on hearing the news.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/balkrishna-doshi-wins-top-honour/article37929614.ece
11 December 2021||Kolkata,||Calcutta HC quashes FIR against Mithun Chakraborty||The Calcutta High Court has quashed an FIR against well-known actor and BJP leader Mithun Chakraborty registered at a Kolkata police station. The FIR alleged that the dialogues he uttered at a public rally amounted to promoting enmity or feelings of hatred. “Film stars try to entertain and attract voters by saying cinematic dialogues in political rallies. The case in hand is no exception,” the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/calcutta-hc-quashes-fir-against-mithun-chakraborty/article37929580.ece
11 December 2021||Kolkata,||Free legal aid for families of COVID-19 victims on Human Rights Day||A group of doctors and lawyers associated with the non-profit ‘Covid Care Network’ in West Bengal launched a legal aid service for family members of COVID-19 victims on the occasion of the International Human Rights Day here on Friday. The aid will be provided free of cost to people who lost family members in the pandemic. Two helpline numbers (7044041013 and 7044041014) have been provided for callers. Also, www.nationalcovidmemorial .in is a virtual epitaph to people who died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/free-legal-aid-for-families-of-covid-19-victims-on-human-rights-day/article37929581.ece
11 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Teachers in Punjab, Chandigarh universities continue with ‘total education bandh’||Teachers in colleges and universities across Punjab and Chandigarh continued with their ‘total education bandh’ (shutdown) for the tenth day on Friday even as teachers at Panjab University in Chandigarh staged demonstration as a mark of their protest over the non-implementation of the recommendations of the Seventh Pay Commission of the University Grants Commission (UGC) by Punjab Government. Teachers have been abstaining from work as part of the protest since December 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/teachers-in-punjab-chandigarh-universities-continue-with-total-education-bandh/article37929583.ece
11 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha Police enter Congress party office chasing agitators||Odisha Police on Friday entered Congress Bhawan, the office of the Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC), while chasing the party’s cadres, who were agitating over the alleged inaction in the Mamita Meher murder case. The student wing of the Odisha Congress had staged a demonstration along the city’s Mahatma Gandhi Marg, demanding the ouster of the Minister of State for Home, Dibya Shankar Mishra, who is alleged to have had links with the murder accused. Both Congress workers and police personnel sustained injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-police-enter-congress-party-office-chasing-agitators/article37929586.ece
11 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Change of uniform colour generates controversy in Rajasthan||A decision of the Congress Government in Rajasthan to change the colour of the uniform for school students has generated a controversy with the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) questioning the move. The uniform’s colour was last changed in 2017 to shades of brown during the BJP’s rule. The Congress had accused the Vasundhara Raje Government at that time of making school uniforms similar to the dress code of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/change-of-uniform-colour-generates-controversy-in-rajasthan/article37929587.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court directs Air Quality Commission to decide on relaxing curbs in Delhi||Noting that the pollution levels in Delhi have “started improving”, the Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre’s Air Quality Commission to take a decision on relaxation of the restrictions imposed by the court on pollution sources, including industries, constructions and factories, in the Capital. A Special Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana asked the Commission to look into the issue within a week’s time. The court left it to the Commission to consider requests made by industry owners and others affected by the restrictions for a personal hearing and take their inputs. This factum was mentioned in the court order after various affected commercial and construction enterprises, with projects under way, urged the court to allow them to make representations before the Commission. “All we want is a quick decision from the Commission... Paddy season is on. The restriction on rice manufacturers has to be relaxed... Sugar manufacturers had got relaxation,” senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for rice manufacturers, submitted. “Mr. Sibal, we are all in Delhi... We know the condition... Just now things have started improving. They (Commission) will take decision,” Chief Justice Ramana observed orally. The court had ordered the regulation of construction and the operation of factories using unclean fuels. It had banned the entry of polluting trucks not carrying essential goods into Delhi. The Delhi Government had also closed educational institutions. The Commission had in a previous hearing said thermal plants within 300 km radius of Delhi would continue to be regulated. Only five of 11 plants were functional. The rest would remain inoperative till December 15. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the Commission, said long-term anti-pollution measures were already “under contemplation”. Senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, for the Delhi Government, highlighted that the dip in pollution levels has been considerable. “It shows very very good figures for Delhi,” he submitted.  ‘Pay wages to workers’ The court further directed Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to pay wages to construction workers from the welfare cess. This direction was made in response to a submission that wages had not been paid to them so far. The court directed the two States to file compliance affidavits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supreme-court-directs-air-quality-commission-to-decide-on-relaxing-curbs-in-delhi/article37929599.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin unveils eco park at Pallikaranai||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday virtually inaugurated an ecological park set up on 2.5 hectares of Pallikaranai marshland here at a cost of Rs. 20 crore. The park includes a 2-km pedestrian track laid for the benefit of birdwatchers and walkers. A proposal has been sent to the Centre requesting it to declare Pallikaranai marsh as a wetland under the Ramsar Convention. Saplings planted Over 5,000 saplings have been planted in the park and boards explaining various flora and fauna species have been put up for the benefit of visitors, an official release said. The State government has been taking steps to protect the bird species that visit Pallikaranai marsh every year. Efforts are on to declare it as a bird sanctuary. Minister for Forests K. Ramachandran, Minister for Environment and Climate Change Siva V. Meyyanathan, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Secretary for Forests, Environment and Climate Change Supriya Sahu, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Ashok Upreti and Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Shekhar Kumar Niraj were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-unveils-eco-park-at-pallikaranai/article37929744.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Travel safely, police advise students||The police have launched a campaign to sensitise students on the dangers of travelling on the footboard of buses and trains following a series of complaints. Traffic police personnel, at the behest of Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal, visited colleges and schools asking students not to indulge in dangerous acts during their daily commute. “The traffic police have been conducting an awareness campaign among students of various schools and colleges in the city about the dangers of travelling on footboard or clinging on to the window bars. First, we warn students who indulge in such acts and then may take appropriate action if they repeat their act,” said a senior police officer. Recently, students of a city college who travelled on footboard on a government bus, were booked for possessing machetes. Schoolchildren performed stunts atop a bus while commuting to their school in Meyyur in Tiruvallur district. A video of another group of students travelling dangerously had been doing the rounds in social media. Their parents were called to the police station and warned about the consequence if their wards continued with this behaviour. At least nine students were booked recently in Tiruvallur district although no case was registered in the city limits. The police said they had the power to book students under Section 123 of The Motor Vehicles Act, (riding on running board) and other provisions. The Transport Department instructed conductors and drivers to stop the bus in case of footboard travelling or any other menace by students and call the police. Inadequate services M. Radhakrishnan, co-ordinator of Thozhan, said: “The buses do not stop at the designated spots in bus stops and the students have to run here and there to board the buses. Inadequate bus services is also one of the factors which leads students to commute in a dangerous manner.” “The government should ensure the safety of children while providing education. They should have done proper mapping of areas where school/ college students commute and should increase the number of buses accordingly. A coordination meeting between transport, education and police departments should be convened periodically to discuss the cause of students indulging in dangerous acts while commuting and hammer out a solution to the problem,” said A. Devaneyan, a child rights activist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/travel-safely-police-advise-students/article37929748.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 70 years ago, trouble in the air in Kotagiri||The Indian Air Force Mi-17V5 helicopter crash on December 8, Wednesday afternoon, in the Coonoor ghat area of the Nilgiris that claimed the lives of the Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 other Army personnel, is the second worst aviation accident in the district. Seven decades earlier, on December 13, 1950, in another instance of controlled flight into terrain, an Air India Douglas C-47B aircraft crashed near Kil Kotagiri in the Nilgiris, killing its 20 passengers and crew, among them a noted statistician. The scheduled flight, from Madras, was bound for Trivandrum after landings at Bangalore and Coimbatore. The flight went missing just before it was to land at Coimbatore from Bangalore, a report, sourced from The Hindu Archives, reads. The pilot, Captain Andrew Wiseman, co-pilot Captain Ramnath Narayan Aiyar, and radio officer Kasargod Appu Shenoy had been in touch with Coimbatore control about 12 minutes before the scheduled landing time of 10.20 a.m. The dispatch adds that a “danger caution report” issued by the Coimbatore observatory had been received in Madras at 10.40 a.m., reporting low clouds over Coimbatore. Later in the day, search planes that went along the entire route reported bad weather and poor visibility in the Nilgiris ranges, where it was presumed the plane had gone down. Among the passengers, both Indians and foreigners, was Professor Abraham Wald, Professor of Statistics at Columbia University, and a guest of the Indian government. Based on information from two forest guards, the report says, military search parties renewed their hunt for the plane in an area that was “also one with very thick jungles in which many herds of bison and elephant roamed about”. The wreckage along with decomposed bodies, postal mail and belongings, was eventually located near Rangaswami hill, on December 19. Another archival report says that Khurshed Lal, Deputy Minister for Communications, told Parliament on December 21 that an inquiry had been constituted. The Minister had also highlighted the weather as a factor to note. Dharmalingam Venugopal, honorary director, Nilgiris Documentation Centre, told The Hindu that Prof. Wald’s work had played a key role in the Allied victory in the Second World War.  The scheduled flight, from Madras, was bound for Trivandrum after landings at Bangalore and Coimbatore. The flight went missing just before it was to land at Coimbatore  The Hindu Archives||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/looking-back-into-a-1950-crash-in-the-nilgiris/article37929728.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for MKU VC post||The Search Committee constituted for recommending three names to the Governor for the post of Vice-Chancellor of Madurai Kamaraj University has invited applications from interested academicians. Those interested in applying can download the application fromhttps://mkuniversity.ac.in. The duly filled-in form in the prescribed format should be sent via email (mkuvcsc@gmail.com) or by post to J. Prakash, Nodal Officer of the Search Committee, who is at the Department of Instrumentation Engineering on Anna University’s MIT Campus. A release by E. Balagurusamy, former Vice-Chancellor of Anna University and the Convenor of the Search Committee, said the application should not be sent directly to the members of the committee. The release said that canvassing in any form for the post would result in disqualification of the candidate. The application should be submitted before 5 p.m. on December 27, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-mku-vc-post/article37930103.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh COVID-19 cases dip to 688; no new infections reported in 5 districts||There was a further dip in fresh COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu as 688 persons tested positive for the infection on Friday. While Chennai and Coimbatore accounted for one-third of the new cases reported in the State, five districts — Ariyalur, Perambalur, Tenkasi, Theni and Virudhunagar — had no new COVID-19 cases. Chennai had the most number of cases with 123 persons testing positive for the infection. Coimbatore followed with 110 cases. The daily cases stood at 59 in Erode and 52 in Chengalpattu. Tiruppur reported 49 cases, while Salem and Namakkal had 45 and 40 cases respectively. Fewer than 10 cases As many as 17 districts had fewer than 10 cases each. Among them, Mayiladuthurai and Villupuram reported a single case each. With this, the State has so far reported a total of 27,34,034 COVID-19 cases. There were 11 deaths due to COVID-19 that took the toll to 36,586. A total of 30 districts did not report COVID-19 deaths. Coimbatore recorded three deaths and Chennai had two fatalities. Among the deceased was a 35-year-old man from Tiruvarur who had diabetes and systemic hypertension. He was admitted to the Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital on November 23 and died on December 8 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 739 persons were discharged, taking the total recoveries so far to 26,89,627. The number of persons currently under treatment stood at 7,821. Tenkasi’s active caseload stood at five, while there were eight active cases in Theni and nine in Perambalur. A total of 1,03,017 samples were tested in the State. This took the total number of samples tested so far to 5,52,92,447. Vaccination report A total of 1,99,396 persons were vaccinated against COVID-19 across the State on Friday. This included 1,16,645 persons aged 18 to 44 years, 54,288 persons aged 45 to 59 years and 28,320 senior citizens. This took the coverage of government vaccination centres so far to 7,26,28,587.  A total of 30 districts did not report COVID-19 deaths. Coimbatore recorded three deaths and Chennai had two fatalities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-covid-19-cases-dip-to-688-no-infections-in-5-districts/article37929775.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM visits rain-affected areas in Kolathur||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday visited a few rain-affected areas in Kolathur Assembly constituency, where he inspected ongoing work and distributed relief material to the people. The Chief Minister visited the houses of three women who were injured after a wall on the first floor of a house collapsed in Sabhapathy Street on November 23 and distributed financial aid to them. Mr. Stalin went on rounds in rain-affected areas in Venkateswara Nagar, Lakshmanan Nagar, Akbar Square and Jayaram Nagar and distributed relief material to people there. He interacted with people in Valliammai Street and certain pockets of G.K.M. Colony. The people thanked the Chief Minister and requested him to resolve the drainage issue in their area. Mr. Stalin interacted with residents of Siva Elango Road and instructed officials to ensure that rainwater did not stagnate in Vannankuttai. The Chief Minister distributed relief material to people at Sky Mahal in Venkateswara Nagar, Akbar Square and Jayaram Nagar I Main Road. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu, Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation Gagandeep Singh Bedi, and Managing Director of Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board C. Vijayaraj Kumar accompanied the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-visits-rain-affected-areas-in-kolathur/article37929755.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras HC finds TNUSRB guilty of creating fake records||In a shocking development, the Madras High Court on Friday found Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board (TNUSRB) of having created fake documents to get a recruitment case dismissed by the court. To top it, when the illegality came to light, they shifted the blame on two academicians who prepare question banks for the board, registered a criminal case against the duo and made one of them languish in prison for 22 days. Justices P.N. Prakash and R. Hemalatha quashed the criminal case, despite the efforts taken by the Chennai Central Crime Branch (CCB) police to “pre-empt” any such move by hurriedly filing a chargesheet on November 9 this year, and directed the State Government to pay a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh to G. Vijayakumar , a senior citizen against whom “the machinery of the police was set upon to terrorise and silence him.” Contempt of court The judges also found the TNUSRB guilty of criminal contempt of court and sentenced it to pay a fine of Rs. 2,000 (the maximum fine amount prescribed under the Contempt of Courts Act of 1971). It however exonerated the Board’s former Member Secretary N.K. Senthamarai Kannan from the criminal contempt proceedings by according him the benefit of doubt since he had never dealt with the two academicians directly. Written examination The issue pertains to a written examination conducted by TNUSRB on December 22, 2018 for the post of Sub Inspector of Police (Finger Print). An initial answer key stated that option ‘a’ was the correct answer for question 145 in numerical ability section of the psychology paper. However, on receiving objections from the candidates, the answer was changed to option ‘b’ after obtaining opinion from D. Murthi, an academician. Aggrieved over the change, one of the candidates filed a writ petition in the High Court in 2019 but Justice S.M. Subramaniam dismissed his case after TNUSRB submitted a letter stating that Mr. Murthi was a professor in Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) – Madras. The judge, however, reopened the case and recalled his dismissal order after the candidate found, through Right to Information Act, that the academician was not a professor in IIT-M. He also initiated suo motu contempt of court proceedings. When the issue got embroiled into a controversy, the TNUSRB lodged a criminal complaint alleging that it was Mr. Vijayakumar who introduced Mr. Murthi as an IIT-M professor. It was also their stand that Mr. Murthi was actually a retired math teacher of Kendriya Vidyalaya school inside IIT-M campus. After analysing the issue threadbare, the Bench with the assistance of advocate B. Vijay representing the High Court Registry, found that the two academicians had been “reduced to a pawn in the larger plot by the TNUSRB to deceive the learned single judge in the writ petition.” “Constitutional courts cannot turn a Nelson’s eye to a brazenly orchestrated violation of the dignity and self respect of the individual by the TNUSRB and the police,” the judges wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-high-court-finds-tnusrb-guilty-of-creating-fake-records/article37929765.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Financial frauds can be reported on portal’||A Citizen Financial Cyber Fraud Reporting and Management System has been launched for reporting financial frauds and to stop siphoning off funds by the fraudsters, said Union Ministry of Home Affairs. A toll-free number 155260 has been operationalised to get assistance in lodging online cyber complaints. Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra said this in a written reply to a query on steps taken by the Centre to curb cyber crime raised by Kanimozhi Somu (DMK) in the Rajya Sabha. The MHA has set up the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) to deal with all types of cyber crime in the country, in a coordinated and comprehensive manner and a National Cyber Forensic Laboratory (NCFL) in Dwarka, New Delhi, to provide early stage cyber forensic assistance to investigating officers (IOs). Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC) platform, namely CyTrain portal, has been developed for capacity building of police officers/judicial officers through online course on critical aspects of cybercrime investigation, forensics, prosecution. The reply said the government has launched the National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal (www.cybercrime.gov.in), to enable the public to report all types of cyber crimes, with special focus on crimes against women and children. Cyber crimes reported on this portal, their conversion into FIRs and subsequent action thereon are handled by the police in the respective State/Union Territories, the Minister said. Seven Joint Cyber Coordination teams have been constituted under I4C covering the whole country based upon cybercrime hotspots/areas having multi jurisdictional issues and in consultation with States/Union Territories to enhance the coordination among the police. Millets for midday meal PMK youth wing leader and Rajya Sabha MP Dr. Anbumani Ramadoss in the Parliament on Friday questioned Piyush Goyal, Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, whether the Union Government was mulling procuring millets for the midday meal scheme. The Union Minister said the State Governments could send proposals if they wish to replace rice and wheat with anything else. “That can only be procured by them (State Government) on the Central pool as a replacement of what is being procured. If any State Government chooses not to procure rice and wheat and procure other things, they will have to come to the Central Government and we allow that,” he said. “In addition to what is the requirement of the State, that procurement will be to the account of the State Government and not the Central Government,” Mr. Goyal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/financial-frauds-can-be-reported-on-portal/article37929729.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||St. Thomas Mount skywalk may put an end to ordeal of train commuters||Commuters are eagerly awaiting the inaugural of the pedestrian overbridge at at St. Thomas Mount Metro Rail Station which may be opened soon. Although both the Metro and suburban stations are located in the area, because of lack of proper access, commuters have to trek a long distance to change trains. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL), the construction work on the pedestrian overbridge is nearing completion. “This facility will link the concourse level of the CMRL with the platform of the suburban station. Hence, the Metro rail commuters can easily change to suburban trains. There will be escalators. At present, people have to walk 10-12 minutes or more from one station to another. When this overbridge is opened, this trek will be reduced to less than five minutes,” he added. A. Raghavan, 52, resident of Nanganallur, who travels regularly by Metro and suburban trains, said senior citizens had a tough time moving from one station to another. “Many commuters of both Metro and suburban trains may want to interchange here. For instance, the Metro commuters who want to go to areas like Nungambakkam, Mambalam, Pazhavanthangal, Chromepet, Tambaram, Tiruvallur or Chengalpattu can change here. The commuters of suburban trains who wish to go to Nandanam, AG-DMS, LIC or Anna Salai may switch to Metro here. It will be of great help,” he said. But CMRL needs to run a buggy between the entrance of the station and the concourse as it is long a distance to walk, he added. This will improve the patronage for Metro. While St. Thomas Mount Metro station records only about 2,000 footfalls a day, the suburban station handles 30,000 people. Sources said many commuters of suburban trains may switch over to Metro if there was a convenient interchange facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/st-thomas-mount-skywalk-may-put-an-end-to-ordeal-of-train-commuters/article37929751.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Officials lay stress on accelerating COVID-19 vaccination coverage||With Tamil Nadu’s first dose coverage reaching 81.18%, a little over one crore eligible persons are yet to receive the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine. As many as 93.4 lakh persons are due for the second dose of the vaccine in the State that is inching closer to the half-way mark in second dose coverage. On Saturday, as the 14th mega vaccination camp is all set to be held, officials are highlighting the need to accelerate vaccination coverage. “Our first dose coverage has crossed 81%. Still, 1.09 crore persons are yet to take it,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. As of Thursday, 48.72% of the State’s eligible population — 5,78,91,000 — were fully vaccinated. Of the 93,40,751 persons who were due and over due for second dose of vaccination, 82,92,875 persons were due to receive Covishield and 10,47,876 persons Covaxin, according to data with the Health department. In a letter to the district Collectors, Mr. Radhakrishnan said the State task force had recommended certain measures in the light of the new variant of concern, Omicron. Among the measures recommended was strengthening of vaccination drive to attain full coverage of the target population. Apart from testing all passengers from high alert countries for COVID-19, the task force recommended strengthening surveillance at the State level. The State border surveillance should be strengthened to ensure that the inter-State transmission of the new strain may be prevented, while routine surveillance should be strengthened by increasing the testing rates. All new clusters that are emerging may be epidemiologically investigated and the strain causing the cluster may be identified for further control measures. The government should ensure appropriate COVID-19 behaviour in the community. Awareness, enforcing and surveillance on mask compliances should be done, while social gatherings including religious festivals should be strictly monitored and COVID-19 appropriate behaviour ensured, it said. The recommendations made by the task force to handle the third wave were already under implementation. Those measures need to be reviewed for handling upswing in cases now, if any. In addition to these measures, the Health Secretary requested the Collectors to keep abreast of the various developments and ensure that all followed COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and Standard Operating Protocols for permitted activities should be monitored and enforced effectively. IEC campaigns should be intensified and vaccination of eligible persons who are still unvaccinated and those who are due or overdue for second dose should be expedited, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-lay-stress-on-accelerating-covid-19-vaccination-coverage/article37929773.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Follow COVID-19 norms in temples for Vaikunta Ekadasi’||With Vaikunta Ekadasi being celebrated on December 14 at a few temples in the State, including Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam and Adi Kesava Perumal temple in Sriperumbudur, the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department has directed officials to follow last year's standard operating procedures for COVID-19. Devotees will not be given theertham (holy water), shadaari or tulsi leaves. They can only have darshan of the deities. People will not be allowed if they don't wear masks and will have to maintain personal distance. Temples have been told to hold processions inside the temples itself. “We are worried how the festival will pan out this time with the threat of Omicron looming over us,” said Venkatesh at the Veeranarayana Perumal temple. This time, the 21-day-long festival will be celebrated on December 14 in the Tamil month of Karthikai and on January 13 in the Tamil month of Margazhi . Scholars said one reason for this was the conduct of Thai Brahmotsavam in January in Srirangam. The Saranathaswamy temple in Thirucherai near Kumbakonam too has a festival in January, which is why they too will conduct Vaikunta Ekadasi in December itself, said an exponent. Such an alignment of days in the Tamil almanac occurs once in 19 years, which is this year, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-norms-in-temples-for-vaikunta-ekadasi/article37929746.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. grants sanction for ‘Green T.N. Mission’||The State Government has granted its administrative and financial sanction for implementing the ‘Green Tamil Nadu Mission’ during 2021-22 that aims at increasing the forest and tree cover in the State from the present 23.8% to 33% by 2030-31. Under this mission, 265 crore seedlings of native trees of economic and ecological significance would be planted over a period of 10 years on suitable public lands like urban areas, farms, educational institutions, temple grounds, sacred groves, industrial areas, tank foreshore, padugai areas among others, covering an area of about 13,500 square kilometres. The funding sources for the mission would be from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, the Tamil Nadu Forest Plantation Corporation and the Tamil Nadu State Compensatory Afforestation Fund. Tamil Nadu intended to sustainably manage its forest and tree cover, recognising its key role in climate change adaptation and mitigation, a G.O. issued in this regard on December 9 said. “The State plans to augment the national efforts in creating the additional carbon sink of 2.5 to 3 billion tonnes in its forest and tree cover by the year 2030 as a part of its National Determined Contribution commitments under the Paris Agreement,” it said.  Under this mission, 265 crore seedlings of native trees of economic and ecological significance would be planted over a period of 10 years on suitable public lands||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-grants-sanction-for-green-tn-mission/article37929731.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||YouTuber held out of vendetta: BJP chief||YouTuber Maridhas was arrested on Thursday ‘purely out of vendetta’ by the DMK government and his arrest violated the freedom of expression, Tamil Nadu BJP president K. Annamalai charged. Taking to Twitter, he said Tamil Nadu BJP member Kalyan Raman and other ‘nationalists’ were arrested by the DMK Government to satisfy their ego. He said the BJP Tamil Nadu unit was doing everything within its power, by providing legal remedies to the arrested persons. Legal aid “@BJP4TamilNadu would fight tooth & nail to get all of them out of their judicial confinement. Our party would take care of them and their families in all respects!” he said. Kalyan Raman and 10 others were arrested under the Goondas Act in October. Mr. Raman was arrested by the cyber crime wing of the Central Crime Branch for posting tweets that allegedly promoted enmity and hatred between classes. Maridhas was arrested on Thursday for a social media post questioning whether Tamil Nadu was becoming another Kashmir. Maridhas also faces charges of making malicious comments against the Muslim community and of forging an email of a television channel’s associate executive editor.  Tamil Nadu BJP member Kalyan Raman and other ‘nationalists’ were arrested by the DMK Government to satisfy their ego K. Annamalai Tamil Nadu BJP president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youtuber-held-out-of-vendetta-bjp-chief/article37929737.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospital staff held for assaulting girl||The All Women Police, Kilpauk, have arrested a 26-year-old hospital employee for sexually assaulting a nine-year-old girl patient. The girl had been admitted to a private hospital with serious complications. When her mother stepped out, the offender entered the ward and sexually assaulted the child on Thursday morning. When the child complained to her mother, she lodged a complaint. Later, the police arrested Monuram, 26, of Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh under the POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-staff-held-for-assaulting-girl/article37929741.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||147 ganja peddlers held||The city police arrested 147 persons for allegedly peddling ganja and booked 92 cases against them in a week. Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal had asked special teams to conduct search. Between December 3 and 9, these teams had launched a drive against drug peddlers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/147-ganja-peddlers-held/article37929762.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bharathi award presented to scholars||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday handed over Bharathi Memorial Centenary Award to Tamil researchers Seeni Viswanathan and Ya. Manikandan, who undertook research on the life and works of Tamil poet Subramania Bharathi. The award includes a cheque for Rs. 3 lakh. Mr. Stalin gave away the award along with cash prize to family members of senior Tamil scholars Periyasaamy Thooran, R.A. Padmanabhan, T.M.C. Ragunathan and Ilasai Manian, an official release said. The Chief Minister also handed over a cheque for Rs. 25 lakh to Navi Mumbai Tamil Sangam to its representative Krishnamurthy as contribution from the State government. The Chief Minister handed over a cash prize of Rs. 10,000 to students from Chennai and Kancheepuram districts for reciting all 1,330 couplets of Thirukkural . Of the 219 prize-winning students, only nine from these two districts were invited to receive the prize in person from the Chief Minister in view of the COVID-19 situation, the release said. Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Secretary of Tamil Development Department Mahesan Kasirajan, Director of Information and Public Relations V.P. Jayaseelan and Director (in-charge) of Tamil Development S. Saravanan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharathi-award-presented-to-scholars/article37929776.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not play recorded invocation song’||The Tamil Development Department had, a few weeks ago, communicated to the Public Department to avoid using a recording of the Tamil Thai Vazhthu and the national anthem in government functions and instead, employ trained singers. The unofficial note from the Tamil Development Department issued in September this year noted that in the recent times it was observed that only recording of the song and anthem were being played in government functions. It said those in the audience were mechanically standing for the invocation song and the national anthem without realising the national or Tamil fervour, and the very intention of singing the Tamil Thai Vazhthu and the national anthem was being defeated, a senior official told The Hindu . The organizers were told to arrange for trained singers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-play-recorded-invocation-song/article37929732.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VIT Chennai team wins Rs. 20 lakh in microprocessor challenge of MEITY||Quinproc, a team from Vellore Institute of Technology, Chennai, finished fourth and received Rs. 20 lakh in the Swadeshi Microprocessor Challenge organised by the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY) in Delhi earlier this month. The scope of the challenge, according to a release by VIT Chennai, was to create innovative solutions around home-grown processors like SAKTHI of IIT Madras, and VEGA of the the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing. The team proposed a wireless maternal health monitoring system, which can enable personnel to remotely monitor vital parameters of pregnant women. The team comprised A.R. Mirunalini, S. Shwetha, S. Varsha Sri and A. Annis Fathima from the School of Electronics Engineering and was led by John Sahaya Rani Alex from the Centre for Healthcare Advancement, Innovation and Research. Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Union Minister of State for Electronics and Information Technology, was present during the finals of the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vit-team-wins-rs-20-lakh-in-meity-contest/article37929760.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Have an open mind on other medicine systems’||The traditional systems of medicine practised in India had a lot of merit and they need not be dismissed as pseudoscience, Tamil Nadu Governor R.N. Ravi said here on Friday. Delivering the convocation address at the 33rd convocation of Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research (SRIHER), he said that there was a tendency among a section of doctors and people from other disciplines as well to reject anything that is not scientifically established, as per their standards or understanding of science. He laid stress on the need to be open minded and acknowledged that there were serious illnesses and problems such as high infant mortality rates (IMR) and maternal mortality rates (MMR) that required the intervention of modern medicine. He also acknowledged the need for validating traditional systems of medicine. He pointed out that the National Education Policy (NEP)tried to integrate modern and traditional medicines and added that one should be cognisant of the other and not be dismissive. Appealing to the graduating doctors to be ethical, he said ethics was an area that did not get adequate attention. The Governor stressed on the need to guard against commercialisation. He urged the doctors to listen to their patients more often. ‘Long-term vision’ Lauding SRIHER for its vision towards 2040, he said that it was in line with the Prime Minister’s long-term vision. Remarking that India had awakened and it was marching ahead, he said. “It is unstoppable. Those who are not in line, better fall in because the time is not in favour of waiting. Time is for those who are marching in tune and moving ahead,” he said. While the Governor awarded the medals to top performers, Chancellor of SRIHER V.R. Venkatachalam conferred the degrees and distributed certificates to Ph.D and superspeciality graduates. Vice-Chancellor P.V. Vijayaraghavan presented the annual report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/have-an-open-mind-on-other-systems-of-medicine/article37929759.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccinate all students above 18 years, T.N. colleges told||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Friday directed colleges to vaccinate all students over the age of 18 to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Speaking to mediapersons on the sidelines of a meeting with educational institutions organised at Ripon Buildings on Friday, Mr. Subramanian said more than 50% of college students were yet to be vaccinated. For instance, 46% of the four lakh engineering students in the State have received the first dose of vaccine and 12% have received the second dose. “All students who are over 18 years have to be vaccinated. The Greater Chennai Corporation will start special camps for students in colleges on Saturday,” said Mr. Subramanian. ‘Clusters due to Delta variant’ Pointing to the 11 clusters at educational institutions in the State in the past three months, Mr. Subramanian said the clusters had been caused because of Delta variant. “No cases of Omicron have been reported as yet,” he added. Clusters of COVID-19 cases among students have been reported on campuses of Anna University and Madras Medical College. Games such as football, hockey and cultural events have been banned in colleges until further orders. Higher Education Secretary D. Karthikeyan has been asked to direct all colleges to use only disposable plates in canteens, ensure mask-wearing in classrooms and limit the number of students in canteens. The Higher Education Department is expected to being out a circular regarding the denial of permission for unvaccinated students inside classrooms. Students who are not vaccinated are not likely to be permitted in classrooms. “All the students who have tested positive at Anna University campus have been asymptomatic. They have been isolated at King Institute, Guindy,” said Mr. Subramanian. “The test results of another 471 students in the campus have been received. All students have tested negative. This is good news,” he added. Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi has ordered all regional deputy commissioners to launch special camps for vaccination in educational institutions on Saturday. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said there were at least 120 index cases per day in the State. “We need to bring it to zero. We are also focussing on virus suppression,” he said. HR and CE Minister P. K. Sekar Babu participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccinate-all-students-above-18-colleges-told/article37929777.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Scattered rain likely in a few places in T.N.||The State may largely experience subdued weather except for scattered, moderate rain in a few places in coastal and south Tamil Nadu for the next few days. After torrential downpours which caused flooding in most parts of the State, the northeast monsoon has remained dull in several places, particularly northern region, since the start of December. Chennai has not recorded any significant rainfall so far this month. Officials of the Meteorological Department said a few places in coastal region and adjoining interior districts and Puducherry may experience light to moderate rain on Sunday. There may be a slight increase in rainfall coverage and more places in coastal districts have chances of moderate rain on Monday. Sudden spells of light rain may occur in some areas of Chennai too till Monday. On Friday too, the city experienced an overcast sky and sharp showers during the afternoon hours. The weather station in Nungambakkam recorded a trace of rainfall. Rain gauges in Ennore and Villivakkam registered less than 5 mm of rainfall between 8.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. on Friday. A few other places like Madurai, Thoothukudi and Ramanathapuram also had light rain on Friday evening. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Friday, Kundah bridge in the Nilgiris district and Ayikudi in Tenkasi district received the day’s maximum rainfall of 4 cm in the State. S.Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said easterly trough and northeasterly winds prevailing along and off T.N. coast at lower levels influenced wet weather over the State. “This is a seasonal feature. The monsoon may remain subdued for the next one week. We are not expecting any major weather disturbance for the next few days. The monsoon has entered its third phase,” he said. Rain has abated due to the position of the inter tropical convergence zone near the equator. It is also an important factor that determines rainfall in the tropical region. Downpour in November majorly contributed to the phenomenal rain in the State. Tamil Nadu recorded nearly 69 cm of rainfall, which is 73% more than its seasonal share of 40 cm since October 1. Districts like Kanniyakumari and Coimbatore have received nearly 118% and 114% more rainfall for the season.   We are not expecting any major weather disturbance for the next few days. The monsoon has entered its third phase S.Balachandran,Deputy Director General of Meteorology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-to-experience-subdued-weather/article37929781.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Waterlogging: HC dismisses PIL petition||The Madras High Court on Friday dismissed a public interest litigation petition which sought a direction to the State Government to constitute a committee to prevent “criminal misuse of public funds” in the guise of constructing storm water drains (SWD) and de-silting them since most of them turned out to be of no use during the recent rain when almost the entire city was flooded. Justices T. Raja and D. Bharatha Chakravarthy refused to entertain the case since the litigant had not provided even bare minimum facts such as the localities where there was water stagnation. They also said the petitioner had not disclosed whether any complaint was made to the officials concerned with regard to the problem and whether they failed to act despite such a complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waterlogging-hc-dismisses-pil-petition/article37929766.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lawyers raise objection to NCDRC poster||A group of lawyers, led by senior counsel R. Vaigai, have written to the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC), expressing concern over a poster prominently displayed on the commission’s website thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for providing free COVID-19 vaccines for all. The advocates said the poster was circulated by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to all government departments with instructions to display it on their websites and other places. It was also being widely used as propaganda material by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. The University Grants Commission’s mandate to universities and colleges to display the poster attracted severe criticism from many quarters. Leaders from political parties pointed out that the message was intended to mislead the public that COVID-19 vaccines were being distributed free and that it was being done at the behest of one individual. “The NCDRC, being a court of law, however, cannot be used as a platform for any propaganda,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lawyers-raise-objection-to-ncdrc-poster/article37929767.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM writes to kin of the deceased||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin wrote to the families of each of the persons, who were killed in the helicopter crash in Coonoor on Wednesday afternoon, expressing his condolences and said their demise was irreparable. “In his letter to families of each of those who were killed in the accident, the Chief Minister expressed his deep condolences, and observed that people stood by them in the hour of grief and wished them strength and courage to bear the irreparable loss,” an official release said. Soon after the incident, Mr. Stalin visited the Nilgiris district and paid floral tributes to the mortal remains of those who were killed in the helicopter crash near Coonoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-writes-to-kin-of-the-deceased/article37929730.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure officials act honestly’||AIADMK co-coordinator and Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, on Friday urged the State government to ensure that its officials acted honestly and fearlessly. In a statement, he referred to the reported incident of the body of an engineer attached to Radhapuram panchayat union which was found near a railway track, and endorsed the demand by the officials in Tirunelveli district, seeking criminal action against those who were responsible for the death, and a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation. He also wanted the government to rescind transfer orders of those officials who had taken action against those who were said to be involved in irregularities of mining of minerals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-officials-act-honestly/article37929738.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Azim Premji receives Dr. Ida S. Scudder Oration award||Azim Premji, founder chairman of Wipro limited and founder of Azim Premji Foundation is this year’s recipient of 10th annual Dr. Ida S. Scudder Humanitarian Oration, jointly established by Christian Medical College Vellore (CMC) and the U.S.-based Vellore CMC Foundation. The award being presented to Mr. Premji in recognition of his contributions to the society through the foundation. Established in 2001, the Foundation has contributed immensely towards education, runs Azim Premji University in Bengaluru and also supports several not-for-profit organisations with financial grants. The Foundation also funded organisations in the field of healthcare. Dr. Scudder who was born in Ranipet in 1870 dedicated her life to bringing modern healthcare and medical education to people of India. The Oration seeks to inspire people to emulate her dedication to the service of humanity by honouring exceptional individuals. The previous recipients of the Dr. Ida S. Scudder Humanitarian Oration include former president of India A.P.J. Abdul Kalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/azim-premji-receives-dr-ida-s-scudder-oration-award/article37930230.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID to probe death of former TNPCB chairman||Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu has ordered a probe by the Crime Branch CID(CB CID) into the death of former Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) chairman A.V. Venkatachalam. An Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer, Venkatachalam was appointed chairman of TNPCB by AIADMK government on September 27, 2019. The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) searched his house on September 24 and seized Rs. 13.5 lakh in unaccounted money, 8 kg of gold worth, 10 kg of sandalwood and incriminating documents related to property transactions. The DVAC registered a case against him for disproportionate assets that he allegedly amassed while serving as TNPCB member-secretary from October 14, 2013, to July 29, 2014. Venkatachalam was found dead in his house last week. A case for unnatural death under Section 174 of Criminal Procedure Code was registered in Velachery police station. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpling 104 and Sneha's suicide prevention helpling 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-to-probe-death-of-former-tnpcb-chairman/article37929740.ece
11 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Demand for jewellery up||Customer spending on jewellery has improved in the recent months and the demand is felt across segments, such as diamond jewellery and gold jewellery, according to Suraj Shantakumar, Director - Business Strategy, Kirtilals. Spending Mr. Shantakumar said customer spending habits had changed after the second wave of COVID-19. There was more spending on jewellery. During November-December last year, which was after the first wave, business revived to pre-COVID levels. This year, for the last three months, business was better than pre-COVID levels, he said. Many weddings that were postponed during the COVID-19 waves were held now and people were buying jewellery for the special events. Even in diamond jewellery, be in bridal or non-bridal collections, customers wanted to see different products and difference in products.  Online purchase They were also inclining to purchase more online too, he said. Seema Metha, Director - Creative, Kirtilals, added that jewellery was seen as a safe investment. The preference was more towards everyday jewellery that was trendy and simple. Further, there was not one particular design that customers wanted to buy. Multi-purpose They were looking at different options. So, jewellery were becoming multi-purpose. For instance, Kirtilals’ Paridhi collection of bangles, which were close set diamond bangles, were traditional in design. But, these had a contemporary feature as flexible technology allowed size adjustment of the same bangle so that women of different generations in a family could wear it, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demand-for-jewellery-up/article37929786.ece
11 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hotels look at ‘responsible’ New Year celebrations||For several branded hotels in the city, New Year celebrations this year will be an opportunity to host guests, both in-house and walk-ins, for ‘responsible’ and ‘safe’ celebrations. Erin Louis, general manager of ITC WelcomHotel, said the hotel planned to have dinner for guests on December 31 with live band. Similarly, it would have special dinner on Christmas eve (December 24) and Christmas lunch on December 25. “We are not doing any banqueting for Christmas and New Year. We want to have responsible celebrations,” he said. There were several social events that are happening at the hotels across the city and the booking had picked up already. The hotels in the city had good room bookings from December 18. Usually, the hotels got guests from nearby towns and other cities for New Year. The special lunch and dinner at WelcomHotel would be only on reservation, he added. D. Charles Fabian, Director - Operations, The Residency Towers, said the hotel recently had a fruit mixing event for Christmas cakes and would have a Christmas tree lighting programme on December 22. The hotel planned to have 24.5-feet tall Christmas tree. With muted celebrations last year because of COVID-19, this year, it would host New Year dinner on December 31 at its restaurants. “We want to get into the celebrations with all safety protocols (for COVID-19),” he said. P. Ramachandran, general manager at Le Meridien, said restaurant services were not affected much because of the second wave of COVID-19. The hotel would have brunch, lunch, and dinner on Christmas day for in-house and walk-in guests. For New Year, it was looking at a low key celebration with just one or two events and dinner. “It all depends on the government norms and restrictions. The celebrations will be according to the safety norms,” he said. Several other hotels are also planning events or dinner for New Year that will be organised as per safety protocol guidelines issued by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hotels-look-at-responsible-new-year-celebrations/article37929789.ece
11 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNAU holds talks with protesting students||Following protests by the students of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) over the results of the arrear examinations, the University authorities said that the talks held with the students were successful after assurance that their demands would be considered. Six demands In a statement issued late on Thursday, the TNAU said the students placed six demands – to permit registering for re-examination a week after the results of practical examinations, to provide notes for the examination, to ensure availability of food during the examination, to provide accommodation, conduct of one examination per day and cancellation of registration fees for the examination. The talks were held between the TNAU management and the students on December 8, following which the former assured the students of considering these demands. Arrear exams The arrear examinations were held between July and August this year in online mode due to the COVID-19 pandemic and TNAU had developed a mobile applications for the students to attend these online examinations using their smartphones. “The students communicated some of the issues caused due to these examinations to the management,” the TNAU statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-holds-talks-with-protesting-students/article37929791.ece
11 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Chopper crash: tourists give video clip to police officials in Coimbatore||Two tourists, who were present at Kattery near Coonoor on December 8 when the helicopter crash that killed Chief of the Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and 12 others occurred, visited the Office of the Commissioner of Police here on Friday claiming to have filmed the final moment of the ill-fated chopper. Y. Joe along with his friend H. Nazar, both residents of Coimbatore, told mediapersons that they visited the Commissioner's office to furnish details regarding the video clip to the police. Mr. Joe said he accompanied the family of Mr. Nazar to a trip to the Nilgiris on November 8. At around noon, they were near the Nilgiri Mountain Railway track at Kattery as Mr. Joe were taking photographs of others. “While taking photographs, we saw a helicopter flying in the area. As it looked and sounded different, I started to record the video on my phone,” Mr. Joe claimed, adding that the time was 12.14 p.m. when he recorded. Moments later, the chopper disappeared into the mist and all of them heard a loud crash, he added. Police and fire service vehicles rushed to the spot some 10 minutes later, he said. As they were unable to meet the Collector and police officers in the Nilgiris immediately on the same day, they decided to report this to the police in Coimbatore, according to Mr. Nazar. Commissioner of Police Pradip Kumar said their details were collected for any possible inquiry in future. The two persons visited the Office of the Commissioner of Police on Friday of their own volition, he noted, adding that the police were not conducting any inquiry pertaining to the helicopter crash. The video clip, which is around 20 seconds long, was being widely shared on social media platforms since Thursday. Intelligence agencies and the Indian Air Force have taken note of the video as part of the inquiry, according to credible sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chopper-crash-tourists-give-video-clip-to-police-officials-in-coimbatore/article37929790.ece
11 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for raping minors||The police on Friday arrested two men on charges of raping minor girls and performing child marriage in two different cases. According to the police, in the first case, the accused a 23-year-old youth allegedly abducted a 15-year-old girl, who was his relative. He allegedly married her and sexually assaulted her multiple times. She delivered a baby girl at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Thursday. The All Women Police Station – East booked the youth on Friday. He was remanded in judicial custody. In a similar case, the All Women Police Station – Central booked a 28-year-old man on charges of marrying and raping a 16-year-old girl in the city. The pregnant victim went for a medical check-up at a private hospital recently, where the doctors alerted the police. The accused was remanded in judicial custody, the police said. Convict prisoner dies A convict prisoner, who had been lodged in Coimbatore Central Prison since 2011, died during treatment on Thursday. The police said Aslam Jafri (63), a native of Thane district in Maharashtra suffered from breathlessness on Wednesday evening. He was rushed to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, where he died on Thursday, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-raping-minors/article37929782.ece
11 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Residents stage demonstration||Residents of Chinniyampalayam on the outskirts of Coimbatore staged a demonstration on Friday demanding higher compensation from the State government for land acquisition in connection with the expansion of Coimbatore International Airport. In a statement, the residents demanded that they required Rs. 3,000 per sq.ft. of the land acquired. Other demands to the district administration included providing adequate time for relocation. For the airport expansion project, the State government has allocated Rs. 1,132 crore and 624.81 acre is estimated to be acquired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-stage-demonstration/article37929783.ece
11 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||The Department of Post will conduct Dak Adalat on December 20 at the office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Coimbatore Division, on Good Shed Road. Complaints regarding postal service should be sent to the Customer Care Centre, Office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Coimbatore Division, Coimbatore - 641001 before December 17. The cover should be superscribed “Dak Adalat”. A regional level dak adalat will be held on December 23 at the office of the Postmaster General, Western Region, Tamil Nadu. [Postal customers should send their complaints to the Assistant Director (BD an Est), Office of the Postmaster General, Western Region, Tamil Nadu, Coimbatore - 641002 before December 16. The covers should be superscribed “Dak Adalat Case”.   The Income Tax Department, Tiruppur Range, felicitated entrepreneurs and top income tax payers in the corporate and non-corporate categories.     The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore has welcomed the announcement of Chief Minister M. K. Stalin that prices of plots at SIDCO estates across the State is reduced by 5 % - 75 %, depending on the industrial estate. The announcement is aimed at improving industrial investment in the State. With this, land cost has become affordable for entrepreneurs and business persons, according to a press release.    Commissioner of Tiruppur Corporation Kranti Kumar Pati ordered removal of illegal flagpoles causing disruption to traffic in all four Zones. He said in a release that the flagpoles must be removed within a span of three days from December 13 to 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37929785.ece
11 December 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||‘Over 3 lakh people continue to evade vaccination in Dharmapuri’||Over 3,37,659 people eligible for vaccination are yet to take even the first dose in the district. In the wake of the new Omicron variant, the District Collector has underlined the urgency of vaccination among the unvaccinated. The district has in stock 2,60,900 doses of Covishield vaccines and 50,070 Covaxin vaccines and the unvaccinated are urged not to delay vaccination. Collector S. Dhivyadarshini has urged the unvaccinated and those who have taken the first dose to speed up and complete the vaccination process in the wake of new Omicron variant. The population eligible for vaccination in the district is 12,03,100. Of this, over 8,65,441 people have taken the first dose. The population that has completed both the doses of vaccination is 4,53,980.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-3-lakh-people-continue-to-evade-vaccination-in-dharmapuri/article37929883.ece
11 December 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||321 houses to come up for Sri Lankan Tamils||State Ministers laid foundation stone for permanent houses for Sri Lankan Tamils at Thottanoothu, to be built at a cost of Rs. 17.17 crore, and distributed assistance worth Rs. 90 lakh to them on Friday. Minister for Cooperation I. Periyasamy Minister for Food A. Sakkarapani and Minister for Minorities and Non-Resident Tamils Welfare K. S. Masthan, along with Dindigul Collector S. Visakan, laid the foundation for the new camp. Mr. Periyasamy said that former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi initiated various welfare schemes for the Sri Lankan Tamils. Now Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has ordered completion of the construction of the new camp within 120 days. Mr. Sakkarapani said that the Chief Minister was taking steps to get Indian citizenship for Sri Lankan Tamils who had been living here for more than 40 years. The permanent dwellings for the inmates of the three rehabilitation camps in the district would be constructed soon, he said. Mr. Masthan said that permanent houses, education for children and employment opportunities had been promised by the Chief Minister. Out of the 7,469 dwellings in the camps in the State, the government would construct 3,510 new houses in the first phase at a cost of Rs. 317 crore. A total of 321 houses would be constructed for the inmates of three camps in Thottanoothu, Adiyanoothu and Gopalpatti. MLA I.P. Senthilkumar, District Revenue Officer V. Latha and Additional Collector (District Rural Development Agency) C. Dinesh Kumar, Tamil Nadu Board Chief Executive Officer Farida Banu were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/321-houses-to-come-up-for-sri-lankan-tamils/article37929880.ece
11 December 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident||Two persons - C. Anthony Arulrayar, 40, and his friend A. Solomon Raja, 48, of A. Vellodu were killed when they got under the wheels of a truck on Yagappanpatti junction on Friday evening. Police said that the two were proceeding towards Dindigul when they overtook a truck carrying gravel. The rider lost control of the vehicle and it got under the rear wheel of the truck killing both of them. Dindigul Taluk police are on the lookout for the truck driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-accident/article37930106.ece
11 December 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Two persons - C. Anthony Arulrayar, 40, and his friend A. Solomon Raja, 48, of A. Vellodu were killed when they got under the wheels of a truck on Yagappanpatti junction on Friday evening. Police said that the two were proceeding towards Dindigul when they overtook a truck carrying gravel. The rider lost control of the vehicle and it got under the rear wheel of the truck killing both of them. Dindigul Taluk police are on the lookout for the truck driver.    The Mahila Court here on Thursday awarded 10-year imprisonment to a man accused of having sexually assaulted a minor girl in 2019. Dindigul All Women Police had arrested Mani on a charge of sexually assaulting his relative. When the case came up for hearing, judge Purushothaman awarded him 10-year imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs. 10,000. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Dindigul) B. Vijayakumari appreciated Inspector Amutha and Head Constable Jothi for their follow-up action in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37929878.ece
11 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Final electoral roll for urban local bodies released||As per the final electoral roll, there are 9,72,574 voters in all the urban local bodies in the district. A release said that there were 4,43,191 electors in the Erode Corporation -- 2,17,34 men, 2,22,785 women and 42 third gender persons. 443 polling stations The Corporation has a total of 443 polling stations. Likewise, electors in each municipality were: Bhavani - 30,282 (14,502 men and 15,780 women), Gobichettipalayam - 47,545 (22,522 men, 25,022 women and one third gender), Punjai Puliyampatti - 16,933 (8,098 men, 8,833 women and two transgenders) and Sathyamangalam - 33,086 (15,911 men, 17,168 women and seven transgenders). There are 4,01,538 electors in all the 42 town panchayats in the district comprising 1,93,816 men, 2,07,708 women and 14 third gender voters. Of the total 1,251 polling booths for electors, 203 were for men, 203 were for women and 845 polling booths were for both gender.  Krishnagiri Special Correspondent adds  In Krishnagiri, the final electoral roll for urban local bodies was released by Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy. The final electoral roll for Hosur Corporation, Krishnagiri Municipality and the six town panchayats has recorded a total voter population of 3,58,083. This includes 1,77,993 women, 1,79,967 men and 123 transgenders. Hosur Corporation has registered 2,17,292 voters, which includes 1,05,913 women, 1,11,284 men and 95 transgenders. Krishnagiri municipality has registered 55,431 voters, which includes 26,910 women, 28,520 men, and one transgender. The six town panchayats has registered 85,360 voters, including 43,560 women, 41,773 men and 27 transgenders. Earlier, Collector Dr. Bhanu Reddy released the final electoral roll in the presence of representatives of recognised political parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/final-electoral-roll-for-urban-local-bodies-released/article37929887.ece
11 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Textile shops down shutters in Erode||Opposing the increase in Goods and Services Tax (GST) for textile products from 5% to 12% from January 1, 2022, around 4,000 textile shops downed shutters on Friday. Textile shops at Kongalamman Kovil Street, Eswaran Kovil Street and in other parts of the city remained closed for a day to condemn the move to increase the GST when the industry was facing challenges due to increase in yarn price. K. Kalaiselvan, president, Erode Cloth Merchants’ Association told media persons that after the GST was implemented from 2017, all the micro, small and medium traders were affected. About 30% of the traders closed their shops and left the business. Later, COVID-19 pandemic crippled the business. Now the increase in price of yarn and raw materials have further worsened the situation. “Increase in GST for textiles is unacceptable as we do not know how to carry on the business further,” he added. Mr. Kalaiselvan said that earlier many entrepreneurs had come forward in doing textile business. “But the situation has turned upside down now, as many are unwilling to start the business,” he added. He said that the hike by 7% will force many to close their business, and the increase in price of finished goods would affect the consumers. The price of yarn increased from Rs. 240 a kg during Deepavali to Rs. 320 now. “A garment sold for Rs. 500 would hereafter be sold for Rs. 900 from January 1”, Mr. Kalaiselvan said and wanted the government to withdraw their decision. All the 220-odd daily shops at the E.K.M. Abdul Gani Market also remained closed on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-shops-down-shutters-in-erode/article37929891.ece
11 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||CITU holds ‘stop vehicle’ stir against hike in fuel prices||In a novel protest against fuel price hike, members of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) halted their vehicles for 10 minutes here on Friday. Around 10 members stopped their two-wheelers at Surampatti Four Road from noon to 12.10 p.m. and raised slogans. They said that fuel price hike had led to increase in the cost of essential commodities. The ‘stop vehicle’ stir was organised State-wide to seek the attention of both the Central and State governments to reduce fuel prices. They distributed awareness pamphlets to the public urging them to support their stir. The protest was held at six places in which over 30 motorists took part. In Salem, members of various Left organisations staged a similar protest at Five Roads junction and Hasthampatti on Friday. The protest saw the participation of the members of CITU, Democratic Youth Front of India, farmer organisations, and members of various transport organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citu-holds-stop-vehicle-stir-against-hike-in-fuel-prices/article37929893.ece
11 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 59 fresh cases||Erode district on Friday reported 59 new cases of COVID-19, which took the overall case tally to 1,06,869. While 68 persons were discharged after treatment, the district had 687 active cases. Salem district reported 45 new cases. According to health officials, 43 cases were indigenous and 15 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported 40 fresh cases, all indigenous. As per bulletin, one death each was reported in Salem and Namakkal districts. Krishnagiri district recorded 14 new cases, and the overall case tally rose to 43,944. While 10 persons were discharged after treatment, the district had 115 active cases. Dharmapuri district recorded five fresh cases, which took the overall tally to 28, 879. While 12 persons were discharged, the district had 83 active cases on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-59-fresh-cases/article37929886.ece
11 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power supply disconnected to two plastic units||Officials from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) disconnected power supply to two units that were involved in the manufacturing of banned plastic items. Based on information, the officials inspected the units functioning at Vendipalayam in the city and at Thudupathi and found the production of banned plastic items. A report was submitted to District Collector and Chairman of the District Coordination Committee H. Krishnanunni, who ordered disconnection of power supply to the units. The Collector in a release said that the State government through its order number 84 dated June 25, 2018, had banned manufacture, storage and sale of one-time use and throwaway plastics irrespective of thickness. Also, Southern Zone of National Green Tribunal has asked the government to initiate strict action against the violators. The items banned by the government are plastic carry bags, plastic flags, plastic sheets for wrapping food, spreading on the dining table, plastic plates, plastic coated tea cups, plastic tumbler, water pouches and packets and plastic straw. The release warned of action against violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-supply-disconnected-to-two-plastic-units/article37929889.ece
11 December 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||32 arrested in drive against gutkha||The Kallakurichi district police arrested 32 persons and recovered 40 kg of gutkha and banned tobacco products from their possession in a special drive held against gutkha. According to a press release, following directions from the Superintendent of Police Ziaul Haque, special teams conducted surprise raids in Chinna Salem, Sankarapuram and Kallakurichi, and arrested 32 persons. Police said the special raids were conducted from December 7 to 9. The police, in association with Revenue Department officials, also sealed shops of 14 persons for selling banned tobacco products. The accused were produced before a local court and remanded to custody. In Villupuram district, two persons were arrested and 35 kg of gutkha products were recovered from their possession during the special raids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/32-arrested-in-drive-against-gutkha/article37930194.ece
11 December 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Textile shops and units down shutters in Karur||Members of the Karur Weaving and Knitting Factories Owners Association participated in a token strike opposing the increase in Goods and Services Tax (GST) for textile products from 5% to 12% from January 1, 2022, here on Friday. Over 200 member textile shops and allied units, catering to the domestic market, participated in the strike, says association representatives. Shops and manufacturing units in Sengunthapuram, Kamarajapuram, Ramakrishnapuram, Vaiyapuri Nagar and other places remained closed. Terming the hike very steep, R.Dhanapathi, president of the association, said it would adversely affect textile manufacturer. The hike has been notified by the GST council without any consultation, he alleged and demanded that the hike be rolled back. Representations have been submitted to the government and efforts were on to meet the Union Textile Minister and senior officials concerned to press the demand, he added. Although handloom textile exporters did not participate in the strike, they extended support to the units catering to the domestic market and opposed the hike in GST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-shops-and-units-down-shutters-in-karur/article37929862.ece
11 December 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Minister pays homage to Rajaji||Minister for Handlooms and Textiles R.Gandhi paid homage at the memorial of C.Rajagopalachari at Thorapalli here on Friday. The event marked the 143rd birth anniversary of Rajaji at his birth place in Hosur. Mr.Gandhi garlanded the bust of Rajaji. Collector V.Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-pays-homage-to-rajaji/article37929884.ece
11 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Teething problems surface in renovated Periyar bus stand||Two days after inauguration of the renovated Periyar Bus stand, teething problems faced by the passengers have surfaced. Even as bus drivers complained of inconvenience, passengers allege about inadequate number of toilet and urinal facilities in the new bus stand constructed under Smart City programme. Even as the authorities have ensured laying of Hayath Khan Road and removing encroachments on the roads around the bus stand to ensure free flow of traffic in the new pattern since Wednesday, lack of signage boards has been a major problem. Except for temporary flex boards, no route boards have been placed in the four platforms to help the passenger reach the right bay for the bus to their destination. “Hundreds of passengers have been asking people around and also the police outpost and the TNSTC office for the right platforms,” a policeman said. Besides, the men and women were complaining about lack of toilet facility in the southern side of the bus stand. “The number of urinals is highly inadequate considering the huge volume of passengers arriving here everyday,” said a driver. Besides, the TNSTC crew said that lack of rest room, which was provided in the old bus stand, was putting them in a disadvantaged position. Besides, lack of signages for drinking water dispensers and toilets was also a major problem at the new facility. Officials present in the bus stand said that the Corporation should ensure proper cleaning at regular intervals to ensure hygiene in the toilets. The bus bays in platform one has been constructed in such a way that the buses can be parked only in the reverse direction. “It takes lot of time and also poses risk while putting the buses in the reverse direction,” a traffic police constable said. Buses are parked on the road instead in the bays. Passengers are seen waiting under the sun to board buses. A driver said that necessary changes in the design of the bays should be made to help easy negotiation of the buses in the platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teething-problems-surface-in-renovated-periyar-bus-stand/article37930110.ece
11 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments removed from Wakf Board properties, says Minister||Wakf Board had been retrieving properties that were encroached upon and restoring them to the respective jamats, said Minster for Minorities and Non-Resident Tamils Welfare K.S. Masthan. After visiting Kazimar Big Mosque here on Friday, Mr. Masthan said several properties that were encroached upon in Chennai, Salem, Erode and Dindigul had been recovered legally. On the issue of dispute in administration of Kazimar Big Mosque, Mr. Masthan said both the parties had been invited for talks so that both of them could be part of the new administration. The Minister exuded confidence that Chennai international airport would be made the embarkation point for Haj pilgrims. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin already drew the attention of Prime Minister to restore Chennai as an embarkation point, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachments-removed-from-wakf-board-properties-says-minister/article37930105.ece
11 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vehicles blocked at traffic signals against high fuel price||Members of Centre of Indian Trade Unions, Democratic Youth Federation of India and Students’ Federation of India staged “Stop the vehicle for 10 minutes” protest at different traffic signals to highlight the high fuel prices, in Madurai on Friday. Scores of agitators took part in the protest held at the junctions in Kalavasal, Arasaradi, Aavin, Sivaganga Road and raised slogans against the Centre. They blocked the traffic for 10 minutes from 12 noon. They demanded the Union Government to bring down the excise duty on petrol, diesel and cooking gas. “The increase in price of fuel has only fuelled more problem for the common man, who have already lost jobs during the COIVD slowdown,” said CPI (M) district secretary, M. Ganesan. Leaders R. Deivaraj (CITU), T. Selva (DYFI) and Vel Deva (SFI), were among those who took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicles-blocked-at-traffic-signals-against-high-fuel-price/article37930112.ece
11 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC commutes death sentence||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday commuted the death sentence imposed on a man from Pudukkottai district for the murder of his mother over a property dispute in 2018 to life imprisonment. In 2018, Anand hacked his mother Thilagarani to death. She was waiting at a bus stop when Anand attacked her with a billhook and severed her head. Later, he surrendered before the Village Administrative Officer and produced the severed head and the billhook. The Pudukkottai Mahila Court in 2021 held him guilty and imposed the death penalty. The verdict was referred to the High Court for confirmation. It is said that Thilagarani was tried for the death of her husband Thangaraj, but was acquitted. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran observed the death sentence for the offence under Section 302 (murder) IPC had to be imposed only in rarest of rare case. In this case it was sad to note that while imposing capital punishment of death, the trial court knowingly or unknowingly had totally ignored all the mitigating factors. The judges said while imposing the death sentence, discretion must be exercised judicially after balancing the aggravating and mitigating circumstances of the crime. There was an improper consideration in balancing the aggravating and mitigating circumstances by the trial court. The trial court’s finding that the manner of commission of the offence showed that the accused was having an undaunted audacity was absolutely contrary to the conduct of the accused. He had surrendered before the Village Administrative Officer immediately and had voluntarily given a confession statement. The evidence indicates he surrendered to police, remorsefully, the judges said. The court said that while convicting the man for committing culpable homicide amounting to murder, death penalty was excessive and not proportionate to the gravity of the crime. The sentence was modified to life imprisonment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-commutes-death-sentence/article37929852.ece
11 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Thai Vazhthu is a prayer song, not anthem: HC||Tamil Thai Vazhthu is a prayer song and not an anthem. There is no Statutory or Executive Order requiring attendees to stand up when it is sung. But the highest reverence and respect ought to be shown to the song, observed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. Justice G.R. Swaminathan took into account the fact that a Government Order (G.O.) issued in 1970 stated that the song, written by P. Sundaram Pillai, should be sung as a prayer song at the commencement (and not at the end) of all functions organised by government departments, local bodies and educational institutions. In 2018, the then Governor Banwarilal Purohit released a Tamil-Sanskrit dictionary at a function held in Music Academy, Chennai, in the presence of the pontiff of the Kanchi Kamakoti Peetam, Shri Vijayendra Saraswathi Swamigal. When Tamil Thai Vazhthu was played, the pontiff remained seated. This had triggered considerable outrage. The judge observed, “I cannot help asking as to whether the whole controversy was justified in the first place”, while taking cognisance of the government order issued in 1970. A memo was also released in the same year, directing that Tamil Thai Vazhthu be sung in Raaga Mohanam and in Thisra Thaalam as composed by musician M.S. Viswanathan. Thus, it is a prayer song and not an anthem. “It is true that members of the audience conventionally stand up whenever Tamil Thai Vazhthu is sung. But the question is whether this is the only mode in which respect can be shown. When we celebrate pluralism and diversity, insisting that there can be only one way of showing respect reeks of hypocrisy. One should not forget that a sanyasi occupies a special place in our social and cultural life,” the judge said. Further the judge observed, “On becoming a sanyasi, the person suffers a civil death. He must be taken to have a rebirth. A sanyasi primarily leads a life of piety. When in prayer, he is invariably found in a meditative posture. Since Tamil Thai Vazhthu is a prayer song, a sanyasi is certainly justified in sitting in a state of meditation. In the instant case, the pontiff is seen sitting in a dhyana posture with his eyes closed. It was his way of expressing his reverence and respect for Mother Tamil.” The court was hearing a petition filed by Kan. Ilango, who sought the quashing of an FIR registered against him. Following the incident in 2018, Mr. Ilango and a dozen other people assembled before the branch of the Kanchi Mutt in Rameswaram and raised provocative slogans. They had allegedly entered the mutt wearing footwear and intimidated the manager. An FIR was registered by the Rameswaram police based on a complaint by the manager. The judge took note of the fact that the petitioner was ready to make amends for his conduct and had approached the complainant with a letter expressing his regret. Considering the fact that the petitioner and the complainant have reconciled, no purpose would be served by continuing with the prosecution, the judge said, and quashed the FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-thai-vazhthu-is-a-prayer-song-not-anthem-hc/article37929739.ece
11 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Take immediate steps to rebuild dilapidated houses in Melur: HC||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Friday directed the Madurai Collector to sanction and approve the funds for a project to rebuild the houses for 25 families of Melur who were living in dilapidated houses. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan took a serious view in the case and directed that as and when funds were allotted the construction has to begin. The project should commence with immediate effect, the judges said. The court observed that the sanction for the project should be approved within a week and the construction should begin by December 31, 2021. The judges said it should be ensured that quality materials are used for the construction purpose. With regard to providing temporary accommodation to the 25 families, the State submitted that they would be accommodated at a community hall as an interim arrangement and also at temporary houses. The court was hearing the petition filed by A. Alagu of Melur. The petitioner complained that houses built by Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar Housing and Development Corporation in Kanmaipatti village near Melur were more than 30 years old. They were damaged and not fit for living. The houses could collapse any time. They posed a threat to people living in them. Despite sending representations to the authorities requesting them to reconstruct or renovate the houses, they did not look into the requests, she said. The authorities have to take necessary steps to renovate or reconstruct the houses in order to protect the lives of 25 families living in Kanmaipatti. The authorities said that it would take about six months to complete the reconstruction work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-immediate-steps-to-rebuild-dilapidated-houses-in-melur-hc/article37930102.ece
11 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC upholds acquittal of youth in murder case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday upheld the acquittal of a youth from Dindigul district, who was accused in the rape and murder of a girl in 2019, and dismissed the appeals preferred by the State and the girl’s parents. The case of the prosecution was that the 12-year-old girl was at her home and her parents had left for work on the day of occurrence. When the mother returned home at around 5 p.m. she found the girl lying dead in the bedroom with bleeding injuries. A live electrical wire had been inserted into her nose and mouth. Blood stains were found all over her body. During investigation, the police claimed, they found that a 17-year-old boy, living near her house, committed the crime. The boy was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board and sent to an observation home. The trial court had held that the charges were not proven beyond doubt and acquitted him. In their appeals against the verdict, the State and the parents of the girl said the trial court failed to consider the overwhelming evidence against the accused. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran held that the evidence was not specific. The trial court had rightly found that the discrepancies did not conclusively prove the guilt of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-upholds-acquittal-of-youth-in-murder-case/article37929869.ece
11 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court upholds life sentence||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday confirmed the life imprisonment imposed on a man from Tirunelveli district for the rape and murder of a woman in 1994. The Additional Sessions Judge II, Tirunelveli, had awarded life sentence to him in 1996. Observing that the evidence of sexual violence, medical evidence and the post mortem report had, without any doubt, indicated sexual assault and murder, a Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran confirmed the conviction and sentence awarded to the accused by the trial court. The court was hearing the criminal appeal preferred by Pathipoornam of Tirunelveli district. The man had forcefully taken the victim to a secluded place, sexually assaulted her and pushed her on a stone, as a result of which she sustained a head injury and died. The reports said there were severe injuries on her private part and head.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-upholds-life-sentence/article37930107.ece
11 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘AIIMS project completion is targeted for October 2026’||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday told the Lok Sabha that the target date for the completion of AIIMS project in Madurai was October 2026. The process of appointment of Project Management Consultant was in progress, he said. Replying to a starred question by DMK MP Dayanidhi Maran, the Union Health Minister said in the absence of own campus of AIIMS in Madurai, the Centre was in discussion with the Tamil Nadu government to identify a temporary campus with adequate facilities, including laboratory facilities and hostel accommodation for students, to start MBBS classes. With regard to the funds allocated and released, he said for operational expenditure, Rs. 5 crore had been released to AIIMS Madurai during the financial year 2021-22, out of which the reported expenditure was Rs. 24.25 lakh. Funds for setting up AIIMS were provided separately and released to the Executing Agency out of the allocation under the Capital Head of Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) budget. AIIMS Madurai project was being funded through an Official Development Assistance (ODA) loan from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). The initial preparatory work by the JICA, including survey and fact-finding missions, and multiple rounds of consultation with officials of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare took time and the loan agreement with the JICA could be signed only on March 26, 2021, he said. He added that the Executing Agency for pre-investment work had been appointed and the pre-investment activities were completed substantially. Mr. Maran had sought the details of the present status and the timeline for the completion of AIIMS in Madurai, the funds allocated and spent. He also asked whether alternative locations were selected for operationalising AIIMS, Madurai, on a temporary or interim basis and for the reason for delay in completion of AIIMS project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiims-project-completion-is-targeted-for-october-2026/article37929872.ece
11 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Training programme for engineers||A three-day training programme on ‘Avoidance of collapse of pre-stressed concrete elevated structures and bridges during construction’ was held by Indian Academy of Highways Engineers here. Following recent accidents at various locations, including Madurai that killed a worker, the Centre directed the academy to conduct the programme, where engineers from National Highways Authority of India, Highways Department of Tamil Nadu, bridge engineers participated. Giridhar Aramane, Secretary, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways and Chairman, NHAI, I.K. Pandey, Director General, Road Development, Dheeraj Kumar, Principal Secretary, Highways and Minor Ports Department, Tamil Nadu, and Sanjeev Kumar, Director, IAHE, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-programme/article37930108.ece
11 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Training programme||A three-day training programme on ‘Avoidance of collapse of pre-stressed concrete elevated structures and bridges during construction’ was held by the Indian Academy of Highways Engineers here recently. Following recent accidents at various locations, including Madurai that killed a worker, the Centre directed the academy to conduct the training programme, where engineers from the National Highways Authority of India, Highways Department of Tamil Nadu, bridge engineers from various construction companies participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-programme/article37929881.ece
11 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Mullaperiyar dam stood at its maximum permissible level of 142 ft with an inflow of 1,798 cusecs and a discharge of 1,200 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 70.14 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 2,828 cusecs and a discharge of 2,654 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 11,115 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday was in (mm): Pulipatti 15.2, Kallandiri 13.6, Sathiyar dam 9, Chittampatti 8.6, Mettupatti 6.2, Peranai and Madurai 6 each, Andipatti 5.4, Kodaikanal 4.4, Sothupparai dam 4, Thaniyamangalam 3, and Idayapatti and Melur 2 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37929874.ece
11 December 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||‘Create awareness to prevent sexual harassment at workplace’||An awareness programme on the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 was held at District Collectorate here on Thursday. The seminar was organised by the Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department. Collector Shreya P.Singh spoke about need for setting up of internal complaints committee at workplaces. She said that a complaints committee has been set up at the district level to monitor the functioning of internal committees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/create-awareness-to-prevent-sexual-harassment-at-workplace/article37929894.ece
11 December 2021||PUDUCERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. to raise Rs. 125 crore by selling securities||The Puducherry Government has decided to sell six-year dated securities in the form of stock to the public by auction for an aggregate amount of Rs. 125 crore. Securities will be issued for a minimum nominal amount of Rs. 10,000 and in multiples of Rs. 10,000 thereafter, Development Commissioner and Finance Secretary Prashant Goyal said in a communication. The auction will be conducted by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Mumbai Office (Fort) on December 14. Interested persons, firms, companies, corporate bodies, institutions, provident fund trusts, regional rural banks and co-operative banks could submit a single consolidated, non-competitive bid on behalf of all its constituents, in electronic format. The bids could be submitted on the RBI’s core banking solution, E-Kuber, available on the website www.rbi.org.in, from 10. 30 a.m. to 11 a.m. on December 14. The government stock will bear interest at the rate determined by the RBI during the auction. Interest will be paid on June 15 and December 15 of every financial year until repayment, the communication said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-to-raise-rs-125-crore-by-selling-securities/article37930191.ece
11 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Precia Molen opens new factory in T.N.||Precia Molen, a leading weighing industry company headquartered in France, opened its third modern factory in Chennai on Friday. Tamil Nadu Minister for Rural Industries T. M. Anbarasan inaugurated the facility in the presence of Lise Talbot Barre, Consul General of France in Pondicherry and Chennai. Group Chairwomen Anne Marie Perin Escharavil and Group Managing Director Rene Jean Colombel of Precia Molen France participated virtually. Managing Director of Precia Molen India, MPs, MLAs and senior government officials were present. A release from the Consulate said the new facility would double the company's production capacity and would cater to the clients in South East Asia, Middle East, Asia Pacific and export markets. The visit by the Consul General was an opportunity to "salute the dynamism and diversity" of French investments in South India, particularly Tamil Nadu. The new venture illustrated the contribution of French companies to the 'Make in India' initiative of Government of India. Further, it highlighted the strategic partnership between France and India beyond the armaments and defence industry, the release said. Precia Molen India opened its first modern manufacturing factory in 2015, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/precia-molen-opens-new-factory-in-tn/article37929846.ece
11 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CITU, other associations stage protest over high petrol price||Cadre belonging to the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and members of other like-minded organisations on Friday staged a novel protest against rise in prices of petroleum products by stopping vehicles for 10 minutes near Swadheshi Cotton mill complex. Led by secretary of Puducherry unit of Communist Party of India (Marxist) R. Rajangam, the workers stopped the vehicles and explained to motorists about the irrational rise in prices of petroleum products. They also explained about how the increase in oil price was creating imbalances in family budgets. Members of the Confederation of Puducherry State Government Employees Association, BSNL Employees Association, All India Kisan Sabha, All India Agricultural Workers Association and All India Democratic Women’s Association also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citu-other-associations-stage-protest-over-high-petrol-price/article37930196.ece
11 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP MP urges Centre to provide interim relief||Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) S. Selvaganabathy has urged the Union Government to provide interim financial assistance to the Union Territory to take up rain relief work and provide compensation to the affected people. During the Zero Hour in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, he said Puducherry and Karaikal have received unprecedented rain in the last one month. Both the regions usually receive an average of 76.7 cm of rain during the entire Northeast monsoon period. After the onset of the Northeast monsoon this year, the Union Territory had received 83.4 cm in November alone. Crops in around 3,950 hectares of land were damaged. Around 12,000 farmers have been affected, he said. After the visit of the Central team, rain continued in Puducherry and Karaikal. The Puducherry Government has estimated the loss to be around Rs. 300 crore. The Union Territory administration was facing severe financial crisis and the government will find it difficult to divert funds meant for other schemes to provide relief, Mr. Selvaganabathy said. More to come “The weathermen have predicted more rain in both the regions in the coming days. I request the Central Government to immediately provide interim rain relief to the Union Territory,” he added.  Puducherry Government has estimated the loss to be around Rs. 300 crore. The Union Territory administration was facing severe financial crisis and the will find it difficult to divert funds meant for other schemes Selvaganabathy MP, Rajya Sabha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-mp-urges-centre-to-provide-interim-relief/article37930189.ece
11 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 24 fresh infections||The Union Territory recorded 24 new COVID-19 cases from 2,480 tests conducted in 24 hours, ending at 10 a.m. on Friday. Of this, 19 are from Puducherry region, four from Karaikal and one from Mahe. The active case count is 243 and test positivity rate is 0.97%. The toll is 1,877. There are 1,270,60 recoveries and the total number of cases is 1,291, 80.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-24-fresh-infections/article37930192.ece
11 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CM, Speaker pay homage to martyrs||Led by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, the Union Territory on Friday paid homage to country’s first Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, wife and 11 other defence personnel who were killed in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Rangasamy, Speaker R. Selvam, Ministers and legislators paid floral tributes to the portrait of the General, kept in the portico of the Legislative Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-speaker-pay-homage-to-martyrs/article37930193.ece
11 December 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Birds from afar find this an apt place to raise a family||Hundreds of winged visitors have added colour to the serene atmosphere of babul trees and a water-filled tank in Therthangal Bird Sanctuary near here. Among the birds are spot-billed pelicans, cormorants, darters, grebes, large egrets, little egrets, moorhens, night herons, paddy birds, painted storks, pintails, pond herons and white ibises. The birds that come from as far as Europe and the Arctic are regular visitors from October, says Forest Range Officer G. Venkatesh. They come here for breeding as the entire 72 acres of the bird sanctuary is an undisturbed area. The birds, with their young ones, will leave in April/May. Besides the big babul trees, neem trees and tamarind tress that give good green cover along with the water in the huge tank attract the birds. “Nestings and hatching have begun in the sanctuary. Already, over 20,000 birds have come here,” Mr. Venkatesh says. No crackers Therthangal, the 14th bird sanctuary in the State, has its best support from the villagers who have even sacrificed the pleasure of bursting crackers during Deepavali to provide a noiseless atmosphere for the birds. “Our villagers did not burst crackers in the last few years, ever since they realised the importance of the sanctuary,” says R. Gurusamy, 60, head of the village forest committee. To help the birds feed easily in the sanctuary, forest officials left fingerlings of breeding fish in the tank, Mr. Venkatesh says. Bird watchers from far and near come here regularly and spend considerable time watching the birds and taking photographs, says Mr. Gurusamy. “Sometimes, even foreign tourists come here,” he adds. The Forest Department has constructed a watchtower and visitors can climb up to have a better view of the birds. Binoculars are provided to the visitors to have a closer look of the birds. The Forest Department plans to introduce eco-tourism here by providing boating and other facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/birds-from-afar-find-this-an-apt-place-to-raise-a-family/article37929876.ece
11 December 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Four juveniles hacked inside bus in Paramakudi||Four juveniles, who were returning after attending a hearing at Juvenile Justice Board here, were hacked by an armed gang inside a bus near Paramakudi on Friday evening. The injured were rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. Police said the juveniles were returning to Madurai after the hearing in connection with the murder of one Manikandan in Ariyamangalam in 2019. The juveniles in conflict with law had shifted their houses to Villapuram in Madurai. When the bus was crossing Kamudakudi under Paramakudi Town police station limits, a car that was following them intercepted the bus at around 5 p.m. Armed men, wearing helmets, got inside the bus and started attacking the juveniles and fled the scene. Revenge attack “It is a revenge attack on the juveniles. Except for the four, no passenger in the bus was injured,” said Superintendent of Police E. Karthik. Special teams had been formed to nab the assailants, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-juveniles-hacked-inside-bus-in-paramakudi/article37929877.ece
11 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM to visit Salem today||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will be visiting Salem on Saturday to launch new schemes and inaugurate finished works. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru told presspersons the Chief Minister would inaugurate 83 completed works worth Rs. 38.52 crore under 12 departments and would lay foundation for 60 projects worth Rs. 54 crore. He said that welfare schemes worth Rs. 168.64 crore would be handed over to 30,837 beneficiaries on Saturday. According to officials, the Chief Minister would also launch Namakku Naame Scheme and Urban Employment Scheme. He would also unveil the portrait of former DMK legislator A. Raja, who died recently. Mr.Nehru along with senior officials visited the function venue on Friday and reviewed the arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-visit-salem-today/article37929895.ece
11 December 2021||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||Baby shower for 250 pregnant women held||Minister for Revenue K. K. S. S. R. Ramachandran distributed freebies to 250 pregnant women at a social baby shower programme here on Friday. The Minister said that only a healthy and happy mother can deliver a healthy baby and the baby shower programme was organised to ensure it. The government was organising the social ‘valaikappu’ programme for the underprivileged women who could not afford such functions. The programme did not discriminate women on the lines of caste and religion, he added. By creating an awareness among the pregnant women about health, the government had reduced mortality of mother and child during delivery. The mothers are also insisted upon going for institutionalised deliveries. Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that the social baby shower programme was unique to Tamil Nadu in the entire country. The government was helping the women to deliver a healthy baby in all possible ways and also ensures health of the child upto six years through integrated child development scheme. He appealed to the pregnant women to come forward to take COVID-19 vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/baby-shower-for-250-pregnant-women-held/article37929871.ece
11 December 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for murder of son-in-law||Tenkasi police have arrested a woman for allegedly murdering her son-in-law with the help of contract killers. Police said car driver Aravind, 30, of Vilathikulam in Thoothukudi district married Mala, 26, of Tenkasi against the wishes of the girl’s family and they were living in Vilathikulam. Aravind went missing after he visited Tenkasi on Dec. 3. Following complaint from the family of Aravind, Tenkasi police picked up one Ponnarasu, 20, of Tenkasi. During interrogation, Ponnarasu reportedly told the police that on instructions of Mala’s mother Ponrani, he, with the help of his friends, stabbed Aravind to death and dumped the body in a stone quarry pit. The police retrieved the body and also arrested Ponrani, 43, and Ponnarasu’s associates G. Muthukrishnan alias Vasanth, 20, and Thambiran, 20, of Keezhapuliyoor near Tenkasi. Meanwhile, Ponnarsu’s friends Seetharaman and Manikandan surrendered before a court in Sankarankovil and one Arunachalam went underground. During interrogation, Ponrani told the investigators that Mala had married Aravind against the wishes of her family. She had then started a beauty parlour in Vilathikulam, which was reportedly opposed by Aravind. Due to the difference of opinion, Aravind used to torture Mala. When Ponrani asked her daughter to divorce him, Mala rejected it and continued to live with Aravind. Upset over this, Ponrani allegedly hired contract killers to murder Aravind and reportedly gave them Rs. 4 lakh in advance besides promising another Rs. 4 lakh after the deed was done. Hunt is on to nab Arunachalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-held-for-murder-of-son-in-law/article37930222.ece
11 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BIM signs MoU with IMTI||The Irrigation Management Training Institute (IMTI), an institute functioning under the Water Resources Department of Public Works Department, and the Bharathidasan Institute of Management (BIM)-Tiruchi, entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Friday for mutual cooperation to promote latest technologies in agriculture and irrigation. The MoU seeks to promote adoption of Artificial Intelligence / Machine Learning and digital best practices in agriculture and irrigation space and create a more extensive knowledge/skill base to improve farm productivity, agriculture management, and rural entrepreneurship, according to press release from BIM. Given their mutual interest in applying management tools and new technology applications in agriculture, irrigation, and allied areas, the two have entered into an academic and research partnership. The MoU will focus on arriving at proof-of-concept solutions for farm productivity and irrigation management using artificial intelligence/ machine learning techniques, knowledge sharing through seminars/ conferences and training programmes and undertake collaborative research to address the problems related to rural entrepreneurship and rural market assessment. M. Rajamohan, Director General, IMTI, said that the State government has given a fresh impetus towards augmentation of water resources, including ensuring uninterrupted supply of water for irrigation, adoption of modern irrigation practices, enhancing agricultural productivity and strengthening of market linkages to raise farmers’ income and their livelihood. “With our domain expertise and BIM’s vast experience in management and new-age technological applications, we will work towards achieving the government’s vision of doubling the cropped area in Tamil Nadu and bringing the state within the top three positions in India for agricultural productivity through this collaborative effort,” he said. Asit K.Barma, Director, BIM, said the unique programme architecture of BIM ensures integration of technology and sustainable development goals with all the courses it offered. A few faculty members at BIM were working on digital and agricultural economics to apply digital innovation for transformation in agriculture and irrigation management. “We are excited to work with IMTI to explore digital innovation’s potential on farming such as the use of digital technology to integrate with electronic national agriculture market (eNAM) for better price discovery and advantage to farmers; leveraging soil health management system; data-driven precision agriculture; integrated irrigation projects where wireless sensors can be deployed for irrigation management, creating a platform for farmers to receive digital knowledge on mobile phones in their language on a real-time basis for informed decision making; or augmenting the rural supply chain. We also intend to jointly build various proof of concept with the potential to impact farm productivity and rural entrepreneurship,” Dr.Barma said. B. Elangovan, Joint Director of Agriculture/Professor, IMTI, and D.Mahalingam, Assistant Professor, BIM, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bim-signs-mou-with-imti/article37929860.ece
11 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Staff of ‘constituent colleges’ seek Governor’s intervention||The Association of University Teachers submitted a representation to the Governor R.N.Ravi drawing his attention to the plight of teaching and non-teaching staff of the 10 erstwhile constituent colleges of the Bharathidasan University due to the “non-payment of the salary for months together.” Its general secretary S.Bala Murugan said that the university had started 10 constituent colleges in since 2006 in Lalgudi, Perambalur, Orathanadu, Nannilam, Nagapattinam, Vedaranyam, Thiruthuraipoondi, Aranthangi, Veppur and Inam Kulathur. It had appointed 34 regular teacher and 363 guest lecturers, 205 ‘hourly’ lecturers and 51 teachers under parent-teacher associations in blatant violation of the directive of University Grants Commission that the number of temporary teachers should not exceed 20% of the sanctioned strength. Besides, 92 non-teaching staff were appointed. The temporary teachers were paid salaries ranging between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 15,000 in violation of the UGC directive that the teachers shall be paid Rs. 50,000. The exploitation of teachers continued as the staff thought that their services would be regularised. Meanwhile, the government converted all constituent colleges into government colleges in two phases in 2019 and 2020. Bharathidasan University, on the basis of the relevant G.O., refused to pay salaries to these staff since May 31, 2021. Only a portion of their salaries has been released and the salaries for the months of June, October and November were pending. A teacher of the college at Orathanadu passed away as she struggled to meet her medical expenses and the non-coverage of insurance under the NHIS scheme of the government, the AUT alleged. The association urged the Governor to intervene to relieve the suffering of the teachers by directing the departments of Finance and the Higher Education to abide by the UGC directives with respect to payment of salaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/staff-of-constituent-colleges-seek-governors-intervention/article37929848.ece
11 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Greening drive launched||The Highways Department has planned to plant about 10,000 tree saplings along Thuraiyur-Perambalur Road (SH-142) which is being upgraded under the Chennai Kanyakumari Industrial Corridor Project (CKICP). The upgrade of the 30-km long stretch connecting Thuraiyur with the Tiruchi-Chennai Highway is expected to give a boost to industrial development of the backward Thuraiyur region and also help provide an improved transport link for industries in Ariyalur belt. In an effort to make riding a pleasant experience on the road, the department has launched a greening drive. M.K.Selvam, Chief Engineer (Highways), CKICP, who inspected the progress of the project works on Thursday, inaugurated the drive by planting a sapling along the road stretch in the presence of Divisional Engineer R.Sundari and Assistant Divisional Engineer, S.Jayanthi. The road is being widened as a two-lane road with paved shoulders. Two by-passes are to be built at Nakkasalem and Kurumbalur. The project entails construction of 12 minor bridges and 55 box culverts. The project has been taken up at a cost of about Rs. 143 crore under the CKICP funded by the Asian Development Bank. The road is being widened from the existing seven metres to 10 metres. The project, which began a couple of months back, is scheduled to be completed by February 2023. However, the department is planning to complete the project within the next six to seven months. The existing road on the section was narrow and was unable to the heavy traffic, especially goods vehicles transporting goods from Ariyalur. A short stretch of about 3.40 km of the road was already widened as a four-lane road in 2018 at a cost of Rs. 87 lakh under the Central Road Fund Project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/greening-drive-launched/article37929856.ece
11 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||State Education Policy will be drafted soon, says Minister||The State Government will soon constitute a high-level committee to frame the State Education Policy and a set of names to be appointed as the panel members has been recommended to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, said School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi here on Friday. The Minister said the State’s position on the National Education Policy (NEP) would be made evident through the its own education policy, which would be formulated within a few months. “Children would have an understanding of themselves and their aspirations only after Class V. How can a child in Class III be asked to write a board examination?” he said. Children need to be taught through activity-based learning such as Montessori Learning, which some private institutions do. These will be part of the reforms the State was planning, he said. A preliminary meeting was held under the leadership of the School Education Secretary last week, following which the names of people to constitute the high-level committee was submitted, he said while meeting the press after distributing touchscreen tablets to 80 students studying in Class XII at the Government Model School located within the Indira Ganesan Institutions on Madurai Road. The tablets were provided to provide assistance for the children, which was being undertaken as a pilot project by the School Education Department. Such model schools were set up in 10 districts to encourage students to study in premier higher educational institutes after their schooling. Special attention and guidance would be given to these students, and based on their results, it would be emulated in other districts, Mr. Poyyamozhi said. The School Education Department was looking to fill up 2,774 postgraduate teacher vacancies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-education-policy-will-be-drafted-soon-says-minister/article37929734.ece
11 December 2021||TIRUCHi,TAMIL NADU||Garbage near GH irks residents||E.V.R Street behind the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital has become a dumping ground for domestic waste. Sanitary workers blame the residents, claiming that they do not hand over the waste when the waste collection vehicles go to collect them. E.V.R. Street is home to a few apartment complexes and a hostel. A few small shacks serving breakfast also line the street, which is cluttered with plastic and food waste. The buildings are inhabited by wealthy individuals but the road facing the buildings is in a poor state. Breeding of mosquitoes and other insects could cause infections, residents said. The eateries which serve food dump food waste wrapped in banana leaves here. It leads to dogs and pigs feeding on them, they added. Amid a pandemic, one’s surroundings must be maintained in a neat and tidy manner but quite the opposite was happening, said M. Bharathi, a resident. Residents who miss the garbage collection vehicles dump their garbage bags at night or when they leave for work in the morning, she added. The Tiruchi Corporation had declared that nearly 95% of the large bins which were placed across the city were removed to make way for door-to-door collection of waste. ‘The plan backfired as the sanitary workers themselves sometimes dump the waste here. Residents do not take up the responsibility of keeping their surroundings clean. They only want the waste out of their homes,’ Saindhavi, another resident said. A permanent solution would be the restoration of the bins, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garbage-near-gh-irks-residents/article37929854.ece
11 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Christmas carol contests go online||As the rain and fears of a new pandemic keep people indoors, Christian community organisations are bringing festive cheer with a digital twist in the run-up to Christmas this year with online carol singing contests that showcase amateur musical talent from across the country and even abroad. “Our main aim is to give a platform to singers from a rural background, because they are rarely represented,” said Fr. Suresh Kumar, who is in charge of Sigaram Media DCMSSS, a social service organisation that runs a digital recording studio in Edamalaipatti Pudur, Tiruchi. Going digital has helped people follow COVID-19 safety protocols and send in entries from the comfort of their homes. “The video entries for our contest ‘Balanukku Oru Thallattu’(A Lullaby for the Infant) have a time limit of four minutes, and can be shared through our social media accounts or uploading apps. We have received over 30 entries so far, and are expecting more to come in the next few weeks. The winner will get a chance to record his or her song in our studio in addition to the cash prizes that we will be giving out at the end of the programme on December 25,” Fr. Suresh Kumar told The Hindu . In an attempt to ensure originality, most of the contests have disqualified pre-recorded karaoke soundtracks. “We focus on the musicality of the singer’s voice. So we ask contestants to send in three-minute songs without any musical accompaniment,” said Praveen Babu, editor at ‘Vinnin Kural’, the carol contest being organised by Arul Thedal, a YouTube channel associated with the Church of the Holy Eucharist in Thirumullaivoyal, Chennai. Deadline The deadline for the first round is December 21; entries are enlisted based on 20% score for the number of likes (views) that the video gets, and 80% for musical expertise, by special judges. “Fifteen finalists will be chosen for the second round and winners will be declared on December 24,” said Mr. Babu. At Augusta Carols, where festive singing competitions have been a norm for the past decade, the event whent online last year due to the pandemic restrictions. “We used to organise inter-church carol singing programmes in big halls for large audiences before the pandemic; now we have gone online to keep it safe for everyone,” said Rev. A. Devasahayam, who runs the parent organisation Augusta Sahayam Trust charity based in Ekadduthangal, Chennai. 75 entries Seventy-five entries have come in already, and more are due ahead of the December 10 deadline for the first round, he added. The contests are open to singers from other faiths as well, as long as they present devotional songs themed around Christmas, said the organisers. “We have received entries in Tamil, English and Malayalam, from singers not just in India, but also from Malaysia, Saudi Arabia and Singapore,” said Rev. Devasahayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/christmas-carol-contests-go-online/article37929851.ece
11 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New water heating system installed||A parabolic solar concentrator based water heating system for supplying hot water to clean various components including bogie frames, engine blocks and axle boxes of various rolling stock has been installed at the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here. The initiative has been put in place in lieu of the existing electrical heaters. It is aimed at reducing the carbon footprint to the tune of 1,58,410 kg of carbon-di-oxide a year during the course of maintenance of rolling stocks. The workshop is expected to save 1.9 lakh units of electric energy and Rs. 15.27 lakhs a year. The unit is capable of supplying 10,000 litres of hot water a day using solar energy in peak period. Backup electric heater is provided as a standby to supply hot water during rainy / cloudy days. The solar concentrator consists of six numbers of parabolic mirror reflectors called Scheffler concentrator which focuses sun’s radiation on separate receivers placed in front of them at a fixed height. The receivers are interconnected with pipelines for circulation of water from a storage tank based on thermosyphon principle. In order to use solar energy efficiently throughout the day, the axis of the reflector dishes are aligned with the axis of the sun rays all through the day through an automatic tracking system. The system is capable of heating the water up to 82 degree celcius required for various processes. A water temperature indicator provided in the collection tank/outlet pipe connection to show outlet water temperature. Proper insulation covering the storage tank and pipeline has been made to avoid heat loss from the hot water. The system was inaugurated online by the Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas on Thursday, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-water-heating-system-installed/article37929849.ece
11 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Plea for additional railway line||The Nagore- Nagapattinam Rail Users Association has urged the Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas to obtain approval from the Railway Board, New Delhi, for laying an additional railway line between Nagapattinam and Thanjavur. In a memorandum handed over to him at Mayiladuthurai on Thursday, its secretary MMAA.Sithiq said an additional line would result in smooth operation of freight and passenger trains. Land for the additional line was available with the railways, he said while urging the authorities to make it as a double line stretch. Due to frequent movement of freight trains from Karaikal Port on this single line section, trains were being held up at various places. Taking into consideration the future expansion of the Karaikal Port, the railways should consider laying an additional line. It would pave the way for the introduction of new trains. The association demanded resumption of the Karaikal - Bengaluru train which had been suspended. It sought the introduction of an early morning daily express train from Velankanni to Thiruvananthapuram via Thanjavur, Tiruchi, Madurai and Nagercoil and a day-time express train from Karaikal to Coimbatore and back via Thanjavur, Tiruchi, Palani and Pollachi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-additional-railway-line/article37929863.ece
11 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Drive against drug menace intensified||The police have intensified drive against drugs all over the Central Zone comprising eight districts by planning to target the kingpins involved in the illegal act following instructions from the Director General of Police. They would collect contact details of sellers involved in the sale of ganja even while taking up rehabilitation programmes among consumers. In one such drive, they seized about 50 kg of ganja at Pudukottai based on information, said sources. Inspectors have been instructed that they would be held accountable if the seizure of ganja or banned tobacco products were confiscated by special teams operating directly under superior officers. Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, V. Balakrishnan said the Chief Minister during a recent review meeting had insisted on three focus areas for the police - containing drug menace, concentrating on POCSO cases and cracking the whip against rowdy elements. Based on this, the DGP had sent a circular. Field-level police officers have been asked to furnish daily reports on the special drives being taken and the seizure of the contraband. Shops in the vicinity of school zones would be brought under the scope of surveillance to check if they were involved in selling banned tobacco products. Banned tobacco products are mostly transported to Tamil Nadu from Bengaluru. The transporters and sellers are booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-against-drug-menace-intensified/article37929864.ece
11 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Stop the vehicle for 10 minutes’ stir held in southern districts||Condemning the Centre’s failure to control unprecedented fuel price hike, the Center of India Trade Unions (CITU) and other Left organisations organised a ‘Stop the vehicle for 10 minutes’ protest at several places in the district on Friday. The agitation, jointly organised by the CITU, All India Kisan Sabha, All India Agricultural Workers’ Union (AIAWU), All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA), Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) and the Students’ Federation of India (SFI), was observed between 12 noon and 12.10 p.m. In the agitation held at Salai Street in Vannarpet here, autorickshaw drivers and two-wheeler riders stopped their vehicles for 10 minutes and raised slogans against the fuel price hike. District CITU president Mohan and treasurer Perumal participated in the agitation. In Thoothukudi, the CITU functionaries, led by State secretary R. Russel, participated in the agitation organised at Chidambara Nagar bus stop. CPI (M) office-bearers K. S. Arjunan, K. P. Arumugam, Poo Mayil and M. S. Muthu participated. The protestors stopped their vehicles on Thoothukudi– Palayamkottai Highway and raised slogans against the fuel price hike. Similar agitation was organised in Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-staged-against-high-prices-of-fuel/article37929870.ece
11 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Work on Kulavanigarpuram ROB should start immediately’||Member of Parliament S. Gnanathiraviam has appealed to the Ministry of Railways to initiate immediate steps for constructing the rail overbridge (ROB) across Kulavanigarpuram manned level crossing near Palayamkottai Central Prison. Speaking on matters of urgent public importance in the Lok Sabha, Mr. Gananthiraviam said public travelling across this level crossing, including ambulances, were suffering a lot as the gate was closed 14 times a day. Though steps were taken in 2008 to construct a rail overbridge, the move had to be stopped due to cases filed by a few individuals. Since the legal impediments had been cleared, the Ministry should initiate steps for constructing ‘Y’-shaped ROB across Kulavanigarpuram manned level crossing so that vehicles coming via Palayamkottai bus stand could easily take Nagercoil Road and Ambasamudram Road, Mr. Gnanathiraviam said. “Whenever the gate is closed, vehicles can be seen queueing up to Palayamkottai bus stand on the northern side and up till the playground of Florence Swainson Higher Secondary School for the Deaf on the other side,” he said. When the then Deputy Chief Minister M. K. Stalin laid the foundation stone for constructing the ‘Y’ shaped four-lane ROB in 2008 on an outlay of Rs. 25.50 crore, residents having houses and owners of commercial establishments located nearby approached the court and obtained an interim stay. Though the Highways Department made an appeal against the interim stay, the legal impediments delayed the project. After inspecting the level crossing, the then Divisional Railway Manager (Madurai) A. K. Rastogi said construction of four-lane ROB would require land on both sides. Hence, an alternative proposal for constructing a two-lane ROB and a rail underbridge (RUB) at this point was evolved. “While heavy vehicles can use the ROB, smaller vehicles and two-wheelers can take the RUB. Since the new proposal will not affect the commercial establishments or houses, Railways and Highways Department officials will design the new project and submit it for approval and subsequent allocation of funds,” Mr. Rastogi had then suggested. This was pointed out by Mr. Gananthiraviam in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-kulavanigarpuram-rob-should-start-immediately/article37930227.ece
11 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||1.68 lakh patients receive Rs. 290 cr. as health insurance benefit||A total of 1.68 lakh patients from the district had received Rs. 290 crore under Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme and the Centre’s Auyshman Bharat Yojana, Collector V. Vishnu said. Mr. Vishnu, who honoured four best performing insurance scheme coordinators and as many ward managers here on Friday, said the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme and Ayushman Bharat Yojana were benefiting patients from poor families through 10 government hospitals and 21 private hospitals in the district. On getting treatment through these recognised hospitals under the insurance schemes, Rs. 290 crore had been disbursed to 1,68,733 patients from Tirunelveli district to meet their medical expenses. Under Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, 451 COVID-19 patients, who had undergone treatment at private hospitals, had been given Rs. 6.29 crore since May 7 last, Mr. Vishnu said. The Collector also interacted with five patients who had undergone bypass heart surgery under these schemes and handed over identity cards to 108 Sri Lankan Tamils in a camp near here. Dean of Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital M. Ravichandran was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/168-lakh-patients-receive-rs-290-cr-as-health-insurance-benefit/article37930225.ece
11 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Shops in the Nilgiris shut for a day as homage to crash victims||All shops and businesses in the Nilgiris were closed down as a mark of respect after the demise of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, wife and 11 others, in a helicopter crash in Kattery, near Coonoor, on Wednesday. Almost all shops and businesses remained closed till 6 p.m., while autorickshaws and taxis too stayed off the roads on Friday. All shops in the Ooty and Coonoor municipal markets were shut, and footfall in the town was at a minimum. Pictures of General Rawat were also plastered across many parts of the town and many people garlanded the posters. On Friday, Tamil Nadu Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu also visited the settlement of Nanjappan Sathiram in Kattery, Coonoor, and praised the residents for their efforts to pull people out from the wreckage. Mr. Babu said local residents had informed the police of the helicopter crash soon after it occurred. He said personnel from the Fire and Rescue Services, as well as the police, reached the spot a few minutes after, and managed to pull three people, who were still alive, from the wreckage. He added that the police had come to the settlement to express their gratitude to residents who helped in the rescue operations. He said 26 eyewitnesses to the crash had also been questioned so that the police could piece together the final few moments that preceded the chopper crashing into the hillside. Mr. Babu also said security had been stepped up across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-in-the-nilgiris-shut-for-a-day-as-homage-to-crash-victims/article37929736.ece
11 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Carcass of tiger found in MTR||The decomposed carcass of a tiger, believed to be around 8 years old, was found in Northern Hey Beat of Singara Forest Range in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Friday. The carcass was found around 5 km from the Thorapalli to Theppakadu Road while teams of forest staff were engaged in collecting signs of carnivores as part of population estimation exercises taking place in the reserve. Teams comprising the deputy directors of MTR, veterinarians, and field staff reached the spot and conducted a postmortem on the carcass. Forest Department officials found injury marks on the shoulder of the animal, sustained possibly during a fight with another animal. Samples from the animal’s internal organs were also collected for analysis. The carcass was disposed as per National Tiger Conservation Authority protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/carcass-of-tiger-found-in-mtr/article37929794.ece
11 December 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Aurovillians hold protests against clearing of trees||Aurovillians on Friday resorted to silent protests in the township as the Auroville Foundation and the Town Development Council pressed into service earth-movers and started the process of clearing trees in the Dharkali forest to make way for the future Crown Road (Right-of-Way). The protests that began at 6 a.m. continued after a stand-off was reported on Thursday between the Resident Assembly and the Foundation while demolishing the Youth Center for the contentious project. A video of the incident has since gone viral. ‘Residents manhandled’ “Earth-movers arrived on Thursday and began to remove buildings and trees at the Youth Center and adjoining forests. The residents, including a few women, were manhandled and threatened by unidentified individuals when they tried to stop the earth-movers. It is learnt that people from outside Auroville were organised en masse to support the clearance work. Despite the tension, the residents bore witness while the clearing progressed. Rampant destruction continued, and the Youth Center and other buildings were demolished for the project,” said a member of the Resident Assembly. “This conflict is centred on differing interpretations of the implementation of Auroville’s master plan policy framework. Clearing had started before detailed development plans were formulated and agreed upon by the Residents Assembly and the Governing Board, and this is claimed to undermine the long-standing collective decision-making process of the community,” said another member. Divya, a resident, in a representation to the Foundation said, “Human unity will not be built by bringing police or goondas from villages. Neither will the city be built this way. You all know that but at this moment are blinded by the narrative of perfect circle and sacred geometry. The Foundation should stop this action and the method you are applying to build the city of Auroville.” Foundation’s response Reacting to the flare-up at the Youth Center on Thursday, the Auroville Foundation claimed that some Aurovillians present there tried to physically oppose the entry and the work of the earth-mover and were firmly restrained and moved out of the way by some of the workers. Nobody was hurt “Auroville security then helped secure the site and prevent people from coming too close to the earth-movers, and evacuated the structures, ensuring that no harm came to anyone. Indeed, nobody was hurt, even though emotions ran high and discontent was expressed,” said Auroville Foundation’s spokesperson Sindhuja Jagadeesh. She added that a few temporary shacks and buildings, all built without authorisation, and some trees were removed by the earth-movers to make way for the future Crown Road. This was agreed upon by the Residents Assembly in 1999. The work will now continue in the other areas of Auroville, she said. Reneged on accord The spokesperson said that in a meeting chaired by the Secretary of the Foundation on December 6, it was agreed that the residents themselves would dismantle the buildings for the Crown Right-of-Way at the Youth Center, while a site for a vocational centre for youth would be allocated in the township. “However, when dismantling was supposed to start, a few senior residents met the youth and asked them not to dismantle the structures. As a result, they did not dismantle the centre and reneged on the agreements made,” Ms. Jagadeesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aurovillians-hold-protests-against-clearing-of-trees/article37929771.ece
11 December 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC conductor held for sexual harassment||The Kaanai police on Friday arrested a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) town bus conductor for allegedly sexually harassing a female passenger. The arrested conductor, Silambarasan, and the driver of the bus, Anbu Selvan, were suspended from service by Collector D. Mohan. According to the police, the 21-year-old woman complainant boarded the TNSTC town bus from Villupuram to Kothamangalam on Thursday night. When the bus was nearing Perumbakkam, Silambarasan started harassing the woman after other passengers had alighted from the bus at previous stops. The woman got down at Konur. Along with her husband, she lodged a complaint at the Kaanai police station. Post this, the bus conductor was arrested on Friday. The Collector had ordered the immediate suspension of Silambarasan and the driver Anbu Selvan. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-conductor-held-for-sexual-harassment/article37930186.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||NGT orders interim stay on felling of trees in Auroville||The applicants, Navroz Kersasp Mody and Sandeep Vinod Sarah, residents of Auroville, moved the Tribunal stating that the Foundation had done some construction work alone, but now had proposed to cut a large number of trees under the guise of providing a ring road named ‘Crown Road’. The applicants said if these trees were allowed to be cut without obtaining necessary permission, it would have a great impact on the environment. The applicants moved the Tribunal seeking a direction to the Foundation to prepare a detailed development plan, including a mobility plan that was based on and respects the present day ground realities, to be approved as mandated in the master plan. It should implement the project based on such plan after necessary impact assessment and feasibility studies in an environmentally sustainable manner. The applicants further submitted that though certain objections were raised before the authorities, no action was being taken. “Considering the urgency of the matter, we feel that an ex-parte interim order will have to be passed, as, if no interim order is passed then it is likely to cause greater damage to the environment,” the Bench said. The Tamil Nadu Government submitted that it had no interest in the matter and though part of the area was within Tamil Nadu, the area where activities were going on was exclusively in the possession of Auroville Foundation. The Bench ordered notice to the Auroville Foundation to file its response or objection to the allegations during the next hearing. A copy of the application was also directed to be provided to the Department of Environment, Tamil Nadu, for its information and getting its stand on the matter. Activists write to Stalin Meanwhile, 12 individuals and activists, including Vasanthi Devi, former Chairperson, State Commission for Women, retired Justice D. Hariparanthaman, retired IAS officer M.G. Devasahayam, have written to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and Tamil Nadu Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu urging them to take note of the developments in Auroville seriously and intervene with the Union Government to ensure that decisions about Auroville are taken in consultation with the residents of Auroville and with the State Government. ‘Not one representative’ They pointed out that the Auroville Foundation controlled 2,500 acres in Tamil Nadu but did not have even one representative of the State or local government, or even the local elected representative. The master plan of Auroville has to be in line with the overall development plans for the region and State and cannot be seen in isolation and in line with the infrastructural vision, aspirations of villages that is set amidst and the cultural ethos of Tamil Nadu. “The open threats, caught on video camera, issued by Tamil Nadu police to deport the very residents that make this township international are deplorable,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngt-orders-interim-stay-on-felling-of-trees-in-auroville/article37929769.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||NGT orders interim stay on tree felling at Auroville||A copy of the application was also directed to be provided to the Department of Environment, Tamil Nadu for their information and getting their stand on the matter. Activists write to Stalin Meanwhile, 12 individuals and activists, including Vasanthi Devi, former Chairperson, State Commission for Women, retired Justice D. Hariparanthaman, retired IAS officer M.G. Devasahayam, have written to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and Tamil Nadu Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu urging them to take note of the developments in Auroville seriously and intervene with the Union government to ensure that decisions about Auroville are taken in consultation with the residents of Auroville and with the State government. They pointed out that the Auroville Foundation controls 2,500 acres in Tamil Nadu but does not have even one representative of the State or local government, or even the local elected representative. They also claimed that the Foundation’s governing council was filled with hand-picked members with right-wing Hindutva leanings.  Masterplan The masterplan of Auroville had to be in line with the overall development plans for the region and State and cannot be seen in isolation and in line with the infrastructural vision, aspirations of villages that is set amidst and the cultural ethos of Tamil Nadu. Open threats “The open threats, caught on video camera, issued by Tamil Nadu Police to deport the very residents that make this township international are deplorable,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngt-orders-interim-stay-on-tree-felling-at-auroville/article37929850.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 110 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 110 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Friday. The Health Department reported three new deaths, raising the toll to 2,483. As many as 127 persons recovered on Friday and the district had 1,216 active cases. Tiruppur reported 49 new cases on Friday. The district had 624 active cases as 59 persons recovered. No new deaths were reported and the toll remained at 1,003. In the Nilgiris, 14 persons tested positive. The toll stood at 218 in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-110-new-covid-19-cases/article37929792.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Clarion call||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clarion-call/article37929867.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rock perch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rock-perch/article37929634.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||11-12-2021-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA AAA / BHARAT KALACHAR / TOM MEDIAAS - MARGAZHI NATYA MAHOTSAV 2021 TODAY AT SRI YGP AUDITORIUM, NO.17, THIRUMALAI ROAD, T. NAGAR, CHENNAI - 600 017. 5.30 PM (ALL ARE WELCOME) NIMMI L , ADI SHAKTHI SCHOOL OF DANCE , 7.15 PM (TICKETED) "AARUPADAI VEEDU " By GURU SRI. BINESH MAHADEVAN , Director , AKSHAYA ARTS , RESERVATION AT HALL & WWW.BOOKMYSHOW.COM. Supported by : SRIRAM CAPITAL Ltd , INDUSIND BANK, PTA PSBB School K.K.Nagar. ENTRY ONLY THIRUMALAI RD. PH: 28343045 / 9941907993 (ALL Govt. S.O.P's will be followed). ABBAS CULTURAL/BHARAT KALACHAR Bharathanatyam by Padmasree SHOBANA & Ensemble on Saturday, 18th Dec, 6.30pm @ YGP Auditorium, PSBB School, T.Nagar. Tkts @ bookmyshow.com.82488 71089. ABBAS/TVK Tomorrow 6.15 pm @ Rajah Annamalai Mandram A/c.Celebrate Our Superstar's B'day with a grand musical evening "NAMMA SUPERSTAR RAJINI HITS " by SPB CHARAN performing the evergreen Rajini-SPB combo in Murali's Mouna Ragam orchestra Tkts @ bookmyshow.com. 82488 71089/ 98841 52200. BharatiyaVidyaBhavan, East Mada Street, Mylapore Chennai-600 004 Bhavan's Cultural Festival 2021, Live Programme : upto 15.12.2021 in association with South Zone Cultural Centre ( Ministry of Culture, Government of India ) at Bhavan's Main Auditorium, East Mada Street, MylaporeChennai -600 004. Today 11th Dec: 5.00 pm: Dr.M.Narmadha (Violin), VidwanPoongulam Subramanian (Mridangam), VidwanM.Gururaj (Morsing) and 6.30 pm: Malladi Brothers (Sri M.SreeRamaprasad& Sri M.Ravikumar) (Vocal), Sri HN.Bhaskar (Violin), Sri Manojsiva (Mridangam), Sri S.Krishna (Ghatam).Tomorrow12th Dec:10.00am: U.Ve.Velukudi Krishnan (Discourse), 4.30 pm: Sri K.N.RenganathaSarma (Vocal), and 6.30 pm: Sri AbishekRaghuram (Vocal).Programme supported by : Apollo Pharmacies Ltd., Ramco Cements Ltd., Ramco Industries, Rajalakshmi Institutions, MGM Healthcare, Kauvery Hospitals, GRT Jewellers, Co-Optex, Nalli Silks, Aban Scientific, Larsen & Toubro, State Bank of India, AVA Cholayil, Dhanvantari Nano Aushadi, Sabari Foundations and Construction, Suryaans Paper, Star Health and Allied Insurance, SMK Fomra Institute of Technology, Indian Oil Corporation, NAC Jewellers,Sri Krishna Sweets,Sri K.V. Rangaswamy ( L & T ).Watch Live(Courtesy - Bhavan'sKolkata Kendra). www.bhavans chennai.orgCovid-19 S.O.P to be followed.All are Welcome. NARADA GANA SABHA SANJAY SABHA LIVE Today at 6.30PM, Narada Gana Sabha, Sanjay Subrahamanyan with S Varadarajan, Neyveli B Venkatesh, Anirudh Athreya. Tickets available online - Paytm Insider and at venue. Canteen available from 5 pm. PUSHPAANJALI CULTURAL TRUST Today 4pm at R K Swamy Auditorium (Sir Sivaswamy Kalalaya), Mylapore. Bharathanatyam by Kum.Sai Srinitya & Kum.Deepshika Sai(Dis. of Smt.Ranjana Vinodkumar)5.30pm Bharathanatyam by Kum.V.Sree Bala(Dis of Smt.Lakshmi Priya)7pm Bharathnatyam by Kum.Ramya R Varma(Dis of Smt.Gayathri Chandrasekhar,Bangalore) Rasika Ranjani Sabha (Regd.) Mylapore, Ch. – 4 December - 2021 "Music in Perpetuity" Today at 10.00 am "RAMANAD KRISHNAN" (Lec Dem) by Smt. Savita Narasimhan - 04.15 pm Madurai N Sivaganesh - Vocal, Sri. M Vijay - Violin, Sri. Akshay Ram - Mridangam, Sri. Sunil Kumar - Kanjira. - 06.15 pm Tribute to "RAMANAD KRISHNAN" Sri. Ramakrishna Murthy - Vocal, Sri. B. Vittal Rangan - Violin, Sri. K. Arun Prakash - Mridangam, Sri. N. Guruprasad - Ghatam. Programme supported by AANMAJOTHI (Cultural wing of Saraswathi Vidyalaya Vadapalani). Ph. No: 86103 57987. Entry as per Govt. Covid SOP Guidelines. ALL ARE WELCOME. Our programs can be watched on https://www.rrsabha.org at later dates. Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha (Regd) Vani Mahal. Ph 28152166 Today 6.00 a.m Laksharchanai to Lord Venkatachalapathy. @ 4.00 p.m. Rendering of Sri Lakshmi Sahasranamam and Vishnu Purana Sristuti by Sriyamaashrayaamaha Group. In Association with TamilNadu Eyal Isai Nataka Mandram 10.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m. Painting Competition. @ 6.00 pm "Bharathi Yaar ?" - Drama by Kalaimamani Isaikkavi Ramanan at Vani Mahal. ALL ARE WELCOME. Entry as per Govt. SOP Guidelines.  MISCELLANEOUS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11-12-2021-city-cinema/article37929768.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Vasantha Vasal Kavi Mandram, Tamil Nadu Science Movement and Kalapatti Branch Library readers circle: Maha Kavi Bharathi Centenrary year celebration and presentation of awards, Kaikolapalayam, 9 a.m.  Coimbatore Management Association: Business partnership beyond families - an interactive session, 3 p.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Seminar on Role of Technology readiness level in implications of innovations development, 2.30 p.m.  Shri Nehru Maha Vidyalaya College of Arts and Science: Faculty Development Programme, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37929793.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Nandha Engineering College: Department of ECE, webinar on ‘Career Path to IT Field’, 10 a.m.  Sri Vasavi College: Department of Tamil, Bharathi Vizha Kaviarangam, 10.30 a.m.    KSR Institute for Engineering and Technology: Inauguration of Lingua Club, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article37929888.ece
11 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||99.97% polling in Belagavi constituency||The two-member Legislative Council constituency of Belagavi witnessed 99.97% polling on Friday. Only three of the 8,849 members did not vote in the elections. Two of them were from Athani taluk and one was from Belagavi taluk. Police officers said that there were no reports of untoward incidents anywhere in the district. The district election helpline officers said they had not received any complaints about errors or delays in the use of ballots. KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi spent most of the day in Gunjal village. He sat in a supporter’s home near the gram panchayat office, where polling was going on. He said that this was to ensure that there were no electoral malpractices. He said that in the last Council polls, polling officers had cast over 1,100 fake votes in favour of an Independent candidate. “We are here to see that no such thing happens,” he said. His son, Rahul Jarkiholi, worked as the official agent of the Congress in Konnur Gram Panchayat and daughter Priyanka Jarkiholi served as the party agent in Shindi Kurbet Gram Panchayat. He had earlier announced that he would function as a party agent in any booth, if needed. However, he could not do so, as election rules did not allow an MLA to be an agent, he said. In an apparent violation of the code of conduct, Congress MLA Lakshmi Hebbalkar displayed to TV cameras the picture of a seer stored on her phone at the polling station 161 in Belagavi city. As she entered her name and signed the muster, she took out her phone, paid her respects to the photo of late Sri Veeragangadhar Swami, former head of Rambhapuri Mutt, on her phone and then displayed it before TV cameras. She identified the seer as Nonavinakere Ajja, of whom she was a devotee. “I always carry his picture on my phone wherever I go. I worship him and seek his blessings before embarking on any new venture. That is what I was doing in the polling booth,’’ she told journalists. She denied that it was aimed at influencing voters. However, her political detractors say that she was trying to influence voters of some Lingayat sub-castes, that were followers of the Rambhapuri seer. BJP spokesperson M.B. Zirali said that the party will take a decision about raising this issue with the Election Commission after studying the incident further. Deputy Commissioner and District Election Officer R. Venkatesh Kumar said that they will look into the matter if anyone complained about it. However, polling began slowly in the morning. After five hours of polling, only around seven per cent voters had cast their votes. Officers said that only 660 of the 8,849 voters had exercised their franchise till 11 a.m. In Yamakanamaradi village, only six of the 25 gram panchayat voters had cast votes. But in Gudas and Kakati villages, no one had turned up till 11 a.m. Congress leader Siddu Sunagar said that they had arranged for all members to come together to the booth. Earlier, election officers had wrongly computed the number of voters as 8,875, as they had counted the 24 additional votes of the two Members of Parliament in the various urban local bodies in the district. They were reduced to one vote each on Friday morning and a fresh count of voters was issued. Belagavi MP Mangala Angadi voted in Belagavi and Chikkodi MP Anna Saheb Jolle voted in Chikkodi. Members of Legislative Assembly Anil Benake and Abhay Patil voted at the Belagavi City Corporation polling booth. Member of Legislative Assembly Anjali Nimbalkar voted in the Khanapur Town Municipal Council booth. Other legislators voted in their hometowns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/9997-polling-in-belagavi-constituency/article37929907.ece
11 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Some MLAs could not vote in Vijayapura||As much as 99.86% voters turned up to exercise their franchise for the two-member constituency of Vijayapura-Bagalkot in the Legislative Council polls on Friday. Vijayapura witnessed a turnout of 99.87% with 3,926 out of the 3,931 gram panchayat and urban local body members exercising their franchise. In Bagalkot, a total of 3,427 out of 3,432 elected members voted. Minister Govind Karjol, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah and Members of Legislative Assembly Anand Nyamgouda, A.S. Patil Nadahalli, Veeranna Charantimath voted in the morning. However, due to lack of elected bodies in Vijayapura and in some other towns, Members of Legislative Assembly M.B. Patil, Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Somangouda Patil Sasanur and Member of Legislative Council Sunilgouda Patil could not exercise their franchise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/some-mlas-could-not-vote-in-vijayapura/article37929911.ece
11 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Students gifted sanitary napkins||Members of Belgaum Ladies Club gifted sanitary napkins to 90 students of Maheshwari Blind School in Belagavi recently . Resourcepersons also spoke to them of the need for personal hygiene and safety. A team from Hed Maasters Unisex Saloon led by Raman Devdhar gave hair make overs to the inmates. Maitreyi Biswas, president of the club, Vidyavati Bhajantri, assistant director of Kannada and Culture, iran Nippanikar, social activist, Prabhakar Nagarmunnoli and Anita Gawade, Principal of the school were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-gifted-sanitary-napkins/article37929915.ece
11 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farm laws: Rally in Belagavi||A federation of farmers’ associations will hold a rally seeking repeal of farm laws in Karnataka, in Belagavi on Sunday. Ashok Dhavale, Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader from New Delhi and Allamaprabhu Bettaduru, writer, will address the rally. Proper flood relief, fair price of sugarcane, early resolution to Kalasa – Banduri nala project, regularisation of bagair hukum and forest land encroachment cases, and remunerative prices for all farm produce will be covered. However, some leaders complained that the police were creating obstacles for the rally. “Police officers are constantly changing the venues for holding the rally. We have changed the venue three times. This is an attempt at scuttling our voice,” Sidagouda Modagi, farmers leader told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farm-laws-rally-in-belagavi/article37929921.ece
11 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Frequent power disruptions have residents up in arms||Bescom’s application to the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) seeking a tariff hike has not gone down well with citizens, given that residents in several neighbourhoods continue to face power cuts and fluctuations. In November alone, it received nearly 3 lakh complaints from citizens in just two zones. Residents of Subramanyanagar, for instance, have come to dread Monday mornings. Over the past two months, they have had to put up with a disruption in power supply at 10 a.m. The duration of the disruption varies, but the power cut has become a regular feature. “There are many people, like me, who work from home. We have a Monday meeting at 10 a.m. and without fail, the power is cut. Despite having power backup, the WiFi doesn’t work. I have to make do with alternative arrangements, which are not cheap,” said Namita A. Kumar, a resident of the area. Varying reasons It’s not just Monday morning when the power goes off. Ms. Kumar claimed that not a day goes by without disruption in power supply.The frequent disruptions in power supply every day also have an impact on performance. The reasons they are given vary from local issues, such as trimming and pruning of tree branches, technical faults in the feeder and conversion of high-tension and low-tension overhead lines to underground cable. Power cuts cannot be attributed to any increase in consumption as despite many citizens working from home, the average power consumption has not seen any major deviation. After a peak consumption of 3,332.03 million units (MU) in April 2021, power consumption has ranged between 2,842.26 MU and 2569.06 MU from May to October this year, data shows. Yet Bangalore Electricity SupplyCompany (Bescom) receives complaints about disruptions in power supply, apart from voltage fluctuations from those living not just in Subramanyanagar but also in other parts of the city. Between November 1 and 30, Bescom received 1.59 lakh complaints from Bangalore Metropolitan Area Zone, South. In the north zone, it received 1.4 lakh complaints during the same period. These two zones cover more than 50% of Bescom’s consumers, which also means that a large chunk of the power utility’s revenue also comes from here. Recently, residents of Anjanapura Township were without power for almost 18 hours. On Wednesday, power supply to Maheshwarinagar in Mahadevapura was disrupted from 11 a.m. A resident took to social media platforms to complain about the same, demanding to know when the power supply would be restored. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Bescom supplies power to seven other districts — Bengaluru Rural, Chickballapur, Kolar, Tumakuru, Ramanagaram, Chitradurga, and Davangere. During November, Bescom received 64,442 complaints from consumers coming under Bangalore Rural Area Zone and 12,453 from Chitradurga Zone. Complaints ranged from fuse off, line break down, and pole broken. Bescom claimed to have attended to all these complaints.  Bescom received 1.59 lakh complaints from Bangalore Metropolitan Area Zone, South, between November 1 and 30 In the North zone, it received 1.4 lakh complaints during the same period||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/frequent-power-disruptions-have-residents-up-in-arms/article37929699.ece
11 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIMHANS to study urban mental health in mega cities||With heightened concern over the impact of excessive use of technology — especially social media addiction and other behavioural addictions — on mental health in cities, the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) is set to take up an urban mental health survey in six mega cities and three tier-II cities. Announcing this on Friday, NIMHANS director Prathima Murthy said the survey will cover nearly 20,000 people in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, and Hubballi-Dharwad, and Mysuru in Karnataka. “We are planning to survey 3,600 people from each of these cities. The survey will look at various urban mental health issuesincluding memory disturbances, behavioural addiction such as social media and gaming addiction, anxiety, somatization disorder, children’s issues, their mental wellbeing, and impact of COVID-19 on people,” said Dr Murthy. Stating that the urban mental health survey is the second phase of the National Mental Health Survey released by NIMHANS in October 2016, Dr. Murthy said: “There is a need to study mental health issues in mega cities as there is enough evidence that shows urbanisation affects mental health.” According to the National Mental Health Survey of India 2015-16, the prevalence of any mental morbidity at any given point in time was 13.1% in urban metros, 9.3% in urban non–metros, and 9.2% in rural areas. “COVID-19 pandemic with its disastrous effect across cities of India has brought to the forefront the mental health concerns/issues of city dwellers. With the current rate of urbanization and with ample evidence that urbanization affects mental health, there is an immediate need to address mental health in cities of India,” she said. The Department of Epidemiology, Centre for Public health in collaboration with Community Psychiatry Unit and Tele-Medicine Centre, Department of Psychiatry at NIMHANS organised a national-level symposium on urban mental health titled ‘Cities and Mental Health : COVID-19 Pandemic unfolded mental health crisis in cities of India.’ Former NIMHANS directorG. Guraraj, who made a presentation on ‘Urbanisation and Mental Health: Need for an Urban Public Health Focus’ at the symposium, said as per the survey the treatment gap in Indian cities was nearly 90%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nimhans-to-study-urban-mental-health-in-mega-cities/article37929711.ece
11 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 99% cast votes in Council election||More than 99% of voters exercised their franchise on Friday for the biennial elections of 25 Karnataka Legislative Council seats from 20 Local Authorities’ Constituencies. The results will be declared on December 14. Besides a high percentage of gram panchayat members, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, State Cabinet Ministers, MPs, and MLAs voted in their respective constituencies. In 2015, a total of 99.6% of voters exercised their franchise. “The polling process concluded peacefully in all constituencies,” said the office of Chief Electoral Officer of Karnataka. Polling was highest in Belagavi at 99.98%, and lowest in Vijayapura at 99.55%. Three constituencies of Chikkmagaluru, Hassan, and Tumakuru recorded polling percentage of 99.78%. Percentage-wise polling in different districts are: Bidar 99.83, Kalburagi 99.73, Vijayapura 99.55, Belgavi 99.98, Dharwad 99.68 , Dakshina Kannada 99.71, Mysuru 99.73, Uttara Kannada 99.76, Raichur 99.86, Ballari 99.81, Chitradurga 99.88, Shivamogga 99.86, Chikkamagaluru 99.78, Hassan 99.78, Tumakuru 99.78, Mandya 99.85, Kolar 99.96, Kodagu 99.7, Bengaluru Urban 99.86, and Bangalore Rural 99.9. Leaders of all three major parties had intensively campaigned for their candidates in the 25 constituencies. Out of a total of 90 candidates in the fray, 20 each are from the BJP and the Congress, while six are from JD(S). These elections have been necessitated as the term of 25 MLCs, including 13 of the Congress, will end on January 5, 2022. The poll outcome will have an impact on the power equation in the 75-member Upper House, where the ruling BJP wants to gain a majority by winning at least 13 seats. This would make it easier for the saffron party in smooth passage of Bills related to various subjects. Though there was no formal alliance, former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had openly sought JD(S) support for BJP candidates. JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy had authorised local leaders to take a decision depending on local equations. Following an informal alliance between the BJP and the JD(S), the Congress called the regional party a ‘B-team’ of the ruling BJP. Elections were held for dual-members in five constituencies of Vijayapura, Belagavi, Dharwad, Dakshina Kannada, and Mysuru. The rest were single-member constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-99-cast-votes-in-council-election/article37929720.ece
11 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Underground cabling phases 1, 2 to be completed by month-end||The Bangalore Electricity Supply Company’s (Bescom) ambitious project of taking over 7,000 km of 11-kV lines underground is fast progressing, while work on phases 1 and 2 is likely to be completed by end of the month, according to P. Rajendra Cholan, managing director of the power utility. The mega project is being executed at a cost of Rs. 5,400 crore in many parts of the city. Disruptions in power supply across many areas, especially those in the core areas of the city, is being attributed by Bescom officials to the work in progress. Work on the project began late, with capex work being taken up only in June last year. Though tenders had been approved and work was slated to begin in April 2020, it was delayed owing to the pandemic and subsequent lockdowns. According to Mr. Cholan, progress of both phases 1 and 2 has been good. Around 80% progress has been achieved in conversion of HT cables and nearly 83% in LT cables under phase 1, while around 93% progress in conversion of HT and LT cables under phase 2 has been achieved. Bescom has taken up phases 1 and 2 in Malleswaram, Rajajinagar, Sadashivanagar, Jayamahal, Shivajinagar, Peenya, Hebbal, Rajarajeshwarinagar, Sahakarnagar, Yelahanka, Jakkur, Lingarajapuram, Hebbal, Ramamurthynagar, Basaveshwaranagar, Mahalakshmi Layout, Chamarajpet, Girinagar, Koramangala, HSR Layout, BTM Layout, Jayanagar, J.P. Nagar, Indiranagar, Nagarbhavi, and a few other areas. “We are targeting completion of both phases by the end of the month. Work under phase 3 is steadily progressing and work under phase 4 will be taken up after completion of phases 1 and 2,” he said. Once fully implemented, citizens can expect better quality and reliable power supply, reduction in accident/interruptions, reduction in unauthorised connections owing to tampering. For the power utility, it will translate into reduction of transmission and distribution loss, lower maintenance cost, and improved load management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/underground-cabling-phases-1-2-to-be-completed-by-month-end/article37929705.ece
11 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bescom seeks hike in tariff, submits application to KERC||Less than six months after the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) approved an average increase in tariff by 30 paise per unit for all electricity supply companies (Escoms), the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) has submitted an application seeking a hike. Average hike Confirming this, a senior Bescom official told The Hindu that the power utility had sought an average tariff hike of Rs. 1.58 per unit across the spectrum. However, KERC is yet to accept the tariff hike application. The official added that the submission of the tariff hike application is a routine, annual exercise. All the Escoms submit tariff applications before the KERC every year in December. “The tariff hike application will be scrutinised and after acceptance, it will be notified. This is likely to take at least another month or so,” the official claimed. After notification, the public would be invited to submit objections, following which a hearing would be held. KERC would later announce the hike in tariff, the official explained. The official also stated that the average hike had been arrived at after taking various parameters into consideration, but refused to elaborate. For the 2021-22 financial year, Bescom had sought an average hike of Rs. 1.39 per unit, while it was Rs. 1.96 per unit in 2020-21 fiscal. KERC had approved a hike in tariff by an average 40 paise per unit in November 2020, and another hike of 30 paise per unit in June 2021. Following this, Bescom had later announced and collected the arrears of the revised electricity tariff for April and May in October and November. The possibility of a power tariff hike is already causing much anxiety among citizens, especially industrial bodies, who are still reeling from the effects of the pandemic and subsequent lockdowns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bescom-moves-kerc-seeking-tariff-hike/article37929691.ece
11 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pandemic pushed back efforts in ending child labour: study||A study on the impact of COVID-19 on children across Karnataka revealed there has been an uptick in child marriages. During the same period, there was also a rise in children either engaged in agricultural labour or helping their parents at work. These were some of the key findings of a study conducted by the Karnataka Child Rights Observatory (KCRO), which collated responses of focus group discussions across 20 districts — two villages in each district. It also found that supply of supplementary nutrition food, midday meals, and immunisation programmes were largely successful. The authors noted that while focus groups with adults were not forthcoming on incidents of child marriages, groups of adolescents did report an uptick in these incidents. Of the total respondents, 43% reported an increase in such incidents. In fact, the Government of Karnataka had itself acknowledged, in February 2021, a rise in instances of child marriages during the pandemic. The same pattern of responses were seen on the question of child labour as well: while the adults denied it, focus groups of adolescents reported a rise. “It seems the pandemic has pushed back most efforts made in ending child labour,” the authors said. Children interviewed reported that they were both taken to fields for agricultural work and also made to work for wages. They also felt if the schools were open and classes were on, this would not have happened. Mobile phone addition Though the pandemic saw e-learning become the norm, only 30% of the respondents said children were engaged in online classes. It is found that a large number of children especially from rural and urban poor families missed online classes. It found that the COVID-19 lockdown and closure of schools also resulted in declining interests in academic pursuits, which the authors said, may lead to children dropping out. However, 70% of the respondents said children were engaged in playing, watching television, playing online games, and helping parents at work. The report noted that a large number of children have become addicted to mobile phones and other devices Although most focus groups were happy with the supply of nutritious food during the pandemic, the report said the Government needed to address existing gaps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pandemic-pushed-back-efforts-in-ending-child-labour-study/article37929703.ece
11 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Verify, but do not vilify honest taxpayers: BCIC||India’s tax system has become very cumbersome, more prone to litigation, is badly designed, and needs to improve service standards, said a report by Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce (BCIC) on Direct Tax Administration Reforms. The biggest change needed is ensuring that taxpayers are respected for paying taxes. In order to bring tax evaders to book, honest taxpayers should not be vilified, said the report. “Today, with the greater use of information technology and data repository, it is easy to verify data and reduce the pain caused to taxpayers. India has moved in this direction, but the mindset of our legislators and the tax officials needs to change too,” the report said. In order to bring more people into the tax bracket, the tax administration has adopted various ways to expand its tax base. However, it is important that the tax administration undergoes reformatory exercises to bring in a professional outlook, improve efficiency and also turn taxpayer-friendly. K.R. Sekar, president, BCIC, said the report deals with a range of issues around direct tax and provides recommendations on what could be done for making tax administration efficient and tax-payer friendly. It recommends that all functions relating to assessment be categorically delinked from revenue targets. Taxpayers who are unable to make e-filing on the portal because of technical issues should be given another opportunity to pay taxes. On the capital gains regime, BCIC recommends, in order to extend benefit to all capital gain investments and incentivise investment based on risk and reward rather than on exemptions, the surcharge payable on all capital gains from transfer of securities, digital and physical gold, and real assets should be limited to 15%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/verify-but-do-not-vilify-honest-taxpayers-bcic/article37929716.ece
11 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prostitution ring busted, minor rescued||The city police busted a prostitution ring at Kodigehalli and rescued two girls, including a minor from Bangladesh. Acting on a tip-off by an NGO, the Kodigehalli police recently raided a house in the area where they arrested Jyoti Mullah, the woman running the ring. They rescued a 17-year-old and a 32-year-old woman from Bangladesh. They were brought to the city illegally on the promise of jobs. The police said the woman running the racket used to accept bookings online, send prospective clients photographs of the two victims, and based on the client’s choice arranged meetings at hotels. “Of the two, the 17-year-old girl is keen on studying. We have contacted Bangladeshi authorities and are trying to get in touch with her family members to reunite her with them,” said C.K. Baba, DCP (North-East).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prostitution-ring-busted-minor-rescued/article37929718.ece
11 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||EC files appeal on poll result of one constituency||The Election Commission of India (EC) on Friday moved a Division Bench of the High Court of Karnataka questioning the direction of a single judge not to announce the result of the elections held to the Legislative Council from the Bangalore Urban Local Authorities (BULA) constituency without its prior permission. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, before whom the EC moved the appeal, has agreed to hear the appeal on December 13 as the counting of votes is scheduled for December 14. The single judge on Thursday had passed the interim order directing the EC to keep a separate ballot box for nominated members of three town municipal councils of Bommasandra, Attibele, and Anekal coming under BULA constituency. The interim order was passed pending consideration of the legal issue about whether the nominated members have the right to vote in the elections to the Legislative Council when they have no right to vote in the meetings of the municipal council. The EC contended that the interim order passed by the single judge amounts to interference with the election process contrary to the law laid down by the apex court that no court can interfere after commencement of the election process. It was contended in EC’s appeal that the law gives voting rights to every member of the local authorities, municipalities, etc. to cast their votes on the elections to the Legislative Council unlike in elections to the post of President of India and to the Rajya Sabha in which the law specifically gives voting right only to the “elected members”.  A single judge on Thursday passed the interim order directing the EC to keep a separate ballot box for nominated members of three town municipal councils coming under BULA constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ec-files-appeal-on-poll-result-of-one-constituency/article37929714.ece
11 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 314 new cases, two deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported 314 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,99,785. Bengaluru Urban reported 179 cases and two deaths. With the two deaths, the toll rose to 38,255. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 339 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 29,54,196. The State now has 7,305 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.26%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.63%. As many as 1,19,766 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,02,310 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,43,50,973.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/314-new-cases-two-deaths/article37929706.ece
11 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mahantesh Kavatagimath asked most questions on children||The Karnataka Legislative Council performed slightly better than the Legislative Assembly in discussing child-related issues. Around 5.03% of the questions asked in the Council were related to children, in contrast to the 4.57% of questions in the Assembly, according to a study conducted by the Karnataka Child Rights Observatory. Among both the Houses, Mahantesh Kavatagimath, MLC, asked the most number of questions related to children, at 36. MLCs N. Ravikumar, U.B. Venkatesh, K.A. Thippeswamy, and R. Dharmasena, and MLAs N.A. Harris, Sowmya Reddy, H.D. Revanna, and Anjali Nimbalkar were among those who raised questions on child welfare and related subjects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahantesh-kavatagimath-asked-most-questions-on-children/article37929695.ece
11 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NCBS, Tata Institute of Genetics and Society announce institutional alliance||The National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) and the Tata Institute of Genetics and Society (TIGS) on Friday announced a new institutional alliance. “This engagementwith the TIGS is a wonderful opportunity for NCBS researchers to engage with questions that concern both genetics and society, and at the same time broadening the collaborative footprint of the TIGS at the Bangalore Life Science Cluster,” said NCBS director Satyajit Mayor.TIGS director Rakesh Mishra said by joining hands with the NCBS, the TIGS brings top-quality science closer to addressing societal problems in the domain of rare genetic diseases, infectious diseases and nutrition, using cutting-edge science and technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ncbs-tata-institute-of-genetics-and-society-announce-institutional-alliance/article37929700.ece
11 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||99% turnout in Legislative Council polls||Hassan district recorded 99.78% voters’ turnout in the elections to Legislative Council on Friday. Among a total 3,578 voters as many as 3,570 exercised their franchise. Alur and Sakleshpur taluks recorded 100% turnout. The voters’ response in other taluks: Arkalgud -99.79%, Arsikere - 99.85%, Belur - 99.78%, Channarayapatna – 99.68%, Hassan – 99.51% and Holenaraipur - 99.76%. Those who cast the vote included Lok Sabha member Prajwal Revanna and legislators H.D. Revanna, K.M. Shivalinge Gowda, Preetham Gowda, H.K. Kumaraswamy, C.N .Balakrishna, M.A. Gopalaswamy, and A.T. Ramaswamy. Shivamogga district recorded 99.86% turnout. There were no untoward incidents in the district. Among those voted on the day included former Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa, Minister K.S.Eshwarappa, and legislators Ayanur Manjunath and S. Rudre Gowda. Chikkamagaluru district recorded 99.71% turnout. Of the total 2,417 voters, as many as 2,410 cast their votes. By 1 p.m., the polling was completed in many booths. Mudigere, Sringeri, Koppa, N.R.Pura and Tarikere taluks recorded 100% turnout. Chikkamagaluru recorded 99.79%, Ajjampura 99.41% and Kadur 99.24%. There were no untoward incidents during the polling in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/99-turnout-in-legislative-council-polls/article37930147.ece
11 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Congress MLC wants poll countermanded||Congress MLC M.A.Gopalaswamy, on Friday, demanded that the Election Commission countermand the Legislative Council election alleging that secrecy of vote had been violated by JD(S) supporters. At a press conference in Hassan, Mr. Gopalaswamy said a supporter of the JD(S) had taken a photo of the ballot paper showing digit 1 opposite JD(S) candidate Suraj Revanna’s name and circulated it on social media platforms. “The photo is being circulated among voters and they have been told to take similar photos while casting vote. This is a clear violation of the secrecy of the vote. The Election Commission should take note of this development and order for re-election”, he said. Further, he said he had already brought the issue to the notice of Deputy Commissioner R.Girish and he was hopeful that the Election Commission would take note of it. Auspicious number Hassan Lok Sabha member Prajwal Revanna waited for a few minutes to be the ninth voter to cast his vote at the polling station in Holenarsipur. As he reached the booth, his father and former Minister H.D. Revanna enquired with the polling staff if eight people had voted and ensured that his son became the ninth to vote. Later speaking to media, Mr. Revanna said his son wanted to be the ninth voter. “I don’t know if it is a lucky number. I asked him to go by his choice”, Mr. Revanna said. Mr. Prajwal Revanna said he was voting for his elder brother for the first time. “Many believe nine is an auspicious number. I chose to be the ninth to vote in the election. For me, digits five and nine have been auspicious”, he said. Prajwal’s brother Suraj Revanna is the JD(S) candidate for Hassan seat. Boycott Among seven voters of Naluru-Kolige gram panchayat in Tirthahalli taluk of Shivamogga district, who had boycotted the Legislative Council election citing the delay in releasing the GP’s share of royalty earned by the State Government from the sale of sand, five did cast their votes on Friday. Sandeep B.G. and Sudha Devaraj, the two members, did not vote. Initially, all the seven members had submitted a petition to the district administration stating that they would not vote until the funds were released. No response The panchayat demanded its share of Rs. 2.48 core but the government had not released the amount for the last three years. “All seven had agreed to boycott the elections. But five have voted, we two did not vote. We have stood by our demand”, said Sandeep. Following their petition, a team of officers had visited the gram panchayat and tried to convince the members to vote, saying that they would convey their demand to the Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-mlc-wants-poll-countermanded/article37930140.ece
11 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Photo of Hassan constituency ballot paper goes viral||The photo of a ballot paper of Hassan Local Authorities constituency went viral on Friday. M.A. Gopalaswamy, Congress MLC, has demanded countermanding of the poll, alleging that secrecy of voting has been violated. “A JD(S) supporter circulated the photo in WhatsApp groups suggesting that all voters take snaps while casting their votes,” Mr. Gopalaswamy told the media. He wondered how voters could take cellphones inside the polling booth though the DC had issued order banning them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/photo-of-hassan-constituency-ballot-paper-goes-viral/article37929713.ece
11 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman dies after being beaten up by priest||A woman who was beaten up by a priest in the guise of removing evil spirits bothering her health died at Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences in Hassan on Wednesday. Parvathi, 37, of Gowdarahalli in Channarayapatna was allegedly beaten up by Manu, a priest at Bekka village in Channarayapatna taluk, on Tuesday. Parvathi had been suffering from severe headache for a couple of years. Her daughter Chaitra took her to hospitals in Bengaluru, but she was not relieved of the pain. As per the suggestion by a relative, the family members consulted Manu at Periyapatalamma Temple at Bekka. He beat her up severely with a cane on Tuesday. Parvathi fell unconscious and she was taken to a hospital at Channarayapatna. From there she was shifted to Hassan, where she died the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-dies-after-being-beaten-up-by-priest/article37930141.ece
11 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Tourists’ entry restricted||Chikkamgaluru district administration has banned the entry of tourists to Mullayyanagiri, Seetalayyanagiri, Manikyadhara, Honnammanahalla and Sri Guru Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy Dargah from 6 a.m. on December 12 to 6 a.m. on December 20. The administration has taken this decision in view of the three-day Datta Jayanti beginning on December 17. In a press release issued here on Friday, Deputy Commissioner K.N. Ramesh said the ban would not apply to tourists visiting other places. There would be no restriction on staying put at homestays and resorts if the booking is done in advance, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourists-entry-restricted/article37929922.ece
11 December 2021||HUBBALI,KARNATAKA||‘Farmers Session’ tomorrow ahead of winter session in Belagavi||Seeking repeal of the amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, APMC Act and Cow Slaughter (Prevention) Act and demanding immediate crop loss compensation and fulfilment of other demands, a “Farmers Session” will be held in Belagavi on Sunday, ahead of the winter session of the State Legislature on Monday. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Friday, coordinators of Samyukta Horata- Karnataka, a federation of various organisations, S.R. Hiremath, B.S. Soppin and others said that leader of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) Yogendra Yadav will inaugurate the “Farmers Session”. It will be presided over by Bandaya writer Allamaprabhu Betaduru. Mr. Hiremath said that the session was being held with the sole objective of protecting the interests of the farmers and the working class. He will appeal to all to participate in big numbers in the session, which will be held near Sankalpa Garden Cricket Stadium on Kanabaragi Road in Belagavi at 11 a.m. on Sunday. Mr. Hiremath said that while the new farm laws have been repealed by the Union Government after the yearlong agitation of farmers, the State Government is yet to withdraw the recent amendments related to land reforms, APMC Act and cow slaughter.  ‘Highly condemnable’ “The State Government introduced these amendments in line with the new farm laws because of the pressure from Union Government. However, now, the BJP-led State Government is not ready to withdraw them, which is highly condemnable. Samyukta Horata-Karnataka demands that these amended laws be repealed before the start of the winter session in Belagavi,” he said. Rain damage Mr. Soppin said that because of untimely rain, crop loss to the tune of thousands of crores in lakhs of hectares of farmland has been reported in the State. The government should provide compensation of Rs. 25,000 per acre for loss of foodgrains and Rs. 1 lakh per acre for loss of horticultural crops, he demanded. Other coordinators Venakanagouda Patil, Sharanu Gonawar and Raviraj Kambali said that there were several other demands pertaining to farmers which the government should address immediately failing which the federation will be forced to organise “Kisan Maha Panchayats” across the State in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-session-tomorrow-ahead-of-winter-session-in-belagavi/article37929923.ece
11 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Music festival in Dharwad||A music festival will mark the 70th birthday celebrations of Pandit Ganapati Bhat Hasanagi in Dharwad on Sunday. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Friday, musician and organiser of the event Sripad Hegde said that the one-day fest will be at Srujana Rangamandir on Karnatak College in Dharwad. Pt. Ganapati Bhat Hasanagi is proficient in the Gwalior and Kirana Gharana style of music and is credited with popularising Hindustani music in Uttara Kannada. At present, he is serving as a guru at Dr. Gangubai Hangal Gurukul, in Hubballi. The festival will be inaugurated by Hindustani vocalist Pandit Vinayak Torvi and former MLA Chandrakanth Bellad at 9.45 a.m. on Sunday. Musicians Radhika Sudharshan, Chinmay Desai, Jeevan Patil, Medha Bhat, Vinayak Hegde, Shridhar Mandre, Satish Bhat, Srihari Diggavi, Sarang Kulkarni and Gururprasad Hegde will perform. At 6.30 p.m., there will be felicitations to Pt. Hasanagi followed by his concert. Pt. Raghunath Nakod and Satish Bhat Heggaru will accompany him on tabla and harmonium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/music-festival-in-dharwad/article37929924.ece
11 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Steady rise in use of UTS mobile app ticketing: SWR||South Western Railway (SWR), which was the first railway zone in the country to implement UTS mobile app ticketing (for other than suburban trains), has seen good response to the initiative and the application has slowly gained popularity. According to a press release by SWR, usage of UTS mobile app has steadily increased and the sale of tickets through it, which was 5.67 lakh tickets during 2018-19, increased to 13.43 lakh tickets during 2019-20, which is a growth of 136.83%. The total number of Mobile UTS passengers during 2018-19 was 3.5 million and it has increased to 7.6 million passengers in 2019-20, registering a growth of 116 %. Passengers registered The app was rendered non-operational from March 2020 to February 2021 because of pandemic-induced cancellation of passenger trains. In the current fiscal, till November, 2021, a total of 4.98 lakh passengers registered with UTS mobile app applications over SWR. General Manager of South Western Railway Sanjeev Kishore said that “UTS on mobile” app would not only promote cashless transactions, but also ensure contactless, hassle free ticketing. UTS on mobile application can be downloaded from Google PlayStore for Android mobiles, Windows Store for Windows Mobiles, and Apple Store for iPhone users. Booking process Passengers have to get registered through mobile phone application or website (https://www.utsonmobile.indianrail.gov.in) by providing the mobile number, name, password, gender, and date of birth. Passengers can book unreserved journey, season tickets, and platform tickets using UTS mobile application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/steady-rise-in-use-of-uts-mobile-app-ticketing-swr/article37929712.ece
11 December 2021||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||‘Will act against those tweeting irresponsibly on Gen. Rawat’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has directed the police to take action against people who had tweeted celebrating the death of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. Speaking to mediapersons after casting his vote in the Legislative Council polls at Shiggaon in Haveri district on Friday, he said: “It is highly condemnable that irresponsible messages are being tweeted. Those who have tweeted irresponsibly or uploaded Facebook posts will be traced, and cases will be filed against them. There is no question of pardoning such acts,” he said. Meets survivor He met Captain Varun Singh who survived the crash and was undergoing treatment at Command Hospital in Bengaluru. The best team of doctors are attending to him, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-act-against-those-tweeting-irresponsibly-on-gen-rawat/article37929717.ece
11 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||After slow start, polling picks pace in Kalaburagi-Yadgir||Election to the Kalaburagi-Yadgir Local Authorities Constituency of the Legislative Council evoked a good response on Friday recording a voter turnout of 99.73%. Of the total 7,089 voters, 7,070 (3,312 men and 3,758 women) exercised their franchise in polling that ended at 4 p.m. Starting at a slow pace in the morning with a turnout of 12.63% by 10 a.m., polling gathered momentum as the day grew to record 71.18% by noon, 96.68% by 2 p.m. and 99.73% by the end at 4 p.m. As many as 19 members from 14 taluks in the two districts did not cast their votes. All the voters of Wadagera taluk in Yadgir district and Jewargi, Chittapur and Kamalapur taluks in Kalaburagi district cast their votes. Two members each from Yadrami and Aland taluks in Kalaburagi district and Shahapur and Gurmitkal taluk in Yadgir district and one member each from Afzalpur, Kalaburagi, Shahabad, Sedam, Chincholi, Kalagi taluks and Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike in Kalaburagi district and Yadgir, Hunsagi and Shorapur taluks in Yadgir district did not cast their votes. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge, who was away in New Delhi for the winter session of Parliament, was among those who did not turn up for exercising their franchise. He had, however, visited Kalaburagi a few days ago amid the ongoing Parliament session and campaigned for his party candidate. BJP member of Kalaburagi City Corporation Priyanka, against whom the Congress had moved court stating that she had not completed 18 years of age, had obtained permission from the High Court of Karnataka and cast her vote in the election. Earlier, a local court, hearing the Congress petition, had barred her from casting vote in the Kalaburagi Mayoral election which later got postponed. Though polling went off largely peacefully across the constituency, violations of COVID-19 guidelines and prohibitory orders imposed were found in many polling stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-slow-start-polling-picks-pace-in-kalaburagi-yadgir/article37929910.ece
11 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Polling peaceful in Ballari||Polling for the Ballari Local Authorities Constituency of the Legislative Council went off peacefully on Friday to record a voter turnout of 99.81%. As per information provided by the office of District Election Officer, 4,654 voters of 4,663 exercised their franchise. Nine members, including two who are in judicial custody, did not cast their votes. Polling began simultaneously at 8 a.m. as scheduled across 247 polling stations established in Ballari and Vijayanagara districts. Slow-paced in the morning to record just 11.62% of turnout by 10 a.m., polling gathered momentum as the day grew. By noon, the turnout jumped to 61.36% and kept pace in the next two hours to reach 91.04% by 2 p.m. When voting ended at 4 p.m., the turnout stood at 99.81%. Congress candidate K.C. Kondaiah, who currently represents the constituency in the Legislative Council, was the only candidate in the fray who exercised his franchise. BJP candidate Yeachareddy Sathish and Independent candidate C.M. Manjunath are not voters as they are not members of any local bodies of governance. Almost all members of the Legislature, including Minister Anand Singh, exercised their franchise. Mr. Kondaiah’s polling station agent Vijay Kumar offered puja to the polling station at Sanganakallu village and broke a coconut before polling commenced. Senior Indian Administrative Service officer V. Ram Prasath Manohar, who was the election observer for the constituency, visited polling stations in and around Kamalapur and Hampi to take stock of the process. “Polling went off peacefully. No untoward incident was reported,” Mr. Manohar told mediapersons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/polling-peaceful-in-ballari/article37929905.ece
11 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||It is 99.83% in Bidar||Bidar Local Authorities Constituency of the Legislative Council recorded a voter turnout of 99.83% on Friday. Of the total 3,456 voters, 3,450 (1,653 men and 1,797 women) cast their votes. As per a data provided by the district administration, polling picked up within an hour after it started at 8 a.m. and 873 voters had exercised their franchises (25.26%) by 10 a.m. In the next two hours, 1,823 more voters cast their votes to take the total number of polled votes to 2,693 (78.01%). The number of polled votes further jumped to 3,398 (98.32%), with an addition of 703 votes by 2 p.m. In the last two hours of polling that ended at 4 p.m., only 52 members cast their votes to take the total number of polled votes to 3,450 (99.83%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-is-9983-in-bidar/article37929908.ece
11 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Seer demands NIA probe into death of four of Jeppu family||Sri Rajashekharananda Swami of Gurupura Vajradehi Mutt on Friday demanded a high-level probe, preferably by the National Investigation Agency, into the death of four members of a family in Jeppu here on Wednesday. Addressing a meeting organised by the Vishwa Hindu Parishat here, Sri Rajashekharananda Swami said that Nagesh Shiraguppi had reportedly mentioned about attempts to convert his wife Vijayalakshmi into another religion by a woman. The woman from the other community is said to be wealthy and had paid a good amount of cash to Vijayalakshmi, he said. The swami said that investigation should be conducted to reveal the source of funding that the woman had as the reported conversion attempts could be part of a larger conspiracy to spread terrorism. As such, an in-depth probe is required by a professional agency, he demanded. Sri Rajashekharananda Swami said that people from other religions have been converting people from Hindu religion to their religion either by force or through inducement for many years. This is nothing but misuse of the large-heartedness of the Hindus in welcoming all in their land, he said. Sri Rajashekharananda Swami said that in view of the recent incident as well as recurring attempts to convert Hindus to other religions, the State Government should immediately enact the anti-conversion law. The VHP in its memorandum to the Home Minister said that repeated attempts were being made to convert Hindus to other religions because of the absence of an anti-conversion law. Wednesday’s incident was one such attempt to divide families and create social unrest, it said. To put a complete halt to forced and induced conversion, the government should immediately enact the law, it demanded. Om Shree Vidyananda Swamiji of Om Shree Mutt, Chilimbi, VHP Mangaluru Secretary Shivanand Mendon, district president Gopal Kutthar and others were present.  Sri Rajashekharananda Swami says that people from other religions have been converting Hindus either by force or through inducement for many years and this is nothing but misuse of the large-heartedness of the Hindus in welcoming all in their land||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seer-demands-nia-probe-into-death-of-four-of-jeppu-family/article37930123.ece
11 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two more arrested in sexual harassment case in city||The police on Thursday arrested two more persons in connection with the alleged sexual harassment of a law student by advocate K.S.N. Rajesh, who is said to be at large. The names of the arrested persons were given as Shashikala Rajesh (38), wife of Rajesh, and Alok K. (22), son of Achyut K.B., who is accused of harbouring Rajesh. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters here on Friday that Ms. Shashikala Rajesh has been accused of threatening the victim to withdraw the case against Rajesh. Alok was arrested after the police recovered from him SIM cards said to have been used by Rajesh. These two accused are said to be involved in a conspiracy against the victim, he said. Both the arrested were produced before a court which granted them bail, the Police Commissioner said. Complaint The law student on October 18 filed a complaint against Rajesh, a Special Public Prosecutor for Lokayukta, accusing him of sexually harassing her several times. On the same day, the student’s friend filed a compliant against Rajesh and Ashok Nagar Mahila Vedike president Pavitra Acharya accusing of taking her to a police station and forcing her to sign a document to deny the incident involving her friend. Both the cases were filed at the Women’s Police Station. Rajesh has been at large since October 18 and he is said to be with his friend Achyut, a resident of Bengaluru. The police have issued a look-out notice against Rajesh and Achyut. The police have taken action to freeze all bank accounts of Rajesh. A few days ago an anticipatory bail application filed by Rajesh was rejected by the High Court of Karnataka. The police have arrested Pavitra Acharya and Ananth Bhat, who is accused of driving Rajesh out of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-more-arrested-in-sexual-harassment-case-in-city/article37930127.ece
11 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MLA for boiled eggs in schools||Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat on Friday backed the government’s decision to serve boiled eggs to students in government aided schools in the State. Speaking to mediapersons in Udupi the MLA said that there is no substance in arguments that children will change their food habits for merely making the eggs available at schools. The MLA said that schools can make a separate arrangement to serve the boiled eggs to those who prefer it so that those who do not eat it will not feel uncomfortable. If some students want to eat eggs it is not proper to deny them the same. Mr. Bhat said that those students who do not want to eat the eggs need not eat them. Those who do not have the practice of eating eggs at their homes will not eat them anyway. It may be mentioned here that Pejawar Mutt seer Vishwaprasanna Tirtha had spoken against providing eggs at schools. He had said on Thursday that every community follows its own food habits and the government’s job is not to force the kids to eat eggs. He had suggested that the government provide an equivalent sum of money to those who consume it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-for-boiled-eggs-in-schools/article37930129.ece
11 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Heavy vehicles banned on Balebare Ghat||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao has banned the movement of heavy vehicles weighing more than 18,500 RLW (registered laden weight) on the Balebare Ghat Road with immediate effect. It is in view of safety of the road, bridges and culverts on the road. Heavy vehicles have been directed to operate to Shivamogga via NH 66 through Kogar Ghat and Sagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-vehicles-banned-on-balebare-ghat/article37930121.ece
11 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||10 students of nursing college test positive||In all, 10 students have tested positive for COVID-19 at a nursing college in Valachil, on the outskirts of the city, in two days. Of these, two cases were reported on Thursday and eight students tested positive on Friday, according to Dakshina Kannada District COVID-19 Nodal Officer H. Ashok. The college has been declared as a containment zone and classes have been suspended for a week, he said and added that all those who tested positive are from Kerala. Swab samples of 374 students from the college have been collected for testing and two nursing officers have been deputed for monitoring the process. “All students who tested positive have been isolated in the institution. The Health Department is monitoring the overall situation,” he said. The management of the college has taken all preventive measures according to the instructions given by the Health Department, the Nodal Officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-students-of-nursing-college-test-positive/article37930126.ece
11 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Six-member group waylays, assaults man||A six-member group assaulted a 38-year-old autorickshaw driver and real estate dealer in Padu near Neerumarga in Mangaluru Rural Police limits on Friday. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that Riyaz Ahmed, who was in a car, was waylaid and assaulted. The reason for the attack and details of those involved are not known so far. Riyaz Ahmed, who suffered an injury in his eyes and head, was taken to a private hospital nearby. He was then shifted to another hospital, the Police Commissioner said. The police said that he is out of danger. A case has been registered for an offence punishable under Section 307 of Indian Penal Code at the Mangaluru Rural Police Station, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-member-group-waylays-assaults-man/article37930120.ece
11 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Sandesh Nagaraj set to resign from Janata Dal (S)||Outgoing MLC Sandesh Nagaraj said he will continue in active politics, but will resign from the JD(S) after his term ends on January 5. Speaking to reporters after casting his vote in the elections on Friday, he indirectly blamed former Minister S.R. Mahesh for blocking his return as the JD(S) candidate in the elections to the Legislative Council from Mysuru-Chamarajanagar constituency even though the party had given him the B form. Mr Nagaraj said he will display before the media the B form that would have facilitated him to contest the elections as JD (S) candidate and would also disclose who delivered the same to him when he convenes a media conference after his term ends. Without naming Mr. Mahesh, he said the former Minister was responsible for not only his resignation from the party, but also for the turn of events linked to former Minister G.T. Deve Gowda as well as former MLA Chikkamadu. He said he will remain in active politics even after he resigns from the JD(S). “My politics was hitherto mild. It will be rough in the coming days”, he said. It may be mentioned here that Mr. Nagaraj, who was not fielded by either JD(S) or BJP in the elections, chose to remain out of the electoral race. He was elected MLC as JD(S) candidate during the previous elections. Received call: GTD Meanwhile, Mr. G.T. Deve Gowda, the JD(S) MLA representing Chamundeshwari, who has maintained a distance from the party leadership, on Friday said he had received a call from Mr Sandesh Nagaraj seeking his support in the elections. Mr. Gowda claimed that Mr. Nagaraj told him that he had been issued the B form of JD (S). Mr. Gowda said he reassured Mr. Nagaraj that he will win the elections. Replying to a statement by former Chief Minister H.D, Kumaraswamy that the doors of JD(S) were closed for Mr. Gowda, the latter said he himself had closed the party’s doors. He recalled that he had been invited by the senior leaders of the party including party supremo H.D. Deve Gowda for a meeting to anoint him as the party’s Mysuru district president. Several senior leaders of the party including Mr. Kumaraswamy and former Minister H.D. Revanna, besides the party’s MLAs from the district were also present. However, he claimed that Mr. Mahesh was opposed to the idea. “I walked out of the meeting by closing the door behind me. After that I have not gone back to check if the door is open or closed”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sandesh-nagaraj-set-to-resign-from-janata-dal-s/article37930146.ece
11 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||173 buildings in decrepit condition in Mysuru||As many as 173 buildings in Mysuru city have been identified as ‘insecure’ for inhabitation and recommended for demolition in the interest of safety of people presently inhabiting them and those living in the vicinity. The nature of buildings and their conditions were evaluated by the engineers, documenting safety reports. In a survey done by the Mysuru City Corporation, after a couple of houses caved in without causing any casualties following heavy rains in October and November, the engineers in all nine zones have identified 173 buildings that are in a dilapidated state. Based on the report, the MCC has begun issuing notices to the owners of such buildings. the owners fail to act as advised by the MCC, the Corporation says it has powers under the Karnataka Municipalities Act to raze the structures on its own and collect costs incurred on demolition from the building owners. MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy told The Hindu that the MCC cannot wait for long awaiting the owners to act. If they fail to act within the time frame, then MCC has to intervene and get the risky buildings razed. The MCC is serious about the issue since it is a question of safeguarding the lives, he said. Last month, five members of a family were rescued after a portion of the building where they were staying caved in. Another old building in Vidyaranyapuram here collapsed but the lone occupant survived the incident and was later rescued. The condition of several old buildings here has become shaky after Mysuru recorded heavy spells of rains last month. The incessant rains further weakened the dilapidated buildings. Mr. Reddy said the MCC had already demolished two structures that were in decrepit condition. “The MCC will not hesitate to act if the buildings threaten the safety of people in the locality. We will act based on the responses from the owners.” The highest number of dilapidated buildings are in Zone 6, 7 and 8. Zone 6 has 47, while Zone 7 and 8 have 42 and 33 buildings in ramshackle condition respectively. Zone 2 and 1 have 22 and 16 “unsafe” buildings respectively. In all other zones, the buildings in broken-down condition are in single digits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/173-buildings-in-decrepit-condition-in-mysuru/article37929917.ece
11 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Forum seeks egg diet in noon meal scheme in State||Karnataka State Backward Classes Awareness Forum, Mysuru, has welcomed the State government’s decision to include egg and banana in the midday meal scheme and demanded that all schools across the State should benefit from the decision. Egg and banana were being served under Akshara Dasoha only in schools of Kalyana Karnataka and the same can be extended to schools all over the State for addressing malnutrition issues in children, the Forum suggested. The Forum has taken exception to the opposition being expressed by some religious leaders. By doing so, these leaders and the caste-based organisations were trying to subvert the importance of the decision and impose certain food traditions. Egg diet should not be construed as “non-vegetarian food”, according to the Forum. In this connection, the members of the forum led by its president K.S. Shivaram launched a postcard campaign in Mysuru on Friday seeking extension of egg distribution in all schools and condemning the opposition to distribution of eggs in schools. In a memorandum to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Mr. Shivaram urged him to extend distribution of eggs in schools across Karnataka instead of confining only to the schools of Kalyana Karnataka, considering the nutrition benefits. Questioning the rationale behind bringing politics in food traditions, he said “The politics over what food has to be consumed is clearly reflected in the egg distribution.” Citing the Niti Aayog report of 2020-21, the Forum maintained in the memorandum that “nearly 35 per cent of children are underweight and underdeveloped and about 45 per cent of children are suffering from anaemia”. In the light of this report, the distribution of eggs in schools under the midday meals gains importance, it argued. He urged those opposing egg distribution in Akshara Dasoha to stop making politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/forum-seeks-egg-diet-in-noon-meal-scheme-in-state/article37930143.ece
11 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Planetarium soon in Mysuru||The University of Mysore is set to have a planetarium on its campus, according to G. Hemantha Kumar, Vice-Chancellor. At a function held to sign an MoU with Indian Institute of Astrophysics here on Friday, he said it will come up on the new campus named after Sri Jayachamaraja Wadiyar C. at the Chamundi foothills. The IIA will set up the planetarium. The cost of construction will be met entirely with funding by the Centre. Annapurni Subramaniam, Director, IIA, Bengaluru, delivered a special lecture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/planetarium-soon-in-mysuru/article37930144.ece
11 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Separate tax slab for industries: stakeholders’ concern over notification||Stakeholders in the industrial sector are adopting a “wait and watch’’ policy on the separate property tax slab for industries in urban local bodies limits proposed by the government. Though a long-pending demand, there is a perception that the fineprint would be more revealing and hence are not unduly euphoric about the decision. Besides, there is unanimity among the stakeholders that the ULBs are supposed to provide necessary services in lieu of the tax paid. But most gram panchayats and some of the town municipal councils are not in position to provide services such as road maintenance, street lights, and garbage removal. “As the local bodies do not provide any services, almost 85 per cent to 90 per cent of the industrial units do not pay tax to the ULBs. It is only when there is a requirement for some documents that one ends up remitting the tax’’, according to an entrepreneur with a unit in Hebbal Industrial Area. Recently, a major industrial unit which is spread over a large swathe of land, forked out crores of rupees to the local gram panchayat on the outskirts of the city. This was because of a necessity to obtain vital land-related documents and hence it paid the arears along with interest. “Otherwise the units refrain from remitting tax in the absence of any proportionate level of service’’, the entrepreneur added. Given the inability of the gram panchayats to provide services due to lack of resources and manpower, the industrial units end up remitting taxes to the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) for maintenance etc and hence justify their decision to not pay tax to the ULBs. Suresh Kumar Jain of Mysore Industries Association said they have a similar demand pertaining to water charges. “At present untreated and raw water supplied to industries is considered as commercial in the absence of a separate slab for industries. But industries provide employment and contribute to the GDP of the country and hence it was not prudent to levy commercial rates for water charges. But this is yet to be considered by the Government’’, he added. Members of MIA and other organisations said the final order and notification will reveal details. In the past, the stakeholders had submitted a memorandum to the government seeking reservation of 70 per cent of the industrial plots for SSIs as they constitute the bulk of the units. But in the final order, the SSIs were allotted only 30% of the land while 70% was reserved for medium and large units, according to the MIA members. There are also concerns about the pace in which such laws are notified. The constitution of an industrial township authority was announced in the budget many years ago. But it is yet to be notified. Hence stakeholders in industries consider the new development as a mere announcement of intent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/separate-tax-slab-for-industries-stakeholders-concern-over-notification/article37929919.ece
11 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Genome sequencing lab at MMCRI||Amid the Omicron threat, a genome sequencing laboratory in Mysuru is expected to be ready soon. The Mysore Medical College and Research Institute is awaiting the technical team from the government for installing the equipment procured. Such labs are coming up in four medical colleges in the State, including the MMCRI in Mysuru, to detect mutations of coronavirus, helping the authorities in taking adequate precautions against the mutated strains. The lab will be part of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG) network. INSACOG is a confederation of laboratories established for carrying out whole genome sequencing and surveillance of SARS-CoV-2 variants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/genome-sequencing-lab-at-mmcri/article37930139.ece
11 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||DC inspects checkpost in Yadgir||The district administration has initiated preventive measures to tackle the possible third wave of COVID-19 and established 10 checkposts on the road leading to district border. R. Ragapriya, Deputy Commissioner, on Wednesday visited one of the such checkpost near Yargol village in Yadgir taluk on the Yadgir-Kalaburagi district border and inspected the action taken. The other checkposts have been established in Malla (B) village in Surpur taluk, Mudbool in Shahapur taluk, Kuntimari village and Putpak village in Gurmitkal taluk, which are close to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana border, Narayanapur and Malanoor villages in Hunsagi taluk. Strict instructions The staff deployed to checkpost duty are strictly instructed to inspect each person entering to the district border from other districts even in the state and also from interstates like Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, Dr. Ragapriya said. Prashant Hanagundi, Assistant Commissioner of Yadgir sub-division, Channamallappa Ganti, tahasildar and other Revenue Department staff were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-inspects-checkpost-in-yadgir/article37929914.ece
11 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||6,488 voters out of 6,497 exercise their franchise in Raichur-Koppal||Voting in Raichur-Koppal Local Authorities Constituency in the Legislative Council elections was completely peaceful on Friday. According to information provided by the district administration in Raichur, the total poll percentage was 99.86. Out of the 6,497 voters, 6,488 cast their votes in the elections. The total percentage of voting recorded was 99.91 in Raichur district, while it was 99.93 in Koppal district. And, the overall percentage in the dual-member constituency of Raichur-Koppal was put at 99.86%. In Raichur district, Raichur taluk 715 voters of the 716 cast their votes for 99.86%. Manvi taluk recorded 100% voting with 374 voters out of 374 exercising their franchise. In Deodurg taluk, it was 100% with 572 voters exercising their francise. Lingsugur taluk recorded 99.84% with 619 voters of the 620 casting their votes. It was 99.70% in Sindhanur taluk with 660 voters of the 662 casting their votes. Maski taluk also recorded 100% voting all 400 casting their votes, while all 277 voters exercised their franchise for 100% voting in Sirwar taluk also. In Koppal district, Karatagi taluk recorded 100% voting with all 245 votes being cast, Kanakagiri taluk 100% voting with all 196 votes cast, Kushtagi taluk all 648 votes cast for 100% voting and Kukanur taluk recorded 100% voting with 239 voters exercising their franchise. Gangavathi taluk recorded 384 votes out of against 385 for 99.74 % polling, Koppal taluk 772 votes out of 774 for 99.74% and Yelburga taluk recorded 387 votes out of 388 for 99.74% voting. Meanwhile, Manvi, Deodurg, Maski and Sirwar taluks in Raichur district also recorded 100% voting. Sharanagowda Patil Bayyapur of the Congress, Vishwanath Bannahatti of the BJP, Tirupathi of Janashakti Party are in the fray, apart from one Independent candidate Narendra Arya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/6488-voters-out-of-6497-exercise-their-franchise-in-raichur-koppal/article37929912.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bescom moves KERC seeking tariff hike||For the 2021-22 financial year, Bescom had sought an average hike of Rs. 1.39 per unit, while it was Rs. 1.96 per unit in 2020-21 fiscal. KERC had approved a hike in tariff by an average 40 paise per unit in November 2020, and another hike of 30 paise per unit in June 2021. Following this, Bescom had later announced and collected the arrears of the revised electricity tariff for April and May in October and November. The possibility of a power tariff hike is already causing much anxiety among citizens, especially industrial bodies, who are still reeling from the effects of the pandemic and subsequent lockdowns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bescom-moves-kerc-seeking-tariff-hike/article37929702.ece
11 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||9,048 ducks culled in Alappuzha||Culling of ducks within one-km radius of the bird flu-hit Kunnumma South (Ward 10) in Thakazhy grama panchayat and burning of carcasses were completed on Friday. Officials of the Animal Husbandry department (AHD) said 9,048 ducks belonging to five farmers were culled by rapid response teams in a bid to tackle the spread of the disease. Although the culling operation was completed on Thursday, disposal of carcasses was slightly delayed due to rain, said an AHD official. Meanwhile, the Health department has launched a survey and awareness campaign in Thakazhy and Purakkad grama panchayats. People are being checked for fever and other ailments. Though bird flu viruses do not usually infect humans, the department has urged people to exercise caution in view of the outbreak. Joseph Cherian, a duck farmer from Purakkad who was raising around 13,500 ducks close to the outer bund of a paddy field at Kunnumma, lost more than 10,000 birds in the past two weeks. Samples turn positive Following the mass death of ducks, the department despatched samples of dead birds to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for analyses, which tested positive for avian influenza (H5N1). Apart from Thakazhy, duck mortality has also been reported from Nedumudi in Alappuzha, Vechoor and Kallara in Kottayam district in recent days. The department has sent samples from these places for analyses but is yet to receive the test results. Fourth outbreak It is the fourth time in the last seven years that bird flu outbreak was reported in the Kuttanad region. Earlier this year, avian flu caused by the H5N8 strain of the Influenza A virus was detected from six places in Kuttanad, Nedumudi, Thakazhy, Pallippad, Karuvatta, and Kainakary in Alappuzha district and Neendoor in Kottayam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/9048-ducks-culled-in-alappuzha-district/article37930087.ece
11 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||No deviation from dam stance: Minister||The Kerala government has not deviated from its declared stance on the Mullaperiyar issue in the the Supreme Court, Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine has said. Talking to mediapersons at Thodupuzha on Friday, the Minister said seeking control over the discharge of water to the Periyar river was more important to Kerala than obtaining compensation for damage in the downstream area. The State has demanded an end to the uncontrolled release of water from the Mullaperiyar dam. He said a committee consisting of officials from Kerala and Tamil Nadu should be constituted with regard to release of water to the Periyar. Tthe Supreme Court was informed of the failure in convening a meeting of the supervisory committee appointed by it when high volumes of water were released without warning at night. Mr. Augustine said he stood with residents downstream who struggled following the release of high volumes of water at night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-deviation-from-dam-stance-minister/article37930048.ece
11 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki water level falls||The water level fell to 2,400.98 ft at the Idukki dam at 1 p.m. on Friday. The blue alert level is 2,395 ft and the orange alert level is 2,401 ft. According to a dam safety official, the water level was in a safe position and power generation continued to be high. There was no rain in the catchment area on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-water-level-falls/article37930047.ece
11 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Cage set up to capture elusive tiger||Search is on for the elusive tiger that is believed to have killed as many as nine domestic animals in the Kurukkanmoola area under the North Wayanad Forest Division in a fortnight. Wayanad Sub Collector and Revenue Divisional officer R. Sreelakshmi on Friday clamped Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in divisions 11,12,13, and 14 of the Mananthavady Municipality. The prohibition order was issued on the directive of the Chief Wildlife Warden to capture the straying tiger using a cage or applying chemical tranquillization, Ms. Sreelakshmi told the media. Meanwhile, the animal reportedly killed one more calf owned by Kunju of Mundakkal, a farmer at Cherur, on Thursday night. The animal was sighted on a private rubber plantation at Cherur, nearly 2 km away from the Thrissilery section of the forest under the Begur Forest Range in the North Wayanad Forest Division, on Friday morning. A team of Forest officials led by North Wayanad Forest Divisional Officer Ramesh Bishnoi searched the plantation and set up a cage to capture the big cat. Some frontline forest staff sighted the animal, and they also heard its roar, Mr. Bishnoi said. As many as 100 forest personnel, including members of the Rapid Response Team, were part of the operation. “We have installed more surveillance cameras in the area to watch the movement of the predator and have also kept the carcass of the calf inside the cage to attract the animal,” Mr. Bishnoi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cage-set-up-to-capture-elusive-tiger/article37930010.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL submits revised project report to KCZMA||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has submitted a revised detailed project report (DPR) to the Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority (KCZMA) to obtain environmental clearance for its Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System (IURWTS) project. The project’s tendering process will start based on the outcome. The KCZMA had during its previous meeting raised apprehension over providing lock gates on canals under the IURWTS and advised a holistic study of the entire Kochi catchment, including the upper reaches of the main rivers. KMRL has accepted the suggestions and removed the incorporation of canal lock gates in the IURWTS project. It also conveyed that the incorporation of canal lock gates for mitigating floods in Kochi city as a whole would be taken up by the Irrigation department or the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA), after taking into consideration all factors. The revised DPR after excluding the canal lock gates was submitted to the KCZMA on December 3, says a KMRL release. The metro agency has already completed the required surveys and finalised the concept plans for all the projects. Out of the six canals that have been shortlisted for being rejuvenated, KMRL plans to make the entire Edappally canal navigable and to connect the Water Metro jetties of Eroor and Cheranalloor through the canal. Since there are railway lines crossing the Chilavannoor and Thevara-Perandoor canals, navigation is not possible from end to end. Thus, KMRL will be looking into widening for flood containment requirements only. The agency intends to tender works on the Market canal by January 2022 and start the work by February-end. Sewage system The entire network of canals will be cleaned only after the sewage systems are in place. KMRL has prepared the DPRs for covering the entire catchment of the IURWTS project and is in discussions with the Kerala Water Authority (KWA). There will be four sewage treatment plants (STPs) and the sewerage system will cover approximately 45% of the Kochi Corporation area and some parts of Kalamssery and Thrikkakkara municipalities. It will be the biggest sewerage project to be executed in Kerala. The vetting of the DPRs by the Centre for Urbanization, Buildings and Environment of the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, is in progress. The KWA is looking to integrate the entire sewage master plan of Kochi city with the IURWTS project. The STP plants and sewer lines will be executed by the KWA, since it is the nodal agency for sewerage systems in the State. KMRL has completed the demarcation of land required for the Edappally canal, and the social impact assessment (SIA) is in progress. The land acquisition process for other canals is also in progress. KMRL has accorded priority to the Edappally canal work and anticipates to get the land for the canal transferred to commence the project execution by August 2022, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmrl-submits-revised-project-report-to-kczma/article37930025.ece
11 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Private firms transporting bodies under fire for fleecing migrants||The engagement of private services agencies by the Labour department for transporting bodies of migrant workers to their native places has drawn criticism from social workers and organisations working for the welfare of migrants, accusing private players of fleecing labourers’ relatives. In an unprecedented move, the Labour department in 2018 had introduced a revolving fund of up to Rs. 50,000 for the transportation of a migrant’s body. While the initiative, arguably the first of its kind anywhere in the country, is being lauded, entrusting the job with private players is far from being appreciated. “The focus is on sending bodies at the earliest to the bereaved families for which we entrust the service with private players prepared to do it at the lowest possible cost. We clear the vouchers submitted by service providers once the service is delivered,” said P.M. Firoz, District Labour Officer, Ernakulam. Private agencies are entrusted with the embalming of bodies and their transportation in ambulances to the airport. However, there is no process to verify the costs incurred as the Labour department cites shortage of hands and preoccupation with other duties for being unable to do it. “While bodies can be embalmed for free or negligible fee at government medical colleges, a private agency insisted on shifting bodies to its own embalming unit at Nattakam in Kottayam at considerable time and cost. Besides, in the case of migrant deaths unknown to the Labour department thus depriving the kin of the deceased of the financial assistance, these private players, in nexus with attenders at hospitals, get the victims’ relatives to agree to transport bodies back home at exorbitant rate by playing on their insecurities,” said George Mathew, chairperson, Progressive Workers Union. In one such instance, the body of a migrant was transported back home in Odisha by road for Rs. 1.25 lakh in October. Vulnerable “Vested interest should be suspected in shifting bodies, at considerable time and cost, to the embalming unit in Kottayam even from other districts with government medical colleges. Once that happens, relatives of victims are at the mercy of the agency concerned making them more vulnerable to exploitation. “Also, there is the emotional trauma of bereaved families caused by the delay in the arrival of the body of their dear ones,” said Benoy Peter, executive director, Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development. Sathi Devi V.K., Additional Professor, Department of Anatomy at Government Medical College, Thrissur, said that as per the Anatomy Act, embalming of bodies should be done by the anatomy department of the government medical college, and private players are not permitted to do it. Mr. Mathew further alleged that the cost claimed by private agencies didn’t match the actual cost. “While a body can be transported for less than Rs. 20,000, inclusive of the airfare and coffin charges, these agencies are charging many folds that,” he said. A source with Indigo Airline said while the fares vary from sector to sector, airlifting a body to the West Bengal sector, one of the farthest from Kochi, costs anywhere between Rs. 8,000 and Rs. 10,000. A private funeral undertaker said transporting a body to Murshidabad in West Bengal, one of the main hubs of migrant workers in Kerala, could cost between Rs. 40,000 and Rs. 45,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-firms-transporting-bodies-under-fire-for-fleecing-migrants/article37930036.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Row between Maharaja’s and Corpn. threatens to intensify||With the district administration determined to go ahead with the plan to relocate traders at Fashion Street temporarily to the Maharaja’s College ground ahead of cleaning the Mullassery canal, the confrontation between the college authorities on one side and the district administration and the Kochi Corporation on the other is threatening to intensify. The objection raised by the college Principal in a letter to District Collector Jafar Malik earlier this week seems to have had little effect. Mr. Malik said the plan remained unchanged for multiple reasons, not the least that the cleaning of the Mullasserry canal is a High Court-monitored work with a clear deadline. “We will start temporary relocation at the earliest as the cleaning work will have to be launched by this month-end to complete it in the next three to four months as per the deadline. Besides, it is also in the interest of the college as flooding of the canal will leave the ground waterlogged. The Director of Collegiate Education has also agreed to the plan considering the involvement of the High Court,” he said. A meeting attended by the Collector, the Mayor and the college authorities on December 4 had discussed the plan of temporary relocation of traders. Mayor’s stance Mayor M. Anilkumar accused the college authorities of hampering a project in the public interest despite having agreed to it in principle at the meeting. “We are talking about just three months and the space to be used for it doesn’t in any way interfere with the turf,” he said. “But if the opposition continues, we may think of an alternative location as the execution of work is more important,” he added. There is a dispute over the land between the Greater Cochin Development Authority and the college. In her letter, Principal Mercy Joseph said the preparatory works were launched even before the minutes of the meeting was shared with the college and demanded that they be suspended immediately. “The plan for relocation of traders should be dropped till the relevant orders are issued by the government,” she said. The letter drew attention to the fact that a meeting of the college council had unanimously opposed the move. “In the past, land belonging to the college was taken over temporarily only for it to become permanent. The land in question has been identified for a basketball court for which fund allocation is awaited,” said Reena Joseph, head of the department of physical education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-between-maharajas-and-corpn-threatens-to-intensify/article37930037.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No institutional mechanism to record deaths||In the first week of December alone, the deaths of four migrants were reported in the district. The victims aged between 22 and 35 years died by suicide, drowning, due to cardiac arrest, or after being hit by train. In October, eight migrant deaths were reported in the district. While such data has been collated by an NGO, there is no institutional mechanism to keep track of the considerable number of migrant deaths being reported in the district every month despite their relatively young age. “The migrant deaths are not aggregated officially, and hence, the causes behind those deaths are not being analysed. Ideally, there should be a district-level coordination committee of all stakeholders concerned to brainstorm over the various problems, not just their deaths, faced by the large migrant community,” said Benoy Peter, executive director, Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development, which started building up a database of migrant deaths in the district a few months ago . According to organisations working amid migrants, the deaths could be broadly attributed to three causes – workplace accidents, diseases, including occupational and lifestyle, and mental stress and suicides. “In the case of accidents caused by workplace accidents, the employers often try to hush up the incident and try to rush the bodies back with the help of private agencies. The labour department is also kept in the dark to avoid payment of compensation to the kin of the victims. There should be a government order making it mandatory for hospitals to report migrant deaths with the district medical officer and the district labour officer,” said George Mathew, chairperson, Progressive Workers’ Organisation. P.M. Firoz, District Labour Officer, admitted that while the migrant deaths taking place in government hospitals are duly reported with the labour department, the same cannot be said about deaths taking place elsewhere. Akhil Manual, medical officer, National Health Mission, Ernakulam, said there was indeed a gap in recording the deaths. Nizar Ahmad, district judge and member secretary of the Kerala State Legal Services Authority, also batted for such a mechanism. “We are more than willing to associate with any project to account the deaths of migrants systematically,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-institutional-mechanism-to-record-deaths/article37930041.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Party in a position of strength in district, says Mohanan||The district meeting of the CPI(M) is taking place at a time the party has strengthened itself organisationally and electorally, says C.N. Mohanan, district secretary. After being out of power in the city corporation for two terms in a row, the Left Front was able to win it back. It was also able to retain its tally of five seats in the Assembly, which would’ve been seven, with Perumbavoor and Thripunithura too, had it not been for organisational issues. Hence, the disciplinary action against several leaders, Mr. Mohanan said. “The party was sure to get a majority of some 4,000 votes in Thripunithura notwithstanding the erosion of votes from the BJP to the Congress. Hence, the punitive action against party leaders,” he told the media here. He said that despite the new entrant Twenty20 clinching about 7.35% of the votes in the Assembly elections, the CPI(M)’s vote share had dipped just by 0.97% while the BJP, except in Ernakulam and Vypeen constituencies, saw its vote share plummet by 3 to 3.5%. The CPI(M), he said, had 41,618 members in the district, and since then it was able to add around 2.5 lakh members to its affiliated organisations, whose total membership stood at 19 lakh. The ongoing reorganisation process saw 3,121 branch committees, 162 local committees and 16 area committees take shape in the district. He said the party handed over 121 homes using funds mobilised under its Kaniv Housing Project in the district. Twenty more, under construction now, would be handed over before March, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/party-in-a-position-of-strength-in-district-says-mohanan/article37930031.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NGT warns of punitive action over Brahmapuram fiasco||The National Green Tribunal has pulled up the authorities for the continuing sorry state of affairs at the dumping yard of the Kochi Corporation at Brahmapuram. The Southern Bench of the tribunal comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Dr. Satyapal Korlapati, stated that no significant improvement has taken place in reducing the mount of legacy waste lying in the Brahmapuram dumping yard. The bio-mining is yet to start at the site. Still, it was in the stage of finalising the tender and handing over the area to the successful bidder. This promises had been made to this tribunal since last year, according to the latest order issued by it in the case related to the non-compliance of the Solid Waste Management Rules. “Further, the leachate treatment plant is also not properly functioning and they are operating the waste management facility without proper authorisation since long time, which in fact, is against the rules. If the local bodies and the government department themselves are violating the rules and carrying out the activities against the environmental norms, then how it can it be possible for the government to impose penalties against the poor people, who are not able to comply with the same on account of the non-cooperation of the local bodies in collecting the same as provided under the rules? asked the tribunal. More time The Bench said that some more time could be granted to the State and the regulators to come with a proper plan for implementation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and other waste management rules in the State as directed by the Principal Bench of the tribunal in the original application No. 606 of 2018 as well in the case related to the non-compliance of the waste management rules. The tribunal has warned that it will be compelled to initiate coercive actions, including imposition of environmental compensation on the State machinery. It asked the State Pollution Control Board to ascertain the present status of the implementation of the Solid Waste Management rules within the Ernakulam district. The board has to compare the implementation of the rules in other districts as part of giving proper direction to the Chief Secretary in this regard, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ngt-warns-state-of-action-over-brahmapuram-fiasco/article37930034.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Muziris heritage walk offers students a glimpse of Kerala’s rich history||A much-awaited heritage-walk programme for students has begun in what is considered as the ancient port of Muziris, spread over North Paravur and Kodungalloor near the Ernakulam-Thrissur border. “This informal way of learning is helping students see for themselves Kerala’s rich history, through monuments at Muziris, a port that faded into oblivion over 2,500 years ago following floods,” said P.M. Noushad, Managing Director of the Muziris Heritage Project. Each batch comprises 40 students, four teachers, and four guides. The Muziris heritage walk is held almost on all days now. Solar tourist boat Its State-level inauguration is slated for January 7, alongside the launch of a solar tourist boat handed over by Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL). “In addition, efforts are under way to translate guide books to popular Indian languages, aimed at students from other States as well. While a two-day heritage walk is ideal, they can choose to limit it all to a day. The upcoming development of NH 66 will see visitors being able to reach the locale in just over 30 minutes from Kochi city,” said Mr. Noushad. The residential programme, for which accommodation is arranged, including in tents, is being hosted using a budgetary allocation of Rs. 5 crore, of which Rs. 50 lakh was given for the current fiscal. In the long run, the heritage walk is expected to help revive the local economy and conserve traditional arts and crafts. “A key aim is to help generate a yearning for research as children get to see exhibits and antiques in museums and other historic buildings. It thus helps them establish an emotional connect with the places they visited, to appreciate architecture and sensitise them to conserve cultural and environmental heritage,” said official sources. Added attraction That they get to visit different locales in the region, spread over 10 panchayats and two municipalities, in hop-on, hop-off boats is an added attraction.  The residential programme is being hosted using a budgetary allocation of a sum of Rs. 5 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/history-treat-for-students/article37930099.ece
11 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Demand to rope in govt. agency||Organisations and social workers working for the welfare of migrant workers have demanded the enlisting of a government agency for transporting bodies of migrants back to their homes from the State using the funds being allotted by the Labour department. The demand coincides with the criticism being levelled by them against private funeral undertakers being engaged by the department at present. Dhanwandari Service Society has been cited as a potential agency to be entrusted with the service. “It is ideal to rope in a government agency for the purpose. We are thinking about such a proposal the possibility of which will be explored with the district collector, NGOs and the Dhanwandari authorities,” said P.M. Firoz, District Labour Officer, Ernakulam. The Dhanwandari Service Society has the district collector and the superintendent of the Ernakulam General Hospital as its office-bearers. The Labour department has cited the lack of facilities of the society to embalm the bodies as a handicap. This, however, has been refuted by the Dhanwandari Service Society Samrakshana Samithy. “The superintendent of the General Hospital is the secretary of the society and the hospital has the facility to embalm the bodies. Entrusting the society with the project will help it earn additional revenue despite charging much lesser than private players. The society can add to it two ambulances and staff once it is entrusted with the project,” said C.S. Murali, an activist of the Samithy. George Mathew, chairperson of Progressive Workers Organisation, said that since the Kochi airport has regular services to other State, bodies of migrants from across the State should be brought to the Ernakulam General Hospital and the Government Medical College, Kalamasserry, for embalming. The latter does it free of cost. “The Kochi airport should be made the centre for sending back bodies of migrants and a committee of officials drawn should be constituted to overlook the process,” he said. Benoy Peter, executive director of Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development, said it was not practical to bring bodies from across the State to Kochi since there were three other airports in the State. “Besides, Dhanwandari Service Society has a presence in all districts, and it could undertake the service at the district level,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-to-rope-in-govt-agency/article37930042.ece
11 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Bike-borne priest collects memories from across India||When he set out to discover India on his motorcycle just months after his retirement as Principal of Sacred Heart College, Thevara, the 57-year-old Fr. Prasanth Palaykkappilli had planned to return in two months. When he returned to Kochi on Friday, he had been on the road for exactly four months, with the vastness of the country forcing a change of plan. Among the many takeaways from his journey, interactions with farmers, visits to farms and learning about organic and sustainable farming methods are set to stay with him for long. “Farmers remain the backbone of our country but they are left to fend for themselves. I interacted with many students on the way. Not many wanted to take up farming. That should change,” Fr. Palaykkappilli said. Another high point was witnessing the massive protests of farmers at Singur demanding the rollback of farm laws. He spent a few hours with them and also got to address them. A lucky escape too He traversed the country following the second wave of the pandemic. “Except in Kerala and Sikkim, there wasn’t much concern. The enforcement of COVID-19 protocol was not very strict either,” Fr. Palaykkappilli recollected. He was also fortunate to escape the massive floods in Uttarakhand by a whisker as it happened the day after he left the place. However, inclement weather threw cold water on his plans to visit Ladakh as the road was closed. The love and compassion shown by absolute strangers was overwhelming. “An apple farm owner insisted on taking me to his farm at Shopian in Kashmir,” he said. While he remains game for another such trip, he is not sure whether it will happen. “Such trips give you a splendid opportunity to interact with people and with a little preparation one could effectively use it for a cause,” said Fr. Palaykkappilli, who hit the road despite having recovered from COVID-19 not long before the journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bike-borne-priest-collects-memories-from-across-india/article37930059.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. pleader shifted||C.N. Prabhakaran, a senior government pleader in the Kerala High Court, was shifted from the Bench, which was considering the bail applications, to another Bench after a judge expressed his displeasure over some of the comments of the lawyer in the court room. Offended by the statements made by the lawyer, the judge retired to his chamber, ending the proceedings. Later, the judge brought the issue to the notice of T.A. Shaji, the Director General of Prosecution. ‘Expressed regret’ The reported developments took place during the hearing of a case between the Bench and the prosecutor and the issue was later sorted out amicably. It was a comment that was made at the spur of the moment, about which the lawyer expressed his regret, said Mr. Shaji. Heated exchanges may happen inside the court room. However, the issue was blown out of proportion, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-pleader-shifted/article37930038.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pinarayi to open CPI(M) district meet on Dec. 14||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the district meeting of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) at Kalamassery on December 14 at 10 a.m. The meeting is held in the run-up to the 23rd Party Congress of the CPI(M) set to take place in Kannur in April, 2022. CPI(M) district secretary C.N. Mohanan said a 46-member district committee would be elected at the end of the three-day conference in which youth and women would be better represented. State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, Central Committee members Vaikom Viswan, T.M. Thomas Isaac, M.C. Josephine, and A.K. Balan, and State secretariat members Anathalavattom Anandan, Baby John, and P. Rajeeve would take part in the meeting. There would be just 180 delegates in view of the pandemic situation. A slew of events, including seminars, street plays, ghazal, and photo exhibition are being held in connection with the meeting. While a seminar on the bluewater economy was inaugurated by Dr. Isaac, Mr. Rajeeve is slated to open a seminar on climate change at the Municipal Town Hall in Kalamassery on Saturday and C.S. Sujatha, State general secretary of All India Democratic Women’s Association, will open a seminar on safety of women in contemporary India at the same venue on Sunday. On December 16, a public meeting at Asish Convention Centre ground in Kalamassery will be addressed by Mr. Vijayan and Mr. Balakrishnan. A road show will be held on Sunday and an exhibition of photos of major labour and peasant agitations witnessed by the country will be under way at the Municipal Town Hall on Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-to-open-cpim-district-meet-on-dec-14/article37930032.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Now, rent two-wheelers from M.G. Road station||Commuters will be able to avail two-wheelers of their choice on rent from Kochi metro’s M.G. Road station, using a software-based system based on which such a rental system functions from Ernakulam Junction and Town railway stations. The facility began operating from Friday and will shortly be extended to the Edappally metro station, where cars too will be available on rent. Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has tied up with Caferides and EVM Wheels car rental firm for the purpose, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-rent-two-wheelers-from-mg-road-station/article37930027.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||New turn to row over Mass in Syro-Malabar Church||The controversy over the mode of celebrating the Mass in the Syro-Malabar Church - whether the priest must face the congregation in the initial part of the service or face the tabernacle (holy of holies) later in the service, as decided by the Synod of Bishops - took a new turn on Friday with the church, in a statement, saying that it had received a letter from the Vatican that an archdiocese could not be exempted from implementing the liturgical rules approved by the synod. The unified way that has been approved by the synod is a combination of both the modes. The archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly, the Irinjalakuda diocese and Faridabad diocese preferred to go ahead with the priest facing the congregation from November 28. This was after the Bishops of these dioceses issued dispensation from following the new format invoking Canon 1538, a law which allows exemption. The Athiroopatha Samrakshana Samithi, which has been fighting the synod decision, claimed that there was no mention of the cancellation of the dispensation in any letters received from the Vatican. The samithi said any decision for dispensation was taken with the blessings of the Pope and that the reports about its cancellation were false. The samithi's public relations officer, Father Jose Vailikodath, said the practice of priests facing the congregation dated back over 50 years. The synod did not consult priests and the laity while deciding for a mix of both the modes of Mass, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-turn-to-row-over-mass/article37929997.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Coast Guard evacuates fisherman||Personnel of the Indian Coast Guard conducted a swift medical evacuation of a fisherman, Rahul, off Suhelipar Island in Lakshadweep, on Thursday. The Fisheries Department informed the ICG of a medical emergency on board fishing vessel Mazhai Malai Matha, which was about 100 km away from Kavaratti Island. By Thursday evening, ICGS C-444 reached the fishing vessel and evacuated the patient along with one escort, and headed to Kavaratti Harbour. On arrival off Kavaratti, the patient and the escort were transferred to a Coastal Security Police boat. He was shifted to Government Hospital, Kavaratti, by night and his condition is reported to be stable. The evacuated crew and their family members thanked the ICG for the swift action, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coast-guard-evacuates-fisherman/article37930028.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Display board installed||The installation of display boards in Kothamangalam that contain details such as the defect liability period of each road, the name of the contractor and phone numbers of the contractor and assistant engineer concerned, was inaugurated by Antony John, MLA. The board has details like the PWD toll-free number 1800 425 7771, the total length of the road and where it begins and ends. It is as part of a State-wide drive to hold contractors and officials accountable for the condition of roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/display-board-installed/article37930029.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Periya case accused denied bail||The bail plea of the five accused in the Periya twin murder case, who were arrested by the CBI, was declined by the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Ernakulam, on Friday. The court denied the plea of P. Rajesh, Surendran, Madhu, Reji Varghese, and Hariprasad. The CBI had earlier arrested 14 other accused and named five others, including K.V. Kunhiraman, a former CPI(M) legislator, as accused in the case. Sarath Lal and Kripesh, Youth Congress leaders, were hacked to death at Periya in Kasaragod on February 17, 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/periya-case-accused-denied-bail/article37930006.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Case booked against CI, govt. tells High Court||The State government has informed the Kerala High Court that the police have booked a case against circle inspector (CI) Vishwambharan on charges of assaulting a complainant at the Thenmala police station. The case before the court was that some police officers assaulted Rajeevan who hailed from Urukunu, when he reached the Thenmala police station for filing a complaint. No case booked Though the petitioner submitted before the court that serious charges were not invoked against the circle inspector and no case was booked against the sub-inspector involved in the incident, the High Court suggested that such issues should be raised before an appropriate trial court. Report sought The High Court, which sought a detailed report on the progress of the investigation in the case, posted it for further hearing on December 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-booked-against-ci-govt-tells-high-court/article37930088.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Complaint against govt. pleader||A Yuva Morcha leader and a few former military officials have complained against government pleader Resmitha Ramachandran regarding her social media post, which took a critical view of Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawath who was killed in an air crash. Yuva Morcha national secretary P. Shyam Rajan, in a complaint to the Advocate General, alleged that she had insulted Rawath. Ms. Ramachandran, when contacted, refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/complaint-against-govt-pleader/article37930039.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Three held for attacking cops||The Aluva East police on Friday arrested three persons on the charge of attacking police officers on duty and damaging the vehicle of the DIG during the course of a protest in connection with the death of a young law student last month. The arrested were identified as Al Ameen, 23, of Thottumukham; Anas, 35, of Pallikkuzhy; and Najeeb, 43, of Edayappuram. Held for sexual abuse The Perumbavoor police arrested a man on the charge of abusing a minor girl. The arrested was identified as Najurul Islam, 23, of Assam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-for-attacking-cops/article37930040.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mechanise headload work: HC||Headload workers should be trained to handle machines that can load and unload goods and the loading and unloading job should be fully mechanised, according to the Kerala High Court. Justice Devan Ramachandran orally observed on Friday that it was time to end the manual job of the headload workers. It is high time that the headload work ended and the workers rehabilitated, he said. Most headload workers work hard and their health fail as they reach the age of 50 or 60. The Kerala Headload Workers Act has also become outdated, the court said. The court made the observations while considering a batch of petitions filed by headload workers seeking police protection in the wake of issues related to Nokkukooli. The court posted the case for orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mechanise-headload-work-hc/article37930049.ece
11 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||A cooperative society where creativity is the catchword||It’s not easy to miss the office of the Artist Welfare Youth Cooperative Society (AYCOOPS) while passing through MLA Road, Punalur. One of the first 25 cooperative societies formed in connection with the State government’s 100-day action plan, its quirky design featuring vehicle parts and recycled junk will pique your curiosity. President’s cabin While the front part of a lorry forms the president’s cabin, the secretary’s table is made out of a pickup and the designer sits on a scooter. “AYCOOPS is Kerala’s first creative media production house in the cooperative sector and we wanted the interiors to be different. We sourced most of the material from scrap dealers,” says president Mohammad Shafi. A bicycle with the board of the president is used for short-distance trips, “a practical option since the fuel prices are soaring.” Refrigerators have been redesigned as seats and shelves and an ‘ottal’ (bamboo trap used for fishing) now functions as a teapoy. Media services Inside the office, the services offered by the society are displayed on a cycle wheel. “The concept is to provide a wide range of media services under one roof and the clients can outsource complete projects or opt for a single or group of professionals,” says Mr. Shafi. Video albums for various occasions, including weddings and funerals, commercials, short films, documentaries, award nights, music bands, comedy bands, talk shows, interviews, interior designing, and tour photography are among the services offered. In addition to these, the society will also create stories, reels and statuses for uploading on social media. Start-up model Unlike traditional cooperatives, AYCOOPS operates like a start-up with shares and deposits. At present, the society has 41 shareholders in the 18-45 age group. There are only two share categories and the membership is only open to full-time artists, government employees and government institutions. “All the members are professionals, who include photographers, videographers, graphic designers, content writers, editors, musicians, directors, sound engineers, art directors, sculptors and singers,” he says. While there are many freshers and freelancers, AYCOOPS also has a seven-member team that exclusively works for the society. “The basic idea is to provide employment to artists and professionals, especially since most sectors are facing a COVID-19-triggered crisis,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-cooperative-society-with-a-difference/article37930090.ece
11 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Seminar on employment generation organised||The District Industries Centre, Khadi and Village Industries Commission, and Coir Board jointly organised a seminar on the implementation of the Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP) recently. District panchayat president Sam K. Daniel, who inaugurated the seminar, said such initiatives would help in creating awareness among the entrepreneurs about the programme. Honoured Four banks, Canara Bank, Indian Bank, Federal Bank and State Bank of India, which provided loans to the highest number of entrepreneurs under the programme, were honoured on the occasion. Biju Kurian, General Manager, District Industries Centre, presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seminar-on-employment-generation-organised/article37930093.ece
11 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Keltron invites applications for courses||The Keltron Kollam Knowledge Centre has invited applications for its various vocational courses. Advanced Diploma in Digital Media Designing and Digital Film Making, Diploma in Computer hardware and Network Maintenance with E-Gadget Technologies, Web Design and Development, Diploma in Indian and Foreign Accounting, IoT, Python Machine Learning, Java, and PHP are the courses. There is no age limit. The last date for applying is December 15. Contact Keltron Knowledge Centre at Chembikkalam Building, Vazhuthacaud, Thiruvananthapuram, or call 0471 2325154, 8590605260.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keltron-invites-applications-for-courses/article37930091.ece
11 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Road tax waiver for select vehicles||The government has decided to waive the road tax of private vehicles purchased for the needs of children with intellectual disabilities including cerebral palsy and autism, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal says. The decision was taken after finding that tax exemptions will be helpful to such families. At present, only vehicles purchased for children with physical disabilities are exempted from tax.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-tax-waiver-for-select-vehicles/article37930092.ece
11 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Operation Decibel exposes use of banned horns in Kozhikode||The two-day Operation Decibel conducted by the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) exposed 97 vehicles, mostly tipper lorries and private buses, fitted with the banned multi-tone air horns in Kozhikode district. Apart from seizing high-decibel horns during surprise checks, the MVD enforcement squads slapped a total fine of Rs. 1,29,000 on violators. Without inconveniencing passengers, the squads examined private buses on Thursday and Friday. Tipper lorries, inter-district trucks, and other private vehicles were stopped mid-way for spot checking. Officials said the noise pollution caused by the erring vehicles were quite serious in nature, with many crossing even the highly unhealthy 100 decibel range when the permitted range is between 70 and 80, depending on the type of the vehicle. As many as eight squads were involved in the operation, which was part of a State-level drive by the Road Safety Wing. MVD officials said there were several confidential complaints from the public and non-governmental organisations against the use of multi-tone horns by private buses and trucks. Honking is rampant even in restricted zones, unmindful of the damage it causes to human ears, they said. “Learning about the drive, a few drivers temporarily removed the multi-tone devices from vehicles to hoodwink the squad. We will follow up such cases with flash inspections in the days to come,” said a senior MVD official who coordinated the drive in Kozhikode city. He added that a special drive was under consideration to expose the misuse of high-beam headlights and illegal illuminations. Two-wheeler riders too were fined for using altered silencers. They were also asked to produce the bikes for further inspection after installing legally permitted silencers. The drive was led by Regional Transport Officer Shyni Mathew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/operation-decibel-exposes-use-of-banned-horns-in-kozhikode/article37930021.ece
11 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Farmers’ stir against ‘sabotage’ of report||The Kerala Independent Farmers’ Association (KIFA) is launching a Statewide protest on Saturday, demanding that the State government reinstate the Oommen V. Oommen report to determine the Ecologically Sensitive Area (ESA). Association chairman Alex Ozhukayil said on Friday that the State government had sabotaged the report for vested interests. He demanded that the government reveal the reason for a revised report. The government should also reveal with whom the committee had held discussions before bringing out the new report. “The Union government had approved the Oommen V. Oommen report which included 9999.7 square kilometres of land in the State as ESA. The Centre brought out the draft declaration in 2014 based on this report. However, the State revised the report without any demand from the Union government and excluded 31 villages from ESA. On the other hand, 746 sq km of farmland was added to ESA in 92 other villages. The geo-coordinates confirm this,” Mr. Ozhukayil said, adding that the State has cheated the people by revising the report, which had excluded farmlands completely from the ESA. The KIFA will launch the protest at Thiruvambadi in Kozhikode at 4 p.m. on Saturday. Its demands include reinstating of the Oommen report, restricting ESA to forestland alone and excluding farmland completely. Population density “The government should reveal why the revised report was cancelled for two-and-a-half years,” Mr. Ozhukayil said adding that most of the 92 villages categorised as ESA have a population density of above 100 and hence they should be excluded, if that is the criterion being used to exclude 31 other villages. The protest will be held at Karuvarakundu in Malappuram on Sunday, at Mannarkkad in Palakkad on December 18, and in Pathanamthitta on December 19.  State revised the report excluding 31 villages from ESA and adding 746 sq km of farmland from 92 other villages. Alex Ozhukayil Chairman, KIFA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-stir-against-sabotage-of-report/article37930046.ece
11 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sadiqali emerges as de facto supremo of IUML||With the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) organising a huge rally in Kozhikode on Thursday in protest against the decision of the State government on Waqf Board appointments, the party’s Malappuram district president Panakkad Syed Sadiqali Shihab Thangal is slowly preparing to take up the mantle of State president from his ailing brother Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal. In a deftly crafted extempore before a 40,000 crowd, the Thangal was able to tangibly drive home the twin objectives of the protest rally. If one was to send a message across to the CPI(M) leadership that the ruling party cannot create a wedge between the party and religious leaders, the other was to a section of the party-backed Samastha Kerala Jamiyathul Ulema leaders to let them know the IUML was the real boss in the public sphere. Previously, any State government or even the Centre had interacted with religious leaders channelised through the IUML. “However the CPI(M), for getting political mileage, has been indulging in its game plan to eliminate the upper hand of the IUML. Thursday’s rally proved that it won’t work,” the Thangal told The Hindu on Friday. Right from its previous tenure, the Pinarayi Vijayan government has been attempting to woo the Samastha leaders, including its president Jifri Muthukoya Thangal and general secretary K. Alikutty Musliyar, by engaging directly with them on issues concerning the Muslim community. ‘CPI(M) trap’ “May be a section of the Samastha leaders show an inclination to these gestures. But they will not fall into the trap of the CPI(M). Besides, it is the IUML that has a say in electoral politics and presenting issues in the Assembly or Parliament,” the Thangal said. The 55-year-old scion of the Thangal family has been actively involved in the party affairs ever since his brother was out of action due to ill-health. He confidently intervened when Syed Mueen Ali Shihab Thangal, son of Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal, raised allegations against party general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty for the alleged financial mess in Chandrika , the party organ. In his earlier stint as State president of the Muslim Youth League for five years, the Thangal had undertaken several campaigns to bring about changes in the organisational apparatus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sadiqali-emerges-as-de-facto-supremo-of-iuml/article37930045.ece
11 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Hillside farmers harried by marauding monkeys||There is no end in sight to the woes of hillside farmers in the district, as monkeys too are testing their patience by ruining crops. For the green-thumbs in Kattippara panchayat, troops of monkeys are creating a mess targeting mainly tender coconut, fruits, yam, vegetables, and ripe plantain. The new challenge has come at a time when a majority of farmers are grappling with wild elephant and boar menace. According to local residents, the number of monkey troops is on the rise with the suspected depletion of wild fruits and dried-up water resources. Farmers who have been pleading for action by the Forest Department said culling of monkeys was hardly an option. The only solution is to catch them live using traps and leave them in other areas, they said. Though there have been promises aplenty, no field-level assessments for suitable action have come from Forest squads. K.V. Sebastian, leader of a joint action council of farmers in the panchayat, said that a memorandum had been submitted to the Thamarassery range officials for tackling the issue. “The worst-hit areas are Poovanmala, Pilakkandi, Amarad, Vayalumthala, and Karinchola. Several hectares of cultivated land have been affected owing to delayed action,” he pointed out. “Apart from destroying crops, monkeys grab household utensils, food items, and garments. We are waiting for action from the authorities,” said Raju John, a farmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hillside-farmers-harried-by-marauding-monkeys/article37930017.ece
11 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Brains behind fake commercial profiles still at large||Those who forge business profiles in the name of senior Army officers and other uniformed personnel on online marketplaces and carry out sham business are yet to be nabbed by investigation teams despite a rise in confidential complaints by cheated individuals. The alleged trickery takes place in leading commercial buy-and-sell applications and portals operated by multinational companies. The modus operandi is to post details of costly furniture and other household equipment for sale at cheaper rates using fake profiles. Those who respond to such posts over the phone or through chats, apparently impressed with the designations and social media claims of the advertisers, are asked to make an advance payment for order confirmation. The trickery comes to light only after days of endless wait. Some profile creators even use forged identity cards and photographs of Army officers and Central Industrial Security Force personnel to add credibility to their claims. Most of such cards are freely available samples on the Internet. Even multiple profiles are visible using the same identity cards. “On many occasions, creators of fake profiles advertise lists of fresh household items for sale, citing the officers’ unexpected transfer. Such fake profile creators claim that they have been serving as security personnel at various airports in Kerala and are now preparing to relocate to another State,” said a social media marketing executive from Kozhikode. While many social media users are aware of the trickery, chances are high for new users to get cheated, he pointed out. The lack of written petitions with documentary evidence related to payment is said to be a reason for delayed probe into the matter. Besides, those who lost money through fake deals are reportedly hiding it to protect their image. Meanwhile, the Kozhikode City police have launched a poster campaign on their social media pages to make people aware of the trickery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brains-behind-fake-commercial-profiles-still-at-large/article37930019.ece
11 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Deceased woman’s son denies resorting to occult practices||The son of the woman from Kallachi in Kozhikode who reportedly died after occult practices were employed to cure dermatological ailments, claimed that the allegations were totally baseless. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, Basheer C.V., the eldest son of the woman, said his mother had consulted authorised medical practitioners for treatment, and that the complaint filed by her cousin that she was subjected to occult practices was due to familial rivalry and personal grudge. She was taken to a homeopath first and later to a doctor who retired from the Government Medical College, Kozhikode. “Since there was no improvement in her condition despite taking medicines prescribed by him, he suggested that we take help from another dermatologist. Based on the report of the dermatologist, the other doctor referred my mother to the medical college,” Mr. Basheer said. As the medical college hospital was a COVID treatment centre, she could not be admitted there, though her condition had turned worse after weeks of medication. Since the family could not bank on most hospitals owing to the pandemic, they decided to consult an Ayurveda practitioner. “He assured us that the disease could be cured, but that it would take time. In fact, the rashes had subsided considerably after months of his treatment,” Mr. Basheer said. But her condition reportedly turned worse after Faisal, who had complained with the police against the alleged occult practice, turned up and forcefully took her to a private hospital in Kozhikode city. At the hospital, she was given a medicine that is reportedly prescribed for cancer patients. Mr. Basheer claimed that the medicine had severe side-effects, and it worsened her condition. Meanwhile, she also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. After recuperation, she turned to homeopathy again on her own and later went to an Ayurveda practitioner. She was shifted to a private hospital in Ernakulam later on her request, after her condition worsened. She passed away on December 7 at the hospital. “We did not go to any occult practitioner. We are educated people. We know the importance of proper medical treatment,” Mr. Basheer said. He added that he had submitted all documents to the investigating officers.  We did not go to any occult practitioner. We are educated people. We know the importance of proper medical treatment Basheer C.V. Deceased woman’s son||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/deceased-womans-son-denies-resorting-to-occult-practices/article37930005.ece
11 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Farmers to take out march to Forest officer’s house||A joint action committee of upland farmers will take out a march to the Thamarassery Forest Range Officer’s house on Saturday with a call to end the “hostile approach” of the Forest department towards settler farmers. The action committee leaders alleged that the cold approach of a few officials at the range office was preventing even the timely sanctioning of eligible compensation for farmers who fell victim to wild animal attacks. “There were even incidents in which the farmers were implicated in false cases. Even elderly persons were not spared in such incidents,” said one of the coordinators of the joint action committee. He also complained that there were suspected attempts by the officials to suppress protesters by entangling them in fabricated cases. According to action committee leaders, the march will draw the participation of various farmers’ organisations like Rashtriya Kisan Maha Sangh, We Farm, and Samyuktha Karshaka Samiti. They said it would be a token protest to draw the attention of senior officers to the looming concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-to-take-out-march-to-forest-officers-house/article37930016.ece
11 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||CPI(M) condemns speeches by IUML leaders||The Kozhikode district secretariat of the CPI(M) has strongly condemned the “racially- and communal-coloured speeches” by a few Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leaders during the rally organised by the party against the decision on Waqf Board appointments, on the Kozhikode beach on Thursday. In a statement here on Friday, CPI(M) district secretary P. Mohanan said slogans and speeches were not just sickeningly targeted at Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas, but the unsavoury comments were also aimed at women and the LGBTQ community. The slogans and speeches by IUML leaders encouraging violence and communalism had put cultural Kozhikode to shame. The civic society should come out against the “Taliban tendency” of the IUML, Mr. Mohanan said. The party secretariat also demanded action against IUML leaders for threatening the Chief Minister and LDF-backed Independent legislator K.T. Jaleel with dire consequences and the disgusting comments against Mr. Riyas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-condemns-speeches-by-iuml-leaders/article37930004.ece
11 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gandhi Chair Award for Meppayyur school||The Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Meppayyur, has won the Calicut University Gandhi Chair Award for the year 2020. The school was selected for its programme from June 19 to October 2, 2021, in which all the students read the autobiography of Mahatma Gandhi over a period of 106 days. The award will be given away by the Minister for Higher Education R. Bindu at an event later this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gandhi-chair-award-for-meppayyur-school/article37930014.ece
11 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Woman, two daughters die of burns||A 32-year-old woman and her two daughters, hailing from Perambra, died of severe burn injuries on Friday. A case of unnatural death under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was registered as part of the investigation into the incident. According to police sources, the woman and her daughters, who allegedly sustained burns in a self immolation attempt, died of the injuries on the way to Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. The incident took place early in the morning at her house near Mooliyangal in Perambra. A police officer said the woman was upset following the departure of her husband a few years ago. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies may seek help and counselling support by contacting any of the following numbers of Thanal, Kozhikode. Ph: 0495-27600. Whatsapp: 79022-81306.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-two-daughters-die-of-burns/article37930015.ece
11 December 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Dr. Chandrika Keeran dead||Chandrika Keeran, 69, former medical officer of Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala Charitable Hospital and former Kottakkal unit president of the Indian Medical Association, died at Kottakkal on Friday. She was an active presence in art and cultural activities of Kottakkal. The funeral took place at Kottakkal on Friday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dr-chandrika-keeran-dead/article37930008.ece
11 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||A fan’s tribute to General Rawat||Shock and grief overwhelmed leaf artist Rajendran Vadakkepadath when the news about the tragic death of India’s first Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, in a helicopter crash near Coonoor came on Wednesday afternoon. A fan of General Rawat, Rajendran had been mulling the idea of sketching the General in his trademark plantain leaf, an artistic process that would take many days. With a sunken heart, Rajendran went out of his house and plucked a full-grown leaf of a banyan tree next to his house. Humble tribute His artistic fingers did not rest until he gave life to his military hero on the leaf. It was the leaf artist’s humble tribute to the late General. Last year, when football legend Diego Maradona died in November, Rajendran had paid his unique tribute by carving Maradona’s face on a banyan leaf. Rajendran uses the artistic genre called ‘leaf cutting art’ to pay homage to his heroes by etching their face on the leaf. If held against the sky or any light source, the face of the person he has etched will be visible on the leaf. Rajendran has won international attention through his unique leaf painting on dried banana leaves. “I had etched the face of Maradona when the legend died on November 25 last year. He was our super-hero. And now, the General’s death is our nation’s loss,” he said, holding the banyan leaf against a bright sky. Choosing the banyan Rajendran said he chose the banyan leaf because the elliptical tree leaf was thick, large, glossy, and would last longer than other leaves. He had taken four hours to carve Maradona on the leaf. But it took less than two hours for him to give life to General Rawat on the leaf. He said he would preserve the work by framing it.  Rajendran uses the artistic genre called ‘leaf cutting art’ to pay homage to his heroes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-fans-tribute-to-general-rawat/article37929994.ece
11 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Fulbright award for KV librarian||Mujib Rahiman K.U., a librarian at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Kanjikode, has won the Fulbright scholarship offered by the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, US Department of State. Mr. Rahiman is the first school librarian from India to win the Fulbright fellowship in teaching. He will be among 45 teachers chosen from across the world for the coveted scholarship. He will be placed in a university in the US from August 2022. Mr. Rahiman had recently won the NCERT National Award for Innovative Practices and Experiments in Education. He was also the recipient of the third India Reading Olympiad ‘Reading for Pleasure’ School Award 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fulbright-award-for-kv-librarian/article37930215.ece
11 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Robbery accused held after 12 years||The police on Thursday arrested a man wanted in a robbery case after 12 years from Virudhanagar in Tamil Nadu. Ram Raj alias Raju, 32, was found living with his family at Ayyanar Nagar. He was wanted for robbing gold jewellery from a family after attacking them with a knife in Shoranur in 2009. The police said Ram Raj was wanted in connection with robbery and theft cases registered in Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram districts. He was produced before a court at Ottapalam, and was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/robbery-accused-held-after-12-years/article37930180.ece
11 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Panel moots socio-health survey in Attappady||Kerala Women’s Commission chairperson P. Sathidevi has said the commission would recommend to the government for a comprehensive socio-health survey in Attappady. Inaugurating the Human Rights Day celebrations organised by the women’s commission at Attappady on Friday, Ms. Sathidevi said that there was no dearth of welfare schemes in Attappady. Programmes in tune with the lifestyle of the tribespeople should be implemented in Attappady, she said. The chairperson said that making the tribespeople self-reliant and helping them find employment on their own would go a long way in addressing problems such as addiction to liquor and tobacco.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-moots-socio-health-survey-in-attappady/article37930050.ece
11 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pipe burst: Corpn. clears mud||The city Corporation’s health wing on Friday began the process of removing large quantities of mud that had accumulated in houses and on roads at Kanaka Nagar area in Vellayambalam following a rupture of the main water supply pipeline on Thursday. A group of 35 sanitation workers, along with volunteers from youth groups, started the clean-up work around 7 a.m. Excavation works Nearly 15 houses, the Kowdiar village office, tahsildar office and the Ayyankali Bhavan were inundated with muddy water after the pipeline rupture caused by an excavation undertaken by the Corporation. Several parked vehicles too were damaged in the flooding. The civic body employed trucks to remove the mud. Affected houses in the area were washed to remove dirt from floors and walls. V.K. Prasanth, MLA, Deputy Mayor P.K. Raju and standing committee chairpersons visited the area to assess the damage. Mayor Arya Rajendran said in a press release that maintenance work on the damaged road would be taken up at the earliest. The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) said in a press release that maintenance work on the pipelines were progressing. Installation of concrete pillars in the area from which mud had been removed was being carried out. The pipelines would be joined after this. Meanwhile, water supply to affected areas was being provided from other lines. The KWA executive engineer said supply would be fully restored by Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pipe-burst-corpn-clears-mud/article37930239.ece
11 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||PG medicos to step up stir||Junior residents, or postgraduate medical students, in government medical colleges across the State have decided to intensify their ongoing strike by continuing to stay away from all hospital duties, including emergency services (except COVID-19 duty), even as Health Minister Veena George has threatened to take dire action against the striking doctors. Representatives of the Kerala Medical Post Graduates’ Association (KMPGA) said on Friday that they would continue to strike as all their demands, including pay hike, have been ignored by the government. Though the government issued an order on Thursday night appointing 373 non-academic junior residents for seven government medical college hospitals (MCHs), the KMPGA pointed out that the number was woefully inadequate to fulfil the daily requirements in patient services of these hospitals. In a major hospital like the Thiruvananthapuram MCH, where at least 250 personnel were needed, the government has given just 70, they said. Junior residents in all MCHs have been on strike for the past 10 days as part of the nationwide strike in protest against the inordinate and indeterminate delay in NEET-PG 2021 allotment, which has put the entire burden of patient-care activities on them. Though Ms. George said the State has nothing to do with the delay in NEET-PG allotment (the matter is before the Supreme Court), the students said the State has not even written a letter to the Centre raising the issue. The PG doctors also took exception to the medical college principals issuing orders on Thursday night asking the PG doctors on strike to vacate the college hostels immediately. These orders were withdrawn on Friday. Though Ms. George denied having any role in evicting students from hostels, the orders issued by the principals clearly showed that the said order had been issued “as per telephonic message from the Health Minister’s office and following directions from the DME (Directorate of Medical Education).” Chaos at MCHs Meanwhile, chaos reigned at MCHs on Friday as the authorities had to rope in senior faculty to run even casualty services. With senior residents (those doing super-specialty courses) also joining the strike, the situation is threatening to turn grave. The Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association has asked the Minister to settle the strike as students staying away from hospitals over 48 hours can bring the functioning of MCHs to a standstill.  Health Minister Veena George threatens to take action against striking doctors||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pg-medicos-to-step-up-strike/article37929998.ece
11 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Using superstition as a smokescreen||Superstitious beliefs and practices are often laughed off as harmless, but these sometimes have real-world consequences, even putting the lives of people in danger, especially in rural hinterlands. Sachin Dheeraj Mudigonda’s short documentary Testimony of Ana , screened at the 13th International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala (IDSFFK) on Friday, tells one such story. Long monologue The documentary is structured as a long monologue of Anaben Pawar, who was branded as a witch and attacked by villagers in a tribal area of Gujarat a few years ago. From her narration of the incident, it emerges that the perpetrators had an eye on her property, which her father had left her. Branding her a witch and driving her out of the village or even murdering her was the best way for them to get hold of the property. But Anaben was made of sterner stuff. She decided to stand up, resist and fight back. As she narrates the ordeal, the camera pans across the lush green landscape of the village, which does not give one a clue of the evil lurking beneath. In the beginning, she seems reluctant to speak, but soon she opens up about the enormity of the crime some of the villagers had perpetrated. The villagers and the hired witch-hunter barged into her house one night and violently attacked her after branding her a witch. She was sexually assaulted too. Anaben holds up a cloth bag containing broken pieces of rings and bangles she was wearing that night, as evidence of the assault. Thousands of cases Hers is not an isolated case. There have been thousands of recorded cases of women being branded as witches and murdered in villages in different parts of the country over the years. However, only a few, like Anaben, have managed to resist and fight back. Four of the men involved in the attack were later arrested. When she sings ‘grow up and run away’ to her granddaughter, she is probably not telling the child to flee, but to get educated and find a better life outside the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/using-superstition-as-a-smokescreen/article37930003.ece
11 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Panning towards the impact of censorship on creativity||It would seem censorship of creative artists begins right from educational institutions that are supposed to nurture free thought and expression, going by the experiences of a group of filmmakers who presented their work at the short documentary competition of the 13th International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala (IDSFFK). “We are not satisfied with the cut that you have just viewed here, because it is censored by our University," said Ameen Barif, one of the five directors of Ruuposh (Wrapper) after the screening of the documentary on Friday.  Ruuposh is a kind of diploma film for Ameen Barif, Mohammed Fehmeed, Zeeshan Khan, Aqdas Sami, Mohammed Althaf, and Faraz Fakhri, students of the Jamia Millia Islamia university. While the film is a deeply personal story about Mohammed Fehmeed’s own family, the story has wider meanings in the current political context. But, it was some CCTV footage of the alleged forceful entry into the campus by Delhi police personnel and the attack on students that the filmmakers had added to the end of the film that had to be removed under pressure from the university. Approval denied “We had edited it several times, but it was not being approved. In the end, we had to remove the CCTV footage after we were told that we had to do it if we wanted to graduate,” said Ameen. The film itself was born out of Mohammed Fehmeed’s mother Ruksana Begum’s personal diary, in which she had traced out the history of how her father Mehboob Khan had stayed back in India after partition even as his entire extended family relocated to Pakistan. Old photographs from the 1970s and 80s of the families visiting each other in their neighbouring countries, tell a story of how normal it was for people to have relatives across the border in Pakistan not so long ago. “The whole idea behind the film is to raise the question as to why I have to be so conscious about the fact that there are relatives in another country. Someone having a relative in Canada or another country need not think about it, while I have to. It has become taboo. Every day on national media, there is someone shouting ‘Go to Pakistan’. How can the thought of a thing as normal as sending a letter to a relative in a neighbouring country create fear in us?” asks Fehmeed. He reminisces about the stories that he used to hear from his mother in his childhood about their relatives across the border. But, in recent years, she had stopped talking about them completely. “What changed in recent years for my mother to stop talking about her memories?” asks Fehmeed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/impact-of-censorship-on-creativity/article37930001.ece
11 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Factionalism on the decline in Cong., claims Sudhakaran||The emphatic win of the official panel in the election to the director board of the Indira Gandhi Cooperative Hospital in Kannur appears to have organisationally emboldened Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran. The new team has resoundingly put paid to the reign of Mambaram Divakaran at the hospital's helm for the past 30 years. Mr. Divakaran was widely reckoned as Mr. Sudhakaran’s arch-rival and bug bear in the hotbed of Congress politics in Kannur. In an arguably effusive message that seems targeted more at the Congress rank and file, Mr. Sudhakaran staunchly defends reorganisation amidst stewing opposition from the well-entrenched ‘A’ and ‘I’ factions. The party has triumphed over divisiveness and exclusion. It has dashed the hope of soothsayers who predicted organisational anarchy and ruin. Mr. Sudhakaran claims the Congress has recast itself into a lean and mean election-winning machine by the whittling down of jumbo committees and engineering a merit-based transformational shift in the KPCC leadership. Notably, the party held its own in the recent local body byelections. The new and inclusive KPCC leadership, he says, has steered the party away from internal disputes by recommitting itself to expose the wrongdoings of the Left Democratic Front government. The generational shift has animated the Congress base. V.D. Satheesan praised Mr. Sudhakaran also compliments Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, his prime backer in the KPCC. The Pinarayi Vijayan government had confronted an informed, firm, well-mannered but fiery Opposition in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/factionalism-on-the-decline-in-cong-claims-sudhakaran/article37930022.ece
11 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Active case pool dips below 40,000||Kerala logged 3,972 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 66,788 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 51, 87,033. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 42,579 as on Friday, with the State adding 340 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on the day. These include 31 recent deaths and 309 deaths that have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. The number of deaths added to the official COVID fatality list after the death reconciliation exercise, as on Friday, is 12,826. The State’s active case pool dipped below 40,000 and had 39,341 patients on Friday. A total of 4,836 persons recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health department, only 8.5% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals like COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres. Most in capital Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 690, followed by Ernakulam 658, Kozhikode 469, Thrissur 352, Kottayam 332, Kannur 278, Kollam 261, Pathanamthitta 164, Malappuram 157, Alappuzha 152, Idukki 144, Palakkad 123, Wayanad 105, and Kasaragod 87 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-case-pool-dips-below-40000/article37930054.ece
11 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sivagiri pilgrimage from December 30 to Jan. 1||The 89th annual Sivagiri pilgrimage at the Sivagiri Madhom in Varkala will be held in compliance with COVID-19 norms from December 30 to January 1. In view of the pandemic, special facilities will be put in place at Sivagiri to undertake pilgrimage from December 15 to January 5 to avoid crowding of devotees, said office-bearers of the Madhom in a meeting chaired by Additional District Magistrate Muhammed Safeer E. at Sivagiri on Friday. Devotees will be subjected to thermal screening before entry at the pilgrim centre. Adequate facilities for quarantine will be established for those who test positive for COVID-19. Medical services will also be made available round the clock. Addressing the meeting, Varkala MLA V. Joy directed officials to complete the repair of roads leading to the pilgrimage centre from Kallambalam, Parippally and Kadakkavoor. Sufficient parking facilities would also be ensured in advance. In view of the arrival of pilgrims, lifeguards must be stationed at Kappil, Varkala beach and Janardhana Swamy Temple, he added.  Tight security arrangements have been planned for the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sivagiri-pilgrimage-from-december-30-to-jan-1/article37930236.ece
11 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DUK inks deal to train geospatial manpower||Digital University Kerala (DUK) has entered into an agreement with Geographic Information System (GIS) software and solutions provider Esri India to establish the Esri India Centre of Competence at the university to address the growing demand of trained manpower in the country’s geospatial sector. The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed by DUK Vice Chancellor Saji Gopinath and Esri India managing director Agendra Kumar in a virtual event held on Friday. The proposed centre will facilitate research, innovation and solutions in the field of geospatial technology. The collaboration will also see integration of GIS in courses, including Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, Data Engineering, Geospatial Analytics etc. Regular capsule and skill development programmes, joint certification programmes and webinars will be offered as part of the agreement. Internship opportunities will also be provided for students of DUK. According to Dr. Gopinath, the infrastructure that will be established under the collaboration will enable creation of technology solutions and programmes in areas such as natural resources management and agriculture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/duk-inks-deal-in-geospatial-sector/article37929999.ece
11 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||70% of those eligible fully vaccinated in State||The proportion of individuals over 18 years in the State who are fully vaccinated against COVID-19 has now crossed 70%, Health Minister Veena George has said. Among the population eligible for vaccination against COVID-19 (above 18 years), 96.87% (2,58,72,847) has taken the first dose of vaccine and 70.37% (1,87,96,209) has been fully vaccinated. Above national average This is much above the national average of 86.52% first dose coverage and 53.84% second dose coverage, Ms. George said. With Omicron having been reported across the globe and in some States within the country, Kerala is now engaged in an intensive campaign to increase COVID-19 vaccination coverage among the population. Daily vaccination up As part of the campaign, the uptake of daily vaccination has gone up. Local bodies are being roped in to find those who are due for the second dose and to persuade them to complete the vaccination. Ms. George appealed to those who are due/overdue for the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine not to delay it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/70-of-those-eligible-fully-vaccinated-in-state/article37930055.ece
11 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two T.N. women held for stealing purse on bus||The Cantonment police arrested two women for allegedly stealing a purse from a passenger aboard a bus on Friday. The police identified the accused as Selvi (30) and Murukamma (32), both from Tamil Nadu. They were allegedly caught red-handed while stealing a purse that belonged to a Mannanthala native while they were travelling in a private bus towards Ayurveda College from Kesavadasapuram. The police said that after managing to create a commotion when the bus reached Saphalyam Complex at Palayam, the duo allegedly snatched the complainant’s purse from her shoulder bag. Contents The purse apparently contained cash, an Aadhaar card and other documents. An inquiry was under way to find out whether the two women have been involved in similar cases of theft, said the police.  Inquiry under way to find out whether the two have been involved in similar cases of theft, says the police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-tn-women-held-for-stealing-purse-on-bus/article37930100.ece
11 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||690 new COVID cases in district||The capital district recorded 690 new COVID-19 cases and 958 recoveries on Friday, as the total number of active cases stood at 5,967. A test positivity rate (TPR) of 9% was recorded in the district on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/690-new-covid-cases-in-district/article37930234.ece
11 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU to hike research fellowships||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has mooted steps to increase the number of fellowships awarded to research scholars. The proposed hike will be in adherence to reservation norms. A resolution in this regard was moved by Cooperative Academy of Professional Education (CAPE) director R. Sasikumar at a meeting of the university’s Board of Governors (BoG). The resolution has been referred to the Syndicate standing committee. The meeting also decided to confer doctoral degrees on some reseachers. Over 900 students are pursuing their doctoral programmes at various affiliated colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-to-hike-research-fellowships/article37930235.ece
11 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Human Rights Day observed||Kerala Gandhi Smaraka Nidhi chairman N. Radhakrishnan has urged the government to adopt steps to rein in violent activities and ensure peace across the State. He was speaking while inaugurating a one-day fast organised by the Kerala Sarvodaya Mandalam in front of the Secretariat in protest against criminal activities, violent politics and the K-Rail project on Friday. The programme also coincided with the observance of Human Rights Day. Sarvodaya Mandalam district president F.M. Lazar presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/human-rights-day-observed/article37930237.ece
11 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sabarimala prasadam via Speed Post||The Department of Posts, Kerala Circle, has entered into an agreement with the Travancore Devaswom Board for booking and delivery of Sabarimala prasadam through Speed Post to devotees all over India. The prasadam can be booked at any departmental post office in India through the e-payment system of India Post. The kit named “Swamy Prasadam” contains aravana, ghee, turmeric, kumkum, vibhoothi, and archana prasadam. The devotee must download and fill the order form and submit it at any departmental post office in the country by paying the requisite amount. These items will be packed in a carton and dispatched to the devotees through Speed Post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-prasadam-via-speed-post/article37930056.ece
11 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||GST dept. collects fine of Rs. 33.2 lakh||The Intelligence wing of the State GST department on Friday conducted a Statewide inspection of medical shops and collected a fine of Rs. 33.2 lakh upon detecting irregularities in the sale of medicines and medical equipment. Officials imposed a penalty of Rs. 20,000 each on 166 traders for selling items without bill and selling above the maximum retail price. Irregularities were detected in the sale of surgical equipment, pulse oxymeters, and digital thermometers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gst-dept-collects-fine-of-rs-332-lakh/article37930057.ece
11 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Fight against SilverLine: Medha||Terming the SilverLine semi-high-speed rail project anti-democratic and corporate-friendly, social activist Medha Patkar has called for a mass protest at the ground level by people transcending party lines. She was addressing a campaign organised by the K-Rail SilverLine Viruddha Janakeeya Samithi here on Friday. “If we have to change the development paradigm, we need people’s struggles. Legal battle along with ground-level struggles is needed against K-Rail,” she said. “It is sad that a Left government that did great work during the floods and the pandemic has given a statement that the K-Rail is a green project. How can a project which leaves thousands of people homeless and destroys so much agriculture land be a green project,” Ms. Patkar asked. The activist said it was disturbing that even the detailed project report was not placed in public domain. ‘Intimidation is on’ “It has not been discussed in the Assembly in detail. No proper socio-economic assessment has been done.” “The ongoing land acquisition for the project is against the High Court order on such a process. What is happening now is not acquisition, but occupation. Placing stones in private properties without intimating the owner is intimidation,” Ms. Patkar said, calling for assessment surveys led by grama sabhas to assess the impact of the project. She called for a Statewide ‘yatra’ against the project. People’s committees should be formed to assess the environmental impact. A detailed survey should be done about the victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fight-against-silverline-medha/article37930052.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Oversee policing keenly, says Kerala Police Chief||The SPC laid particular stress on preventing crimes against the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The police should protect their constitutionally guaranteed special rights and ensure they feel welcome at station houses. Mr. Kant called a review of pending complaints and cold cases gathering dust in station houses. He insisted that the police gave priority to petitions received at the public grievances of the Chief Minister’s Office. The police should present their cases vigorously and factually at the High Court. There was no space for laxity in the matter. Notably, the SPC called for a detailed intelligence appraisal of police functioning at multiple levels. He also ordered a review of police constructions to pre-empt shoddy work and corruption accusations. Auditing of police modernisation funds was on the cards. The police decided to enhance their presence on the street at all hours by overt deployment and vehicle checking. Officers would step up night patrolling, focussing on remote and crime-prone localities. Morning and evening beat patrols would focus on curbing petty crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oversee-policing-keenly-says-kerala-police-chief/article37930101.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Governor lashes out at govt. over higher education policy||Referring to the appointment process of the Vice Chancellor of the Sanskrit university, he alleged violation of the University Grants Commission guidelines with the selection committee headed by the Vice Chairman of the State Planning Board recommending only a single name for the position, despite the norms mandating a panel of three names. This was despite the Advocate General’s opinion that the UGC regulations shall prevail over the provisions of the Act of any State University, the letter said. He also found fault with the government’s decision to pass an amendment to the University Act, which has not only taken away the power of the Chancellor to appointment the University Appellate Tribunal, but has also done away with the requirement to consult the High Court in the matter. “How can you dispense with the consultation with the High Court in a matter of appointment of a tribunal which will exercise judicial authority,” he asked, while adding the government will have absolute power to appoint tribunals if the amendment became law. Questioning the government’s commitment towards higher education, the Governor cited the non-payment of salary of the Vice Chancellor of the Sree Narayana Guru Open University as an example of its lackadaisical stance. Besides, the government gave clearance for faculty appointment over a year after the university came into existence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governor-lashes-out-at-govt-over-higher-education-policy/article37930023.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-track/article37930012.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Caring hands||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caring-hands/article37929996.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Capital’s tribute||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capitals-tribute/article37930096.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Water spectacle||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-spectacle/article37930217.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Quality matters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quality-matters/article37930182.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fond remembrance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fond-remembrance/article37930242.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seeking justice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seeking-justice/article37930233.ece
11 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||New discharge norms for Omicron patients in Karnataka||Omicron-infected hospitalised patients can be discharged if symptom-free 10 days after onset only if they test RT-PCR negative twice 24 hours apart, according to guidelines issued by the Health Department of Karnataka here on Friday. India’s first two Omicron patients were reported from Karnataka. The first patient, a 66-year-old foreign national, left the country even before his genome sequencing reports arrived. He left after securing a negative report from a private lab within three days of testing positive. Still being treated The second, a 46-year-old government anaesthetist with no travel history had been discharged from a private hospital and readmitted to a government facility when Omicron was confirmed. He is still under treatment. While this norm of testing RT-PCR negative twice 24 hours apart was mandatory for all patients in the initial period of the pandemic, it was relaxed subsequently for patients other than those with severe infection having immunocompromised conditions. For those with moderate infection, apart from the above criteria, there should be resolution of breathlessness and other clinical symptoms (based on the report of investigations). However, discharge for those with severe infection, including immunocompromised (HIV patients, transplant recipients and those with malignancy), will depend on complete clinical recovery. “At the time of discharge, the patient should be advised home quarantine and self-monitoring of health for seven days,” the guidelines state. “A repeat RT-PCR test should be done on the sixth day of discharge. If the report is negative, the patient can be released from home quarantine. If there's no facility for home quarantine, institutional quarantine is advised,” according to the guidelines.  Follow-up Following discharge, the district surveillance officer (DSO) should follow up the patients at their homes through the tele-monitoring team in the community and using the quarantine app. The Health Department that had identified Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute and Wenlock hospital in Mangaluru as designated Omicron treatment facilities has now permitted isolation and treatment in private hospitals too. International passengers coming in from at-risk countries testing positive for COVID-19 at airports on arrival can also opt for isolation, treatment and COVID-19 management facilities at notified private healthcare facilities at rates fixed by the government. The cost of isolation and treatment should be borne by the patients, the circular added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-discharge-norms-for-omicron-patients-in-karnataka/article37929619.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veda Nilayam handed over to legal heirs of Jayalalithaa||Late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa’s niece and nephew, J. Deepa and J. Deepak, received the keys of Veda Nilayam, her Poes Garden residence, from the Chennai District Collector J. Vijaya Rani on Friday, following a court order. Ms. Deepa and her husband visited Veda Nilayam on Friday. ‘Repairs needed’ She later spoke to presspersons about the house needing repair and renovation as it was in a dilapidated condition. Revealing her desire to live in the house, she also mentioned that they had to clear all the income tax cases first. “This is the first time I am visiting the house in the absence of my aunt. I was not allowed to visit the house after my aunt died,” Ms. Deepa said, and added that she was surprised by the condition of the house. “All the furniture used by my aunt has been removed. The interior used to be beautiful. It seems barren and empty. Many elements in the home are missing,” she said. She added that though she used to frequent the place, she had not visited it in the last 10-12 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-hands-over-veda-nilayam-to-legal-heirs/article37929709.ece
11 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 T.N. men nabbed; red sanders logs, vehicles seized in Chittoor||The Chittoor police on Friday nabbed a 12-member gang from Tamil Nadu on charges of smuggling red sanders logs. Police said they seized red sanders logs worth Rs. 28 lakh, along with three cars used to transport the logs from Tirupati to Vellore in Tamil Nadu. Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy said that acting on reliable information about the movement of the accused in three cars carrying the logs towards Vellore, special parties were formed. In the early hours of Friday, the three cars were intercepted at Gollamadugu village on the NH close to the Tamil Nadu border and 12 persons were nabbed. On inspection, the cars were reportedly found laden with red sanders logs. Preliminary interrogation revealed that the gang had procured the logs from Seshachalam hills, and was on its way to sell them to an agent in Vellore, police said. One of the accused, Nanda Krishan (28) of Polur town of Tiruvannamalai district of T.N., was identified as the gang leader. The eleven others are in the age group of 25-45, and hailed from Tiruvannamalai, Vellore, and Chennai. The Deputy SP said that following a spurt in red sanders smuggling in recent weeks, surveillance was mounted along the highways leading towards Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/12-tn-men-nabbed-red-sanders-logs-vehicles-seized-in-chittoor/article37930152.ece
11 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu’s ‘free OTS’ a fake promise, alleges Sajjala||Taking objection to the reports in a section of media on the One-Time Settlement (OTS) scheme, Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy alleged on Friday that the “imaginative stories” were aimed at destabilising the government and misleading the people. Addressing the media here, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said there was no compulsion to opt for it. “It is a completely voluntary scheme, which the people can opt to gain complete rights on the property they pledged for availing of loans,” he said, and urged people not to believe in such stories. “The government is bearing the registration cost of Rs. 6,000 crore without burdening the beneficiaries,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said. Criticising TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu for “trying to bluff people” by promising to provide OTS free of cost, the YSRCP leader questioned why it had been shelved during the TDP term. Alleging that the previous government had built TIDCO houses without providing any infrastructure, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said Mr. Naidu’s “free OTS” was a fake promise. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has been creating assets for the poor through the OTS scheme,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidus-free-ots-a-fake-promise-alleges-sajjala/article37930162.ece
11 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CID begins probe into alleged scam in skill development corpn.||The Crime Investigation Department (CID) has begun an investigation into an alleged financial scam involving crores of rupees by Siemens Industry Software India Ltd and Design Tech Systems Pvt Ltd, involving funds of the A.P. State Skill Development Corporation. Cases have been booked against the then Special Secretary, Skill Development, Ghanta Subba Rao; the then director of APPSSDC K. Lakshminarayana; OSD and special officer to Secretary, Skill Development, Nimmagadda Venkata Krishna, and directors of Design Tech Systems Pvt Ltd and several others under various Sections of the IPC citing irregularities in the implementation of provisions of MoU between APSSDC and Siemens. The CID officials conduccted searches at the offices and residences of the accused in Hyderabad and other States. The MoU included provisions to set up six Centres of Excellence and 36 Technical Skill Development Institutions at an estimated cost of Rs. 3,356 crore, of which the technology partners would meet 90% of the cost of the project as grant in-kind and the State Government had to invest only 10%. The G.O. was issued splitting the cost estimate and the 90% and 10% splitting of cost between the technology partners and the State Government respectively. However, after the issue of the orders, a tripartite agreement was prepared in such a manner that it was mentioned only that the Government of Andhra Pradesh would release Rs. 371 crores as a grant for SISW and Design Tech to set up the skill development institutions. The release of Rs. 371 crore was done into the account of DesignTech even before the Skill development institutions were set up or the valuation of the work done. After that, with the alleged connivance of the officials of the Government of Andhra Pradesh and APSSDC, officials of SISW and Design Tech allegedly siphoned off a major portion of the amount without providing the commensurate goods and services. Investigation conducted by the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Pune, in 2017-18, had reportedly established that at least Rs. 241 crore was allegedly misappropriated of the Rs. 371 crore fund given by the Government of A.P. The investigation further said that this was done through utilisation of fake invoices provided by affiliated shell companies, which were utilised to carry out a layered transmission of money, without actually providing any hardware, software, courseware, other goods/services, etc,. Money was reportedly drawn out of the bank accounts and handed over to unknown persons allegedly through hawala transactions. The CID investigation would look into if officials of the APSSDC had violated rules in sanctioning the work order of Rs. 371 crore given on nomination basis, in violation of the General Financial rules, Central Vigilance Commission guidelines, etc., and by using a fraudulent modus operandi of generating fake invoices of shell companies with no actual business operations to siphon off the money. Around 2.45 a.m. the CID team led by the inspector (Economic Offence Wing-II) G.V.V. Satyanarayana reached the Jubilee Hills residence of Lakshminarayana with a search warrant, but the latter and his family members tried to prevent the officers from entering the house. However, after a few hours, the team with the support of Jubilee Hills police started the searches for ‘incriminating documents, valuable securities and other material objects’ pertaining to the case. Upon receiving the information about the searches, the managing director of a vernacular media house and a close confidant of Mr. Chandrababu Naidu reached Dr. Lakshminarayana’s house with his video journalists and stayed there for more than four hours. After the media tycoon left the house, around 4.30 p.m. the former bureaucrat fainted reportedly due to a sudden drop in blood sugar levels and was rushed to a corporate hospital at Banjara Hills for immediate medical assistance. During their searches which came to an end around 6 p.m., the CID recovered and seized several incriminating materials, including electronic devices. Later, a summon notice was issued and the former IAS officer was asked to appear at their Mangalagiri office on December 13 for questioning. Meanwhile, family members of Dr.Lakshminarayana accused the CID team of planting the documents in their house and later showing the same as seized material.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cid-begins-probe-into-alleged-scam-in-skill-development-corporation/article37929664.ece
11 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meditation can curb mild Alzheimer’s: study||Simple home-based meditation can change the brain structure and increase grey matter content in patients with mild Alzheimer’s disease and Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), reveals a study of the International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad (IIIT-H). The study, which was carried out as part of DST’s Science and Technology of Yoga And Meditation (SATYAM) programme under its Cognitive Science Research Initiative, saw Apollo Multi-Speciality Hospital, Kolkata, recruiting patients based on neuro-psychological assessments and the IIIT-H processing and analysis of brain images. The clinical team recruited patients with MCI or mild Alzheimer’s disease and assigned them into meditation and control groups. Before the start of the experimental period, both groups had MRI scans of their brain taken. 30-minute practice The meditation group was taught to meditate at home for 30 minutes each day following audio instructions from a CD. When both groups had their brain images retaken after six months, the researchers found that the patients in the meditation group showed a significant increase in cortical thickness and grey matter volume mainly in the prefrontal area of the brain. It also coincided with a reduced thickness in the posterior part of the brain, the researchers claimed in a paper published inFrontiers in Human Neuroscience.   “We had suspected that if you practise focused activity for a sustained period, there will be significant changes in areas outside the Default Mode Network (DMN). Seeing this happen in the meditation group gives us confidence that this kind of intervention will be viable and useful for patients with memory disorders,” Dr. Bapi Raju of the Cognitive Science Research Centre at IIIT-H said. His students Madhukar Dwivedi and Aditya Jain Pansari were part of the study along with Head of Department, Neurology at the Apollo Multi-Speciality Hospital Amitabha Ghosh and researcher Neha Dubey. Dr. Ghosh explains the results referring to the two kinds of networks that exist in the brain. One is activated by attention whereas the other takes over when there is no specific task to perform and during ‘mind wandering’. Most individuals operate with a continuous switch between these two networks. “However, in patients with MCI or Alzheimer’s disease, where the networks degenerate, the switch does not always take place as efficiently. Hence, you find them losing attention, getting distracted and having memory lapses,” says Dr. Ghosh. Through meditation, one is taught to increase one’s focus and to consciously disengage from floating thoughts. With the initial study showing promise on protection against memory loss with sustained and simple meditation practice, the team plans on following it up with a larger number of participants and over a longer duration so that meditation as an intervention can be registered as a treatment method.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/meditation-can-curb-mild-alzheimers-study/article37929621.ece
11 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||UoH granted patent for HIV drug combination efficacy enhancers||The University of Hyderabad (UoH) has been granted to patent “High active antiretroviral combination drugs loaded lactoferrin nanoparticles for first line and second line therapy” for targeted delivery of a combination of antiretroviral drugs to HIV-1 infected cells. This has been developed in the laboratory for molecular therapeutics, Department of Biotechnology and Bioinformatics, School of Life Sciences, under the supervision of Anand K. Kondapi, a statement said. The patented technology produces lactoferrin nanoparticles encapsulated in a combination of drugs in first line or second line therapy as a single drug product in an oral capsule for treatment of HIV-1. Lactoferrin enables carrying of drug cargo through lactoferrin receptor over-expressed HIV-1 infected cells. Due to cooperative loading of the drug combination in the drug product, the drugs are co-delivered in HIV infected cells, thus affecting the virus replication by simultaneously acting at the intended targets. Thus, the formulation enhances efficacy of drug combination along with enhanced bio-availability and reduced toxicity. “Treatment of HIV involves use of anti-retroviral drugs in various combinations in high active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Major limitations of the current HAART regimen are absence of co-delivery of drug combination to HIV infected cells, which leads to low efficacy,” said Prof. Kondapi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uoh-granted-patent-for-hiv-drug-combination-efficacy-enhancers/article37929943.ece
11 December 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Journalist Vicaruddin no more||Well-known journalist and social activist Syed Vicaruddin passed away on Thursday night at a city hospital, according to family sources. He was 82. He was editor of Rahnuma-e-Deccan, a 100-year-old Urdu newspaper from the city, as well as chairman of the Indo-Arab League Hyderabad. The funeral prayers were read at the Makka Masjid and he was laid to rest at the graveyard near Moosa Qadri Dargah in Hussaini Alam on Friday afternoon. Vicaruddin played a key role in improving ties with countries in the Middle-East and wrote extensively about his travels and meetings with leaders of the countries. Vicaruddin’s father Syed Yusufuddin Qadri was co-founder of what was initially called Rahbar-e-Deccan which later became Rahnuma-e-Deccan. The family traces the lineage to Ghulam Ali of Mysore who was a close aide of Tipu Sultan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/urdu-journalist-syed-vicaruddin-no-more/article37929622.ece
11 December 2021||Idukki,ANDHRA PRADESH||24 tribals face social boycott in Kerala||Twenty-four tribal men in Kerala's Idukki district have been allegedly socially ostracised by theoorukoottams(council of tribals) for allegedly consuming beef, which is against their custom. Police said the incidents were reported from Marayoor forest areas in this hill district and the authorities of the local self government and tribal department are trying to resolve the issue by talking to chiefs of tribal communities. They said no case has been registered. The family members of the 24 men have been allegedly prevented from meeting them, they said. Kerala Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes K. Radhakrishnan said efforts were on to resolve the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/24-tribals-face-social-boycott-in-kerala/article37929630.ece
11 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI to fight for justice to flood victims||The Communist Party of India has announced to continue its tirade against the Central and State governments till justice is rendered to the last victim of the recent floods that rocked the Rayalaseema region. Party national general secretary D. Raja, who visited the villages downstream of Annamayya project that inundated due to the flood fury on Friday, called it a failure on part of the administrators to reach out to the victims more than a fortnight after the incident. Accompanied by State secretary K. Ramakrishna, he toured Pulaputhur and Mandapalli villages that witnessed flash floods, and interacted with the villagers. He felt that the government had not taken a serious note of the loss of human and cattle lives, crops and property in the disaster and demanded a timeline on the rehabilitation measures promised. Speaking to the media, he demanded that the Annamayya project be rebuilt with modern technology making it strong enough to withstand such calamities. Loudly wondering why not even a single Central minister had visited the villages to restore confidence among the people. he demanded that the flood be declared a ‘national calamity’. Talking to the irrigation engineers, he questioned them as to why the gates of the project were not lifted to facilitate outflow, knowing fully well that the water gushing from the Pincha project in the upper reaches could wreak havoc. Mr. Ramakrishna criticised the State government for announcing a “paltry” Rs. 5 lakh to the kin of the 69 deceased in the five districts, which he termed as ‘peanuts’ compared to the Rs. 1 crore ex-gratia announced to the gas leak victims of Visakhapatnam in the past. ‘No action’ “There is no action after the Chief Minister’s aerial survey and the announcement of five cents of land for the victims’ families”, he lamented, while demanding Rs. 25 lakh to the family of every deceased person. He pegged the crop loss due to submergence in a whopping 60 lakh acres in the five southern districts, for which he sought a decent compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-to-fight-for-justice-to-flood-victims/article37930168.ece
11 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YVU signs MoU on tech management||Yogi Vemana University, Kadapa, has signed three Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with K.V.R. Scientific Service, Nellore, for promotion of research activities, extension of online class platform and for initiating a YVU IT hub. The tie-up will enable K.V.R. Scientific Service to provide Microsoft Office 365 platform to the university for conducting classes of postgraduate students and scholars and to facilitate webinars. Similarly, the partner will also provide technical support for management of the digital library, university records, hostel administration, faculty annual performance, alumni, question papers, live streaming and e-learning, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yvu-signs-mou-on-tech-management/article37930154.ece
11 December 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Caste certificate for Valmikis residing in Rampa since 1956||Rampachodavaram Sub-Collector Katta Simhachalam on Friday directed the tahsildars of seven Agency mandals to issue caste certificates to eligible Valmiki tribals based on their nativity prior to 1956 in Rampa Agency and a list of official documents. Mr. Simhachalam here on Friday conducted a meeting with the tahsildars and representatives of the Valmiki tribe of Rampa Agency on the guidelines for issuing the caste certificates. Mr. Simhachalam said that the caste certificate certifying Valmiki (Scheduled Tribe) would be issued to those who produce their nativity certificates establishing that their family has been residing in Rampa Agency from before 1956. Documents including birth, death, and revenue certificates would also be considered for the issue of the caste certificate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/caste-certificate-for-valmikis-residing-in-rampa-since-1956/article37930153.ece
11 December 2021||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘IUML trying to be the sole spokesperson of Muslims’||Strongly criticising the stance of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) on the Public Service Commission (PSC) making appointments to the Waqf Board, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the IUML should decide whether it is a political party or a religious organisation. Addressing the Kannur district conference of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)], which began at Eripuram on Friday, Mr. Vijayan said the IUML was trying to act as the sole spokesperson of Muslims in the State, but it would not be accepted. The party is propagating misinformation on the Waqf Board issue. When the Assembly debated the topic, the IUML only demanded protection for those already employed in the board. Now, attempts are being made to make a controversy out of it. The government has clarified its stance and religious organisations have understood it. Only IUML members have failed to comprehend it, he said. Waqf appointments “There are more than 100 seats in the Waqf Board. A decision on appointments to these seats will be made only after the issue is discussed with all concerned,” he said. He said the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had formed an alliance before the last Assembly election itself and they were trying to discredit the government and oppose development plans. On K-Rail “The K-Rail and the inland waterway are excellent projects. If the State has to attract new investment, its infrastructure needs to be improved,” he said. He added that attempts are being made to create communal polarisation in many parts of Kerala. At the forefront of the effort is the Sangh Parivar. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s ideas will not work in Kerala. Their efforts should be quashed at the earliest, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iuml-trying-to-be-sole-spokesperson-of-muslims/article37929624.ece
11 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two-year jail for accepting bribe||The Special Judge for Anti-Corruption Bureau cases here on Friday handed down a two-year jail term to Mandali Adhinarayana (60), for accepting a bribe of Rs. 6,000 to provide an agriculture electrical connection at Mamillapalli village of Kanaganapalli mandal in Anantapur district in 2017. He also imposed a penalty of Rs. 5,000 for the offence punishable under Section 7. Mandali Adhinarayana was also convicted in another case and handed a sentence of two years’ imprisonment and a similar Rs. 5,000 penalty under Section 13 (1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The judge said that both the jail terms will run concurrently and if the accused does not pay the penalty, he would have to undergo another three months of simple imprisonment. The judge further directed perjury proceedings against the complainant (as he had turned hostile during cross-examination) and departmental action against Assistant Engineer (AE) and Deputy Engineer (DE) of the APSPDCL as they too turned hostile. Special Public Prosecutor Rama Bhagavan Reddy examined all the witnesses and Krishna Reddy conducted the case, said an ACB release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-year-jail-for-accepting-bribe/article37930150.ece
11 December 2021||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Udupi police seize beef; family denies charges||The Kaup police in Udupi raided what they said was an illegal abattoir on the premises of a house in Mooluru village on Friday and seized a calf and 10 kg beef. While members of the household accused police of high-handedness and falsely accusing them, the latter said that family members had assaulted and obstructed their team. The Udupi police said in a release that a team led by Kaup Police Sub-Inspector C. Raghavendra raided the shed on the premises of the house of Abbu Mohammed, as he and his family member Ismail were preparing to slaughter a calf. Ismail is an accused in cattle theft cases reported earlier. When the police raided, both of them escaped. The release said that later the police seized the calf, 10 kg of beef, a four wheeler, and a weighing machine. Women family members abused the police team and assaulted Mr. Raghavendra and others. One B.C. Bava directed the family members to close the entrance and confine the police, the release added. Accusing Mohammed and Ismail of stealing cattle and running an illegal abattoir, the Kaup police registered a case. Family members have also been booked. However, Mohammed accused police of high-handedness and claimed that the beef seized by police had been brought on Thursday for a family event. Talking to reporters, Mohammed alleged that police raided his house when he and other male members were away. He accused the police of assaulting his wife, daughter-in-law, and a few other women members and seizing the beef in the refrigerator. Denying allegations of indulging in cow slaughter, Mohammed said the calf is among the head of cattle he has been rearing for over several years and he has been selling milk to people in the locality. “I and my family members are being falsely accused of cow slaughter,” he said, adding that police had been repeatedly raiding his house and had seized four of his vehicles earlier. He said that some of the family members had been falsely booked recently charging them of cattle theft when the members had gone to fetch one of the cattle which had run away. Udupi Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan told The Hindu that none of the raiding team misbehaved with family members of Mohammed. “The whole raid has been videographed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/udupi-police-seize-beef-family-denies-charges/article37929625.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC to hear Mullaperiyar case on Dec. 15||The Supreme Court on Friday adjourned to December 15 a hearing on safety concerns about the Mullaperiyar dam after Tamil Nadu sought time to respond to new issues raised by Kerala. The 126-year-old dam in Idukki district of Kerala is under the control of Tamil Nadu. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar initially posted the case to December 11, but senior advocate Shekhar Naphade informed the court that fresh applications have been filed in the case and Tamil Nadu would like to have time to file its reply. Recently, the Kerala Government moved the court complaining that Tamil Nadu was not giving prior information to it before opening the spillway shutters of the dam. It submitted that heavy flow from the dam was a source of unease for those living downstream. It sought the formation of a technical committee comprising representatives of both States to ensure that water is released from the dam on its recommendation and after giving due warning to the disaster management authorities in Kerala. It said heavy rainfall in the area has increased the water level in the dam. The court had fixed the case on December 10 to hear comprehensively and pass directions on the diverse petitions filed on the various aspects of safety, maintenance of the dam and security of those living near it. The Tamil Nadu Government has so far stood firm by its position in the court that the dam is “hydrologically, structurally and seismically safe”. It had blamed a “social media campaign” triggered in Kerala against the dam. It said the steady flow of petitions to the court from Kerala, questioning the dam’s safety, even calling for its decommissioning, was a bid to harass it. It accused Kerala of trying “somehow to prevent Tamil Nadu to raise the level to 142 ft. at the Mullaiperiyar dam on one pretext or the other by raising issues which have been fully addressed by experts from Central Water Commission”. Tamil Nadu, in an affidavit, said the safety of the dam had been supported by reports of the expert committee and the empowered committee after extensive study. The height of storage level at 142 ft. was endorsed by the court in 2014 in a judgment. The dam’s safety aspectsare being constantly monitored by the Supervisory Committee set up seven years ago. Issues ‘thrashed out’ Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, for the Supervisory Committee, had maintained that the issues were “thrashed out” between Kerala and Tamil Nadu in several meetings. Kerala, in turn, had been demanding a reconsideration of the rule curve as the dam is situated in a seismic zone. The court is hearing a petition filed by Dr. Joe Joseph and office-bearers of the Kothamangalam block panchayat in Kerala expressing their apprehensions about the lack of proper supervision of water levels in the dam located along the Periyar tiger reserve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-to-hear-mullaperiyar-case-on-dec-15/article37929632.ece
11 December 2021||PEDDAPALLI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coal production hit for second day in Singareni||Coal production remained paralysed across the underground coal mines and the open cast projects of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd. (SCCL) in Telangana as the 72-hour strike by the workers of the State-owned coal company entered the second day on Friday. The second day of the protest saw an overwhelming number of workers, except for essential staff, abstaining from duties in pursuit of their charter of demands, mainly removal of the four coal blocks in Telangana from the Union Coal Ministry’s auction list and allocation of the four coal blocks to the SCCL. Sources said that as many as 23,425 workers participated in the strike on Friday. The strike called by the Joint Action Committee of the five central trade unions and the Telangana Boggu Ghani Karimka Sangha (TBGKS) has resulted in an estimated production loss of a little over 3.50 lakh tonnes since Thursday. Extending support to the stir, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president A. Revanth Reddy said the Telangana Government should purchase 49% stake held by the Centre in SCCL to stop its privatisation. The TRS Government was equally responsible for the decision and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao cannot wash his hands of it by just writing to the Centre despite the State holding majority stake. The TRS MPs did not utter a single word about SCCL privatisation during the winter session of Parliament, he said. Mr. Reddy said the livelihood of nearly one lakh families, including 75,000 SCCL staff, were at stake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coal-production-hit-for-second-day-in-singareni/article37929629.ece
11 December 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVRAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State ‘blooms’ to the third place in flower production||Andhra Pradesh has emerged as the third largest producer of flowers in the country. Chittoor, Anatapur, and East Godavari districts are the major flower producers in the State. The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare has confirmed that Andhra Pradesh produced 4.06 lakh tonnes of flowers during 2020-21 kharif. The total extent of land under floriculture in the State is more than 19,000 hectares. Responding to a question by Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat in the Lok Sabha, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said, “ Andhra Pradesh contributed 15.62% of the total flower production in the country during 2020-21 kharif as per the Third Advanced Estimates of flower production.” Tamil Naidu, with a contribution of 20.94% of the total production and more than 42,000 hectares under floriculture, is the country’s leading flower producer. It has produced 5.45 lakh tonnes during 2020-21 kharif. Madhya Pradesh’s contribution is 15.78%. The Ministry has also said that Andhra Pradesh has the highest production per unit area (per hectare) among the major producers – Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh – in the country. “The maximum yield per hectare is between 8 and 10 tonnes in Andhra Pradesh,” says Horticulture Department Deputy Director (East Godavari) S. Ramamohan. In Andhra Pradesh, flowers, including marigold and jasmine, are despatched to Odisha, West Bengal, and Telangana. There are a few varieties that are being brought from other States for packing and export from Andhra Pradesh. The Central government has promised financial assistance under the Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) for wooden and bamboo structures, plastic tunnels, and walk-in tunnels to increase the area under the floriculture. Disease mapping Meanwhile, the Floriculture Research Directorate (FRD), Pune, is carrying out a study on disease mapping of the Kadiyam nurseries on the banks of the Godavari in Andhra Pradesh. The Ministry has also promised to transfer new technologies under the National Agriculture Research System (NARS). In December last, Mr. Bharat had appealed to the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) to revive the Floriculture Research Institute (FRI) at Vemagiri, near Rajamahendravaram. The State government had already allocated 10.77 acres of land for the FRI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-blooms-to-the-third-place-in-flower-production/article37930164.ece
11 December 2021||Thrissur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pradeep’s body may be brought today||The body of A. Pradeep, junior warrant officer, who was killed in the Coonoor copter crash is likely to be brought to his house at Ponnukkara in Thrissur district on Saturday. The body will be handed over to his relatives after a DNA test. The body will be cremated at his family compound at Ponnukkara. Before that, the body will be placed at Puthur Government High School for the public to pay their last respects. Thrissur tahsildar and senior police officers are monitoring the arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pradeeps-body-may-be-brought-today/article37929627.ece
11 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jewellery worth Rs. 3 crore donated||An anonymous devotee on Friday donated diamond and ruby studded gold ornaments worth around Rs. 3 crore to the temple of Lord Venkateswara. The ornaments, to be adorned to the ‘Varada and Kati hastams’ of the deity was handed over to TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy at the Ranganayakula mandapam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jewellery-worth-rs-3-crore-donated/article37930166.ece
11 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagan should retreat on 3 capitals’||Terming the farmers’ agitation in the national capital as an example, CPI natioanl general secretary D. Raja has asserted that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has no other option than beating a retreat on the three capitals issue. Addressing a meeting to express support to the Amaravati Padayatra at Srikalahasti town on Friday, he said the government was resorting to violation of the Constitution in the garb of decentralisation of administration. “Nowhere in the country are there three capitals for a State. It is now time for Jagan to understand the power of farmers’ movements and give up his hard stance on the issue”, Mr. Raja observed, while appreciating the farmers and women for carrying on with their unrelenting fight for the cause. CPI State Secretary K. Ramakrishna announced that a grand public meeting would be held in Tirupati, come what may, once the Padayatra reached the temple town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-has-to-beat-a-retreat-on-3-capitals/article37929616.ece
11 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP takes up pending railway works with Centre||Member of Parliament (Rajampet) P.V. Midhun Reddy has taken the plight of the pending projects in his constituency spread across Chittoor and Kadapa districts to the notice of Minister for Railways Ashwini Vaishnaw in New Delhi on Friday, with an appeal to fast-track the development works. Prominent among the issues raised by him was the Kadapa-Bengaluru railway line sanctioned in 2008 and yet to be realised. He said the line would provide connectivity to Punganur, Madanapalle and Valmikipuram regions. Halt sought at Vontimitta He also sought a halt for long distance trains at Vontimitta, located on the Kadapa-Tirupati route, in view of its prominence after being taken over by the TTD and the State government’s conduct of Srirama Navami post-bifurcation. Mr. Reddy also appealed to the Minister to consider halt for Haripriya, AP Sampark Kranti and Venkatadri and Chengalpattu express trains at Obulavaripalle and Rajampet stations. MoU At a meeting with the Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandavia, he sought the Centre’s help in signing MoU between India and Nepal for mutual recognition of PG medical doctors, citing the shortage of qualified manpower in the medical field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-takes-up-pending-railway-works-with-centre/article37930169.ece
11 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chaddi gang members giving sleepless nights to police||The ‘Chaddi gang’ which is suspected to be from Gujarat, that struck at several places in Krishna and Guntur districts, has been giving sleepless nights to the police. The police suspect that two separate gangs have been operating in the State. The notorious robber gangs struck at posh villas and group houses located on the city outskirts and escaped with valuables. Modus operandi “According to the modus operandi of the gangs and the clues available at the crime scene, investigation officers came to a conclusion that ‘Chaddi gangs’ might have committed robbery We contacted the Gujarat police and are trying to nab the thieves,” said Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata. Chaddi gangs have five to seven members each. The gang members wear shorts (chaddis) and mostly burgle locked houses and are not violent, the investigation officers said. “The gangs commit series of robberies in a State and escape to another State. The gang members, aged between 25 and 40, normally stay on the roadsides or in small hotels and move in trains,” a police officer said. “We collected the CCTV footages and fingerprints at the villas when the gang struck at at different places. Fingerprints collected at one place did not match with the prints taken at the other scene of offence, indicating that more than one gang is operating,” said Mr. Kanthi Rana. The gang members move as general public in colonies, conduct ‘recce’ during day time and identify the locked houses. They strike after midnight. The robbers carry iron roads to break the locks. They focus on easy escape routes after committing the robbery. Chaddi gangs normally loot only cash and gold ornaments, an investigation officer said. “Chaddi gangs hail from Dahod district of Gujarat State. I spoke to Dahod Superintendent of Police, who said that two gangs were missing from the State. We suspect that the same gangs are moving in Andhra Pradesh,” Mr. Kanthi Rana, who is monitoring the investigation of the robber cases, told The Hindu . In Guntur district, suspected ‘Chaddi gang’ struck at the locked flats in Rainbow Villa. Some MLAs and other VIPs were staying in the villa, and robbers looted the houses in the absence of the inmates, the Guntur police said. “In almost all the cases, the Clues Teams collected finger prints, which indicated that the gang did not use gloves. But, in some places, he robbers covered their faces with masks and wore ‘chaddis’,” a senior police officer said. Chaddi gangs move in different States, commit robberies and handover the booty to their family members, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gangs-from-gujarat-behind-recent-robberies-in-ap/article37929617.ece
11 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||A fabricated case of corruption: TDP||TDP spokesman K. Pattabhi Ram has accused the government of misusing the CID to file a “fabricated case of corruption” in the Rs. 3,300- crore A.P. Siemens Skill Development project. Addressing the media on Friday, Mr. Pattabhi said the TDP government had approved the project, which involved an investment of 90% by Siemens and 10% by the government. The government had paid Rs. 371 crore towards its share. About 40 Centres of Excellence (CoE) and Skill Development Centres had been established all over the State. The amount had been paid when senior IAS officer L. Premachandra Reddy was the Managing Director of the A.P. Skill Development Corporation. “Why is the CID not approaching Mr. Premachandra Reddy’s house to question him about the so-called fraud?” the TDP leader asked. Objecting to the manner in which the CID went to the residence of former IAS officer K. Lakshminarayana, he alleged that the probe agency was harassing his family. More than 11 IAS officers had approved and monitored the Centres of Excellence. But only Mr. Lakshminarayana and Ghanta Subba Rao were implicated, he alleged. “This is nothing but a politically-motivated case,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-fabricated-case-of-corruption-tdp/article37930172.ece
11 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. staff firm on demands||Government employees on Friday vowed to fight till the government addressed their demands. The employees staged lunch-hour demonstrations in front of their offices across the State. Employee associations’ leaders B. Venkateswarlu, B. Srinivas, Vidyasgar and others said they were waiting for the last more than two years for the government to resolve their demands. The employees were staging protests as the promises made by the government and the advisers were not kept. The employees were expecting the government to announce PRC and also resolve the issues like health cards, they said. Meanwhile, A.P. Contributory Pension Scheme Employees’ Association members organised ‘Simha Garjana’, a protest meeting, demanding that the government scrap the CPS. Association general secretary K. Pardhasaradhi said they had been demanding that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy keep the promise he made in the run-up to the general elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-staff-firm-on-demands/article37930174.ece
11 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR to run Sabarimala special trains||To clear the extra rush of passengers, South Central Railway (SCR) will operate special trains between Secunderabad-Kollam, Kacheguda-Kollam, and Nanded-Kollam. The Sabarimala special trains will be operated from December 18 to 26, railway authorities said. Train No.07133, Secunderabad-Kollam, will start at 5.40 a.m. on December 18. Train No.07134, Kollam-Secunderabad, will start at 7.35 p.m. on the next day. Train No.07135 Kacheguda-Kollam, will depart at 5.30 a.m. on December 22, and train No.07136 Kollam-Kacheguda, will start at 7.35 p.m. on the next day. Train No. 07137, Nanded-Kollam, will depart at 9.45 a.m. on December 23, and train No. 07506, Kollam-Tirupati, will begin at 12.45 a.m. on December 25, and train No.07138, Tirupati-Kollam will start at 8.15 p.m. on December 26. The special trains (07133/07134 and 07135/07136) will stop at Cherlapalli, Nalgonda, Miryalguda, Vishnupuram, Nadikude, Sattenapalli, Guntur, Tenali, Bapatla, Chirala, Ongole, Kavali, Nellore, Gudur, Renigunta, Tirupati, Pakala, Katpadi, Jolarpettai, Salem, Erode, Coimbatore, Palakkad, Thrisur, Ernakulam, Kottayam, Chengancheri, Tiruvalla, Chengannur, Mavelikara and Kanyakumari stations in both the directions. Train No.07137 (Nanded-Kollam) will halt at Mudkhed, Dharmabad, Basar, Nizamabad, Armoor, Metpalli, Korutla, Lingampet, Jagtiyal, Karimnagar, Peddapalli, Jammikunta, Warangal, Mahabubabad, Dornakal, Khammam, Kondapalli, Vijayawada, New Guntur, Tenali, Bapatla, Chirala, Ongole Kavali, Nellore, Gudur, Renigunta, Tirupati, Pakala, Chittoor, Katpadi, Jolarpetttai, Salem, Erode, Coimbatore, Palakkad, Thrisur, Ernakulam, Kottayam, Chengancheri, Tiruvalla, Chengannur, Mavelikara and Kanyakumari stations, the railway officials said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-to-run-sabarimala-special-trains/article37929672.ece
11 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Provide Rs. 1 cr. ex gratia to Sai Teja’s family’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Friday urged the State government to provide Rs. 1 crore ex gratia to the family of Lance Naik Sai Teja, who was among those who had died in the chopper crash at Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawan and his wife too were killed in the accident. In a letter, Mr. Naidu urged Chief Secretary Sameer Sarma to provide job to one of Sai Teja’s family members. Stating that Sai Teja was the personal security officer to the CDS, Mr. Naidu said he had risen to the position within nine years of joining the Army. He hailed from Erraballi panchayat in Chittoor district, Mr. Naidu said, and urged the government to help the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/provide-rs-1-cr-ex-gratia-to-sai-tejas-family/article37930170.ece
11 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Do not cancel benefits of tribals citing eKYC: Lokesh||Telugu Desam Party national general secretary N. Lokesh has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy not to cancel the welfare benefits for tribal people in the name of eKYC and updating of records. In a letter to the Chief Minister on Friday, Mr. Lokesh demanded that the cancelled pension of the aged persons, widows and the differently-abled tribal people should be restored immediately. “There is a need for ensuring uninterrupted distribution of rice. Also, the wrong entries in the land records should be corrected. The people in the Agency areas are facing untold miseries because of the negligence of the village volunteers,” the TDP leader alleged. Alleging that the government had a “hidden agenda,” Mr. Lokesh said new conditions were being laid to deny the benefits to the tribal people, and cited the example of the G.O. cancelling the benefits to the tribal families having more than 10 acres of land, or a government job, or a vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/do-not-cancel-benefits-of-tribals-citing-ekyc-lokesh/article37930171.ece
11 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 2 COVID deaths||The State reported two deaths due to COVID-19 and 142 new infections in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. The cumulative tally and toll reached 20,55,206 and 14,462 respectively, while the number of recoveries also increased to 20,55,206 with 188 persons recovering in the past day. The total number of active cases remain at 1,989. The officials tested 32,793 samples. Chittoor and Krishna reported one death each in the past day. Guntur reported 28 positive cases, while East Godavari reported 21 infections in the past day, followed by Anantapur (17), West Godavari (17), Chittoor (14), Krishna (13), Visakhapatnam (10), Srikakulam (7), Nellore (6), Prakasam (4), Kadapa (2), Vizianagaram (2) and Kurnool (1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-2-covid-deaths/article37930173.ece
11 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Corporators grill officials on pending civic issues||Coporators of various parties raised various issues plaguing their wards at the fourth Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) council meet held here on Friday. They alleged apathy of officials in not addressing problems in their areas. Many of the corporators from the Opposition parties said that they were unable to face the residents of the wards, as they were being grilled on various civic issues. As soon as the council meet began, the corporators from Telugu Desam Party, CPI, CPI(M), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Jana Sena Party (JSP) demanded that the Mayor organise the question hour instead of going ahead with the agenda. Though, Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari promised to conduct the question hour after completion of the agenda, the Opposition and the Left party members, refused to relent. They alleged that the agenda for the council meet was prepared based on the wishes of the YSR Congress Party leaders, but not on the various issues that are being faced by people. The Mayor was forced to adjourn the meeting for 10 minutes. Corporator from Ward 79, R. Srinivas, complained about the pollution issue in his ward and appealed to the officials to take immediate steps to control it. Corporator from Ward 10, M. Ramalakshmi, said that people not only in her ward, but also in neighbouring areas such as Arilova and Old Dairy Farm and a few others have been requesting for the setting up of rythu bazaars, since many years. She said that despite the requests there has been no response from the officials. Apart from issue of bad roads, she also spoke about the menace of pigs in her ward. Ward No 33 Corporator and Floor leader of JSP, B. Vasantha Lakshmi, and Corporator of Ward 48, (BJP), G. Kavitha, complained about the poor condition of roads and drainage in their colonies. Ms. Kavitha spoke about the lack of civic amenities for people living on the hillocks. Corporator from Ward No 2, G. Chinni Kumari Lakshmi, complained about unauthorised constructions at Sanghivalasa, which has been leading to flooding situation in the area whenever it rains. With the increase in road accidents on NH-16 at Madhurawada, Corporator from Ward 6 (YSRCP), M. Priyanka, requested the GVMC to construct a foot-over bridge at Madhurawada. She said that the bridge will help a large number of students of ZP High School as well as common people. Corporator Allu Sankar Rao from Ward 49 (YSRCP), complained about the issues faced by public due to the ongoing underground drainage works in his ward. JSP Corporator from Ward 22, P.L.V.N. Murthy Yadav, demanded that the officials revoke the One Time Settlement (OTS) proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/corporators-grill-officials-on-issues-at-gvmc-meet/article37930155.ece
11 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Partiality in allocation of funds’||Several Corporators from the Opposition parties raised objection on the allocation of funds to a few wards where the YSRCP candidates had won, by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). They alleged that the GVMC has been failing to focus on the overall development of the city and giving priority to a few wards. Corporators from the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), Jana Sena Party (JSP), CPI and the CPI(M) raised objection to the proposal to allocate about Rs. 66 lakh for park development works in Ward 6, being represented by YSRCP corporator M. Priyanka, the daughter of Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao. They alleged that in the last council meet, the council had approved sanction of around Rs. 2 crore for construction of theme parks in her ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/partiality-in-allocation-of-funds/article37930250.ece
11 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Webinars at AMC aided COVID treatment’||It is said that ‘Learning is a continuous process of life’ and the Andhra Medical College (AMC) appears to have taken a leaf from this old wisdom. At a time when the medical fraternity across the world, including the one in this city, was trying understand the COVID-19 pandemic and experimenting with various treatment protocols, the AMC devised a noble way to upgrade and understand the treatment process. Since August 8, 2020, the medical college has hosted 99 webinars, inviting experts from across India and other countries to speak on various related topics, with the idea of understanding disease and upgrading their knowledge. “We discussed topics ranging from diagnostics to treatment and from post COVID issue to mental health,” said Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar. The 100th episode will be held on December 12 (Sunday) and the keynote address will be delivered by the Principal Secretary of Health, A.P. Government, Ravichandra.m“It all started with the then district collector V. Vinay Chand suggesting a system that could upgrade the knowledge of the doctors, when the pandemic was raging during the first wave, in the month of August. And since then we never looked back and have been conducting this webinar every Sunday morning,” said Dr.Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinars-at-amc-aided-covid-treatment/article37930199.ece
11 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-born professor named president of Penn State varsity||A professor of Indian origin, Neeli Bendapudi, is the first woman and person of colour to be named as president of America’s prestigious Pennsylvania State University. This was announced by the educational institution on Thursday. Ms. Bendapudi was born in Visakhapatnam and had gone to the U.S. in 1986 for pursuing her higher studies. She is at present serving as president and professor of marketing at the University of Louisville in Kentucky. “She has been unanimously named as Penn State’s next president by the Penn State Board of Trustees on December 9,” the university disclosed in a statement on its website. Ms. Bendapudi is the 18th president of the University of Louisville, and is a recognised leader in higher education, who specialises in marketing and consumer behaviour. Vast experience In a career spanning nearly 30 years, she has taught marketing and has served in a variety of administrative roles, including provost and executive vice- chancellor at the University of Kansas, Dean of the School of Business at the University of Kansas, and founding-director of the Initiative for Managing Services at Ohio State University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-born-professor-named-president-of-penn-state-varsity/article37930176.ece
11 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan’s decision on deeksha for VSP lauded||Jana Sena Party (JSP) leader, Visakhapatnam, Kona Tata Rao welcomed JSP Chief K Pawan Kalyan's decision to observe deeksha in solidarity with the ongoing movement initiated by the workers to protect Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) at Party Office, Mangalagiri. While it has been over 300 days since the workers and unions have been staging protests, the YSR Congress Party members have failed to at least bring pressure on the Centre, he said. He also said that the steel plant unions and workers should also express their support towards the deeksha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawans-decision-on-deeksha-for-vsp-lauded/article37930248.ece
11 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Graduation Day at Avanthi College today||Avanthi Group of Colleges is organising ‘Avanthians Graduation Day’ for the students graduated during the academic year 2020-21 from the engineering and pharmacy colleges at Avanthi Engineering College Campus, Tagarapuvalasa, at 2 p.m. on December 11. Minister for Tourism M Srinivasa Rao, Director, NSTL, Y. Sreenivas Rao, AU Vice Chancellor, P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy, have given their consent to grace the occasion, according to the officials. Around 600 passed- out students will receive their Provisional Certificates on this occasion. Gold and silver medals will be provided to branch toppers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/graduation-day-at-avanthi-college-today/article37930249.ece
11 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lifetime achievement award for Vizag doctor||Leading Nephrologist from Visakhapatnam and former vice-chancellor of NTR University of Health Sciences Tatapudi Ravi Raju has been awarded the Lifetime Achievement award by the Indian Society for Nephrology. The award was given to him at the annual conference of ISN, held in Chennai on Friday. The award was bestowed upon him for his contribution to the field of medical health care, medical education and administration. Apart from serving as the V-C of NTRUHS, he served as the member of governing body of the National Board of Examinations and had played a key role in introducing the online examinations for NEET and other super-speciality courses. He also was instrumental in streamlining the curriculum and examinations for DNB courses in the country. He is also the recipient of ‘Sardar Vallabhai Patel Award’ for service to the nation, given by the Ministry of Health and Welfare in 2021. Dr. Ravi Raju started his career as a nephrologist after completing his DM from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh in 1985. Subsequently, he worked in Andhra Pradesh Medical Education Services in various capacities. He also served as the president of Indian Society of Nephrology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lifetime-achievement-award-for-vizag-doctor/article37930252.ece
11 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM announces admission notification||GITAM Deemed to be University has announced its admission notification GAT-2022, for the next academic year. Online entrance examination for admission into various undergraduate and postgraduate programmes on its campuses in Visakhapatnam, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, will be conducted, said its vice-chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, he said that the university was offering about 245 UG, PG and doctoral programmes. The vice-chancellor announced that in view of the growing demand in healthcare sector, the university was launching new UG programmes such as B.Sc. (Operation Theatre Technology), B.Sc. (Emergency Medicine), B.Sc. (Forensic Science) and B.Sc. (Medical Laboratory Technology) from the academic year 2022-23 at its Visakhapatnam campus. He said that the GAT-2022 Applications are made available at the university’s websitewww.gat.gitam.eduand advised the students to check the GAT-2022 eligibility criteria before filling the online application form. He said that the applicants would have to book their GITAM GAT 2022 slots through online mode and could write the entrance examination from their homes. The login credentials would be sent to the candidate’s registered email id and mobile number a day before the examination schedule. GAT-2022 is a proctored examination conduced through online between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. as per the scheduled dates, he added. GITAM registrar D. Gunasekharan said that the university was providing a wide range of scholarships like merit scholarships,to deserving students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gitam-announces-admission-notification/article37929673.ece
11 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl gives part of her liver to father for transplant||A 21-year-old girl has donated half of her liver, which was harvested and implanted in her father succesfully, at CARE Hospital, here. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mohammad Nayeem, HPB & liver transplant surgeon, said that one Neelakanteswara Rao (52), was suffering from decompensated cirrhosis of liver with portal hypertension since past one year. “Vani, the patient’s daughter, had come forward to donate a part of her liver and we performed the transplant,” he said. Dr. Nayeem was assisted by Dr Ravishankar Kinjarapu, HPB & liver transplant surgeon, and Dr Rajkumar, liver transplant anaesthetist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daughter-gives-part-of-her-liver-to-father-for-transplant/article37929676.ece
11 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man injured in acid attack||A 58-year-old man suffered burns after acid was allegedly thrown on him by a person near Clock Tower area at Bheemunipatnam in Visakhapatnam on Friday. According to reports, M.V. Seshagiri Rao alias Giri, a document writer, was allegedly attacked by person with acid at around 1.15 p.m. He reportedly received injuries on his face, hands and other parts of the body. He was immediately shifted to a private hospital, where is undergoing treatment. Mr Seshagiri Rao is said to be out of danger, the police said. In his statement to police, Mr. Seshagiri Rao said that one P. Appanna had attacked him with acid. The police suspect land disputes to be the reason for the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-injured-in-acid-attack/article37930156.ece
11 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘People who rescue accident victims will be rewarded’||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has instructed the Transport Department and the police officials to create awareness among people that those who save the lives of road accident victims by transporting them to a hospital within the 'golden hour' after the accident will receive a financial reward of Rs. 5,000 and appreciation certificate. He organised a road safety meeting here on Friday in which he said that the concept was introduced in October. Speaking during the programme, Mr. Mallikarjuna said that there would not be any police inquiry after saving a road accident victim. He said that the Police Department along with the Health Department should create awareness on this. Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam said that people can leave their details either with the police or hospital managements after rescuing a road accident victim. The road safety committee will take those details and present cash prize, award/certificate, he said. ADCP (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-who-save-accident-victims-will-be-rewarded/article37930157.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Going local||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/going-local/article37930178.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rock perch||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rock-perch/article37930201.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fruits of labour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fruits-of-labour/article37930159.ece
11 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IIT-H’s ‘go-to’ website for COVID info||Students and faculty of the Indian Institute of Hyderabad (IIT-H) have created a single consolidated ‘go-to’ website for relevant information on the pandemic called ‘covid19tracker.in’. This replaces the earlier popular website ‘covid19india.org’, and has already served over 18 million requests from a quarter million visitors over the last 30 days. The IIT-H decided to create and operate this new website after the creators of the highly popular ‘covid19india.org’ decided not to continue with the website operations from October 31, according to director of IIT-H Prof. B.S. Murty. He said that the institute has taken it upon itself to ensure that the data flowed seamlessly after the original creators decided to move away. “Knowing how crucial this information is to Indians of all hues (researchers, students, and the public), we authorised a team of developers to carry on work beyond November 1,” he said. Prof. Murthy said that Indians can count on this IIT-Hyderabad-created website to provide uninterrupted and up-to-date data on all aspects of the pandemic. In fact, the site has attracted considerable traffic despite having been created so recently. The Worldometers website for India uses just two sources for updating its information, ‘covid19tracker.in’ and that of MoHFW. Prof. Bheemarjuna Reddy Tamma, Prof. Vidyasagar and their team are the force behind it and they said that this website goes beyond the original website by including predictions for COVID, generated by the SUTRA Consortium of which IIT-H is a member. “Most recently, we have included the projections for the post-Omicron scenario. In future, we plan to enhance the website by including a search feature to highlight trends and raise alerts as and when required,” Prof. Reddy said. The data is being sourced mainly from State bulletins, official social handles, www.cowin.gov.in website, and www.mohfw.gov.in website while updating case numbers, vaccination doses administered, and number of tests conducted, among others. The website has been hosted on a public cloud platform to make it highly scalable and responsive even when web traffic shoots up. If any person has access to any data sources related to COVID or wishes to provide any feedback on the new website and APIs provided, they can write to ‘covid.tracker@iith.ac.in’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iit-hs-go-to-covid-website/article37929946.ece
11 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SHRC joins colleges to celebrate Human Rights Day||Ninety-eight per cent of people are still not aware of their rights. Spreading legal literacy as the objective, through students and the wider legal fraternity, ‘Access to justice on wheels’ was mooted, G. Vinod Kumar, dean, Faculty of Law, Osmania University, said. As part of the initiative, the department, drawing students from several law colleges in the State, conducted awareness programmes from November 26, Constitution Day, to December 10, Human Rights Day, he said, presiding over the International Human Rights Day celebrations on Friday. Attended by students of five law colleges, its faculties, retired and serving judges, the programme jointly organised by the State Human Rights Commission discussed ‘access to justice for all’. ‘Access to justice on wheels’ is simply to reach out to the masses through a two-wheeler, four-wheeler or even a bicycle, and to educate them about their rights. According to former Andhra Pradesh High Court judge G. Yathirajulu, who shared examples and experiences from his long career, law students should visit villages to understand the amount of injustice being practised and to make them aware about their legal rights and the procedure to access justice. “Discrimination through two-cup system at tea stalls and removing footwear around the village headman’s house is still being practised. And sweepers and cleaners are not even considered human beings,” he said, advising students to have first-hand learning of justice and injustices in villages. ‘Giving back to society’ For Chairman of State Human Rights Commission, Justice G. Chandraiah, it was first that the Commission along with students and the legal body came together to celebrate the day, and also in giving back to society through initiatives such as ‘Access to justice on wheels’. He congratulated the faculty and students for energising the programme and understanding the conceptions of human rights. Vice Chancellor D. Ravinder, Sr. Civil Judge and Secretary DLSA K. Murali Mohan, Head of Department of Law (OU) N. Venkateshwarlu and others participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shrc-celebrates-human-rights-day/article37929963.ece
11 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cement retail prices drop||Last one week has seen a drop of Rs. 40 to Rs. 50 per 50 kg bag of cement across all brands in retail market owing to lower demand. While the dealers themselves were not sure why the demand fell, the cement companies expressed concern that the cost pressure on them mounted due to escalating coal and fuel prices. According to Mr. M. Ravinder Reddy, Director, Bharati Cement, the drop in retail prices might be a temporary phase as the movement of stocks had come to a standstill due to floods in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala last month. As a result, the volume of offtake from plants fell drastically. Telangana was regarded as a surplus State in cement production with over fifty brands of cement manufactured at as many plants finding market in all parts of the country. The average consumption of cement in Hyderabad and surrounding areas was three lakh tonnes per month but the last one month had seen demanding going down to two lakh tonnes. A dealer V. Suresh said the retailers were unable to identify reasons for slump in demand but one of them could be indifference of individuals constructing houses. They apparently waited for prices of ancillary construction material like steel and sand to come down. As the demand was not picking up, Mr. Suresh said they too slashed prices though there was no difference in their purchase price. The dealers vied with each other in reducing prices after the trend set in. Mr. Suresh expected a course correction in prices next month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cement-retail-prices-drop/article37929965.ece
11 December 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||Farmer commits suicide in Medak||Karnam Ravikumar (45), a farmer, committed suicide by consuming pesticide late on Thursday night. The incident took place at Boguda Bhupathipur village in Haveli Ghanpur mandal of Medak district on Friday morning. Police reportedly seized a letter written by him addressing Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. “Dear KCR Sir, you have asked us to go for fine variety during rainy season. Not only yield was less but also there was no support price. My field was with full of water and how can I pay to land owner? I can cultivate only paddy and nothing else in field. My father is not getting pension though he was 67 years old,” said Ravi Kumar in the letter purportedly written by him to the Chief Minister. It was stated that his son has some health problem and he needs about five injections every month, each costing about Rs. 5,000. Some neighbouring farmers told a news channel that Ravikumar was having about Rs. 10 lakh debt and, unable to come out of the debt, took the extreme step. Medak (Rural) police registered a case and are investigating. Body was handed over to family members after postmortem. MLA M. Padma Devender Reddy visited Boguda Bhupatipur and consoled the family of Ravikumar. Dharna planned Demanding compensation to the families of farmers who had committed suicide, a day-long dharna would be held at Dharna Chowk near Indira Park on December 16 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The programme would be organised by Rytu Swarajya Vedika. According to B. Kondal Reddy and V. Kiran Kumar, about 7,000 farmers had committed suicide in the last seven years in Telangana. Though the State government should Rs. 5 lakh to the family of farmers and Rs. 1 lakh as one time settlement to repay the pending loans, the government had paid to only 1,500 families in the state so far. “The families of farmers who had committed suicide will participate in the agitation. We wish that all sections of society should extend support to them,” they said in statement on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmer-commits-suicide-in-medak-writes-to-cm/article37929966.ece
11 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||AP CID raids former IAS officer’s house||The Crime Investigation Department of Andhra Pradesh police launched pre-dawn searches on Friday at the Jubilee Hills residence of the then director of AP State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) and retired IAS officer K. Lakshminarayana. Dr. Lakshminarayana and 25 others, including the then special secretary (Skill Development, Entrepreneurship and Innovation Department) Ghanta Subba Rao, were accused of alleged diversion of funds of Rs. 241.78 crore by Designtech and Siemens Projects through various shell companies. Dr. Lakshminarayana was a key official in Andhra Pradesh former Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu’s office. Following a complaint lodged by the current chairman of APSSDC K Ajay Reddy, the CID started an enquiry in July and registered a case on December 9 under Sections 166, 167, 418, 420, 465, 468, 471, 409, 201, 109 r/w 120 (B) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 13 (2) r/w 13(1)(c) and (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act. Around 2.45 a.m. the CID team led by the inspector (Economic Offence Wing-II) G.V.V. Satyanarayana reached Dr. Lakshminarayana's house with a search warrant, but the latter and his family members tried to prevent the officers from entering the house. However, after a few hours, the team with the support o Jubilee Hills police started the searches for ‘incriminating documents, valuable securities and other material objects’ pertaining to the case. Upon receiving the information about the searches, the managing director of a vernacular media house and a close confidant of Mr. Chandrababu Naidu reached Dr. Lakshminarayana’s house with his video journalists and stayed there for more than four hours. After the media tycoon left the house, around 4.30 p.m. the former bureaucrat fainted reportedly due to a sudden drop in blood sugar levels and was rushed to a corporate hospital at Banjara Hills for immediate medical assistance. During their searches which came to an end around 6 p.m., the CID recovered and seized several incriminating materials, including electronic devices. Later, a summon notice was issued and the former IAS officer was asked to appear at their Mangalagiri office on December 13 for questioning. Meanwhile, family members of Dr.Lakshminarayana accused the CID team of planting the documents in their house and later showing the same as seized material.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ap-cid-raids-former-ias-officers-house/article37929969.ece
11 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Purchase SCCL’s 49% stake from Centre’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy demanded that the Telangana government purchase 49% stake held by the Centre to stop the privatisation of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL). Extending full support to the employees striking against the Centre’s decision to privatise four coal fields, he demanded the government to clear Rs. 13,000 crore of its dues to the SCCL. Mr. Reddy in a statement here said that SCCL had been serving the country for the last 132 years and it was the first public sector undertaking in the country with the State and Central Governments having a share of 51% and 49% respectively. It had generated revenues of thousands of crores in the form of cess and dividend for both the governments. Despite the SCCL being the jewel of the country the Central government was proposing to privatise four coal blocks - Kalyan Khani block-6, Koyagudem block-3, Sathupalli block-3 and Shravanapalli, belonging to the SCCL. The Congress chief alleged that the TRS government was equally responsible for the decision and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao cannot wash his hands of it by just writing to the Centre despite the State holding majority stake. The TRS MPs did not utter a single word about SCCL privatisation during the ongoing winter session of Parliament, he said. Mr. Reddy said the livelihood of nearly one lakh families, including those of 75,000 SCCL employees, will be at stake and privatisation will end the job opportunities for the poor in the region. He also alleged that the BJP government failed to explore the huge coal reserves in the country to increase production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/buy-sccls-49-stake-from-centre-revanth/article37929971.ece
11 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ISO certification for Apollo TeleHealth||Apollo TeleHealth (ATH), on Friday, obtained world class quality certification of ISO 13131:2021 presented by the British Standards Institution (BSI) providing focus on quality and risk management methods required for remote healthcare services. While the ISO certification offers recommendations on standards that can be used to help in the development of telehealth services, the responsibility for developing appropriate guidelines for each health service remains with each organisation, said a release. “It is vital we employ strict processes to ensure quality in delivery of telehealth services. This certification recognises our industry leadership in developing and deploying user-friendly technological solutions and the high standard for medical services across our platform,” said founder-chairman, Apollo Hospitals, Dr. Prathap C. Reddy. “The process of providing healthcare to suburban and rural areas by adopting information and communication technology through the telemedicine platform started in 1999 itself. After more than two decades, ATH is the largest multi-specialty telemedicine network with more than 13 million lives touched having over 800 public health centres, about 100 franchised tele-clinics and point of presence through 3.5 lakh common service centres,” said Joint Managing Director Sangita Reddy. ATH CEO Vikram Thaploo said that COVID crisis has made telemedicine mainstream and the company is geared to meet the challenge by providing tele-consultations to thousands of patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iso-tag-for-apollo-telehealth/article37929941.ece
11 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Workshop on defence and aerospace||Young entrepreneurs are not only contributing to the deepening defence ties between the US and India but also honing business skills that will foster economic growth and vitality in both countries, said US Consul General in Hyderabad Joel Reifman. Addressing a group of entrepreneurs at a workshop on defence and aerospace on Friday, he said that it was interesting to see that nearly half the start-ups displayed were led by women and the vast majority are either based in or founded by someone from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh or Odisha. That’s an outstanding accomplishment. Mr. Reifman was joined by IT principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan, William Blair of Lockheed Martin, S.G.K. Kishore of GMR, and Erik Azulay of the Alliance for Commercialisation and Innovation Research (ACIR). The workshop is designed to support ambitious and innovative entrepreneurs by empowering them to transform their business venture into a sustainable enterprise and connect with leading American and Indian corporations in defence and aerospace sectors. Mr. Azulay said they were partnering with top US leaders in India to integrate innovative start-ups into their supply chains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/workshop-on-defence-and-aerospace/article37929948.ece
11 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NMDC sponsors nursing students||A total of 80 tribal girl students sponsored under public sector mining major NMDC’s Balika Shiksha Yojana received their General Nursing and Midwifery (GNM) and B.Sc (Nursing) certificates at the convocation ceremony organised here on Friday. The scheme, to sponsor poor tribal girl students from Bastar division of Chhattisgarh pursue a nursing course at the Apollo Institute of Nursing in Hyderabad, is being implemented since 2011-12. Congratulating the students who got certificates, CMD Sumit Deb said, “I hope these young women go on to become agents of change in their communities, like their seniors.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nmdc-sponsors-nursing-students/article37930207.ece
11 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man kills wife, walks to police with severed head||Suspecting wife’s fidelity, a worker at a petrol pump murdered her and later walked into Rajendra Nagar police station with her severed head in the late hours of Thursday night. The accused, Parvez, who was addicted to alcohol, killed Shameem Begum by slitting her throat. Soon after killing her around 2 a.m. on Friday, Parvez severed the head, wrapped it in a towel, and straight away went to the police station and surrendered before the cops. Parvaz from Imad Nagar in MM Pahadi got married to Begum 14 years ago and the couple had three children. Unable to bear his drunken harassment, a few years ago Begum started living separately and a case of domestic violence was also registered against Parvez in 2016. However, the case got settled a year ago, after Parvez convinced her to return to him in the presence of family elders, police said. They said that on Thursday night, the accused under the influence of alcohol, picked up a quarrel with his wife suspecting her fidelity. “After she fell asleep, he slit her throat with a knife and later severed her head,” police said. A murder case was registered against the accused, and the dismembered head and the torso of Begum were shifted to Osmania General Hospital for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-kills-wife-walks-to-police-with-severed-head/article37929955.ece
11 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Dalit, adivasi women still fight for right to life’||Even as the society is advancing and its several sections are chasing dreams, life for Dalit and Adivasi women still remains a struggle, leaders of Dalit Stree Shakti said on Friday. Concluding ‘16 days of activism against gender-based violence’, the United Nations annual campaign between November 25, Day for elimination of violence against women and December 10, Human Rights Day, members of DSS and several participants held a meeting along with 30 female victims of violence. Our campaign involves increasing awareness and reaching out to women,” convenor G. Jhansi said on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dalit-adivasi-women-still-fight-for-right-to-life/article37930211.ece
11 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Nampally Serai won’t be demolished’||Reacting to reports in these columns, Municipal Administration and Urban Development special chief secretary Arvind Kumar has clarified that the heritage structure of Nampally Serai would not be demolished as the government goes ahead with its plan to create a transit dorm for women at the site. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation issued a statement that the heritage building of the Nampally Serai would not be touched and a 10-metre set back will be maintained. The GHMC officials carried out soil sample tests at the serai and the rear portion of the building where the Entomology wing and Birth and Death Registration Departments function. Stilt plus five-floor building with 53 rooms with 187 beds capacity will be built by dismantling the old building/office rooms behind the serai at a cost of Rs. 11 crore with Central and State funding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nampally-serai-wont-be-demolished/article37929957.ece
11 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Urdu journalist passes away||Well-known journalist and social activist Syed Vicaruddin passed away on Thursday night at a city hospital, according to family sources. He was 82. He was editor of Rahnuma-e-Deccan, a 100-year-old Urdu newspaper from the city, as well as chairman of the Indo-Arab League Hyderabad. The funeral prayers were read at the Makka Masjid and he was laid to rest at the graveyard near Moosa Qadri Dargah in Hussaini Alam on Friday afternoon. Vicaruddin played a key role in improving ties with countries in the Middle-East and wrote about his meetings with leaders of the countries. Vicaruddin’s father Syed Yusufuddin Qadri was co-founder of what was initially called Rahbar-e-Deccan which later became Rahnuma-e-Deccan. The family traces the lineage to Ghulam Ali of Mysore who was a close aide of Tipu Sultan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/urdu-journalist-passes-away/article37929974.ece
11 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Roads not closed in SCB since 2018’||The Ministry of Defence has said that no road was closed in the Secunderabad Cantonment Board area by the Local Military Authority after September 4, 2018 when the Ministry of Defence gave clear instructions not to close any roads. The information was given in the Lok Sabha today by Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhat on a question raised by Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy on the closure of roads in the Cantonment Board area and the problems being faced by people. The Minister, however, said that two roads which were closed earlier continue to be closed based on a High Court direction in 2014. The court said that LMA at Secunderabad can close a road under their management for security reasons. However, the manner of closing any road, if so required, is contained in MoD guidelines of 2018. The Minister said that the number of representations against road closure in Secunderabad were considered earlier by the Ministry, and accordingly guidelines on road were issued on September 4, 2018. Few representations continue to be received thereafter, which are dealt on case to case basis, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/roads-not-closed-in-scb-since-2018-mos-reply-in-lok-sabha/article37929952.ece
11 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MIDHANI to organise expo from Dec. 13||Mishra Dhatu Nigam Limited (MIDHANI), a defence public sector unit, will organise an exhibition of its products for public as part of celebrations for 75 years of Independence “Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav” from December 13-19. The exhibition will display the firm’s capabilities and products developed for various strategic programmes like defence, space and energy sector, including innovations in R&D, manufacturing processes, raw materials, advancements in specials steel, titanium alloys and super alloys. Bullet proof jackets, vests, helmets, shields, composite armour set for mine protected vehicle, bomb shells, carbon fibre, 3D powders, high pressure engine disc, titanium valves, filters, and castings for space, will be on display. Experts in metallurgy and material science will explain the latest advancements in the field of materials from raw materials to finished products to components to its final place in the platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/midhani-to-organise-expo-from-dec-13/article37929942.ece
11 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Newly-wed man kills wife||A 20-year-old newly married woman was killed by her husband at their residence in Kukatpally. Police said that the victim, Bhavani alias Punyavathi, got married to B. Santosh, 28, in May and the couple started to live in a rented house in the area. Lately, Santosh, who was addicted to alcohol, started suspecting her and started harassing her physically and mentally, and did not allow Bhavani to speak with anyone, even her parents. On Thursday night too he picked up a quarrel with Bhavani and throttled her to death, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/newly-wed-man-kills-wife/article37930210.ece
11 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Take up SNDP in mission mode: CS||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar directed the Municipal Administration authorities to take up the works pertaining to Strategic Nala Development Plan (SNDP) within ORR on a mission mode. Addressing a review meeting with MA & UD, GHMC officials here on Friday, Mr.Somesh Kumar said he will personally monitor the progress of works on weekly basis. The chief secretary said he would conduct field inspections every week on important nalas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/take-up-sndp-in-mission-mode-cs/article37929958.ece
11 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||3D classrooms for pharmacy students||The first 3D classroom lessons for pharmacy students were presented by G. Pulla Reddy College of Pharmacy by the Infoplus Technologies UK Private Ltd., London. Students and faculty were exposed to this new way of teaching that would be of immense help to understand the medical aspects easily and in real time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3d-classrooms-for-pharmacy-students/article37929953.ece
11 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Webinar on vegetable farming||East-West Seed India, the Federation of Indian Chambers and Commerce (FICCI), in partnership with the Embassy of Netherlands, hosted a webinar on the topic 'Better nutrition for All,' by Tarun Vij, the Country Director of Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN). The series of six webinars is on vegetable farming, said general manager East-West Seed G C Shivakumar in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/webinar-on-vegetable-farming/article37929967.ece
11 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four Sudanese held for smuggling gold (with photo)||Four Sudan nationals were detained by Customs officials at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad on Friday, for trying to smuggle 7.3 kg of gold bars and gold in paste form concealed in their rectum. The accused passengers, two men and two women, arrived at RGIA from Dubai by Air India flight No. AI 952. During customs check, the passengers were found to have gold bars and gold in paste form concealed in their rectum. The value of the yellow metal tht was seized was approximately Rs. 3.6 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/4-sudanese-held-for-smuggling/article37929970.ece
11 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||VH urges AP CM to provide job to wife of soldier||Senior Congress leader V. Hanmantha Rao has urged AP Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy to provide a Gazetted officer job to the wife of soldier B. Sai Teja, who was killed in the aircrash along with the Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat. Mr. Hanmanth Rao, who consoled the wife of the departed soldier and family members said it was a pride for the Telugu people that the soldier was chosen to protect the top military official of the country. He said the government should also provide compensation of Rs. 1crore to the family as the soldier’s kids were small. He said the AP Minister from Chittoor, Peddireddy Ramchandra Reddy too should provide compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vh-urges-ap-cm-to-provide-job-to-wife-of-soldier/article37929973.ece
11 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Gita Jayanti celebrations||Heartfulness Institute (www.heartfulness.org) will organise Gita Jayanti celebrations virtually with former diplomat-author & ex-MP Pavan K Varma joining the discussion. A book titled Tales from the Vedas and Upanishads retold by Daaji will be released on December 12. Register for free onhttps://hfn.link/gitajayanti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gita-jayanti-celebrations/article37929961.ece
11 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Manthan talk tomorrow||Bangladesh freedom-fighter and editor Mahfuz Anam will speak on ‘Bangladesh at 50: Caught in Democracy - Development Dilemma’ in a programme organised by Manthan on Dec.12, 10.30 a.m. Log onto:http://vid.manthanindia.com /5b7b8b.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/manthan-talk-tomorrow/article37929954.ece
11 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||MLC election: KTR casts vote at Sircilla||Karimnagar Local Authorities Constituency (LAC) recorded a voter turnout of 99.70% in the biennial election to the Telangana Legislative Council’s two seats held on Friday. Of the total 1324 eligible voters, as many as 1320 voters exercised their franchise at eight polling stations in Karimnagar, Huzurabad, Jagtial, Korutla, Peddapalli, Manthani, Sircilla and Husnabad in Friday’s election. Minister for Industries and Information Technology K T Rama Rao and Vemulawada MLA Ch Ramesh cast their votes as ex-officio members at the polling station in Sircilla of Rajanna-Sircilla district. Civil Supplies Minister G Kamalakar and other ex-officio members exercised their franchise at the polling station in the Zilla Parishad office in Karimnagar. Several elected representatives of the local bodies belonging to the TRS, who returned from more than a weeklong camp in Karnataka on Thursday night, arrived at the polling station here on Friday morning in a special bus arranged by the party’s MLC election in-charges. They cast their votes at the polling station in the ZP office. Collector R V Karnan along with the MLC election general observer Vijay Kumar and Karimnagar Police Commissioner V Satyanarayana oversaw the smooth conduct of election in compliance with the COVID-19 safety norms at the polling station in Karimnagar. In the composite Khammam district, 96.09 % voter turnout was recorded in the biennial election to the State Legislative Council’s one MLC seat from the Khammam Local Authorities Constituency (LAC). As against the total electors of 768, as many as 738 voters cast their ballots at four polling stations in Khammam, Kalluru, Kothagudem and Bhadrachalam. Khammam MP Nama Nageswara Rao, Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar, Palair MLA K Upender Reddy and other ex-officio members exercised their right to vote. Adilabad LAC saw a r turnout of 91.78% in the MLC election. Of the total 937 voters, as many as 860 electors cast their votes at eight polling stations set up one each in Adilabad, Utnoor, Mancherial, Bellampally, Nirmal, Bhainsa, Asifabad and Kagaznagar. Earlier in the day, CEO Shashank Goel visited the polling station at ZP office in Mancherial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-casts-vote-at-sircilla/article37929975.ece
11 December 2021||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||Coal production affected for second day in a row||Coal production remained paralysed across the underground coal mines and the opencast projects (OCPs) of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) as the 72-hour strike by the workers of the State-owned coal company entered the second day on Friday. The second-day strike saw an overwhelming number of workers, except for the essential staff, abstaining from duties for the second day in a row in pursuit of their charter of demands mainly removal of the four coal blocks in the state from the Union Coal Ministry’s auction list and allocation of the four coal blocks to the Singareni Collieries Company Limited. Sources said that as many as 23,425 workers participated in the strike and only 3492 workers tasked with essential services attended duties during the first shift in the 11 areas of the company across six districts on Friday. The 72-hour strike called by the Joint Action Committee of the five central trade unions and the TBGKS against the Centre’s decision to auction four coal blocks for commercial mining brought the coal production to a grinding halt, resulting in an estimated production loss of a little over 3.50 lakh tonnes since Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/coal-production-affected-for-second-day-in-a-row/article37929977.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Lakshya’ movie review: A predictable sports drama||In sports dramas, the primary character is driven by a strong goal and we tend to root for the underdog. In Lakshya , the theme is refreshingly different, as it is centred around archery, a sport rarely explored in Telugu cinema. Protagonist Pardhu (Naga Shaurya)’s father has an unrealised dream of winning a big archery game. After his death, Pardhu’s grandfather (Sachin Khedekar) supports Pardhu to train in archery and represent the country. However, there is a hitch. In crucial matches, Pardhu can hit the bull’s eye only if his grandfather is present; his presence gives Pardhu the confidence to win matches. When the prodigy is unable to raise finances to buy archery equipment, predictably his grandfather ignores his heart ailment and diverts money meant for his surgery to buy it. Pardhu goes on to win championships. Later another sentiment comes into play and works for him. His girlfriend Hrithika (Ketika Sharma) says that if she is pampered by Pardhu, he is sure to get what he wants in life. True to that, from a seemingly impossible situation, he suddenly finds himself in the list of players qualified for the national championship. When his grandfather passes away, a grief-striken Pardhu turns to drugs as a trusted friend turns foe. Disqualified and disgraced, the hero disappears for a while. Then suddenly, he reappears.  (For full version, log on to www.hindu.com)   Lakshya Cast: Naga Shaurya, Ketika Sharma, Jagapati Babu Direction: Santossh Jagarlapudi Music: Kaala Bhairava||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lakshya-movie-review-a-predictable-sports-drama/article37929951.ece
11 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||IPS officer facing illegal gratification charges in a theft case suspended||Facing charges of illegal gratification in a Rs. 30-crore theft case, a senior IPS officer posted in Rohtak was placed under suspension by the Haryana Government on Friday. The Special Task Force (STF) investigating the matter said the officer was absconding. Dheeraj Kumar, IPS, Commandant of 3rd Indian Reserve Battalion in Sunaria, was placed under suspension, said an order by Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Arora. Mr. Kumar has been facing charges under the Prevention of Corruption Act for allegedly accepting kickbacks in a theft case registered at Gurugram’s Kherki Daula police station on August 21. The case pertains to theft of cash from the office of a private firm in Sector 84. “He was booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act almost two weeks ago. A couple of notices were served to him to join the investigation, but he did not turn up. He is absconding,” said Sateesh Balan, Deputy Inspector General of Police, STF. Mr. Balan said the officer had allegedly received illegal gratification. “Though he returned a major portion of the bribe back, he kept a few dollars. This is the allegation. We have to verify it,” said Mr. Balan. 10 arrested Around ten people, including two doctors and a Delhi Police ASI, have been arrested in the case. The doctors, the alleged masterminds, reportedly told the police that they paid around Rs. 3 crore and gold to the IPS officer, but he kept only Rs. 20 lakh and returned the remaining money and gold. Mr. Kumar was posted as DCP (South) in Gurugram and had additional charges of Crime Branch when the crime took place. He was then transferred to Kurukshetra as Superintendent of Police before his current posting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ips-officer-facing-illegal-gratification-charges-in-a-theft-case-suspended/article37929828.ece
11 December 2021||Gurugram,||Over 20 detained for staging stir||More than 20 people were detained for staging a protest against the laying of a foundation stone for waste-to-energy plant by Chief Minister Manohar Lal at a programme in Sector 14 here on Friday. “People had gathered outside the Vyapar Bhawan to stage protest. But they did not have prior permission. Also, they violated COVID-appropriate behaviour. They were briefly detained and later let off,” said Deepak Saharan, DCP (West). Several citizen groups have been opposing the proposed WTE plant at Bandhwari landfill site, arguing that it would lead to increased pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-20-detained-for-staging-stir/article37929829.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||Crackdown on tandoors singes vendors||The crackdown by municipal corporations on coal-based clay ovens (tandoors) in the city, as part of their measures to curb air pollution, has left small-scale food vendors unhappy but the move is in sync with the findings of experts who say “tandoors contribute heavily” towards local emissions. “As per my calculations, 1 kg of coal used in a tandoor emits equivalent particulate matter as 300 BS IV diesel vehicles running for 1 km,” said Polash Mukerjee, head  for air pollution at the India Programme of the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental advocacy group. Need for cleaner fuels Mr. Mukerjee added that coal or wood-fuelled tandoors represent a significant part of area emissions and need to transition to cleaner fuels, especially in densely populated areas with poor ventilation. A senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation official said after the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) eliminated the use of coal and firewood for clay ovens in 2018, a total of “95%” of eateries under the civic body switched to either gas-based or a wood charcoal-based tandoors. The SDMC said a total of 208 tandoors have been dismantled by the civic body over the last two months while “152 conversions” to LPG-based alternative have been “ensured” as part of its pollution prevention plan. However, for more than one and a half years, Sunita Trikha’s LPG-based tandoor has been lying unused at her roadside dhaba in the Jor Bagh area after the 62-year-old parted ways with her traditional coal-based clay oven during the pandemic. “We used to have a coal-based tandoor. About two years ago, (civic) officers came and said we will have to pay a fine of Rs. 20,000. We said we can’t pay that much. They asked us to switch quickly to LPG and we did so. But since the pandemic, we get fewer customers and heating the tandoor for only a handful of customers is not economically viable. So, we have closed it,” she said, pointing to the dust covered tandoor lying in a corner of the dhaba. Ms. Trikha is one among the many small-scale food vendors who complained that the LPG-based alternative has resulted in an increase in cost “which is not feasible”. Another dhaba owner from East of Kailash said he was doubtful on whether the restrictions on using a traditional tandoor would help cut down air pollution levels. Pocket pinch “After the use of coal and firewood was eliminated, we were left with compressed natural gas (CNG), wood charcoal and LPG as the alternative fuel source for our tandoors. A 19 kg LPG cylinder for commercial use costs Rs. 2,100 and it does not power the tandoor for even a day. Coal costs close to Rs. 1,000 and it lasts much longer and adds to the taste. Using an LPG cylinder is getting expensive because you cannot operate it for long and wood charcoal is cheap but does not last long,” said a dhaba owner based in the city’s Aurobindo Marg area. However, bigger establishments, such as Essex Farms, are content with the shift. Its director Ashish Goyle said the gas-based tandoors “make no difference to the food preparation or the cost” and he was “happy” with the alternative, which they first adopted close to four years ago. “Unlike the bigger establishments, the problem is that the roadside vendors hesitate to convert their tandoor. About 5% of the eateries are still using the traditional tandoor, in secrecy. During winters, we pay extra attention to this because of the weather and the increase in pollution levels. However, the larger goal is to move towards electric tandoors and step away from gas-based options as well to reduce emissions completely,” the senior SDMC official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/crackdown-on-tandoors-singes-vendors/article37929826.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||Court pulls up police after SPPs fail to appear in Delhi riots case||A Delhi court pulled up the police for the “sorry state of affairs” after it noted that no prosecutors were present during the hearing in a Delhi riots case on Wednesday and said that such instances led to cases being adjourned without any proceedings. Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ) Virender Bhatt made the remarks while hearing the murder case of a person named Alok Tiwari, registered at Karawal Nagar police station, in which six persons were accused. The case was at the stage of prosecution evidence. During the hearing, the court was informed by the naib court that he had called up Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad, who stated that he was busy in some matter in the Delhi High Court. Thereafter, he called up another prosecutor but he too expressed his inability to appear in the case, following which another Special Public Prosecutor Madhukar Pandey was contacted. He too did not respond positively. In response to this, the court noted: “This is the state of affairs with regard to these riot cases which are very sensitive in nature and for which this special court was set up. These cases were assigned to a panel of Special Public Prosecutors formed by the police so as to ensure proper and effective prosecution of these cases.” Prolonged incarceration ASJ Bhatt said that it has been noticed that in several cases, the SPPs to whom the cases are assigned do not appear in the court on account of which the cases have to be adjourned without conducting any proceedings. It results in delay of their disposal. The defence counsels also objected to the conduct of the prosecutors. They stated that the matters are being adjourned unnecessarily because of the absence of SPPs “due to which the incarceration of the accused gets prolonged for no fault of theirs’. The court noted that earlier also, it had communicated this to DCP (North-East) Sanjay Kumar Sain, with instructions to take corrective measures. The court directed the copy of the order to be sent to the DCP and asked him to look into the aspect seriously and appoint more SPPs to represent the State in Delhi riots cases. In September, a Delhi court had pulled up the police for its lackadaisical approach in dealing with the Delhi riots cases and directed the Delhi Commissioner of Police to look into the matter.  This is the state of affairs with regard to these riot cases which are very sensitive in nature and for which this special court was set up. These cases were assigned to a panel of SPPs so as to ensure effective prosecution Virender Bhatt Additional Sessions Judge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-pulls-up-police-after-spps-fail-to-appear-in-delhi-riots-case/article37929835.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||Gen. Rawat’s death huge loss for entire country: Kejriwal||Calling him one of the bravest soldiers in the country, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday paid his last respects to General Bipin Rawat at the latter’s residence in Kamraj Marg. After paying floral tributes to him, the Delhi Chief Minister said the General’s death was a huge loss for the entire country. “Paid floral tributes and last respects to CDS Gen. Bipin Rawat Ji. He was a brave son of Bharat Maa. May [the] Almighty bless his soul. I pray to God to give his family [the] strength to recover from the huge loss. Om Shanti (Sic.),” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted. The Delhi Congress paid tributes to General Rawat at the DPCC office, Rajiv Bhawan. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar visited Gen. Rawat’s residence to pay his last respects. Mr. Kumar urged the Central Government to bestow the Bharat Ratna upon Gen. Rawat for his invaluable service to the country. “Gen. Rawat’s role in strengthening the defence forces and boosting the confidence and morale of the soldiers will be written in golden letters,” Mr. Kumar said.  Paid floral tributes and last respects to CDS Gen. Bipin Rawat Ji. He was a brave son of Bharat Maa. May [the] Almighty bless his soul. Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gen-rawats-death-huge-loss-for-entire-country-kejriwal/article37929834.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||Street vendors protest over pending surveys||The National Association of Street Vendors of Delhi (NASVI) held protests in several parts of the city on Friday over the issues of pending street vendor surveys and discrepancies in the certificates issued to vendors. Richa Sinha, NASVI’s advocacy manager, said the certificate of vending (CoV) issued by Delhi’s three municipal corporations – North, South and East – “does not clearly state the site of vending”. ‘Increased harassment’ “The MCDs went back on their word and said that the CoVs were temporary. There are other problems such as no clear mentioning of the vending category and the vending type that is permitted. This has led to increased harassment of the vendors by authorities as the certificates are unclear,” said Ms. Sinha, adding that the protests were held outside the offices of six Zonal Deputy Commissioners. NASVI, in a press note, said the Town Vending Committee (TVC) — which oversees the survey of street vendors — had not conducted the surveys for Lajpat Nagar, Nehru Place and other areas despite crossing the deadline.  As per the data provided by Delhi Street Hawkers Survey as of December 12, conducted by the Government, 76,301 hawkers have been identified across the city and 61,444 have been approved. The Delhi Government had decided to extend the survey period till December 7 to identify more street vendors after multiple appeals by municipal councillors and street vendors’ associations. Responding to the claims of the vending certificates remaining unclear, a senior civic body official said that a “subsequent TVC” will be constituted “in the coming year after which the site of vending will be identified”. “The BJP-led MCD conducted surveys and issued vending certificates, due to the pressure from the Delhi Government, but they did not allot the site of vending because the certificate exercise was an eyewash,” said South Delhi Municipal Corporation Leader of Opposition Prem Chauhan of the Aam Aadmi Party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/street-vendors-protest-over-pending-surveys/article37929827.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC asks police chief to review courts’ security||The Delhi High Court has directed the Police Commissioner to undertake a periodical review of security arrangements in courts, for deploying adequate personnel and installation of gadgets. The order dated November 24 was released on Friday. The High Court had on September 30 initiated on its own a petition concerning security at courts in the national capital following the September 24 shoot-out at Rohini court. On December 9, a man was injured in a low-intensity explosion that took place inside a courtroom in Rohini district court, raising questions about security arrangements there. A Bench headed by Chief Justice D.N. Patel, in its order passed in matters concerning the security at court complexes, stated that while Delhi police shall be responsible for regular security audit, deployment of adequate personnel, monitoring through CCTV cameras etc., the Delhi Government shall look after the required budget allocation. The Bench, also comprising Justice Jyoti Singh, further directed “round-the-clock monitoring” of court buildings through CCTV cameras having high resolution, adequate storage capacity and the technology to cover large areas, particularly the court lock-ups. Security audit “Commissioner of Police, Delhi, shall constitute a team of experts to undertake the exercise of security audit of Delhi High Court Complex as well as all the District Court Complexes,” the court said in its order. The court ordered that all persons entering court complexes as well as the buildings housing the courtrooms should be checked by the security personnel. It directed the Bar Council of Delhi and the city bar associations to issue non-transferable ID Cards with QR codes or smart chips to all member advocates for securing their entry inside court complexes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-asks-police-chief-to-review-courts-security/article37929820.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC dismisses plea seeking Police Medal for Gallantry||The Delhi High Court has said that no person has a legal right to any award or medal and dismissed a CRPF personnel’s petition seeking Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG) for an encounter with Maoists. A Bench headed by Justice Manmohan stated that the court does not confer gallantry awards on persons and held that since the petitioner’s name for award was considered and declined by the CRPF at the highest level, there was no merit in the petition. The Bench, also comprising Justice Navin Chawla, clarified that its power was limited to examining the decision-making process and said that there was no illegality in the process in the present case. “The petitioner has only a right for consideration of his name for the PMG award but he has no legal right to an award/medal. Further this court in writ jurisdiction does not confer a gallantry award but it examines only the decision-making process and at the highest can only direct the respondents to consider the petitioner’s request for an award,” the court said in its order passed on December 8. ‘No illegality’ “In the present instance, the petitioner’s name for PMG had been considered and declined by the CRPF at the highest level. Accordingly, this court does not find any illegality in the decision-making process by the respondents,” it added. The petitioner challenged the authorities’ decision denying the award to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-police-medal-for-gallantry/article37929821.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||41 new COVID cases reported in the city||The city reported no new COVID-19-related deaths over 24 hours and the toll stood at 25,100, according to a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Friday. Forty-one new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 14,41,610. A total of 59,763 tests — 53,174 RT-PCR and 6,589 rapid antigen tests — were conducted in a day and the test positivity rate was 0.07%, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 14,16,140 people have recovered and there are 370 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/41-new-covid-cases-reported-in-the-city/article37929830.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||2 held for credit card fraud in Delhi||The police arrested two men who allegedly duped people on the pretext of increasing their credit card limit, an officer said on Friday. Anant alias Aman, 23, a resident of Uttam Nagar, and Rahul 22, a resident of Najafgarh, allegedly impersonated bank representatives to con people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/2-held-for-credit-card-fraud-in-delhi/article37929818.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air quality recorded in 'very poor' category||The city recorded “very poor” air quality on Friday with the AQI at 314 at 4 p.m., officials said. Shallow fog has been forecast for the coming days and Saturday's maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 23 and 9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhis-air-quality-recorded-in-very-poor-category/article37929823.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||Police busts gambling racket, arrests 16||The Delhi police on Friday said they have arrested 16 people involved in a gambling racket from South Extension. They recovered 1,000 playing chips, 37 playing bricks and stake money to the tune of Rs. 1,95,000. DCP (South) Benita Mary Jaiker said they received a tip-off and conducted a raid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-busts-gambling-racket-arrests-16/article37929824.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Lame driving||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/lame-driving/article37929832.ece
11 December 2021||HONG KONG,||China claims it’s the ‘largest democracy’||As U.S. President Joe Biden on Friday hosted world leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on the second day of a democracy summit, China’s government capped a week-long campaign criticising liberal democratic systems by attacking America’s “democratic malaise”. China’s Foreign Ministry on Friday said democracy was “a common value of humanity instead of a geostrategic tool” and the summit this week was aimed at “defending U.S. hegemony, which is out-and-out anti-democratic”. “The self-styled ‘beacon of democracy,’” spokesperson Wang Wenbin said, “has evident democratic malaise and huge democratic deficits.” In the lead-up to the summit, China’s government and official media launched a two-pronged campaign: showcasing the strengths of China’s political system while pointing out the deficiencies of democratic systems. The Chinese government, a week ahead of the summit, put out a white paper on democracy that made the rather stunning claim that one-party ruled China hosted the world’s largest electoral democratic process. “In 2016 and 2017, more than 900 million voters participated in elections to people’s congresses at the township and county-levels — the world’s largest direct elections,” the white paper said. It did not, however, mention that the congresses, both at lower levels and at the national level, are largely rubber-stamp bodies that rarely question Communist Party policies, or that what are called “one-candidate elections”, including for the post of President and Premier, are not uncommon. Foreign models While defending the Communist Party’s governance as “democratic”, the paper also warned of the dangers of countries adopting foreign political models. “Blindly copying other models of democracy is a problematic endeavour — it risks creating cultural conflict, political volatility or even social turmoil and causing great pain to its people,” the paper said. To make that case, China’s official media routinely point to India’s political system being “chaotic” or “inefficient” to justify why large developing countries are better off following China’s authoritarian model. This week, official English-language broadcaster China Global Television Network published a commentary headlined “Women's status in China and India: Who has human rights and democracy?”, authored by a foreign scholar at Beijing’s Renmin University. “Biden's summit may try to argue that India's system embodies democracy and human rights, and China's does not. But that purely verbal claim will not alter the fact that the life and real rights of a Chinese woman are far superior to those of an Indian woman,” the commentary said, adding that “it is only necessary to look at the contrast in the lives of one-fifth of humanity, Chinese and Indian women, to see that China has delivered ‘the people rule’ on a gigantic scale and infinitely more than the entirely unreal criteria chosen by Biden.” The white paper, titled “Democracy That Works” and published by China’s State Council or Cabinet, said “CPC leadership is the fundamental guarantee” for what it called “whole-process people’s democracy”, adding that “China did not duplicate Western models of democracy, but created its own.” “The best way to evaluate whether a country’s political system is democratic and efficient,” the paper concluded, “is to observe whether the succession of its leaders is orderly and in line with the law”, a reference that left some observers perplexed, considering that Xi Jinping, in 2018, removed term limits, a key part of the system of succession that had enabled, in the past three decades, three smooth transfers of power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-claims-its-the-largest-democracy/article37929372.ece
11 December 2021||Peshawar,||Pakistan Taliban call off ceasefire||The Pakistani Taliban has called off a ceasefire mediated with the help of the Afghan Taliban, accusing the government of violating the terms of the agreed truce. Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) — a separate movement that shares a common history with Afghanistan’s new leaders — plunged the country into a period of horrific violence since 2007. Seven years after the military cracked down on the movement, Islamabad is trying to quell a TTP comeback after the victory of the hardline Islamists across the border. In a statement, the TTP accused security forces of killing some of its fighters and violating a one-month truce that was due to end in early December. “It is not possible to extend the ceasefire in such circumstances,” a spokesman for the TTP said. “Now the Pakistani public should decide who is not abiding by the agreement.” A senior TTP commander based in Afghanistan, a government official and a security official had earlier separately told AFP that both sides had agreed to extend the ceasefire. Up to 100 prisoners had been released as part of the negotiations. Govt. ‘surprised’ “We were surprised with the TTP statement,” the government official said on Friday from Peshawar. “Our members of the negotiating team were assured about the extension on the ceasefire.” Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan announced in October that the government was in talks with the TTP for the first time since 2014, facilitated by the Afghan Taliban, who had seized power in Afghanistan. The talks have angered many within Pakistan, who remember the brutal attacks which killed around 70,000 people, according to successive governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-taliban-call-off-ceasefire/article37929373.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Senate hearing for Garcetti on Tuesday||Five months after he was nominated to the post of U.S. Ambassador to India, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti will get a confirmation hearing with the U.S. Senate. Mr. Garcetti will appear before the Senate Foreign Relations committee on Tuesday, as per the Senate calendar. The hearing, which comes five months after Mr. Garcetti was nominated, has been held up like other Biden nominations, by Republican Senators, notably Ted Cruz, as leverage, to get Mr. Biden to impose sanctions with regard to the Russia-Europe Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline. Mr. Garcetti, who has been Mayor of Los Angeles since 2013, is a former intelligence officer from the U.S. Navy. His term as Mayor ends in December 2022. Legal trouble As part of the confirmation process, the office of the chairman (Democrat) of the Senate committee, Bob Menendez, is looking into a lawsuit against Mr. Garcetti’s former deputy, Rick Jacobs, according to Los Angeles Times . Mr. Garcetti’s former bodyguard, Matthew Garza, has said in a lawsuit that he was harassed by Mr. Jacobs and that Mr. Garcetti , who was aware of some of the behaviour, did not stop it. Mr. Garcetti has denied the allegations. President of the University of Pennsylvania, Amy Gutmann and diplomat Donald Blome, nominees for ambassadorships to Germany and Pakistan respectively, will also appear before the Senate committee on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/senate-hearing-for-garcetti-on-tuesday/article37929370.ece
11 December 2021||London,||Assange’s legal team to appeal court decision, says fiancée||WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange’s legal team would appeal a British appellate court’s decision to allow his extradition to the U.S., his fiancée, Stella Moris said. “How can it be fair, how can it be right, how can it be possible, to extradite Julian to the very country which plotted to kill him?” she said. “We will appeal this decision at the earliest possible moment.” At the Royal Courts of Justice in London, the U.S. won the appeal against a ruling by a London District Judge that Mr. Assange should not be extradited because he was likely to commit suicide in a U.S. prison. Supporters of Mr. Assange gathered outside of the court after the ruling, chanting “free Julian Assange” and “no extradition”. They tied hundreds of yellow ribbons to the court’s gates and held up placards saying “journalism is not a crime”. Judge Timothy Holroyde said the case must now be remitted to Westminster Magistrates’ Court with the direction judges send it to Home Secretary Priti Patel to decide whether or not Mr. Assange should be extradited. Mr. Assange, who denies any wrongdoing, started out as a teenage hacker with the nickname Mendax --a classical Latin word for “liar” --but a few decades later would expose some of the U.S.’s darkest secrets. WikiLeaks came to prominence when it published a U.S. military video in 2010 showing a 2007 attack by Apache helicopters in Baghdad that killed a dozen people, including two Reuters news staff. It then released thousands of secret classified files and diplomatic cables that laid bare often highly critical U.S. appraisals of world leaders from Russian President Vladimir Putin to members of the Saudi royal family. Mr. Assange jumped bail and was offered refuge in 2012 by Ecuador’s then-President Rafael Correa. He spent seven years holed up at the Embassy in London while British police spent millions of dollars watching for any sign that he would emerge. After relations with Ecuador soured, Mr. Assange, with white hair and a long beard, was dragged out by British police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/assanges-legal-team-to-appeal-court-decision-says-fiance/article37929368.ece
11 December 2021||Washington,||U.S. Supreme Court allows challenge to abortion ban||The U.S. Supreme Court on Friday allowed abortion providers to pursue legal challenges to a near-total ban on abortions in Texas, but let the controversial law remain in effect for now. Eight of the nine justices on the conservative-leaning court agreed that lawsuits filed by abortion providers against the Texas law may proceed in federal court. The “Texas Heartbeat Act” bans abortion after six weeks and is the most restrictive law passed in the U.S. since abortion was made a constitutional right five decades ago. Chief Justice John Roberts, in his opinion, said that “given the ongoing chilling effect of the state law, the District Court should resolve this litigation and enter appropriate relief without delay.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-supreme-court-allows-abortion-providers-to-challenge-texas-law/article37929377.ece
11 December 2021||Washington,||After Nicaragua snub, U.S. urges nations to expand Taiwan ties||The U.S. State Department called on “all countries that value democratic institutions” to “expand engagement with Taiwan” in a statement on Thursday after Nicaragua announced it was cutting diplomatic relations with the island in favour of China. The statement said the move by President Daniel Ortega “cannot reflect the will of the Nicaraguan people” due to the the Central American country’s recent presidential election being a “sham.” “This deprives Nicaragua’s people of a steadfast partner in its democratic and economic growth,” the department’s statement said. Nicaragua’s diplomatic switch from Taiwan to China leaves the island with just 14 diplomatic allies but comes as Taipei strengthens ties with multiple unofficial Western friends, including the U.S. At the same time, the U.S. has slammed Nicaragua’s November elections that saw long-time leader Ortega re-elected as illegitimate, slapping sanctions on the federal public prosecutor’s office and nine officials in response. In the months ahead of the November 7 election, Nicaraguan authorities detained nearly 40 Opposition figures, including seven would-be presidential challengers, virtually assuring victory for Mr. Ortega.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/after-nicaragua-snub-us-urges-nations-to-expand-taiwan-ties/article37929378.ece
11 December 2021||Yangon,||Silent protest against junta empties Myanmar streets||Myanmar anti-coup demonstrators staged a “silent strike” on Friday, closing businesses and emptying the streets of cities and towns across the country to protest against military rule. The country has been in turmoil since the February coup, with the economy in tatters and more than 1,300 people killed by security forces, according to a local monitoring group. The streets of downtown Yangon were deserted, with no street vendors and little traffic. The famous Shwedagon pagoda, a Buddhist site usually bustling with visitors and pilgrims, was also quiet. On Monday a junta court jailed ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi for two years for incitement against the military and flouting coronavirus curbs during elections her party won last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/silent-protest-against-junta-empties-myanmar-streets/article37929366.ece
11 December 2021||OSLO,||Nobel Peace Prize winners call for journalist protections||The two journalists who shared this year’s Nobel Peace Prize received their awards on Friday in Oslo, with both warning that the world needs independent journalism to counter authoritarian governments. Maria Ressa of the Philippines and fellow laureate Dmitry Muratov of Russia gave their Nobel lectures at Oslo City Hall. They were chosen for the award for their separate fights for freedom of expression in countries where reporters have faced persistent attacks, harassment and killings. “Yes, we growl and bite. Yes, we have sharp teeth and strong grip,” Mr. Muratov said of journalists. “But we are the prerequisite for progress. We are the antidote against tyranny.” Ms. Ressa, 58, co-founded Rappler, a news website critical of the Philippine government, in 2012. Mr. Muratov, 59, was one of the founders in 1993 of Russian newspaper Novaya Gazeta . Ms. Ressa offered a bleak view of the journalism industry, saying “the era of competition for news is dead.” “We need to help independent journalism survive, first by giving greater protection to journalists and standing up against states which target journalists,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nobel-peace-prize-winners-call-for-journalist-protections/article37929376.ece
11 December 2021||LAGOS,||16 worshippers killed in attack on Nigeria mosque||Miscreants attacked a rural village in northern Nigeria, killing 16 worshippers at a mosque and kidnapping others, said a local official. The assault on Ba’are village in the Mashegu area of Niger State lasted for hours on Thursday, local government chairman Alhassan Isah Mazakuka said. Dozens of the assailants arrived on motorcycles and rampaged through the village, killing people praying at the mosque and looting, he said. “Those people (the gunmen) are dangerous,” he said. “They killed 16 and kidnapped many of our people. We don’t even know the number they kidnapped because they are uncountable.” Nigerian police confirmed the incident but said only nine residents were killed. The police have in the past been accused of downplaying casualty figures in such attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/16-worshippers-killed-in-attack-on-nigeria-mosque/article37929374.ece
11 December 2021||Washington,||US court rejects Trump bid to keep Capitol riot documents secret||A U.S. federal appeals court on Thursday rejected former President Donald Trump’s attempt to prevent the release of White House records relating to the January 6 attack on the Capitol. The appeals court agreed with a lower court ruling that President Joe Biden could waive executive privilege on the records, so that they could be handed over to a Congressional panel investigating the violence by Mr. Trump’s supporters on the fateful day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-court-rejects-trump-bid-to-keep-capitol-riot-documents-secret/article37929380.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Caught in a ‘zero COVID’ dilemma||The first thing that hits travellers landing in Hong Kong’s Chek Lap Kok airport is the emptiness. Hong Kong International Airport (HKG to frequent fliers) used to be among the world’s busiest. It handled 71.5 million passengers in 2019, which is close to 2,00,000 a day. Now, a busy day means 1,500 passengers at most. On a lean day, sometimes only half that number walks through the airport’s doors. When a passenger steps off the plane, they can walk minutes on end without seeing another passenger. The inter-terminal train, packed to capacity in pre-pandemic times, no longer takes passengers to the arrivals hall but to what is possibly one of the world’s largest testing centres. An entire terminal has been transformed into a ‘test and hold’ facility. The departure gates have been converted into massive waiting halls. This is where passengers await their results, with tests processed at an on-site laboratory. HKG may be unrecognisable, but the administrative efficiency for which Hong Kong is famous is not. On arrival, every passenger is whisked into a makeshift tent for a quick nose and throat swab. A series of desks then beckon, where passengers fill in a multitude of forms. Within an hour of landing in Hong Kong, travellers are issued a government-recognised vaccination certificate that lists the date of their doses, the type of vaccine and where they had their shots — all prepared in advance from the online health declaration that every passenger is required to fill before boarding. The certificate comes with a QR code that can be scanned and stored on Hong Kong’s ‘Leave Home Safe’ tracing app, which many Hong Kong venues, from dining establishments to cinema halls, now require for granting entry. Finally, every traveller’s phone number is registered with the health authorities and checked to make sure they can receive test results and other public health alerts. Arrivals are also introduced to Hong Kong’s 24/7 COVID-19 hotline, which usually takes not more than two minutes to respond to any query on WhatsApp, on everything from where to get a test to whether you can open your hotel window in quarantine (the answer is unfortunately a ‘no’, at least in most designated quarantine hotels). Once the forms are filled and Hong Kong’s bureaucratic machinery is satisfied, a surreal sight awaits passengers who are ushered, finally, into a cavernous hall filled with a sea of desks. Travellers, pilots, air crew all sit in perfect silence as though at a massive examination centre. Over a nerve-wracking five-hour wait for their test results, passengers watch anxiously as every few minutes, health personnel in full PPEs appear, march up to numbered desks, quietly ask passengers who presumably tested positive to pack their bags, and then disappear. A positive test means a passenger can neither clear immigration nor claim their checked-in luggage. They are taken away in an ambulance, lights flashing, to a hospital in Lantau Island near Chek Lap Kok, purpose-built for international arrivals. There they have to stay for at least 24 days in hospital, while all close contacts (those they sat next to on the flight) are taken to Penny’s Bay, the government’s biggest quarantine centre, for 21 days of isolation. This centre is also located in Lantau — an island once famous for hosting Hong Kong’s “happiest place on earth”, Disneyland, but now the centre of its massive quarantine programme. Zero COVID, zero tolerance If this elaborate arrival procedure and the vast system that is in place to keep it running seems excessive, it has been key to ensuring Hong Kong’s extraordinary record during the pandemic. Since the COVID-19 outbreak, Hong Kong, a region of 7.5 million people, has recorded only a little over 12,000 infections and 213 deaths. Its ‘zero COVID’ strategy — an approach predicated on maintaining zero local cases by squashing every outbreak with mass testing and quarantine — certainly spared thousands of lives in a densely populated island, where public health experts say a virus left to run amok would have overwhelmed its already stressed health infrastructure. Even passengers who test negative on arrival are issued a quarantine order and taken in a government-operated shuttle to their designated quarantine hotel that has to be pre-booked, usually at least two months in advance, given the limited availability designed to cap the number of arrivals. Most passengers from countries deemed ‘high risk’ spend 21 days of quarantine in a hotel room at their own cost. The windows in these rooms are often sealed and cannot be opened. Stepping out of the room means a hefty fine, an immediate transfer to Penny’s Bay for 21 days of isolation, followed by six months in prison, reads the warning sign posted on every door. This stringent screening of arrivals, Hong Kong’s health officials pointed out on November 29, helped Hong Kong detect its first case of the new Omicron variant, before it spread, in a traveller from South Africa who tested positive on his third day in quarantine. Every individual is tested six times during their three-week hotel stay. Hong Kong also emerged unscathed from the Delta variant, with most cases caught in quarantine and the region facing no wave. The only local spread came from an airport worker, whose close contacts were all promptly transferred to Penny’s Bay. “A few elements have been key to ensuring that the cases were low,” explains Siddharth Sridhar, clinical virologist at the University of Hong Kong. “Border controls, 100% mask-wearing from very early on, very strictly enforced social distancing, and a highly efficient method of testing and tracing. We do a lot of contact tracing and quarantine. So, I’d say Hong Kong uses fairly traditional methods to achieve COVID-19 control and they have worked very well for us.” Hong Kong’s sweeping testing system means that entire residential neighbourhoods are locked down and individuals tested if there is a single reported case, while hundreds of close contacts are immediately sent to quarantine at the government’s facility at Penny’s Bay. Another major factor for low cases has been compliance from a public that lived through the SARS epidemic. If the costs of this strategy include mask-wearing and no international travel, the benefits are that people have been living largely normal lives, with open schools, for much of the past two years after an initial strict lockdown. Yet, this ‘zero COVID’ approach, in place now for close to two years, appears increasingly incongruous in a world that is gradually returning to normalcy — or was, before the emergence of Omicron. After Singapore, Australia and New Zealand opened their borders, only the Chinese mainland, Hong Kong, and Taiwan are still clinging on to a ‘zero COVID’ approach, with stringent travel restrictions meaning continued isolation from the world. ‘A victim of our own success’ A growing number of people from foreign firms who have made their base in a place that likes to call itself ‘Asia’s World City’ as well as people who haven’t seen their families overseas for months are now asking whether this strategy is sustainable. They may, however, still be in the minority, given the broad public support for a stringent approach. Moreover, much of the debate about whether Hong Kong can — or should — re-open and follow Singapore’s path hinges on two pressing problems that complicate any decision. One involves public health — specifically, poor vaccination rates — while the other is political, with Hong Kong having to choose between the mainland — another ‘zero COVID’ region — and the rest of the world while returning to normalcy. In Dr. Sridhar’s view, Hong Kong, at this moment, has no choice but to continue with this approach at least until it vaccinates more people. The single biggest concern is an extremely low vaccination rate among the elderly. On November 23, Hong Kong reached a milestone of vaccinating 70% of the population with one dose (67% have been given two doses). The number falls dramatically for the 80 and above population — the most vulnerable group — to just 18%. Singapore’s example is the warning sign that gives pause for caution. Singapore, with more than 80% of the population fully vaccinated, crossed Hong Kong’s total number of deaths on October 16, mostly because of the Delta wave earlier this year. After Singapore opened its borders, it recorded more than 250 deaths in just November, which is more than what Hong Kong has seen since the start of the pandemic. Most of those deaths were among the elderly, with 95% of those who died above 60 years, and close to three-quarters of them not fully vaccinated. Given Hong Kong’s vaccination rates, opening up now would mean a wave of possibly thousands of deaths among the elderly. What explains the low vaccination rates for a region that did almost everything else right? “We are a victim of our own success,” says Dr. Sridhar. “Because COVID-19 was so effectively controlled, many people don’t feel it is a threat at a personal level. Indeed, there is a perception that Hong Kong can maintain its current measures and keep COVID-19 out indefinitely.” Coupled with widespread misinformation about vaccines on WhatsApp groups, few older residents are seeking to get vaccinated. Yet, the low rates also feed into a vicious cycle, a consequence of a conscious policy decision to keep Hong Kong isolated. If Hong Kong was to set a timetable for opening, it would certainly spur more people to get their shots. While Dr. Sridhar says there is “no such thing as a clean exit strategy, if you tell people that there is a deadline and you are going to have to open up eventually”, it would send a strong message to get vaccinated. “What we can do,” he says, “is mitigate the effects of a massive COVID-19 surge in the community as far as possible. And I would argue that we will be in the best position possible to make that happen only by 2022”, with a combination of more people being vaccinated and the possibility of anti-virals. “There is no other way to exit the limbo we are currently in,” he says. The politics of opening That is the public health argument. Then there is the politics. With the sweeping political changes introduced in Hong Kong last year, with the passing of a national security law that essentially decimated the pro-democracy opposition and gave Beijing more control than ever over its Special Administrative Region (SAR), Hong Kong’s future is more than ever before wedded to that of the mainland. The unpopular Chief Executive Carrie Lam, embattled after months of protests calling for universal suffrage in 2019 and the clampdown in 2020 that saw Beijing essentially bypass her government to pass the national security legislation, said in October that opening up to the mainland was “far, far more important” than opening up to the rest of the world. Lam’s government has spent months negotiating with Beijing about opening a travel bubble that will restore the once-thriving cross-border travel between Hong Kong and the Guangdong province. According to current rules, those travelling from Hong Kong across the land border have to quarantine for at least 14 days at a government-chosen hotel in Guangdong. This has hampered business activity and separated families. At least 50% of the 1,011 Cantonese-speaking residents surveyed by the Hong Kong Public Opinion Research Institute in November said they “preferred to see the government take immediate steps to help Hongkongers travel to the mainland instead of overseas”, while “those who favoured opening international borders for outbound travel first accounted for 38 per cent of the respondents”, the Hong Kong Free Press reported. A trial bubble is slated to begin by end-December. This will allow a very limited daily quota of not more than 1,000 travellers a day to travel without quarantine, but only to Guangdong province and not to the rest of China. Negotiations on the bubble have dragged on for a year, delayed mostly by demands from mainland authorities for even more stringent measures (although, ironically, Hong Kong has had no major local spread for most of the past year while it is the mainland that has recently seen a spread of local clusters). Caught between opening to the mainland and to the world, Hong Kong has had no choice but to pursue ever-stricter measures in pursuit of the elusive bubble. Part of that effort has been to tighten rules for quarantine and impose tougher conditions for discharging positive cases. Most countries have now been moved to the high-risk category requiring mandatory 21 days of hotel quarantine. These rules are more stringent than those of the mainland that allow the last seven days to be spent at home. Under earlier rules, anyone who tested positive could only be discharged after consecutive negative tests 24 hours apart and a minimum 10 days in hospital. In November, authorities said such people would also have to spend an additional 14 days in isolation, which means at least 24 days in hospital. This also applies to ‘repositives’ — travellers who recovered from COVID-19 but tested positive on arrival in Hong Kong even if they tested negative in their home countries, which has happened in several cases because of Hong Kong’s stricter testing criteria and how it measures cycle threshold (Ct) values in its COVID-19 tests. So, even a trace of dead virus from a patient who recovered months earlier will mean a minimum 24 days in hospital. Given these rules, some experts have advised travellers to think twice about travelling to Hong Kong if they had previously contracted COVID-19 unless they were willing to spend considerable time in hospital. The new 14-day rule was criticised by several health experts as being unscientific. They pointed out that there is no evidence to suggest that such repositives are infectious or that a 14-day isolation is needed even after testing negative. Hong Kong authorities have been sensitive to criticism of these measures. When epidemiologist Ben Cowling at the University of Hong Kong in November criticised the extended quarantine as a “waste of resources and actively harming the patient with no community benefit to offset against” as well as being “unethical”, Health Secretary Sophia Chan shot back saying while “it is understandable that they perceive our stringent but necessary measures to maintain zero COVID as harsh, zero COVID is our best strategy not only on public health but also social and economic considerations, and is in line with the aspirations of our community.” The second much-debated move, which officials say is needed to open the mainland bubble, is to adopt a mainland-style Health Code app. This is a significant step up from Hong Kong’s Leave Home Safe app, which only requires users to sign in when they enter a venue. The mainland’s Health Code app, in contrast, tracks movements 24/7 and allows authorities to easily contact, trace and quarantine people based on their geo-locations. In Hong Kong, however, there are concerns over both privacy and sharing individuals’ data with mainland authorities when they cross the border. In preparation for the bubble, the new Hong Kong health code was launched on December 10. It is not mandatory for residents, but those who want to travel to the mainland will be required to register. Impact of policy That Hong Kong has decided to prioritise opening to the mainland leaves little prospect of any move away from zero COVID for the time being, regardless of the impact it may have on foreign firms and Hong Kong’s status as a financial centre for Asia. Indeed, many foreign firms are already relocating to Singapore, while expatriates are either returning home or shifting to other destinations. Tara Joseph, president of the powerful American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong, told Reuters in November that she would quit her post and leave Hong Kong because of its 21-day quarantine policy for overseas arrivals. “It is not in my nature to advocate on something and then embark on quarantine like a stooge,” she said. She later qualified those remarks saying this was only one of several reasons for her departure. Some international airlines are reconsidering their Hong Kong routes too, and asking if the stringent testing and quarantining is worth the risk for their air crew. In late November, British Airways said it had suspended flights to Hong Kong after several of its crew were sent to quarantine at Penny’s Bay after one crew member had tested positive. The airline said it was “reviewing operational requirements” for this route. Last month, after a Cathay Pacific pilot tested positive upon returning to Hong Kong, his entire family, along with more than 100 children in the kindergarten and primary school that the pilot’s child was studying at, were sent to quarantine at Penny’s Bay. Parents criticised this move as excessive and harsh as the children in the school were not even close contacts of the pilot, but secondary contacts. Tens of thousands of Hongkongers have also already moved to the U.K. in recent months in response to Beijing’s tightening control under a new visa programme launched by London that offers a pathway to citizenship for Hongkongers. London introduced the initiative in response to last year’s national security law, which was seen as violating Beijing’s commitments under the 1997 handover treaty. As a result of these measures, Hong Kong’s economy is beset by many challenges. More than ever, it is banking on the mainland and on closer integration with the Greater Bay Area (Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau) to keep its economy afloat. However, the relative normalcy of the last two zero-COVID years has also to some extent helped local businesses avoid the fate of those in other countries that struggled under the cycle of COVID-19 waves and lockdowns. Hong Kong lawmaker Regina Ip, the outspoken founder of the pro-Beijing New People’s Party, says the current strategy is justified, especially in the light of the emergence of new variants, and has helped Hong Kong avoid the fate of much of the rest of the world over the past year. “Our 21-day quarantine requirements with regard to travellers from most countries are a function of their COVID-19 situations,” she says. “The U.K. was in our Group B requiring 14-day quarantine but upgraded to Group A because of the surge of their cases involving the Delta variant. We have to stop flights from Africa because of the import of a new, dangerous strain identified by the WHO. Our priority must be to keep the 7.4 million people in our city safe, and we have done well in this respect.” Ip says Hong Kong doesn’t have to choose between mainland China and the world. “Ideally,” she says, “we want to have the best of both worlds”. That is, of course, easier said than done. For now at least, it appears, Hong Kong has already made its choice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/caught-in-a-zero-covid-dilemma/article37929365.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Goods and Services Tax as an unfinished agenda||GST, or Goods and Services Tax, an institutional tax innovation intensively marketed in many countries by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, was wrapped in a “one nation one tax” package, and was accepted by India on the midnight of July 1, 2017. Despite the alleged haste in its launching by the central government, there were adaptations to make it to suit the Indian context. Hailed as a landmark reform in India’s tax history, it was expected to improve tax-GDP ratio, end tax cascading, enhance efficiency, competitiveness, growth, and ensure lower prices. It was also projected as a watershed in India’s fiscal federalism. While the States have forgone a substantial part of their own tax revenue, they were in turn guaranteed a GST compensation assuring 14% growth in their GST revenue during the initial five years. Many exemptions, along with different tax rates, as against the single rate in many countries, have been accommodated to protect the interests of different stakeholders. Unresolved issues Even after 50 months in existence, a number of relevant issues, both for policy and action, remain unresolved. A recently held international seminar on GST, organised by the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation that brought together experts from India and select countries (Malaysia, New Zealand, Australia, South Africa, Brazil, Mexico and Canada), was the venue for a sui generis policy debate focusing on India’s GST experience. We, as participant observers, cherry-pick some of the observations that were made for reflection by policymakers and the wider public. The base and pillars India’s GST architecture is built on the firm foundations of a GST Council and the GST Network (GSTN). The first is the key decision-making body, chaired by the Union Finance Minister with a Minister of State in charge of Finance and the Finance Ministers of States as members. This is envisaged as a due federal process to protect the interests of the States. GSTN generates high frequency data and subjects them to analytics for informed policy making. Built on this foundation, India’s GST paradigm stands on two key pillars: revenue neutrality and GST compensation for the States. Designed on the principle of destination-based consumption taxation, with seamless provision for input tax credit with CGST levied by the Centre, SGST by the States, UTGST by the Union Territories, and IGST levied on inter-State supply including imports, GST is applicable to all goods and services except alcohol for human consumption and five specified petroleum products with a common threshold exemption applicable to both CGST and SGST.  The assured revenue neutrality remains a mirage and many States have experienced a declining tax-GDP ratio. Studies show that in the case of major 18 States, the ratio of own tax revenue to GDP has declined. While the share of the Centre in total GST increased by 6%, that of States put together lagged behind with only a 4.5% increase. Stark differences between the Revenue Neutral Rates (RNR) for the producing States and consumption State have been observed. States producing exempted food grains also lost out. Since the rates were lower under GST vis-à-vis the VAT regime, revenue neutrality was not adhered ab initio . The problems were compounded with massive evasion following the dismantling of check posts, and later on fake invoices, that grew by leaps and bounds. Exemptions and subventions complicated and worsened the situation. The South African experience illustrates how zero rating and large exemptions have defeated revenue goals. In Mexico, although the country relied more on income tax, with a standard rate of 16% they could raise over 4% of GDP from GST. Reviewing 30 years of the Canadian experience with GST, it is shown that GST could be improved by limiting zero rating, tax-exemptions and harmonising tax rates. The Brazilian experience indicates that transfers through social security or subsides tend to be more progressive than subventions or exemptions because reduced rates or zero rating do not usually get passed on to target groups or industries as happening in India. The resilience of the economy at the time of rolling out of GST is critical for its wider reception as the Australian experience shows. However, India was in the reverse gear given the downturn following demonetisation.  GST in India was possible only because the States surrendered much of their constitutionally inherited indirect taxes. While the States collectively forewent 51.8% of their total tax revenue, the Centre surrendered only 28.8%. Yet, GST is shared equally between the Centre and States despite two expert committees recommended for a higher share for the States. Given the revenue neutrality failure and the host of other issues, many of the States are left with no option except to depend on GST compensation. While compensation legitimately has to coexist with GST, even the constitutionally guaranteed compensation for five years has not been implemented in letter and spirit, forcing the States to beg for their entitlement. This is not conducive to sustainable co-operative federalism. IGST woes, other points Although IGST is a key source of revenue for many of the States, the clearing house mechanism and the process therein remains terra incognita . It was pointed out that GST is discriminatory to manufacturing States, indicating the need for a revenue sharing formula that duly incentivises exporting States by sharing IGST revenue among three parties instead of two. The Malaysian experience demonstrates the need for swift and transparent functioning of the input tax credit system through a flawless IT infrastructure. Malaysia ended up abandoning GST owing to these woes. We operate in an almost information vacuum especially with respect to IGST along with several glitches in the digital architecture. GSTN is now in the doldrums. It neither makes effective use of the massive and invaluable data being generated nor shares them to enable others to make use of them. Such practice in “data monopoly” was a fact of history in India’s statistical system and has to go sooner rather than later. Australia, having several similarities with India, in terms of Centre and the subnational units, and destination-based, multi-stage tax with input credit provisions, has not been revenue-buoyant. The GST revenue of Australia has fallen relative to GDP from 3.85% in 2003-04 to 3.28% in 2018-19. It is a matter for consideration whether such adventures such as widening exemptions and the replacing of income-tax by GST in the case of small and medium enterprises are advisable measures in the Indian context. GST should be seen purely from a revenue point of view and as a fiscal policy tool for efficiency, competitiveness and growth. Even by this standard, India’s GST is still on a rocky road, with several of the assumptions falling flat while expectations stand belied. Neither the States nor the consumers seem to have benefited since the rate reductions are not translated into prices due to profiteering and cascading. Despite many years of efforts in evolving an Indianised GST system and over 50 months of adjustments with over a thousand notifications, with accompanying uncertainties in the first year and the novel coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown still in the saddle, GST continues to be an unfinished agenda. But how far and how long? M.A. Oommen is Distinguished Fellow, and K.J. Joseph is Director, Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (GIFT), Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/goods-and-services-tax-as-an-unfinished-agenda/article37929358.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Make the mental well-being of teachers a priority||It is now clear that COVID-19 caught us all by surprise. The school education sector in India too struggled during the novel coronavirus pandemic. While online learning for children has had its fair share of challenges, including learning loss, fatigue from online learning to mental stress, there is another group that faced severe adversity — a group that has not been adequately considered in the general discourse — our teachers, who too struggled with meaningful pedagogies embedded in digital platforms. The pandemic-induced conditions posed several challenges which largely remained unnoticed. The two sides India has an estimated nine million teachers, but they are not a homogeneous group in India. There are extremes: those working in schools under the Union government with better qualifications, working conditions, salaries and systemic protection to those in low-fee private schools with abysmally low salaries, poor working conditions and no systemic protection. Those in medium range, urban private schools faced a new type of ‘bullying’ by being under constant ‘watch’ of parents who pointed out even the tiniest mistakes, including variety in pronunciation in online classes. In addition to this, under COVID-19 duty, their deployment in undertaking door-to-door COVID-19 survey, distributing immunity booster tablets, policing inter- and intra-district check-posts, managing queues outside fair price shops, keeping records in COVID-19 care facilities and, at times, disciplining queues outside liquor shops led them to a sense of ‘loss of identity’. This peculiar situation, juxtaposed with media reports suggesting that ‘teachers drew salary without any work’ led to much mental turmoil, a lowering of the self-image and self-respect. Teachers were also under constant pressure to submit records of efforts made to keep learning ‘alive’. These efforts could neither be fully verified nor could their effectiveness be gauged. One of the main pain-points for teachers during the pandemic was a total cut-off from contact with children during the initial months and during and after the second wave. Not just a profession For many teachers, teaching is not just a profession but also the most rewarding work as interacting with young children and adolescents brings with it great pleasure and joy. Mental stress due to being cut-off from children fuelled by societal perception of the salary of teachers being a great burden led to some innovative responses from teachers to mitigate their own stress and pressure. For example, at Akole (Ahmednagar, Maharashtra), teachers started a COVID-19 care facility which is operational till date, with more than 650 patients cured and returning home. Such work, according to Bhausaheb Chaskar, a Zilla Parishad teacher and Convener of Active Teachers’ Forum Maharashtra, is helping teachers rebuild their image under assault by vested interests and is also bringing a lot of solace, mental peace and meaningfulness to the community of teachers. But, it is now increasingly clear that our children face a crisis in terms of their mental health and well-being. The silent pandemic of mental ill-health in adolescents and young people was brought to the fore globally by the pandemic. Teachers, as primary caregivers to children, influence the emotional environment of a classroom as well as the emotional and behavioural well-being of those in their care. The teacher’s ability to navigate this responsibility is significantly shaped by their own mental health and well-being. Need for destigmatisation Teachers, especially those working in high poverty environments and with marginalised groups, face an inordinate amount of job stress, it is very important to recognise and validate their stress, bring it out and discuss it openly. School environments often embody the larger cultural milieu and discussing mental health and well-being might be stigmatised; recognising and addressing this stigma through a cogent set of policies at a systemic level will help schools create an environment where mental health can be discussed openly. Some steps that might be helpful include- Creating a space where teachers can talk about their daily stressors and their well-being with their peers in a supportive environment. Community of Practice of teachers and teacher unions can take this up as an agenda of priority. Including mental health, well-being and burnout management in teacher training programmes and refresher training will go a long way in prioritising mental health. Systemic investments in school mental health allow for a creation of an environment focused on well-being, addressed through clearly defined policies on anti-bullying, redress of harassment and grievances, creating a support system of psychosocial services that teachers can access. An objective recognition programme focused on the small achievements of teachers also goes a long way in building a culture focused on strengths. If we want to be a thinking, forward-looking, advanced society sensitive of challenges, a society in which children are safe, secure and protected with professionally well-trained teachers who know the ways of mitigating newer challenges (including mental health and the well-being of children), then there is no alternative to making the mental health of our educators a priority. It is a very important first step in addressing the mental health and well-being of our children. Our acknowledgement of systemic challenges created for teachers and our focus on teachers’ well-being and mental health would perhaps ensure a safe and secure ‘future of our future’. Kishore Darak works with the Education team of the Tata Trusts. Tasneem Raja has over 22 years of experience in the health-care sector and has worked on a range of issues including non-communicable diseases, infectious diseases and maternal and child health||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/make-the-mental-well-being-of-teachers-a-priority/article37929362.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Captaincy unlimited||It was an expected coronation but the manner in which it transpired seemed like an exercise in smoke and mirrors. Late on Wednesday evening, an email popped up in the inboxes of Indian cricket writers. It was a press release from the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and almost its entire part was devoted to the naming of the Test squad under Virat Kohli, set for the tour of South Africa. But the breaking-news bit was reserved for the last line, which stated that Rohit Sharma would be the captain of the ODI and T20I teams. After Kohli relinquished the T20I captaincy, Rohit had already taken over the reins in the shortest format and it was a matter of time before he was given charge of the One Day International squad too. Split-captaincy involves one leader for Tests and another at the helm for white-ball cricket, both for ODIs and T20s. There are enough overseas examples — Pat Cummins and Aaron Finch; Joe Root and Eoin Morgan — and closer home there was the duality between M.S. Dhoni and Kohli before the latter led across formats. Kohli’s resignation from T20 leadership while still nursing his ambitions in ODIs, was never ideal. Rohit was left with the crumbs, Kohli refused to blink and the selectors wielded the axe while grace went missing. Captaincy shifts usually favour the younger player but in the latest musical chairs between Kohli and Rohit, the Mumbaikar at 34, is a year older. With the willow, Kohli is a splendid batter but of late he has not scored as much and leadership does take a toll. In the past Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid, the present coach, gave up captaincy to focus on their batting. Kohli will remain at the helm in Tests but with Rohit replacing Ajinkya Rahane as the Test vice-captain, perhaps there is a sign there too. India has had a splendid run in Tests but its inability to win ICC silverware, be it the Test Championship or limited-overs’ titles, remains an issue. Rohit and Dravid are expected to plug that gap. Next year the ICC T20 World Cup will be held in Australia, and in 2023 the conventional World Cup would return to India. For Rohit, who was not picked for the 2011 edition which Dhoni and Co., won, that omission still rankles. If results and his fitness do not desert him, Rohit could lead India in the 2023 edition. But first up in his leadership endeavour would be the three ODIs in South Africa after the Test series. As captain, Rohit was magnificent with the Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League. He needs to replicate that success with India in the next few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/captaincy-unlimited/article37929353.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Green shoots||The repeal of three controversial farm laws by the Narendra Modi government through a parliamentary resolution has defused the conflict over them, but the underlying questions regarding the sector remain unresolved. Farmers who had stayed put at sites around the national capital for a year are now dispersing, but not with much clarity on the road ahead. The defeatism of the Government, and the triumphalism of the farm unions and the Opposition over the repeal of the laws have created a hostile environment for a long-term resolution to the agricultural practices that are economically and environmentally unsustainable. No reform can be possible without building sufficient political support for it, unless unlimited state force is used to suppress the opposition. In this instance, the Government went ahead without adequate consultations and landed in a stalemate with entrenched farming communities. Any aggravation of the situation would have been dangerous for the stability of the country, but what forced the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) into retreat was its immediate political calculations for Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. But farmers remain ambiguous in their approach to the party. A section of them in western Uttar Pradesh might consider voting for the BJP, but for many, the wounds are still fresh, and they distrust the BJP. In Punjab, the BJP has managed to be a part of the conversation, but the road to any political reward over the repeal appears long at the moment. Farmers have resolved to review the progress of their agreement with the Government in mid-January. Their key remaining demand is a legal guarantee of minimum support prices for all crops. While the Government has promised that the existing minimum support price regime will not be diluted, the questions on extending its coverage and backing it up legally have been left to a committee constituted by the Prime Minister. The committee includes representatives of farmers too. The Indian agriculture sector requires a balance between national development priorities and market linkages, and ensure long-term economic sustainability for those employed by it. Wider coverage of minimum support prices could encourage farmers in Punjab and Haryana to switch from irrigation intensive, and expensive rice to a diverse crop pattern without compromising on the food staple. Water abundant areas could adopt appropriate crops. To achieve an ecologically appropriate geographical spread of crops, the existing regional disparity in the sector needs to be addressed, by giving more state attention to regions and crops that are now in a shadow. Enhancing agriculture incomes is a shared objective of all political parties, and it is most unfortunate that they are unable to put their heads together to achieve this. The calm achieved by rightly repealing the three laws should be wisely used by the Centre to build a political consensus on the country’s agriculture sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/green-shoots/article37929352.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||IIP growth remains subdued for second month in a row||India’s industrial production growth remained subdued for the second straight month and expanded by 3.2% in October, mainly due to the waning base effect while mining, power and manufacturing sectors performed well. The manufacturing sector, which constitutes 77.63% of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), grew 2% in October, according to data from the National Statistical Office (NSO). Mining sector output rose 11.4% in October, while power generation increased 3.1%. Factory output recorded double-digit growth in each of the four months from May to August. It then slipped to 3.3% in September and further to 3.2%, mainly due to waning low base effect. In October 2021, the IIP stood at 133.7 points compared with 129.6 points a year earlier. The index stood at 124 points in October 2019, data showed.   The second wave of the pandemic started in the middle of April this year, and many States imposed restrictions to curb the spread of infections. “Growth rates over the corresponding period of the previous year are to be interpreted considering the unusual circumstances on account of COVID-19 pandemic since March 2020,” the NSO said in the statement.  Output of capital goods, a barometer of investment, contracted 1.1% in October 2021. It had witnessed a growth of 3.2% a year earlier. Consumer durables manufacturing contracted 6.1% against a growth of 18.1% in October 2020. Consumer non-durable goods production grew 0.5% in October against a 7.3% rise in the year-earlier period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/iip-growth-remains-subdued-for-second-month-in-a-row/article37929335.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||November PV wholesales was lowest in seven years: SIAM||Semiconductor shortage continued to haunt the automobile industry in the festive month of November 2021, with passenger vehicle wholesales falling 18.6% and two-wheeler sales declining more than 34% year-on-year, data released by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) on Friday showed. Passenger vehicle (PV) sales stood at 2,15,626 units last month as against 2,64,898 units in the year-earlier period. Production in November 2021 was also down 9.5% to 2,66,552 vehicles, from 2,94,596 units. Similarly, two-wheeler dispatches to dealers declined to 10,50,616 units, from 16,00,379 units in November 2020. Production was down more than 29% to 13,67,701 units from 19,36,793 units in the year-earlier period. “Industry continues to face headwinds due to global semiconductor shortage,” said SIAM Director General Rajesh Menon. “Sales in November 2021, were lowest in 7 years for passenger vehicles, lowest in 11 years for two-wheelers, and lowest in 19 years for three-wheelers,” he added. For three-wheelers, sales fell 6.64% to 22,471 units from 24,071 units in November 2020. Production also fell 6% to 61,451 units from 65,460 units in 2020. Exports for all three categories, however, saw growth. PV exports grew 15.5% to 44,265 units, two-wheeler exports were up 9% to 3,56,659 units and three-wheeler exports rose by 14% to 42,431 units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/november-pv-wholesales-was-lowest-in-seven-years-siam/article37929351.ece
11 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Growth not durable, will peak in H1 2022: Nomura||The current growth cycle being witnessed in the country is not durable and will peak by the first half of 2022, Japanese brokerage Nomura said on Friday. Higher inflation and wider current account deficit — [the] side effects of loose policies adopted to push growth during the pandemic — will come into play, forcing RBI to act even as the ‘scarring effects cast doubt on growth’s durability’, it said in its yearly outlook. It said recovery had been uneven, hurting consumption of lower-income households, and a sustained capital expenditure upcycle was also not in sight. “With mixed growth, high inflation and wider twin deficits, we expect India’s risk premium to rise and the RBI to catch up as it falls behind the curve,” its analysts said. “In our base case, momentum starts to moderate in H2 [of 2022], reflecting cyclical factors and the impact of scarring effects, which have lowered the potential growth rate,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/growth-not-durable-will-peak-in-h1-2022-nomura/article37929337.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Montra brand to pioneer TI Cycles’ EV business||TI Cycles of India, part of the diversified conglomerate Murugappa Group, has firmed up plans in the electric mobility space with its popular brand ‘Montra’ to lead the firm’s electric vehicle business, the company said on Friday. The city-based company said, as a first step it would unveil — under the Montra brand — electric-auto rickshaws and 3W electric cargo vehicles later. The company said it would enter electric vehicle business in three segments — last-mile commute, last-mile delivery and personal mobility under the Montra brand. TI Cycles said under its ‘last-mile’ commute segment, TI Cycles’ first venture would be three-wheeler electric autos, expected to be unveiled by first quarter of FY22-23. Under the ‘last-mile’ delivery segment, 3W electric cargo vehicles would be introduced. Already e-bicycles were unveiled in the personal mobility segment, the company said. With a range of best in class EVs, TI Cycles said it plans to improve people’s quality of life through eco-friendly mobility solutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/montra-brand-to-pioneer-ti-cycles-ev-business/article37929341.ece
11 December 2021||TOKYO,||Toyota deepens Japan output halt on scarcity||Toyota Motor Co. on Friday expanded production stoppages at some factories in Japan because of a shortage of components shipped from parts plants in Southeast Asia. The latest halts will cut car output by 9,000 vehicles when added to curbs announced on Thursday, affecting production of Lexus models and its four-wheel-drive Land Cruiser, Toyota said in a press release. Although limited, the cuts come as Toyota tries to make up for production lost to earlier supply-chain disruptions in Malaysia and Vietnam that forced it to trim vehicle output even as demand for cars in markets such as China rebounded as coronavirus lockdowns ended. The world’s biggest car producer by volume said it is sticking to an annual output target set in September to build 9 million vehicles by the end of March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/toyota-deepens-japan-output-halt-on-scarcity/article37929344.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||DoT moves NCLAT against Videocon RP||The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has moved the NCLAT against an NCLT order approving the consolidated resolution plan (RP) for 13 companies of Videocon Group, including Videocon Telecommunications. The DoT has requested the appellate tribunal to set aside the order passed by the NCLT Mumbai on June 8, 2021 allowing the Rs. 2,962-crore takeover bid by Anil Agarwal’s Twin Star Technologies. DoT submitted before the NCLAT that defaulting telecom firms cannot be permitted to wriggle out of their liability by the triggering of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dot-moves-nclat-against-videocon-rp/article37929339.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Star Health recovers after muted debut||Star Health and Allied Insurance Company Ltd. recovered lost ground after a muted debut on the bourses on Friday and settled with a marginal gain over its issue price amid a sluggish broader market. The stock rose 0.11% to Rs. 901 on the National Stock Exchange over the issue price of Rs. 900. The stock witnessed an intra-day high of Rs. 940 and a low of Rs. 827.50. It settled at Rs. 906.85 on the BSE. “Expensive valuations and dent in profitability due to COVID-19 were key concerns for the investors; however the long-term outlook for the company is bullish thanks to the strong brand name and low penetration of health insurance in India,” said Parth Nyati, founder, Tradingo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/star-health-recovers-after-muted-debut/article37929347.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||RBI grants approval to LIC to up stake in IndusInd Bank to nearly 10pc||IndusInd Bank on Friday said the RBI had given approval to Life Insurance Corporation to increase stake in the bank to 9.99%. The state-run insurer currently holds 4.95% of the total issued and paid-up capital of the bank. The approval is valid for a period of one year i.e., up to December 8, 2022, the bank said. IndusInd Bank shares dipped 0.23% to Rs. 944.15 on the BSE.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-grants-approval-to-lic-to-up-stake-in-indusind-bank-to-nearly-10pc/article37929338.ece
11 December 2021||Chennai,||TVS Motor strengthens product portfolio in Philippines market||TVS Motor company on Friday announced the unveiling of its Apache RR 310 and 125 cc scooter TVS NTORQ in the Philippines market. "It gives us utmost pleasure to introduce TVS Apache RR310 and TVS NTORQ 125 with best-in-class features and RT-Fi technology in the Philippines,” said J. Thangarajan, president director, Indonesia.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-motor-strengthens-product-portfolio-in-philippines-market/article37929342.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||Google extends deadline for developers in India to integrate with its Play billing system||Google on Friday said it is deferring the deadline for developers in India to integrate with its Play billing system to October next year from March 2022. The extension had been made in view of the changes to India’s recurring digital payments norms, it said.In the past, developers had objected to the mandatory use of Google’s billing system.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/google-extends-deadline-for-developers-in-india-to-integrate-with-its-play-billing-system/article37929346.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Bengaluru FC, FC Goa look for a turnaround||One of the marquee ties in the Indian Super League calendar every year, the Bengaluru FC-FC Goa clash at the Bambolim stadium on Saturday will pit teams that are placed a lowly ninth and 10th. Generally accustomed to competing for the top prize, the two sides have had horror starts to the season; BFC has been winless in its last four matches, including three defeats. Goa, after losing its first three games, barely managed a victory over SC East Bengal, a wild encounter which finished 4-3 in its favour. Juan Ferrando will be hoping for his side to build on the winning momentum. The form of Alberto Noguera, who scored two in the last game, and Jorge Ortiz, who scored one and assisted two, augurs well. But below-par defending has meant his wards have shipped 11 goals so far. Ferrando, however, is one who believes in collective responsibility and expected the team to come up with a coordinated pressing game to help shield his defenders. BFC has looked similarly disjointed, with its midfield build-up play severely lacking. Pezzaiuoli pointed to the absence of centre-back Yrondu Musavu-King but remained hopeful that the outfit will find its attacking rhythm, even against a side which he called the “best team in the league with the ball.” Encouragingly, striker Prince Ibara, who had a fine first-half against Mumbai City FC before limping out injured, is back in training; so is Musavu-King. Winger Udanta Singh will, however, miss the tie.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengaluru-fc-fc-goa-look-for-a-turnaround/article37929678.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Chirag scorches the track, tops practice||Bengaluru schoolboy Chirag Ghorpade put in a dominating performance in the MRF F1600 class while defending champion Arjun Balu (Race Concepts) from Coimbatore survived a dramatic spin and emerged the fastest among saloon cars in the second round of the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Car Racing Championship commenced at the MMRT here on Friday. Chirag, only 16, did a time of 01:39.809 in the first practice session and went even quicker in the second, clocking 01:39.761. His arch-rival, Shahan Ali Mohsin, the teenager from Agra, who leads Chirag in the championship standings following his double in the first round, matched the timing with a 01:39.937 in the morning run, but was way off the pace in the second session due to gearbox issues and was placed ninth. Earlier, Balu topped both the practice sessions in the premier Indian Touring Cars class. He clocked a best lap of 01:51.680 in the first outing this morning and bettered it with a 01:51.308 in the afternoon despite a vicious spin that led to a brief red flag stoppage. The qualifying sessions for all categories, followed by five races, will be run on Saturday. In the MRF Saloon Cars category (Toyota Etios) that has a grid of 21, Ahmedabad’s Akshay Gupta posted the best lap of 02:05.257 over two practice sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chirag-scorches-the-track/article37929685.ece
11 December 2021||Brisbane,||Root and Malan dig in as England fights back at the Gabba||Joe Root and Dawid Malan put on a defiant unbeaten partnership of 159 to give England hope of salvaging a draw in the opening Ashes Test at the Gabba on Friday. A rejuvenated England was 220 for two at close of play, with skipper Root on 86 and Malan 80, only 58 runs behind Australia. Root’s year! After England lost both openers in the session before tea, Root and Malan looked increasingly comfortable on the third-day Gabba pitch as they steadily wore down the Australian attack. Root’s classy 86 not out is one short of his highest score in Australia and took him past 1,500 runs in a calendar year, the most ever by an Englishman, surpassing Michael Vaughan’s 1,481 in 2002. Leading by example, the skipper barely offered a chance in his innings, stroking 10 boundaries including a sublime reverse-sweep off spinner Nathan Lyon. The South Africa-born Malan scored his only Test century on the last tour of Australia and although not as comfortable as his captain, he also looked in control. He did struggle with fatigue towards the close, however, and went down with cramps. Earlier, Travis Head scored a superb 152 to put Australia in what seemed a commanding position. Australia was dismissed for 425, 30 minutes before lunch, a handsome lead of 278. DRS saves Burns Rory Burns, who was out first ball of the series on Wednesday when clean-bowled by Mitchell Starc, was lucky to survive the dreaded pair when he was adjudged leg-before off Starc’s sixth ball of the first over. But, replays showed the ball was just missing the top of middle stump, and a relieved Burns survived. But he didn’t last long after lunch and gloved to wicketkeeper Alex Carey off Australia captain Pat Cummins. Haseeb Hameed looked in great touch and eased to 27, but he tried to glance a wide ball from Starc, only to get a faint touch to Carey. Work to be done Malan knows that plenty more work lies ahead despite England’s improved showing. “To come here today and do what we did after a day and half of hard fielding is fantastic, but that’s only half the job.” he said. “We need another 250-300 runs on Saturday to put ourselves in a good position.” Review plans Labuschagne said the hosts needed to hold their nerve. “Test cricket is a grind, it’s meant to be hard otherwise it wouldn’t mean so much,” he said. “For us it’s a day at the office. We’ll review our plans and how we bowled today, and come up with some ideas and get those last eight wickets.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/root-and-malan-dig-in-as-england-fights-back-at-the-gabba/article37929636.ece
11 December 2021||KOCHI,||Clash of dates with varsities event threatens to disrupt KWL||Making a comeback after seven years, the Kerala Women's League football begins at the Corporation Stadium in Thrissur on Saturday. The six-team event, which runs till January 24, will be streamed live and the winner will get a berth in the Indian Women's League, but a clash of dates with the South Zone inter-university football championship and its all-India event threaten to disrupt the Kerala league. The varsities South Zone will be held in Bengaluru's Christ University from December 21 to 24 while Annamalai University will host the all-India championship from December 27 to 31. Fourteen Calicut University players and two from Mahatma Gandhi University figure in the Gokulam Kerala FC, the Indian Women's League champion which was in action in the recent AFC club championship, and they have KWL matches on Dec. 22 and 29. The two dates clash with the South Zone and National varsities events. “That's the biggest challenge we are facing. Most of the clubs will be affected, even us. Teams have raised a concern too but we have to complete the league before January 25 only then will the AIFF (national federation) consider the team for the Indian Women's League,” P. Anilkumar, the general secretary of the Kerala Football Association, told The Hindu on the sidelines of the KWL's launch event here on Friday. “We have requested the federation to increase the number of players (in each team) from 30 to 35 so that they can go for the varsity matches and come back. But if serious concerns are raised, we will try to have two matches a day and finish the league within the time given.” Title favourite Despite the varsity dates issue, Gokulam Kerala appears to be the title favourite. But since many of the teams are new, there could be many surprises. “We will try to ensure that all the men's Kerala Premier League teams also have a women's team so that there are more sides in the KWL in future,” said Anilkumar. Kadathanad Raja FA, Kerala United FC, Luca SC, Travancore Royals FC and Don Bosco FA are the other teams in the KWL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/clash-of-dates-with-varsities-event-threatens-to-disrupt-kwl/article37929983.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||When final races turned into thrilling title deciders||For the first time since 2016, the Formula One drivers’ title will be decided in the final race, in Abu Dhabi on Sunday, with Lewis Hamilton and Max Verstappen tied on points (369.5). A look at some memorable title deciders in recent times:  Abu Dhabi 2016: Going into the last race, Hamilton was trailing teammate Nico Rosberg by 12 points. The former controlled the race from pole but needed the latter to finish outside the podium to win the title. Towards the end of the race, Hamilton dramatically slowed his pace to hold back Rosberg who was being hotly pursued by Sebastian Vettel and Verstappen. Despite the team ordering him to pick up pace, Hamilton tried his best to trip up Rosberg but the German prevailed and went on to take his only world title.  Brazil 2012: For the second time in three years, Vettel and Ferrari’s Fernando Alonso were vying for the honours, the former enjoying a 13-point lead before the final race. Vettel had a poor start from fourth while Alonso moved ahead of his rival starting eighth. Vettel was then hit by Bruno Senna, leaving him last and a lot of damage to his car. The German, however, continued and battled hard to finish sixth while Alonso took the second spot and lost the title by three points.  Abu Dhabi 2010: In what was one of the closest seasons, four drivers had a mathematical chance of winning the title. Alonso led the Red Bull drivers Mark Webber by eight points and Vettel by 15 and McLaren’s Hamilton by 22. Vettel controlled the race from pole while Alonso and Webber were running fourth and fifth. An early safety car allowed Rosberg and Vitaly Petrov to stop at the end of lap one. Webber stopped early on lap 12, prompting Alonso to cover him three laps later. However, this meant the two were stuck between Petrov who kept them at bay for the rest of the race. Vettel won the race easily ahead of Hamilton and Button with Alonso finishing seventh. The Spaniard needed to finish fourth to clinch the title.  Brazil 2008: In one of the most thrilling finales in the history of the sport, McLaren Hamilton led Ferrari’s Felipe Massa by seven points. But the latter took pole position with the Briton in fourth place. In challenging conditions that kept swinging between wet and dry, local hero Massa was in complete control while Hamilton battled to stay in the top five which he needed to triumph. Towards the end of the race, Vettel and Timo Glock were ahead of Hamilton in sixth place, but Glock hadn’t stopped for wet tyres and was losing grip. Massa crossed the line with Ferrari thinking he had won the title, but as the rain increased, on the last corner of the last lap of the race, Hamilton overtook Glock to finish fifth and win the title by one point, causing a huge heartbreak for the local fans.  Brazil 2007: In his debut season, McLaren’s Hamilton led by four points ahead of teammate Alonso and seven ahead of Ferrari’s Kimi Raikkonen, all three having a shot at the title. Starting second, Hamilton lost ground to his title rivals and fell further behind a few laps later due to a gearbox problem that pushed him down to 18th. Massa led from Raikkonen and Alonso but after the final round of pit stops, Raikkonen moved ahead of Massa and won the race. Hamilton needed to finish fifth but ended seventh. Alonso was third as both the McLaren drivers lost the crown by a solitary point.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/when-final-races-turned-into-thrilling-title-deciders/article37929647.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||King Carlsen’s reign continues as he crushes Nepo with three games to spare||Magnus Carlsen ended Ian Nepomniachtchi’s agony with three games to spare, winning the 11th game of their best-of-14 game World chess championship match in Dubai on Friday. Carlsen punished Nepo’s blunder, committed on the 23rd move, with a tactical plan and eventually finished the job in 49 moves. The champion’s fourth victory — second with black — saw the final score read 7.5-3.5. This was the fourth time Carlsen defended the World title he first won from Viswanathan Anand in 2013. He overcame the challenges of Anand (2014), Sergey Karjakin (2016) and Fabiano Caruana (2018) before destroying Nepo. After five drawn games, Carlsen pulled off a 136-move victory in the sixth. Thereafter, it was clear that Nepo was not the same. The Russian committed one pawn-move blunder three times in the next five games and the result was a premature end to the contest. Relieved “I’m relieved, of course. It’s hard to feel that great joy when the situation was so comfortable to begin with, but I’m happy with a very good performance overall,” was Carlsen’s initial reaction after clinching his fifth World title. “I didn’t expect it to go like this,” said Carlsen at the post-match media conference. “I think it was just a very good professional performance overall. No regrets at all, just very satisfied. “I guess this was similar to my first match with Anand (in 2013), which was quite even and nervous at the start. When I got my first win, it was kind of the same story: it was relatively clean from there on.” On Friday, after Nepo employed the Italian opening, the game progressed on expected lines. Once Nepo erred on the 23rd turn, the Norwegian took just 79 seconds to spot the precise continuation. He immediately traded his rook for a knight and took it back by force following the exchange of queens. He reached a rook-and-pawn ending with an extra pawn. Carlsen sacrificed the rook to ‘queen’ his pawn and then forced the resignation, four moves later. For his part, Nepo said, “In my career I lost quite some stupid games but not as many in such a (short) time.”  The moves: Game 11: White: Nepomniachtchi; Black: Carlsen   1. e4 e5 2. Nf3 Nc6 3. Bc4 Nf6 4. d3 Bc5 5. c3 d6 6. O-O a5 7. Re1 Ba7 8. Na3 h6 9. Nc2 O-O 10. Be3 Bxe3 11. Nxe3 Re8 12. a4 Be6 13. Bxe6 Rxe6 14. Qb3 b6 15. Rad1 Ne7 16. h3 Qd7 17. Nh2 Rd8 18. Nhg4 Nxg4 19. hxg4 d5 20. d4 exd4 21. exd5 Re4 22. Qc2 Rf4 23. g3   dxe3 24. gxf4 Qxg4+ 25. Kf1 Qh3+ 26. Kg1 Nf5 27. d6 Nh4 28. fxe3 Qg3+ 29. Kf1 Nf3 30. Qf2 Qh3+ 31. Qg2 Qxg2+ 32. Kxg2 Nxe1+ 33. Rxe1 Rxd6 34. Kf3 Rd2 35. Rb1 g6 36. b4 axb4 37. Rxb4 Ra2 38. Ke4 h5 39. Kd5 Rc2 40. Rb3 h4 41. Kc6 h3 42. Kxc7 h2 43. Rb1 Rxc3+ 44. Kxb6 Rb3+ 45. Rxb3 h1=Q 46. a5 Qe4 47. Ka7 Qe7+ 48. Ka8 Kg7 49. Rb6 Qc5. Nepo resigns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/king-carlsens-reign-continues-as-he-crushes-nepomniachtchi-with-three-games-to-go/article37929640.ece
11 December 2021||Bergamo,||Villarreal survives Atalanta scare||Arnaut Danjuma struck twice as Villarreal won 3-2 away to Atalanta on Thursday in a match rearranged after heavy snowfall to clinch the final spot in the Champions League last 16. The Dutch international put Atalanta ahead inside three minutes and Etienne Capoue doubled the lead shortly before half-time on another chilly evening in Bergamo. Danjuma scored again early in the second half but Villarreal was forced to hold on as Atalanta responded with goals from Ruslan Malinovskyi and Duvan Zapata while hitting the woodwork three times. Villarreal finished as runner-up to Group F winner Manchester United, with Atalanta going into the Europa League knockout-round play-offs in February. Quarter-finalists two seasons ago, Atalanta needed a win to climb above Villarreal into second place in the group in a game pushed back from Wednesday after a cold snap swept across northern Italy.  The result: Group F: Atalanta 2 (Malinovskyi 71, Zapata 80) lost to Villarreal 3 (Danjuma 3, 51, Capoue 42) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/villarreal-survives-atalanta-scare/article37929651.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Chennaiyin looks to keep momentum||Chennaiyin FC will hope to continue its unbeaten run in the Indian Super League when it takes on ATK Mohun Bagan at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Saturday. The former champion has two wins and a goalless draw — in its last game against SC East Bengal — so far. Creating chances Even though CFC struggled to score in its last game despite creating several chances, the team has been solid in defence, having conceded just one goal in three matches. It is a strategy the team will likely employ on Saturday as well and coach Bozidar Bandovic highlighted it as one of the positives to come out of the last game. “I was happy defensively, in attack and even in set-pieces, we were dangerous. But we need to improve in scoring. The last pass, the last decision, we need to put the ball in the net,” said Bandovic. Bagan on the other hand comes into the game after two defeats and will need to find the winning form it showed in the opening two fixtures. The team will quickly need to shore up its defences as it leaked goals in its last two matches, something both Mumbai City FC and Jamshedpur FC exploited well to post convincing wins. After the twin defeats, Bagan coach Antonio Lopez Habas said, “it is about bringing back the confidence of our side. I consider my players the best in the world. We have to continue with the same energy and demonstrate that we are the best.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cfc-looks-to-keep-momentum/article37929722.ece
11 December 2021||Bhubaneswar,||‘ACT a platform to showcase talent’||The upcoming Asian Champions Trophy in Dhaka will be a perfect platform for the fringe players to showcase their talent and stake a claim in the first team, said Indian men’s hockey team captain Manpreet Singh. The tournament, originally scheduled to be held last year, has been postponed multiple times due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and will now be played from December 14 to 22. “With nearly 10 players who were part of the Tokyo Olympic squad being rested, this is a fantastic opportunity for the players who had been waiting on the sidelines to get a chance to perform in a major international tournament. This will be a good platform for them to showcase their talent and temperament,” said Manpeet before leaving for Dhaka on Friday. Defending champions India would begin campaign on the opening day against Korea before locking horns against Japan, Malaysia, Pakistan and hosts Bangladesh in the single-pool tournament for top honours. “This is our first outing after the Tokyo Olympics so naturally there is a lot of excitement among the players. We have had a good training camp in Bhubaneswar and I feel since the weather here is quite similar to that of Dhaka, we won’t take long to acclimatise,” the skipper said. “It will be a good tournament not just in terms of competition but also to understand about other team’s capabilities. “We assess the progress of other Asian countries ahead of the all-important Asian Games and Asia Cup next year,’ the ace mid-fielder added. After Korea, India will play Bangladesh on December 15, followed by matches against Pakistan on December 17, Malaysia on December 18 and Japan on December 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/act-a-platform-to-showcase-talent-manpreet/article37929799.ece
11 December 2021||SOLAPUR,||Vaidehi stops Pranjala, to meet Zeel||Sixth seed Vaidehi Chaudhari defeated the champion of the last tournament, fourth-seeded Pranjala Yadlapalli, 6-4, 6-4 in the quarterfinals of the Jamshri $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament at the MSLTA Solapur District Complex on Friday. Vaidehi converted seven of 10 break points she forced to pull through in an hour and 23 minutes. She saved three break points in the 10th game to serve out the first set. In the second, Vaidehi recovered from being 3-4 down to win the last three games, dropping a mere four points in all. In the semifinals, Vaidehi will play fellow trainee at the Altewol Academy in Ahmedabad, second seed Zeel Desai. Tough outing Zeel had a tough outing against Akanksha Nitture, but won the last four games from being down 2-4 to emerge a 7-5, 6-4 winner in over two hours. The other semifinal will be between top seed Rutuja Bhosale, who put out eighth seed Elena Jamshidi of Denmark for the loss two games, and third seed Sowjanya Bavisetti. In the doubles semifinals, Ramya Natarajan and Sathwika Sama saved six match points to down Sai Samhitha and Soha Sadiq 13-11 in the super tie-break.  The results:   Singles (quarterfinals): Rutuja Bhosale bt Elena Jamshidi (Den) 6-2, 6-0; Sowjanya Bavisetti bt Sathwika Sama 6-4, 6-1; Vaidehi Chaudhari bt Pranjala Yadlapalli 6-4, 6-4; Zeel Desai bt Akanksha Nitture 7-5, 6-4.   Doubles (semifinals): Sharmada Balu & Sowjanya Bavisetti bt Vaidehi Chaudhari & Mihika Yadav 7-6(4), 7-5; Ramya Natarajan & Sathwika Sama bt Sai Samhitha & Soha Sadiq 2-6, 6-0, [13-11] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vaidehi-stops-pranjala-to-meet-zeel/article37930135.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two golds for Divyansh Panwar||Former world No. 1 Divyansh Singh Panwar won the men’s and junior air rifle gold — beating Rudrankksh Patil in both events — in the 64th National shooting championship in Bhopal on Friday. Divyansh topped the qualification with 630.3 before beating Rudrankksh by 0.7 point for the gold with his last two shots of 10.6 in the 24-shot final. Divyansh was 0.2 point ahead of Rudrankksh in qualification. Hriday Hazarika beat Shahu Tushar Mane and Paarth Makhija to the bronze medal. Ranavir Katkar, Gokul Raj and Srinjoy Datta were the others to make the final. Deepak Kumar (626.4) and Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar (626.2) missed the final and finished 10th and 12th respectively. Former national champion Ravi Kumar shot 623.7 to be placed 52nd. World Cup gold medallist Akhil Sheoran (623.4) and Olympian Sanjeev Rajput (623.0) were 57th and 64th respectively. For the junior gold, Divyansh beat Rudrankksh with a better margin of one point. His last two shots were 10.6 once again.   The results: At Bhopal: 10m air rifle: Men: 1. Divyansh Singh Panwar 250.0 (630.3); 2. Rudrankksh Patil 249.3 (630.1); 3. Hriday Hazarika 228.2 (628.6).   Juniors: 1. Divyansh 252.2 (630.3); 2. Rudrankksh 251.2 (630.1); 3. Paarth Makhija 229.9.   Youth: 1. Keval Prajapati 252.1 (626.3); 2. Rudrankksh 250.4 (630.1); 3. Sri Karthik Sabari Raj 229.2 (626.1).   Sub-youth: 1. Parth Mane 625.7; 2. Abhinav Shaw 623.9; 3. Aryansingh Thakur 620.9.   At Patalia: Trap mixed team: 1. Madhya Pradesh (Aakash Kushwaha, Pragati Dubey) 42 (132); 2. Haryana (Lakshay Sheoran, Bhavya Chaudhary) 37 (131); 3. Tamil Nadu (Prithviraj Tondaiman, Nivetha Nenthirasigamani) 45 (131); 4. Rajasthan (Manavaditya Rathore, Anushka Bhati) 37 (127).   Juniors: 1. Delhi (Kabir Sharma, Aadya Tripathi) 39 (126); 2. Uttar Pradesh (Shardul Vihan, Sabeera Haris) 38 (131); 3. Rajasthan (Vivaan Kapoor, Harshita Chandrawat) 31 (120); 4. Madhya Pradesh (Divyansh Thakur, Preeti Rajak) 30 (124) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/two-golds-for-divyansh-panwar/article37929805.ece
11 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Double for Divya||Divya Ungrish won a double crown in the AITA Championship series junior tennis tournament at the Master Mind Academy, Khera Khurd, on Friday. Divya beat Riddhima Mishra 2-6, 6-2, 6-2 for the singles title. She partnered Geetarthi Gaba for the doubles title. The boys’ title was bagged by Ashish Kukreja, as he beat Ayush Sharma in three sets in the final. Sharma won the doubles title with Shashwat Gulati.  The results: Under-18: Boys: Final: Ashish Kukreja bt Ayush Sharma 4-6, 6-4, 6-2; Semifinals: Ayush bt Shashwat Gulati 6-1, 6-4; Ashish bt Tarun Kapoor 6-1, 6-0.   Doubles: Final: Ayush Sharma & Shashwat Gulati bt Shubham Sehrawat & Ashish Kukreja 1-6, 6-4, [10-8].   Under-18: Girls: Final: Divya Ungrish bt Riddhima Mishra 2-6, 6-2, 6-2; Semifinals: Divya bt Somya Arya 6-4, 6-4; Riddhima bt Geetarthi Gaba 6-2, 6-3.   Doubles: Final: Divya Ungrish & Geetarthi Gaba bt Riddhima Mishra & Shraddha 6-1, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/double-for-divya/article37929807.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Super sub Jonathas does it for Odisha||Odisha FC got back to winning ways with a 1-0 victory over NorthEast United FC in the Indian Super League at the Tilak Maidan Stadium in Vasco on Friday. Odisha’s key striker Jonathas Cristian, returning from injury, started on the bench before pairing up with fellow substitute Thoiba Singh to head the ball into the gaping net in the 81st minute. For Odisha, the first opportunity came in the 17th minute when Aridai Suarez’s free kick rattled the post. However, the first half belonged to NEUFC which went on the attack right from the start. With Deshorn Brown back, Khalid Jamil’s side produced shot after shot. It had 13 compared to two from Odisha at the end of the opening period. In the second session, Odisha coach Kiko Ramirez decided to shift gears and replaced Lindon Krasniqi with Jonathas. That turned the tide in the team’s favour. Khalid Jamil’s NEUFC, debilitated in the absence of midfield talisman Federico Gallego, tried to press up the field, but it was all in vain. Brown’s multiple shots flew off target and Coureur’s key miss in the 62nd minute cost NEUFC dear as Jonathas’ strike gave Odisha full points and NEUFC its third defeat.   The result: Odisha FC 1 (Jonathas 81) bt NEUFC 0.   Today’s matches: ATK Mohun Bagan vs Chennaiyin FC (7.30 p.m.); FC Goa vs Bengaluru FC (9.30 p.m.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/super-sub-jonathas-does-it-for-odisha/article37929649.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||Marin pulls out of Worlds||Three-time champion shuttler Carolina Marin’s much-awaited return to competitive action got further delayed as she pulled out of the World Championship after failing to regain fitness following a knee injury.  She had announced her plans of making a comeback at the home Worlds beginning in Huelva, Spain. “I was having a really good season start, I had won four tournaments out of five. I was feeling very confident, strong and in a good physical and psychological condition until just one bad movement broke my knee completely,” Marin said in a video posted in her Twitter handle. “Therefore my team and myself have decided not to play the Huelva World Championship.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/marin-pulls-out-of-worlds/article37929798.ece
11 December 2021||BENGALURU:,||Bellator well prepared||Bellator, who has been well prepared, is expected to score in the Kanteerava Cup the main event of the races to be held here on Saturday (Dec 11) False rails will be announced on race day.  DARE TO DREAM PLATE (1,600m), rated 00 to 25, 4-y-o & over, 2.00 p.m.: 1. Tall Girl (5) Mark 61, 2. Cinco De Mayo (10) Darshan 60.5, 3. Gazebo Talk (9) S. Saqlain 60, 4. My Vision (7) Nazerul 60, 5. Arabian Mist (4) S. John 59.5, 6. Kings Speech (3) Neeraj 59.5, 7. Niche Cannabis (8) Rayan Ahmed 57.5, 8. Dream Chaser (11) P. Surya 57, 9. Eco Friendly (6) P. Sai Kumar 55.5, 10. Happy Dancing (2) B. Nayak 55.5 and 11. Marvellous Maggi (1) Md. Habeeb 53.  1. CINCO DE MAYO,   2. KINGS SPEECH,   3. ECO FRIENDLY   TOROLOCO PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 2.30: 1. Recall Of You (1) Suraj Narredu 60, 2. Ocean Dunes (7) Antony Raj 56, 3. Apollo Light (6) P. Surya 55, 4. Gunmaster (3) P. Mani 55, 5. Mega Success (5) Vivek 55, 6. Kimetto (2) Rajesh Kumar 54.5, 7. Compliance (4) S. Shareef 53.5, 8. Memorable Time (8) S. Saqlain 53.5 and 9. Raven Rock (9) P. Sai Kumar 53.5.  1. RECALL OF YOU, 2. OCEAN DUNES, 3. MEGA SUCCESS   SUN ABSOLUTE PLATE (1,600m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3.00: 1. Alexis Zorba (7) Arshad 57, 2. Devils Magic (5) Neeraj 57, 3. Exalted Dream (2) Darshan 57, 4. Limited Edition (4) Anjar Alam 57, 5. Lantana (1) Antony Raj 55.5, 6. Mark One (6) P.P. Dhebe 55.5, 7. Super Ruffian (8) S. Shareef 55.5 and 8. Wonder Wench (3) Rayan Ahmed 55.5.  1. DEVILS MAGIC, 2. LANTANA,   3. LIMITED EDITION   TOROLOCO PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m) rated 20 to 45, 3.30: 1. Baltimore (2) S. John 60, 2. Knight In Hooves (3) Suraj Narredu 60, 3. Bold Move (7) Salman Khan 58.5, 4. Flamingo Road (6) Antony Raj 56.5, 5. Pastiche (8) Kiran Rai 55.5, 6. Ultimate Speed (5) Darshan 54, 7. Brichwood (1) B. Nayak 53.5 and 8. Emeraldo (4) Md. Habeeb 53.5.  1. KNIGHT IN HOOVES, 2. FLAMINGO ROAD, 3. BALTIMORE   KANTEERAVA CUP (1,400m), rated 60 to 85, 4.00: 1. Psychic Warrior (5) S. John 60, 2. Colonel Harty (6) Rajesh Kumar 56.5, 3. Velocidad (1) Darshan 55.5, 4. Bellator (3) Akshay Kumar 55, 5. Priceless Gold (4) Yash 55 and 6. Southern Ruler (2) Kiran Rai 52.5.  1. BELLATOR, 2. PRICELESS GOLD   CIELO REY PLATE (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, 4.30: 1. Hokkaido (7) Shreyas Singh 60, 2. Regal Music (9) Vishal Bunde 58.5, 3. Indian Pharaoh (3) R. Marshall 58, 4. Donna Bella (8) S. Shareef 55.5, 5. Miniver Rose (1) P. Surya 55.5, 6. Griffin (5) Salman Khan 55, 7. The Response (6) Arvind Kumar 55, 8. Osiris (4) Ajeet Kumar 54 and 9. Perfect Rendition (2) Dhanu Singh 52.5.  1. PERFECT RENDITION,   2. GRIFFIN, 3. HOKKAIDO   AGOSTINI PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o & over, 5.00: 1. Mohican (1) A. Qureshi 62.5, 2. Fictioneer (5) Chethan K 57.5, 3. Caracas (12) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 4. Copper Sunrise (7) R. Marshall 55.5, 5. See My Heels (10) Yash 55.5, 6. Amazonite (8) Salman Khan 53, 7. Ultimate Striker (2) Darshan 53, 8. Gold Gray (11) Arvind Kumar 52, 9. Tenali (6) Dhanu Singh 52, 10. Flaming Orange (4) Ajeet Kumar 51.5, 11. Hafnium (3) Arshad 51 and 12. Lightning Attack (9) Md. Habeeb 50.5.  1. CARACAS, 2. TENALI,   3. MOHICAN  Day’s best: RECALL OF YOU  Double: KNIGHT IN HOOVES - BELLATOR  Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7; Treble: 2, 3 & 4; (ii); 5, 6 & 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bellator-well-prepared/article37929677.ece
11 December 2021||BENGALURU:,||Eternal Blaze claims Bangalore 1000 Guineas||S. Ganapathy trained Eternal Blaze (C.S. Jodha Up) won the Bangalore 1000 Guineas, the chief event of the races held here on Friday (Dec 10). The winner is owned by Mr. M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar Of Chettinad Charitable Trust rep. by A.C. Muthiah. Trainer Prasanna Kumar won three races for the day. C.S. Jodha, who rode confidently, kept his filly fourth or fifth till the home stretch, and started manoeuvring his mount in the last 400m. Eternal Blaze accelerated tremendously and galloped with giant strides to pip the leader Moon’s Blessing on post.  The results   1. KRISHNA PLATE (Div. III), (1,200m), rated 00 to 25: RIGHTLY NOBLE (Saddam H) 1, Top News (Tousif Khan) 2, Florencia (Salman Khan) 3 and Prime Star (J.H. Arul) 4. Not run: Quick Shots. 1-1/2, Nk and 1/2. 1m 17.44s. Rs. 36 (w), 15, 17 and 18 (p), SHP: 39, THP: 55, FP: 203, Q: 76, Trinella: 268 and 125, Exacta: 1,378 and 709. Favourite: Areca Angel. Owners: Mr. Tatineni Prasad Rao, Mr. R. Shiva Shankar & Mr. M. Satyanarayana. Trainer: B. Prithviraj.  2. FRANKEL PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): SIEGE PERILOUS (Dhanu Singh) 1, Tactical Command (Darshan) 2, Pink Jasmine (Akshay K) 3 and Only You (Neeraj) 4. 1-3/4, 3-1/2 and 1-1/2. 1m 27.54s. Rs. 12 (w), 10, 15 and 13 (p), SHP: 37, THP: 31, FP: 56, Q: 42. Trinella: 97 and 36, Exacta: 154 and 72. Favourite: Siege Perilous. Owners: Mr. P. Prasanna Kumar, Mr. Gaurav Kapur, Mrs. Ammu Ajit & Mr. Dean Stephens. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  3. KRISHNA PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 00 to 25: EMBOSOM (Shreyas Singh) 1, Beautiful Oblivian (Vishal Bunde) 2, Chisox (J.H. Arul) 3 and Commandpost (H.M. Akshay) 4. 1/2, 2-3/4 and Nose. 1m 16.00s. Rs. 43 (w), 17, 23 and 12 (p), SHP: 67, THP: 48, FP: 460, Q: 257, Trinella: 758 and 234, Exacta: 2,309 and 1,154. Favourite: Chisox. Owners: Mr. P. Prasanna Kumar & Mr. K. Manoj Kumar. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  4. SEATTLE SLEW PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): EVALDO (Akshay K) 1, Prince Abir (P.S. Chouhan) 2, Muirfield (Antony) 3 and Analect (Darshan) 4. 2-3/4, 3-1/4 and Nk. 1m 14.36s. Rs. 15 (w), 11, 16 and 11 (p), SHP: 46, THP: 39, FP: 97, Q: 79, Trinella: 156 and 46, Exacta: 335 and 155. Favourite: Evaldo. Owners: Mr. K. Manoj Kumar & Mrs. Gaja Manoj. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  5. CHIEF MINISTER’S TROPHY (2,000m), 3-y-o & over, (Terms): AUTOMATIC (A. Qureshi) 1, Pissarro (Akshay K) 2, Silvarius (Antony) 3 and Speedster (Yash) 4. 1/2, 1 and Snk. 2m 07.68s. Rs. 55 (w), 19 and 23 (p), SHP: 30, THP: 30, FP: 222, Q: 111, Trinella: 641 and 253, Exacta: 1,741 and 918. Favourite: Silvarius. Owners: Mr. D. Shailesh Shivaswamy, Mr. P. Ashwin Pai, Mr. K. Ravi & Mr. Sudarshan M. Raju. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala.  6. BANGALORE 1000 GUINEAS (1,600m), 3-y-o Indian Fillies (Terms): ETERNAL BLAZE (Multidimensional - Majestic Opinion) C.S. Jodha 1. Moon’s Blessing (Win Legend - Stimulate) Suraj 2, Medora (Multidimensional - Blue Sky) P.S. Chouhan 3 and Pecanwood (Win Legend - Woodberg) Yash 4. Nk, 1/2 and Lnk. 1m 39.21s. Rs. 53 (w), 20, 17 and 14 (p), SHP: 43, THP: 52, FP: 368, Q: 149, Trinella: 389 and 176, Exacta: 2,589 and 1,823. Favourite: Medora. Owner: Mr. M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar Of Chettinad Charitable Trust rep. by A.C. Muthiah. Trainer: S. Ganapathy.  7. CHITRADURGA PLATE (1,400m) rated 40 to 65, 4-y-o & over: THE SOVEREIGN ORB (Akshay K) 1, First Impression (Antony) 2, Peluche (A. Imran Khan) 3 and Dr Logan (S. Shareef) 4. 3-3/4, 2-3/4 and 2-1/2. 1m 26.84s. Rs. 12 (w), 11, 14 and 15 (p), SHP: 25, THP: 36, FP: 24, Q: 25, Trinella: 76 and 48, Exacta: 694 and 495. Favourite: The Sovereign Orb. Owners: Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt Ltd rep by. Mr. Zavary S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy, Mr. Chaduranga Kanthraj Urs & Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  8. KRISHNA PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 00 to 25: GALATICAL (J.H. Arul) 1, Zhu Zhu Zest (S. Saqlain) 2, The Inheritor (L.A. Rozario) 3 and Country’s Jewel (H.M. Akshay) 4. 2-1/2, 3/4 and 2-3/4. 1m 15.30s. Rs. 63 (w), 19, 107 and 14 (p), SHP: 274, THP: 65, FP: 2,034, Q: 1,483, Trinella: 5,607 and 4,806, Exacta: 66,028. Favourite: Impeccable. Owners: Mr. Rajan Aggarwal, Mr. Gautam Aggarwal & Mr. Sultan Singh. Trainer: Arjun Mangalorkar. Jackpot: Rs. 4,976 (10 tkts); Runner-up: 257 (83 tkts); Treble (i): 407 (16 tkts); (ii): 287 (35 tkts).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eternal-blaze-claims-bangalore-1000-guineas/article37929680.ece
11 December 2021||PUNE,||Saheb, Shruti make summit clashes||Saheb Sodhi and Shruti Ahlawat kept the Indian hopes alive as they reached the boys’ and girls’ finals respectively in the Aryan Pumps ITF Asian junior tennis championships on Friday. Saheb defeated second seed Nishant Dabas 1-6, 6-3, 7-6(3) to set up a title clash against fifth seed Max Batyutenko of Kazakhstan, who beat Chirag Duhan in straight sets. Third-seeded Shruti downed sixth seed Hayu Kinoshita of Japan for the loss of six games to set up a final against Sara Saito of Japan, who surprised second seed Yu-Yun Li of Chinese Taipei. Tanapatt Nirundorn and Woobin Shin won the boys doubles title beating the home combination of Nishant and Chirag. Suhitha Maruri partnered Sandugash Kenzhibayeva of Kazakhstan to bag the girls doubles title.  The results: Boys (semifinals): Max Batyutenko (Kaz) bt Chirag Duhan 6-3, 6-4; Saheb Sodhi bt Nishant Dabas 1-6, 6-3, 7-6(3).   Doubles (final): Tanapatt Nirundorn (Tha) & Woobin Shin (Kor) bt Nishant Dabas & Chirag Duhan 2-6, 6-3, [10-4].   Girls (semifinals): Shruti Ahlawat bt Hayu Kinoshita (Jpn) 6-4, 6-2; Sara Saito (Jpn) bt Yu-Yin Li (Tpe) 6-3, 6-4.   Doubles (final): Sandugash Kenzhibayeva (Kaz) & Suhitha Maruri bt Erkezhan Arystanbekova & Zhanel Rustemova (Kaz) 6-4, 2-6, [10-8] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saheb-shruti-in-finals/article37929687.ece
11 December 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Hamilton tops the charts in practice||Lewis Hamilton’s quest to make Formula One history at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix began brightly with the Mercedes driver topping the timesheets after Friday’s opening practice. Hamilton, chasing an unprecedented eighth World title, goes into Sunday’s season-ending race level on points with Max Verstappen. And it was the Dutch title contender who was quickest out of the blocks at the Yas Marina circuit, taking the honours in the morning session. Hamilton, placed third, turned the tables under floodlights in second practice with a 1m 23.691s lap to get his weekend off to an encouraging start. “It doesn’t feel too bad,” said Hamilton.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamilton-tops-the-charts-in-practice/article37929641.ece
11 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Sathish to lead||J. Sathish will lead the Tamil Nadu men’s team for the Senior National hockey championships to be held in Pune from December 11 to 22. At a function here on Friday, Siva V Meyyanathan, Sports Minister handed over the kits to the players and felicitated them.  Other members: V. Shanmugam, N. Senthil Kumar, M. Dhanush, H. Shyam Kumar, G. M. Pruthvi, N. Ramesh, S. Silver Stalin, R.T. Raghuram, Joshua Benedict Wesley, A. Senthamizh Arasu, M. Arun Prasadh (GKs), S. Mareeswaran, C. Dinesh Kumar, P. Shanmugam, D. Muthu Selvan, S. Karthi, A. Sundarapandiyan.   Head coach: Charles Dixon; Assistant Coach: Muthukumaran; Manager: D. Clement Lurduraj .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sathish-to-lead/article37929723.ece
11 December 2021||BENGALURU:,||Gujarat emerges BCCI u-25 champion||Gujarat beat Punjab by six wickets in the final to win the BCCI under-25 State-A trophy at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium here on Friday.  The scores: Punjab 143 in 39.1 overs (Naman Dhir 30, K.R. Patel 3/35) lost to Gujarat 145/4 in 30 overs (Urvil Patel 31, Smit Patel 34, M.A. Hingrajia 30 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gujarat-emerges-bcci-u-25-champion/article37929682.ece
11 December 2021||Mysuru:,||Karthik, Gowtham and Dheeraj shine||S.U. Karthik (119, 13x4, 4x6), Gowtham Sagar (six for 27) and Dheeraj S. Urs (six for 29) enabled Saraswathipuram SC register an innings and 97-run win over MUCSC in the two-day KSCA Mysore Zone first division league match at the S.D.N.R. Wadayar Platinum Jubilee University grounds on Wednesday and Thursday.  The scores: MUCSC 99 in 36 overs (Sunil Kumar Jain 31, P. Prajwal 31 n.o., Gowtham Sagar 6/27, S. Ankith 3/12) & 50 in 19 overs (Dheeraj S. Urs 6/29) lost to Saraswathipuram SC 246 in 44.2 overs (S.U. Karthik 119, Ashun Kumar Shetty 46 n.o., P. Prajwal 3/64); Points: Saraswathipuram SC, 5 points, MUCSC, -1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karthik-gowtham-and-dheeraj-shine/article37930113.ece
11 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||New beginning||India’s chief National badminton coach P. Gopi Chand formally launched the MK’s Mukesh Kumar Hockey Academy at Delhi Public School (Nadergul) near here on Friday Gopi hoped that the experience and expertise of triple Olympian Mukesh, combined with the patronage of the DPS management, should go a long way in unearthing young talent. “I am sure the academy will produce many players who will go to places,” he said. Komaraiah said they were pleased in joining hands with Mukesh and hoped it would be a new beginning in state hockey. Mukesh assured that he would continue to give his best and live up to the expectations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-beginning/article37929930.ece
11 December 2021||Melbourne,||Barty returns to action in Adelaide||Ashleigh Barty will return to action for the first time in four months at Adelaide in January while Naomi Osaka and Rafael Nadal kick-start their Australian Open build-up in Melbourne, officials said on Friday. Barty hasn’t played since a shock third-round loss at the US Open in September, but the Australian still finished 2021 as World No. 1 after a season in which she won five titles. The reigning Wimbledon champion headlines an Adelaide International field that boasts nine of the world’s top 10 women, including Iga Swiatek, who will be defending her title. Former World No. 1s Garbine Muguruza, Karolina Pliskova and Victoria Azarenka are also entered for the January 2-9 event, along with World No. 2 Aryna Sabalenka. Kontaveit skips The only top 10 player missing in Adelaide will be seventh-ranked Estonian Anett Kontaveit. Defending Australian Open champion Osaka, who has slipped to 13 in the world, will play at the Melbourne Summer Set event from January 3-9, which features simultaneous women’s and men’s tournaments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barty-returns-to-action-in-adelaide/article37929797.ece
11 December 2021||Naples,||Thrilling win for Napoli||Napoli earned a thrilling 3-2 home win over Leicester City on Thursday to reach the Europa League knockout stages as Group C runner-up behind Spartak Moscow. Spartak won 1-0 at Legia Warsaw to secure an automatic last-16 berth while Napoli faces a playoff against one of the third-placed teams in the Champions League dropping into Europe’s second-tier competition after the winter break. Real Sociedad also booked a playoff berth as it finished runners-up in Group B thanks to a 3-0 home win over PSV Eindhoven which took the Spanish side above the 1988 European Cup winner. Mikel Oyarzabal fired Sociedad ahead with a 43rd-minute penalty and added the second before Alexander Soerloth netted in stoppage time to complete a comfortable victory.  Important results:   Group B: Real Sociedad 3 (Oyarzabal 43-pen, 62, Sorloth 90+3) bt PSV Eindhoven 0; Sturm Graz 1 (Jantscher 7-pen) drew with Monaco 1 (Volland 30).   Group C: Legia Warsaw 0 lost to Spartak Moscow 1 (Bakaev 17); Napoli 3 (Ounas 4, Elmas 24, 53) bt Leicester 2 (Evans 27, Dewsbury-Hall 33).   Group E: Lazio 0 drew with Galatasaray 0; Marseille 1 (Milik 35) bt Lokomotiv Moscow 0.   Group G: Celtic 3 (Welsh 3, Henderson 52, Turnbull 78-pen) bt Real Betis 2 (Bain 69-og, Borja 75); Ferencvaros 1 (Laidouni 82) bt Bayer Leverkusen 0.   Group H: Genk 0 lost to Rapid Vienna 1 (Ljubicic 29); West Ham 0 lost to Dinamo Zagreb 1 (Orsic 4) .    Qualified teams for knockout stages   Group winners: Lyon, Monaco, Spartak Moscow, Eintracht Frankfurt, Galatasaray, Red Star Belgrade, Bayer Leverkusen, West Ham United  Runners-up: Rangers, Real Sociedad, Napoli, Olympiakos, Lazio, Braga, Real Betis, Dinamo Zagreb  Dropped out of Champions League: RB Leipzig, Porto, Borussia Dortmund, Sheriff Tiraspol, Barcelona, Atalanta, Sevilla, Zenit Saint Petersburg||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/napoli-wins-thriller-against-leicester/article37929985.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Gaurav in good nick||Gaurav S. Upadhyaya top-scored with 99 as City Gymkhana chased down Blue Diamond Cricketers’ 277-run target with two wickets to spare in the KSCA (Group I) fourth division league-cum-knockout tournament.  The scores: YFA SC 176 in 38.2 overs (Sharan 41, G. Prasanna 54, Jayant Sagar 26 n.o, Sudhakar Reddy 3/36, Vinod Ravi 3/32) lost to Jayanagar United Cricketers 154/2 in 30 overs (Shaibal Mitra 27, Tejaswy Kolchippu 58 n.o., Sundar 40 n.o.) [Jayanagar won on better run-rate after match was interrupted by rain].   Young Challenging Cricketers 170/6 in 20 overs (Aarush Mehrotra 45, R. Darshan 50, V.P. Neeraj 27) bt Elite Blues CC 105/9 in 20 overs (V. Saatwik 3/21) [Match revised to 20 overs per side owing to rain].   Blue Diamond Cricketers 276/8 in 50 overs (Onkar Prasad 66, K.C. Avinash 91, Vinod Munikrishna 34) lost to City Gymkhana 279/8 in 50 overs (Gaurav S. Upadhyaya 99, N. Nandan Gowda 61, Chandrashekar 34 n.o., S.L. Akshay 4/49).   Whirlwind Cricketers 232/9 in 50 overs (Prajwal P.Gowda 32, Gyan Somaiah 50, K.P. Karthikeya 53, K.V. Bharat 33, Atharv Shukla 3/28, Rohan Desai 4/52) bt Vijaya CC (Malur) 226 in 46.4 overs (Mithul 34, Nischal Das 90 n.o., Dhruv Dimri 41, S. Abhishek 4/32).   Wadiyar CC 129 in 37.4 overs (Raghavendra Eswar Rao 5/32, H.R. Pradeep Kumar 3/10) lost to Sparklers CC 132/3 in 30.1 overs (B. Vijay Prakash 58 n.o.).   BEL Colony RC 106 in 25.4 overs (T. Chinmay 25, S. Ashwin Ram 27, P. Kushan Raj Kumar 4/31, Prashant Hosamani 3/24) lost to Indiranagar Cricketers 107/3 in 17.3 overs (P. Narendra 26, B. Ajay 32 n.o.).   South End SC 283 in 44 overs (K. Mahesh 32, Karan Jhadav 73, Nirmith 105 n.o. M.B. Naveen 4/64, S. Saravanan 3/53) bt Palar SC, Kolar 266 in 48 overs (Abu 75, Amit Kumar Pandey 71, Sushil Naresh Vanjani 43, P. Kiran Kumar 3/32, Shabarish P. Mohan 3/43) [Target revised to 272 in 48 overs due to rain].    Bengaluru FC thrashed ADE FC 7-1 in the BDFA Super Divison League at the Bangalore Football Stadium.  The results: BFC 7 (Rahul Rajui 2, 36, Lal Remtulanga 10, Edwin Rossorio 35, Manick Haldar (OG) 45+2, Lalthangalina 51, Yaiphathoi 90) bt ADE FC 1 (Sachin 65); Jawahar Union FC 4 (I. Lijith 44, Arun Suresh 72, Syed Shiyas 76, Michael Gabreal 90+3) bt Deccan 0; FC Bengaluru United 1 (Luka Majcen 84) bt Kickstart FC 0 .    Arjun scored in the 88th minute as North East Youth FC held Bangalore Champs to a 2-2 draw in the KSFA Youth Premier League.  The result: Bangalore Champs 2 (Dhruv 59, Priyam 63) drew with North East Youth FC 2 (Harish 29, Arjun 88).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gaurav-in-good-nick/article37929681.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Abhiram, Nirali win titles||Abhiram Nilake and Nirali Padaniya won the under-16 boys and girls singles titles in the AITA national-ranking tennis tournament at the Sania Mirza Tennis Academy on Friday. Abhiram defeated D. Trishant Reddy 3-6, 7-6(3), 6-3 in the boys final while Nirali put it across D. Laxmi Siri 6-3, 3-6, 6-3 in the girls’ final. Sania gave away the prizes.  The results (all finals):   Boys: U-14: Advil Natekar bt Abhiram Nilake 6-3, 6-2; U-16: Abhiram Nilake bt D. Trishant Reddy 3-6, 7-6(3), 6-3.   Girls: U-14: Vennela Reddy bt Sejal Bhutada 6-7(3), 6-3, 6-3.   U-16: Nirali Padaniya bt D. Laxmi Siri 6-3, 3-6, 6-3; Doubles: K. Asin & Sejal Bhutada bt Devanshi Prabhudesai & Siya Prasade 6-4, 3-6, [10-8] .    Md. Waheed defeated C.V. Anand 4-6, 6-1, 10-6 in the 45 years & above singles quarterfinals of the 25th GVK-AISTA senior National (veterans) tennis championship at the L.B. Stadium tennis complex here on Friday.  The results:   35 & above: Quarterfinals: Santosh Malik bt Y. Suresh 6-1, 6-2; Sunil Harry bt Vijay Verma 6-3, 6-3; G. Raja bt Govardhan 6-3, 6-3; Dastagiri bt Narasimhulu 7-6(8), 5-7, 10-7.   Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Vijay Anand & Afroz bt Ramesh & Prashant 6-1, 6-0; Madhusudhan & G. Raja bt Vijay Varma & Santosh Malik 1-6, 6-0, 6-3; Sankarnaidu & Kabeer Nunavath bt Konda Reddy & K. Ravi Kumar 7-6(5), 6-3; Sunil Harry & Vijay Kumar bt Bhaskar Rao & T. Laxman 6-0, 6-0; Govardhan & Shashikanth bt V. Prakash & D. Chandrasekhar 6-1, 6-2; Ataullah & Dastagiri bt Srihari & Pradeep Kumar 3-6, 6-4, 11-9.   45 & above: Quarterfinals: Manikandan bt B.G. Nagesh 6-0, 6-1; Md. Waheed bt C.V. Anand 4-6, 6-1, 10-6; Armugam bt P. Sudheer Reddy 6-2, 6-2; K.V.N. Murthy bt Babu Raja 6-1, 6-1. Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: K.V.N. Murthy & Armugam bt A. Srinivas Rao & Brojen Kumar 6-2, 6-3; S. Subramaniam & D. Manish bt N. Senthil Kumar & C. Subramaniam 6-1, 6-4; B. Mahesh & G. Ramesh bt Uday & Vijay Roy 4-6, 6-3, 10-6; R. Manikandan & S. Ramesh bt T. Ravinder & Shiva Shanmugam 6-3, 6-1; M.S. Kiran & G. Kannan bt G.S. Rajkumar & B.G. Nagesh 6-4, 6-4; C.V. Anand & Md. Waheed bt Srikanth Kaza & Satyanarayana 6-7(3), 6-1, 10-8; J.V. Ramana & Venkateshwarlu bt Suhas & Ajay 3-6, 6-4, 10-6; N. Babu Raja & Sudheer Reddy bt Natraj Radha Krishna & Sk. Saleem 6-1, 6-2.   55 & above: V. Srinivas Reddy bt Ch. Sudhakar 7-6(5), 6-0; S. Meghanandan bt G. Prabhanjan Reddy 6-2, 6-3; Basappa bt Paul Manohar 6-2, 6-3; R.N. Ramesh bt Pema Sherpa 6-0, 6-0. Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: V. Srinivas Reddy & R.N. Ramesh bt S. Meghanandan & Lohit Kumar 6-0, 6-1; S. Nagendra Babu & L. Kumar bt A. Ravichandran & I.V.R. Rao 7-5, 6-2; R.S. Rawat & Keshava Prasad bt K.P. Rao & Madhusudhan Rao 6-0, 6-0; A. Venkateshwarlu & Ramesh Babu bt Nazeeruddin & D. Ravi Shanker 6-1,7-5; Sekhar & Venkatachalam bt Phal Chandra & Penchalaiah 3-6, 6-2, 10-8; Anand & T. Srinivas bt Viswanath Ramu & Sashi 6-0, 6-1; S. Manmadha Rao & Paul Manohar bt G. Arvind & Krishna Reddy 6-2, 6-1.   65 & above: Semifinals: Ghate bt N. Sudhakar Reddy 6-4, 6-0; K.S.R. Mohan Rao bt Radha Krishna Murthy 3-6, 6-1, 10-3.   Doubles: Quarterfinals: S. Settu & Sanyasi Raju bt M. Joel Kumar & Vijay Kumar 6-2, 6-2; B.S. Tulasi Ram & Dhananjeyulu bt Shanker Bikanna & Bhasker Raju 7-5, 6-2; B.G. Reddy & V. Rajagopalan bt Razzak & Madhusudhan Rao 7-5, 3-6, 10-8; V. Gajapathy & V. Parthasarathy bt C. Seshai Sai & Balaramaiah 6-3, 6-0.   70 & above: Semifinals: Sanyasi Raju bt Vijay Kumar 6-2, 6-2; S. Settu bt V. Dhananjeyulu 6-1, 6-2.   Doubles: Quarterfinals: D.S. Rao & Adisesha Reddy bt N. Sudhakar Reddy & C.B.S. Vara Prasad 6-3, 6-3; B.A. Prasad & D.S.N. Raju bt Y.V. Ramakrishna & Y. Bhasker Rao 6-3, 6-4 .    Top seed Anant Shivam Jindal of Jwala Gutta Academy of Excellence defeated Siddhartha of Asian Academy 15-8, 15-6 in the men’s singles pre-quarterfinals of the Jwala Open badminton tournament at the JGAE on Friday.  The results:   Pre-quarterfinals: Men: Anant Shivam Jindal (JGAE) bt Siddhartha (Asian) 15-8, 15-6; Kabir Verma (JGAE) bt Sai Rishwanth Lade (VBA) 15-7, 15-9; P. Lauhit (KBA) bt Mridul Jha (JGAE) 15-7, 15-7; Dhruv Bansal (JGAE) bt Sathish Kumar (PGBA) 15-7, 15-11; Ayushman Nandi (Asian) bt Ayush Kishor Sadawarti (KAYANS) 15-5, 15-12; Chirag Seth (JGAE) bt Pranav Samala (VBA) 15-9,13-15, 15-6; Prabhu Kannan (JGAE) bt Martin Thomas Rebello (JGAE) 15-13, 15-13; Aditya Gupta (JGAE) by S. Saharsh Reddy (PGBA)) 15-7, 15-8.   Girls: A. Abhilasha (JGAE) bt H. Aaradhya Reddy (KAYANS) 15-8, 15-6; Prutha Dekate (Hyd) bt T. Amatul Malik (Hyd) 15-11, 15-6; M. Tejaswini (SSBA) bt Vedika Siddheshware (JGAE) 15-11, 13-15, 15-6; Vaibhavi Singh (JGAE) by Y. Naimisha Chowdary (A Zone) 15-13, 15-8; Nupur Wadhwa (GBA) br Shravya Dande (Flying Lotus) 15-12,15-10; Shreya Lele (JGAE) bt Aikyada Gurav (Suchitra) 15-6, 15-3; Tanvi Kalyandurg (JGAE) bt Sudiksha Rajesh (JGAE) 15-10, 15-13; Ira Moteria (JGAE) bt Riya Patil (JGAE) 15-7, 15-17, 15-6 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhiram-nirali-win-titles/article37929928.ece
11 December 2021||KOLKATA,||India in the lead at Asia & ME bridge||The Indian team — Jaggy Shivdasani, Sumit Mukherjee, Debabrata Majumdar, Keyzad Anklesaria, R. Tiwari and Sandeep Thakral — led the field with 83.91 VPs after the first round of the 21st Asia and Middle East bridge championships on Friday. The UAE and Pakistan are second and third with 62.29 and 49.97 VPs. The top two teams from this online competition will qualify for the World bridge championship to be held in Italy in March.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-in-the-lead-at-asia-me-bridge/article37929800.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The word of God||In the Gita, Krishna clearly states that sastras ordain us to do only the right and avoid whatever is wrong, and hence they provide guidelines for the good conduct and welfare of all beings. This is solely for our own benefit and to help us to come out of our ignorance about the purpose of our lives in worldly existence, which is to be freed from samsara, pointed out Swami Vidyashankara Saraswati in a discourse. From the Upanishads that contain the revelations of many sages in meditation, it is clear that the Supreme Brahman is the Primordial Being who created Brahma in the beginning and also taught him the Vedas. He is the revealer of the knowledge of the Self and is the refuge for all those who desire to seek liberation. The Vedas are deemed as the very word of God. They are held to ‘apaurusheya,’ not the work of any human being. They are His command, and their teachings are meant to be followed by all. Sastras give commands such as ‘speak the truth, uphold dharma, respect one’s parents, preceptor and guests, and so on. They also point out those actions to be avoided, such as speaking the untruth. If one abides by these commands one not only wins God’s approval but also is sure to progress in spiritual pursuit. Scriptural practices instil in us the spirit of service to God by reminding us that we are His servants. It is our fortune to be recipients of His grace, kindness and benevolence. But if one fails to follow the rules, it means he is ignoring the Lord Himself. He continues to be in samsara by yielding to desires. He develops the tendency to do what is not to be done and fails to do what ought to be done. Actions good and bad have their effects and are consolidated as each individual’s karma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/the-word-of-god/article37929600.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 07:29 IST,||Sudoku — December 11, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-11-2021/article37930263.ece
11 December 2021||Bharti Kher’s art show:,||Strange Attractors||As galleries across the country unveil in-person shows, this one at Delhi’s Nature Morte stands out. Featuring five years of the artist’s work, where she uses resin and saris to “freeze moments in time”, it includesCloak for MM, an homage to artist Mrinalini Mukherjee. AndKher’s Pieta, where she connects again with her mother. Till January 9. @naturemorte_delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/strange-attractors/article37930063.ece
11 December 2021||Vicky Kaushal-Katrina Kaif:,||Celebrity wedding||Had enough of the celebrity wedding no one got to know much about? Well, our social media influencers were on a roll: there was @ankushbahuguna’s reel about waiting for #vickat photos, and @dietsabya zooming in on the drones over the venue, Six Senses Fort Barwara. As for the hospitality brand, they couldn’t have asked for a better ‘promotional campaign’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/celebrity-wedding/article37930071.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||How to train your human||There’s a chance that some of you may adopt this weird species of dog. They don’t realise they’re dogs. Regrettably, they have very little smarts and zero instinct. Training them would test a Saint (Bernard). Nevertheless, it is faintly pawssible. You can’t teach an old dog new tricks. So, start with their babies who are cool and drool, move on fours and dribble from both ends. Sort of like us. But then they begin to grow up and grow dumber. They spend hours prettying up and finally use your pic as their DP. Start by showing them how to love themselves. They are supremely unhappy with their skins. They keep buying new ones on sales, which they soon get supremely unhappy with again. Now, show them how much we love our skin. Roll around and get fur all over the sofa. Especially before they have visitors. Watch them howl (in gratitude, surely?) from under the bed, just so you’re safe. Next teach them how to share. Turn your nose up at the boring food in your boring bowl. Tail whoever’s eating something yummy, stick your head on to their lap and drool copiously on to it. Make puppy eyes, too. Done! The snack is ours. That was easy. Train them to stay home and not wander. Who knows what dangers will befall these silly helpless things in this dog-eat-dog world? (Fake news — other dogs aren’t tasty). Kidnap one of their shoes. Hide it or decimate it into 23 pieces. Suitcases mean they’re leaving for days on end. Curl up inside so they carry you along. If they notice that one of their jackets has a tail, and chase you out, chew the handle off the traitorous turncoat suitcase. Show them how to talk and laugh with their tails. Oh, wait, the poor things don’t have one. Instead, they keep making complex sounds but no one understands each other, so they end up sitting only with their phones. Take them for a walk. Yes, they think they’re walking you – ha ha! Show them how to splash in puddles, charge around with your tongue lolling out, chase sunbeams, lift your leg at car tyres, lick lamp posts, slippers, doormats before licking each other’s faces. Life is beautailful, dog bless you! Wake them at midnight to warn them about a moth or a bad dream. Then, curl up near them to remind them that the future isn’t worth worrying about as long as you’re together. Show them how to live happily. They seem to have forgotten. To show gratitude and unconditional love. To frighten away the courier guy. To sleep right after a full meal and dream of another. Tempt them out of sad moods by inviting them to rub your tummy. Train them to be good dogs, even after they’ve just called you Bad Dog. Remember, you’ve always got to be the better man.  Where Jane De Suza, the author ofHappily Never After,   talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/how-to-train-your-human/article37930061.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Quirk factor||Nicobarhas gold-plated mandarin, walnut and pomegranate accent pieces for your tree.Rs. 750 onwards, nicobar.in.Meanwhile,Swarovski’s Annual Edition Ball Ornament is a fine reminder of 2021. The mouth-blown glass ball has a Christmas tree inside, and 2,000 gleaming crystals studded outside. Rs. 6,690. Or go green with Kochi-basedRouka by Sreejith Jeevan’sfabric leftovers as Xmas ornaments. Rs. 75 per piece in red, green, ivory and a mix of gold.shoprouka.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/quirk-factor/article37930062.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Mark the date||The year is almost a wrap, and one of the earliest2022calendarsoff the block is fromSahodaran.The annual fundraiser edition for the LGBT community,Euphony 2022, is themed around musical instruments. Rs. 1,500. @sunil_cher,9444966000.From Kozhikode comes artist and animatorRoshan Kurichiyanil’s colour-themed calendar for Rs. 499@lilorosh.And for images of handcrafted flowers and poems on your desktop, try the calendar by@bonheurgifts.Rs. 799.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mark-the-date/article37930064.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Theatre for real||Get your weekend theatre fix and some laughter with Potti Kadhai , a Tamil comedy by Chorus Theatre Group. At Sir Mutha Concert Hall. December 12, 7 p.m. Tickets Rs. 200-Rs. 300, 5oh9.com. Meanwhile, in Mumbai, theBombay Theatre Companywill stage its first post-pandemic physical play, The 6PM Struggler . The English one-act explores the relationship between one’s passion and profession.December 11-12, 7 p.m.Veda Factory, Versova.Tickets (Rs. 200) on insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/theatre-for-real/article37930065.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Holiday at Mandalay||An update for those planning year-end getaways. Luxury hotel chainPostcard Hotelsadds hotels inGoa and Kochito its list. ThePostcard Hideawayat Netravali is a 20-room property on 20 acres in the Western Ghats. But we are excited aboutMandalay Hallin Kochi. The 200-year-old structure in history-rich Mattancherry has been turned into a hotel by architect Tony Joseph, with curation by artistBose Krishnamachari. The five rooms, therefore, are ‘galleries’.postcardresort.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/holiday-at-mandalay/article37930066.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Fight station||Ultimate Fighting Championshipfans have a lot coming up this weekend. There is Charles Oliveira vs Dustin Poirier in the lightweight category, while Amanda Nunes fights Juliana Penas in the women’s bantam weight, and Geoff Neal meets Santiago Ponzinibbio. Decemebr 12.espn.in.Another sports star is also in the news, but for fashion. CricketerDwayne Bravo’slabelDjb47has put out a collection of tees, hoodies and joggers for the family. Rs. 1,000-Rs. 2,500. djb47.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/fight-station/article37930067.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Two gifting pop-ups||By Hand from the Heart’sThe Maker’s Marketreturns. Bengaluru’s Varnam Crafts Collective, Coimbatore’s Design Infinity, and others like Kannadi Mosaic, Oh Scrap, Callidsign, etc, will participate.December 11, 10-8 p.m.,Hanu Reddy Residences, Chennai.@byhandfromthe heart. Also stock up on breads, spiced hot chocolate and hand cut pasta at‘A Storybook Christmas’, a pop-upby Madras Finds.December 12, 11 a.m.-8 p.m.Folly Hall, Amethyst. @madrasfinds||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/two-gifting-pop-ups/article37930068.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The pet care boom during the pandemic||When a blind cat went missing in a Mumbai neighbourhood, the owners called Annukta Ganjoo, an animal communicator. With the help of a photograph, she connected telepathically with the animal and found the petrified feline on top of a concrete platform. The only clues to her location: a “mental image” of a well and five coconut trees. Searches came up empty, until someone recalled a well in the neighbouring colony. “And there, beside a garbage bin, she was sitting on a platform above a drainpipe. Next to her, five coconut trees,” Ganjoo tells me on a Saturday morning call. “These are the moments when I gain confidence in what I do,” she adds. Though she no longer takes on lost cases (“they drain me too much”), the pastry chef communes with dead animals and helps pet parents across the country decipher their companions’ needs. The same evening, I speak with Sai Charan, a Bengaluru-based software engineer. An animal lover and avid hiker, he became an animal communicator in April 2020 — inspired partly by a video on South African interspecies communicator Anna Breytenbach. He saw Breytenbach on YouTube, and wanted to connect with his pets (a cat, two dogs, three birds and a turtle). Since then, he has helped locate several lost pets (he gets four to five cases a week, both lost cases and others), and consults with animal rescue groups. When I call him, he’s just finished a mission. “A streetie that a rescuer was feeding went missing. Since they didn’t have a photo, I went to the location to communicate with the landscape, and I realised that the BBMP [the civic body] had picked him up for sterilisation. When we went to their office, he was there.” Quick, simple... and yes, mine are one of the many raised eyebrows that greet anecdotes like this.  Rise of the pet parent  But scepticism aside, animal communication is one of the many jobs that have been gaining popularity during the pandemic. As people stayed home, they adopted four-legged and feathered friends and exotic companions (everything from snakes, turtles and bearded dragons to Capuchin monkeys). This has led to a boom in pet care and pet-related services — much like the tech boom of 2020 — and shows no signs of flagging. “Pre-pandemic, pet care was just another business. But that’s not the case anymore,” says Ashish Anthony, founder of Ahmedabad-based Just Dogs. “It’s no longer cool to call someone a dog owner; they are pet parents.” And pet parents need a strong ecosystem to help them be one. So, there are new apps and labs popping up now, trainers and behaviourists, groomers and nutritionists, pet food deliveries and raw meat subscriptions. Aashish Mehrotra, who chronicles fun times with his pooches via #borktales on Instagram, is glad of this development. He adopted his second dog, Heidi, in April 2020. “She is a proper pandemic puppy,” he laughs. “Last year, she saw only two people [he and his partner Shweta]. Continued on page 4 Continued from page 1 “There were no people, not even doorbells ringing. Unlike her older sibling, Lucifer, she was very anxious to go out [for a walk, or to the vet],” Mehrotra adds. So last December, when Heidi fell ill, he didn’t want to cart her around town. He relied on an app, PetKonnect, that offered vet services online and also helped him with pet insurance. Since then, he’s kept his eyes peeled for other online Samaritans. Lizzy’s Delicious (@lizzys.delicious) is one such discovery. “It is like a dabba service for dogs. Started in November 2020, they offer lovely meals and flavours such as pork pumpkin apple, steak and vegetables, which is so different from what is available in the market.”  The Bengaluru effect  The more people I talk to, a pattern emerges. While start-ups are launching across the country — think Delhi-based DannyDoo Pupcakes (@dannydoopupcakes), which offers gluten/grain-free gourmet treats, or Mumbai’s Carni Kitchen (@carnikitchen that provides raw meat-based diet plans for dogs — the hub seems to be Bengaluru. All phone calls lead back to the city where pet boarders, groomers and trainers are mushrooming, and services such as dog walking (@bangaloredogwalkers) and dog sitting are picking up as people head back to the office. This isn’t surprising, says Anthony. “Because of the weather, it is the biggest breeding centre in India. It also has the highest pet penetration in the country.” Take Supertails. The four-month-old digital platform for pet care and supplies announced a pre-Series A funding round of $2.6 million in July (actor Deepika Padukone is an investor). The one-stop pet care platform — “which provides pet supplies along with high-quality digital services such as healthcare and online training” — aims to provide what’s “lacking in the lives of new pet parents”, co-founder Varun Sadana has been quoted as saying. A friend points me to other pandemic babies, such as Canine Craving, which offers 100% natural treats and chews. Though the company launched mid-2019, the pandemic was “the trigger”, says co-founder Sundeep Dhar. “We grew by 300%!” Dhar, a chef by education, had started developing supplements and raw treats because his dogs — Casius, a boxer, and Bailey, a golden cocker spaniel, both rescues — have several health problems. Later, he quit his job at Wipro, where he led the procurement service line, to take his home experiments to a national market. “During the pandemic, we saw a major shift. There was more awareness among pet parents as people began going online to research what’s good for their pet. They started breaking out of the mafia of Pedigree, Royal Canin and the like [still the big players in the Indian pet food market], and began moving towards a completely grain-free diet, which we champion.” (Proponents of grain-free believes that soluble carbohydrates can lead to several problems in dogs.) Today, Dhar retails on HUFT and Supertails, where his products often sell out the moment they are listed.  Corporates switching lanes  This has also meant an influx of new, and often surprising, talent into the Bengaluru pet pool. Clare Pachuau, 37, quit her job as a trainer at Hewlett-Packard to learn to be a groomer, and this July, she opened A Tiny Groomer in Madiwala, one of the oldest localities in Bengaluru with a strong middle and upper middle class population. The demand is very high, she notes, perhaps because despite work from home giving people more time with their pets, longer work hours mean they can’t do everything they want to. And pet parents don’t mind spending money (between Rs. 1,800 to Rs. 3,000 for a grooming session) to get it done. For others like Malvika Manjunath, it was a feeling of discontent that made her switch gears. The 38-year-old quit her high-profile job at Apple to become a full-time dog trainer this July. “I’d reached a point where it was less about the money and more about doing something I would enjoy,” she says. She trained with Anvis Inc, a pet services company in Bengaluru, and is now a full-time employee with them.  Where have the trainers gone?  Where there’s an up-tick in interest, however, there’s always a downside. (Let me not get into the heartbreaking rates at which pandemic pets are being abandoned as WFH ends. That’s a whole other story.) A point of concern is the sheer number of people getting into pet care. “When something scales really quickly, there is that want to be part of the hype. So, it is still something that many are doing in their free time, or as a passion project. I don’t see depth [in many of the start-ups],” says Rashi Narang, co-founder of premium pet care retail brand Heads Up For Tails. Lack of training is a worry, as is the absence of a regulatory board to keep things in check. “It is a scary boom, especially in grooming, boarding and training. A lot of people who are not qualified are getting into these industries just because they are pet lovers,” says Leena Balak, a veteran Bengaluru-based groomer. “And I am seeing a lot of neglect.” Preeti Narayanan, a certified trainer with Anvis and co-founder of Happy Tailz (which makes board games for dogs), agrees. With the growth of e-commerce and the onlining of education (how to become trainers, for instance), many are launching platforms without the prerequisite experience. She’s come across several start-ups that are running training courses based on databases of information that can fit any query, irrespective of what an animal’s individual needs are. “And this is worrisome,” she says. “[Faulty training] can feed into the loop of pets being abandoned because new pet parents can’t handle them. It used to happen before, and now it is going to get worse.”  Building a community  What is needed in India today is a focus on creating a pet parent community, on educating the consumer. As Manjunath puts it, abroad, there is a well-educated support system around pets — be it through trainers, retail stores, or just dedicated pet spaces. We need the same here. Big brands such as HUFT, Wiggles and Just Dogs are attempting this, as are players like Anvis. Maybe there’s a way to bring all their varied experiences and expertises together? Challenging for sure, but one can hope.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-pet-care-boom-during-the-pandemic/article37929549.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The comedy of separation||Both R Madhavan and Surveen Chawla are not new to streaming. Madhavan, 51, made his debut with Breathe in 2018 when streaming was considered, at best, peripheral. Chawla, 37, struck gold with the second season of Sacred Games in 2019 . Having begun their respective journeys on television — Zee TV’s Banegi Apni Baat and Ghar Jamai for Madhavan, and Ekta Kapoor’s Kahin To Hoga for Chawla — their careers touched films, both Hindi and Tamil, before it landed on streaming, first separately, and now together, with their Netflix show Decoupled.  Created and written by author Manu Joseph ( Serious Men ), directed by Hardik Mehta ( Kamyaab, Roohi ), Decoupled uses the frame of comedy to look at a couple in Gurugram navigating divorce. “I haven’t played a character like this before,” says Madhavan, who plays a writer in the show. He is known for having a good hold on screenplays and contributing to scripts, be it with his earlier hits Minnale (2001), 3 Idiots (2009), or the more recent Irudhi Suttru (2016). In an interview with the two actors, they speak of how the pandemic and streaming has shaped their craft, and Decoupled .  What drew you to these parts in Decoupled ?    Madhavan:  The show is in English, and we are not English-ising a Tamil or Hindi show. The character says things as he sees it, and sometimes he says the most obnoxious, offending lines. My challenge as an actor was to see that he doesn’t become a negative character. That he can say anything and still get away with it because of his innocent intent. Especially after the pandemic, being in front of the camera was a great relief. There was also a great synergy of people, and a fair amount of partying since we were all in the same hotel. I had more than one reason to accept the story.   Surveen:  This is a Gurgaon-based couple with a young daughter. My character is that one person in the show who brings sanity back and normalises things in the midst of the sarcasm and the ego. But Hardik was very clear that we didn’t want to have a hate relationship between the people. [He wanted] to bring in animosity and yet have the audience feel that they have pieces of love left.  How involved are you now with the creation of your characters?    Madhavan:  When I approve a script, I know what about it has touched me. Sometimes, I see that we are not touching those markers which excited me in the first place. That is when I step in and guide [the team] as to what we originally conceived, which happens often. Sometimes, with the lack of experience with young directors — they have passion, and they want to tell a story, but there is a method to it — I have to say that maybe we don’t want to indulge in something we didn’t explore in the pre-production. That apart, Surveen and I were open to improvisation. Ideally, we don’t want to do more than the actor’s job because that is what we are paid to do. I would love to go on a Mani Ratnam or a Rajkumar Hirani movie set and surrender as an actor and not worry about anything else. But these are luxuries that are few and far between.   Surveen:  I’ve experienced collaboration at a far more detailed level on OTT because it is a longer format and you are spending more time with your director.  Do you prepare differently for a performance on streaming?    Surveen:  With Decoupled ,  and Sacred Games, the process of filming was months at a stretch. It is far easier to shoot every single day as opposed to shooting with breaks, but it is also difficult because you have to keep that rhythm going for the longest time. Decoupled ,  though,  has been the quickest shoot, because due to the pandemic we were in a bio-bubble in Delhi for two months. We filmed continuously, and then went straight to Goa. So, to hang on to the character was easier.   Madhavan:  The intensity, involvement, and commitment is the same. It is easier to be in character in films because there are fewer shooting days. It is easier to pick up from the last scene. In films, however, you might have to be more careful with your look, since the larger screen will capture nuances of your preparation.  How do you gauge the success of a show on OTT?    Surveen:  Decoupled is a modern story, and it will resonate with an urban elite, English speaking audience. Masses can’t be targeted with it. Social media, then, would be that marker of success for me, where people give us their reviews.   Madhavan:   Tangible proof is the remuneration that is offered to me for the next series [laugh].  Madhavan, you have spoken about how the pandemic has made you reconsider the kinds of stories you want to pursue…    Madhavan:  Post-pandemic, we have to cater to the emotional situation of the viewers, which has changed. I am looking for age-appropriate romantic stories to open up the screen, and show them the greenery, the snow, and make them feel that life isn’t as futile as it seemed during the pandemic.   Surveen:  I am also done with those dark and heavy roles. After a point, it gets to you. I was just not feeling the excitement of going on a set, doing something I hadn’t done before.  Madhavan, you are also gearing up for the release of Rocketry: The Nambi Effect, the biopic of Nambi Narayanan. You said you consider it “more of a national duty than a movie”.    Madhavan:  It is sad that we do not know anything about Nambi Narayanan. As a nation we do not have a road named after him, nor does he have the credit he richly deserves for making the only indigenously-built rocket engine. I didn’t know him, never met him before this film. But when I did, I felt this overwhelming sense of angst and duty — how do we in this country not know a patriot like him? So I put my money where my mouth is and funded the project.  Surveen, any future projects?    Surveen:  There is something, but…  Oh no, the NDAs!    Madhavan:  I miss the good old days where there were no contracts. When I started, people did not have them. I used to insist on contracts and scripts in Tamil cinema. I am still hated for those two things. [Laughs]  Decoupled premieres on Netflix on December 17.   Watch Madhavan   and Chawla in   conversation with   Prathyush Parasuraman on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-comedy-of-separation/article37929510.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||How to train your human||There’s a chance that some of you may adopt this weird species of dog. They don’t realise they’re dogs. Regrettably, they have very little smarts and zero instinct. Training them would test a Saint (Bernard). Nevertheless, it is faintly pawssible. You can’t teach an old dog new tricks. So, start with their babies who are cool and drool, move on fours and dribble from both ends. Sort of like us. But then they begin to grow up and grow dumber. They spend hours prettying up and finally use your pic as their DP. Start by showing them how to love themselves. They are supremely unhappy with their skins. They keep buying new ones on sales, which they soon get supremely unhappy with again. Now, show them how much we love our skin. Roll around and get fur all over the sofa. Especially before they have visitors. Watch them howl (in gratitude, surely?) from under the bed, just so you’re safe. Next teach them how to share. Turn your nose up at the boring food in your boring bowl. Tail whoever’s eating something yummy, stick your head on to their lap and drool copiously on to it. Make puppy eyes, too. Done! The snack is ours. That was easy. Train them to stay home and not wander. Who knows what dangers will befall these silly helpless things in this dog-eat-dog world? (Fake news — other dogs aren’t tasty). Kidnap one of their shoes. Hide it or decimate it into 23 pieces. Suitcases mean they’re leaving for days on end. Curl up inside so they carry you along. If they notice that one of their jackets has a tail, and chase you out, chew the handle off the traitorous turncoat suitcase. Show them how to talk and laugh with their tails. Oh, wait, the poor things don’t have one. Instead, they keep making complex sounds but no one understands each other, so they end up sitting only with their phones. Take them for a walk. Yes, they think they’re walking you – ha ha! Show them how to splash in puddles, charge around with your tongue lolling out, chase sunbeams, lift your leg at car tyres, lick lampposts, slippers, doormats before licking each other’s faces. Life is beautailful, dog bless you! Wake them at midnight to warn them about a moth or a bad dream. Then, curl up near them to remind them that the future isn’t worth worrying about as long as you’re together. Show them how to live happily. They seem to have forgotten. To show gratitude and unconditional love. To frighten away the courier guy. To sleep right after a full meal and dream of another. Tempt them out of sad moods by inviting them to rub your tummy. Train them to be good dogs, even after they’ve just called you Bad Dog. Remember, you’ve always got to be the better man.  Where Jane De Suza, the author of ‘Happily Never After’, talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/how-to-train-your-human/article37929526.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Completing Tony’s portrait||There’s something about Anthony Bourdain that we just can’t get enough of. This year, the late chef and author, featured in Roadrunner , a documentary by Morgan Neville celebrating his life, as well as World Travel: An Irreverent Guide , a book co-authored by his colleague and collaborator Laurie Woolever. Most recently, Woolever is out with another book, Bourdain in Stories (Bloomsbury Publishing). With it, she completes her portrait of the man she worked alongside for about 10 years. Woolever first met Bourdain or ‘Tony’ in 2002, when he hired her to help with a cookbook ( Anthony Bourdain’s Les Halles Cookbook ) he’d just begun writing, in the wake of the success of Kitchen Confidential . In 2007, she worked with him again and a few years later, became his assistant. Her work, after his untimely death in 2018, took on new form. “The idea [for this book] came up in a conversation between myself, editor Daniel Halpern, and my agent, in the immediate aftermath of Bourdain’s death. We were deciding what to do with his unfinished projects and how to move forward,” she says.  Tales from the 91  The book took close to three years and involved reaching out to the people in his life — about 100 (91 made it to the book) — and interviewing them. The interviews took her from Los Angeles to New York (pre-Covid-19) and ranged from 30 minutes to hours. “It depended on the subject and how well I knew them, and how effusive they were. Because people had such extraordinary memories, it became free ranging conversations… a way to remember him and tell his stories,” she adds.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com   Priced at Rs. 699, it is available online and at all major   book stores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/completing-tonys-portrait/article37929506.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Motwane’s seven for MUBI||Raj Kapoor’s Awaara , Christian Petzold’s Transit , Sameh Zoabi’s Tel Aviv On Fire , Satyajit Ray’s Mahapurush , Jay and Mark Duplass’ Baghead , Sergei Loznita’s State Funeral, and Archana Phadke’s About Love are seven ‘must watch’ films chosen by Vikramaditya Motwane. The selection is for the film streaming platform MUBI, from its library. He consciously picked the “non-obvious”, leaving out films like Fight Club and Krzysztof Kieślowski’s Three Colours trilogy. The films reflect Motwane’s appreciation for the MUBI library, which has “movies that go back in time and also from around the world; that’s what is amazing for me: multiple languages, multiple genres”. He aimed for a balance of titles from India and abroad, as well as between narrative features, documentaries, and genres such as thriller and comedy. He concedes that not everyone would like every film on his list, which for him is the entire point of individual curation.  The ‘Handpicked by Motwane’ selection is streaming on MUBI.   Read the full story on weekend. thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/motwanes-seven-for-mubi/article37929513.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||A PLASTIC sea||At UK-based photographer Mandy Barker’s first solo show in India - Invasion of the Seas – ‘Shelf-Life’ features plastic litter collected from Henderson Island, a UNESCO World Heritage site in the South Pacific Ocean. During her visit, plastic litter from 25 countries, comprising 45 recognisable brands and logos, had travelled more than 5,000 km to reach the shores of Henderson Island. The exhibition at Sunaparanta Goa Centre for the Arts, Panaji, opened on December 8. “It was truly shocking,” recalls Barker who accompanied scientists on their voyage to Henderson Island in 2019. Meanwhile, in Goa, plastic pollution is a real issue, and this show is well-timed: in the middle of peak tourist season. According to a 2017 report by Kochi-based Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), Goa’s 100 plus km coastline generates 41 kilos of beach litter per head, the highest in the country. Till January 23, 2022. Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/a-plastic-sea/article37929551.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Mads over coconuts||He is known for refreshing your palate. Think adding bee pollen to prawns or sea buckthorn juice to aged duck legkebab! Now, over the next year, Mads Refslund will also be inspecting coconuts. The Danish chef and restaurateur of Noma fame is behind a new pop-up restaurant in the Maldives’ Soneva Fushi. On the resort’s menu are unusual additions like sprouted coconuts and caviar, and among the big plates, a whole fish roasted in coconut husks. One of the original founders of Copenhagen’s Noma, Refslund is known for his terroir-based kitchen and the ‘Fire and Ice’ gastronomic concept. In his case, the ‘Ice’ items do not come in contact with heat and retain their natural goodness, while the ‘Fire’ items on the menu are cooked over a live flame to enhance the ingredients. The pop-up is at Fresh in the Garden, Soneva Fushi’s treetop restaurant. Approximately Rs. 27,000 for a meal for two. soneva.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/mads-over-coconuts/article37929516.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||C for coffee, C for cotton||At first glance, the journey of cotton and coffee — from seed to loom and seed to cup — may have little or nothing in common. However, Raaga, a sensory exhibition at Araku Café in Indiranagar, proves that there are many parallel paths. Conceived and executed by Yali, the commercial branch of textile entrepreneur Ally Matthan’s The Registry of Sarees, and Araku Coffee of the Naandi Foundation — both of which work in the areas of organic, handspun, and handwoven — it talks about the common synergies of the two: grown organically and used sensitively. When I enter Araku Café, I first head to the ‘bar’. Matthan, also a perfumer trained at Grasse in France, has distilled the essences of Araku Coffee’s offerings — Signature, Selection, Micro-Climate, and Grand Reserve, and their latest micro-lot, Gems of Araku — into fragrances. A few drops of the essential oils on cotton leaf paper cut-outs and I get hints of orange, pepper, chocolate, and citrus combined with a masculine, earthy scent that stimulates the nose (and sometimes confuses it). Another batch, which is Matthan’s tribute to Yali’s drapes, has subtler scents. Gentle notes tickle my olfactory, of cotton, indigo, madder, and gold zari , reminding me of the looms and the people and processes behind the fabrics.  Sensory play  From the olfactory, I move to the auditory. Over my mobile phone’s earbuds I listen to primal sounds and murmurs overlaid with a meditative musical track. A wall hanging explains that plant roots grow towards the sound of running water and create melodic vibrations in play with the moon’s electromagnetic fields — bioacoustics. It’s a strange yet soothing harmony. My next stop is a pavilion of multi-coloured buntings in creams, browns, reds and indigos. Each is printed with words that explore the journeys of the materials. Though situated indoors, one can imagine them, much like Tibetan flags, fluttering in the breeze, carrying the words like seeds in the wind, each embedded with memories. Beside them, on long shelves, are different materials to engage one’s sense of touch. Yarn, chaff, seeds, coffee beans — the soft and pliant contrasted with shiny hardness. This process of allowing ourselves to slow down, even momentarily at an exhibition in a café, lets us reflect on the memory of touch, as we sip coffee or roll our fingers over yardage.  Into the weave story  Go up a level, and the exhibition revels in the visual. Sculptural presentations crafted with chocolate and marzipan showcase the growth cycles of coffee and cotton, and feature the different processes they undergo: ginning, spinning, dyeing, weaving (of the cloth) and pulping, drying, roasting and grinding (of the coffee). The final stages of these are encapsulated in the speciality coffees that Araku retails, and in an installation of saris and clothing that highlight Yali’s three lines. There’s Hosa Arambha, an initiative to engage the Padmashali weavers of Kodiyala, Karnataka, whose handloom revolves around mythological stories and motifs; Selvedge, which celebrates brown cotton and classic tailoring; and Sarees of Memory, inspired by nine memories of textile patron Malvika Singh, woven in fine cotton and zari to create gorgeous Venkatagiris. My last stop helps me indulge my sense of taste. A seven-course meal put together by chef Rahul Sharma of Araku Café is a journey through texture and taste — from risottos to mousses. More interestingly, the experience made a convert of a coffee hater!  Coming full circle  The final arc of the journey, for me, is discovering the brands’ sustainability initiatives. Fabric waste and yarns are reused in hand-stitched quilts and wall hangings; in the coffee estates, all the waste is processed into compost; and at the café, the bonbons served with the coffee use both the coffee fruit and seed. From soil to cup to soil, and so with fabric — the circle is complete. As I sit looking down at the exhibition and nursing a hot cup of coffee, I am filled with possibility. Of what we can do to consume more responsibly and leave a lighter footprint on the Earth.  Raaga ends today . Free entry. The meal is priced at Rs. 4,000 plus taxes.   Ranvir Shah is the founder of Prakriti Foundation.   Read the full story,   and watch a video walkthrough of Raaga on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/c-for-coffee-c-for-cotton/article37929524.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The pet care boom during the pandemic||When a blind cat went missing in a Mumbai neighbourhood, the owners called Annukta Ganjoo, an animal communicator. With the help of a photograph, she connected telepathically with the animal and found the petrified feline on top of a concrete platform. The only clues to her location: a “mental image” of a well and five coconut trees. Searches came up empty, until someone recalled a well in the neighbouring colony. “And there, beside a garbage bin, she was sitting on a platform above a drainpipe. Next to her, five coconut trees,” Ganjoo tells me on a Saturday morning call. “These are the moments when I gain confidence in what I do,” she adds. Though she no longer takes on lost cases (“they drain me too much”), the pastry chef communes with dead animals and helps pet parents across the country decipher their companions’ needs. The same evening, I speak with Sai Charan, a Bengaluru-based software engineer. An animal lover and avid hiker, he became an animal communicator in April 2020 — inspired partly by a video on South African interspecies communicator Anna Breytenbach. He saw Breytenbach on YouTube, and wanted to connect with his pets (a cat, two dogs, three birds and a turtle). Since then, he has helped locate several lost pets (he gets four to five cases a week, both lost cases and others), and consults with animal rescue groups. When I call him, he’s just finished a mission. “A streetie that a rescuer was feeding went missing. Since they didn’t have a photo, I went to the location to communicate with the landscape, and I realised that the BBMP [the civic body] had picked him up for sterilisation. When we went to their office, he was there.” Quick, simple... and yes, mine are one of the many raised eyebrows that greet anecdotes like this.  Rise of the pet parent  But scepticism aside, animal communication is one of the many jobs that have been gaining popularity during the pandemic. As people stayed home, they adopted four-legged and feathered friends and exotic companions (everything from snakes, turtles and bearded dragons to Capuchin monkeys). This has led to a boom in pet care and pet-related services — much like the tech boom of 2020 — and shows no signs of flagging. “Pre-pandemic, pet care was just another business. But that’s not the case anymore,” says Ashish Anthony, founder of Ahmedabad-based Just Dogs. “It’s no longer cool to call someone a dog owner; they are pet parents.” And pet parents need a strong ecosystem to help them be one. So, there are new apps and labs popping up now, trainers and behaviourists, groomers and nutritionists, pet food deliveries and raw meat subscriptions. Aashish Mehrotra, who chronicles fun times with his pooches via #borktales on Instagram, is glad of this development. He adopted his second dog, Heidi, in April 2020. “She is a proper pandemic puppy,” he laughs. “Last year, she saw only two people [he and his partner Shweta]. Continued on page 4 Continued from page 1 “There were no people, not even doorbells ringing. Unlike her older sibling, Lucifer, she was very anxious to go out [for a walk, or to the vet],” Mehrotra adds. So last December, when Heidi fell ill, he didn’t want to cart her around town. He relied on an app, PetKonnect, that offered vet services online and also helped him with pet insurance. Since then, he’s kept his eyes peeled for other online Samaritans. Lizzy’s Delicious (@lizzys.delicious) is one such discovery. “It is like a dabba service for dogs. Started in November 2020, they offer lovely meals and flavours such as pork pumpkin apple, steak and vegetables, which is so different from what is available in the market.”  The Bengaluru effect  The more people I talk to, a pattern emerges. While start-ups are launching across the country — think Delhi-based DannyDoo Pupcakes (@dannydoopupcakes), which offers gluten/grain-free gourmet treats, or Mumbai’s Carni Kitchen (@carnikitchen that provides raw meat-based diet plans for dogs — the hub seems to be Bengaluru. All phone calls lead back to the city where pet boarders, groomers and trainers are mushrooming, and services such as dog walking (@bangaloredogwalkers) and dog sitting are picking up as people head back to the office. This isn’t surprising, says Anthony. “Because of the weather, it is the biggest breeding centre in India. It also has the highest pet penetration in the country.” Take Supertails. The four-month-old digital platform for pet care and supplies announced a pre-Series A funding round of $2.6 million in July (actor Deepika Padukone is an investor). The one-stop pet care platform — “which provides pet supplies along with high-quality digital services such as healthcare and online training” — aims to provide what’s “lacking in the lives of new pet parents”, co-founder Varun Sadana has been quoted as saying. A friend points me to other pandemic babies, such as Canine Craving, which offers 100% natural treats and chews. Though the company launched mid-2019, the pandemic was “the trigger”, says co-founder Sundeep Dhar. “We grew by 300%!” Dhar, a chef by education, had started developing supplements and raw treats because his dogs — Casius, a boxer, and Bailey, a golden cocker spaniel, both rescues — have several health problems. Later, he quit his job at Wipro, where he led the procurement service line, to take his home experiments to a national market. “During the pandemic, we saw a major shift. There was more awareness among pet parents as people began going online to research what’s good for their pet. They started breaking out of the mafia of Pedigree, Royal Canin and the like [still the big players in the Indian pet food market], and began moving towards a completely grain-free diet, which we champion.” (Proponents of grain-free believes that soluble carbohydrates can lead to several problems in dogs.) Today, Dhar retails on HUFT and Supertails, where his products often sell out the moment they are listed.  Corporates switching lanes  This has also meant an influx of new, and often surprising, talent into the Bengaluru pet pool. Clare Pachuau, 37, quit her job as a trainer at Hewlett-Packard to learn to be a groomer, and this July, she opened A Tiny Groomer in Madiwala, one of the oldest localities in Bengaluru with a strong middle and upper middle class population. The demand is very high, she notes, perhaps because despite work from home giving people more time with their pets, longer work hours mean they can’t do everything they want to. And pet parents don’t mind spending money (between Rs. 1,800 to Rs. 3,000 for a grooming session) to get it done. For others like Malvika Manjunath, it was a feeling of discontent that made her switch gears. The 38-year-old quit her high-profile job at Apple to become a full-time dog trainer this July. “I’d reached a point where it was less about the money and more about doing something I would enjoy,” she says. She trained with Anvis Inc, a pet services company in Bengaluru, and is now a full-time employee with them.  Where have the trainers gone?  Where there’s an up-tick in interest, however, there’s always a downside. (Let me not get into the heartbreaking rates at which pandemic pets are being abandoned as WFH ends. That’s a whole other story.) A point of concern is the sheer number of people getting into pet care. “When something scales really quickly, there is that want to be part of the hype. So, it is still something that many are doing in their free time, or as a passion project. I don’t see depth [in many of the start-ups],” says Rashi Narang, co-founder of premium pet care retail brand Heads Up For Tails. Lack of training is a worry, as is the absence of a regulatory board to keep things in check. “It is a scary boom, especially in grooming, boarding and training. A lot of people who are not qualified are getting into these industries just because they are pet lovers,” says Leena Balak, a veteran Bengaluru-based groomer. “And I am seeing a lot of neglect.” Preeti Narayanan, a certified trainer with Anvis and co-founder of Happy Tailz (which makes board games for dogs), agrees. With the growth of e-commerce and the onlining of education (how to become trainers, for instance), many are launching platforms without the prerequisite experience. She’s come across several start-ups that are running training courses based on databases of information that can fit any query, irrespective of what an animal’s individual needs are. “And this is worrisome,” she says. “[Faulty training] can feed into the loop of pets being abandoned because new pet parents can’t handle them. It used to happen before, and now it is going to get worse.”  Building a community  What is needed in India today is a focus on creating a pet parent community, on educating the consumer. As Manjunath puts it, abroad, there is a well-educated support system around pets — be it through trainers, retail stores, or just dedicated pet spaces. We need the same here. Big brands such as HUFT, Wiggles and Just Dogs are attempting this, as are players like Anvis. Maybe there’s a way to bring all their varied experiences and expertises together? Challenging for sure, but one can hope.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-pet-care-boom-during-the-pandemic/article37929559.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Quirk factor||Nicobarhas gold-plated mandarin, walnut and pomegranate accent pieces for your tree.Rs. 750 onwards, nicobar.in.Meanwhile,Swarovski’s Annual Edition Ball Ornament is a fine reminder of 2021. The mouth-blown glass ball has a Christmas tree inside, and 2,000 gleaming crystals studded outside. Rs. 6,690. Or go green with Kochi-basedRouka by Sreejith Jeevan’sfabric leftovers as Xmas ornaments. Rs. 75 per piece in red, green, ivory and a mix of gold.shoprouka.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/quirk-factor/article37929528.ece
11 December 2021||Bharti Kher’s Strange Attractors:,||Instapic||As galleries across the country unveil in-person shows, this one at Delhi’s Nature Morte stands out. Featuring five years of the artist’s work, where she uses resin and saris to “freeze moments in time”, it includesCloak for MM, an homage to artist Mrinalini Mukherjee. AndKher’s Pieta, where she connects again with her mother. Till January 9. @naturemorte_delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapic/article37929530.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Mark the date||The year is almost a wrap, and one of the earliest2022calendarsoff the block is fromSahodaran.The annual fundraiser edition for the LGBT community,Euphony 2022, is themed around musical instruments. Rs. 1,500. @sunil_cher,9444966000.From Kozhikode comes artist and animatorRoshan Kurichiyanil’s colour-themed calendar for Rs. 499@lilorosh.And for images of handcrafted flowers and poems on your desktop, try the calendar by@bonheurgifts.Rs. 799.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/mark-the-date/article37929532.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Theatre for real||Get your weekend theatre fix and some laughter with Potti Kadhai , a Tamil comedy by Chorus Theatre Group. At Sir Mutha Concert Hall. December 12, 7 pm. Tickets Rs. 200-Rs. 300, 5oh9.com. Meanwhile, in Mumbai, theBombay Theatre Companywill stage its first post-pandemic physical play, The 6PM Struggler . The English one-act explores the relationship between one’s passion and profession.December 11-12, 7pm.Veda Factory, Versova.Tickets (Rs. 200) on insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/theatre-for-real/article37929534.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Holiday at Mandalay||An update for those planning year-end getaways. Luxury hotel chainPostcard Hotelsadds hotels inGoa and Kochito its list. ThePostcard Hideawayat Netravali is a 20-room property on 20 acres in the Western Ghats. But we are excited aboutMandalay Hallin Kochi. The 200-year-old structure in history-rich Mattancherry has been turned into a hotel by architect Tony Joseph, with curation by artistBose Krishnamachari. The five rooms, therefore, are ‘galleries’.postcardresort.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/holiday-at-mandalay/article37929536.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Fight station||Ultimate Fighting Championshipfans have a lot coming up this weekend. There is Charles Oliveira vs Dustin Poirier in the lightweight category, while Amanda Nunes fights Juliana Penas in the women’s bantam weight, and Geoff Neal meets Santiago Ponzinibbio. Decemebr 12.espn.in.Another sports star is also in the news, but for fashion. CricketerDwayne Bravo’slabelDjb47has put out a collection of tees, hoodies and joggers for the family. Rs. 1,000-Rs. 2,500. djb47.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/fight-station/article37929538.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Bake sale at the mall||The pandemic got us hooked to DIY and this Christmas Party Box has the works —gingerbread houses, Christmas ornaments, eggless cookies, and candy by the@growingchefstudio.Rs. 500-950.Or gather at the mall for home-baked treats like whisky salted caramel tarts.Baked with Lovefeatures around 35 bakers and live performances by Surena and Band and The Funk Agenda. From The Glassbox at Phoenix Market City.December 11-12, 3-7 pm. @glassbox.publicity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/bake-sale-at-the-mall/article37929540.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Two gifting pop-ups||By Hand from the Heart’sThe Maker’s Marketreturns. Bengaluru’s Varnam Crafts Collective (pictured above), Coimbatore’s Design Infinity, and others like Kannadi Mosaic, Oh Scrap, Callidsign, etc, will participate.December 11, 10-8 pm,Hanu Reddy Residences, Poes Garden.@byhandfromthe heart. Also stock up on breads, spiced hot chocolate and hand cut pasta at‘A Storybook Christmas’, a pop-upby Madras Finds.December 12, 11 am- 8 pm.Folly Hall, Amethyst. @madrasfinds||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/two-gifting-pop-ups/article37929542.ece
11 December 2021||Vicky Kaushal-Katrina Kaif:,||Talking point||Had enough of the celebrity wedding no one got to know much about? Well, our social media influencers were on a roll: there was @ankushbahuguna’s reel about waiting for #vickat photos, and @dietsabya zooming in on the drones over the venue, Six Senses Fort Barwara. As for the hospitality brand, they couldn’t have asked for a better ‘promotional campaign’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article37929544.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Where you laugh, learn, live||Who would have thought when the pandemic broke out in 2020 that we would still be (kind of) confined to our homes when 2021 rolled around? Despite the vaccines, fears of a third wave and rising incidences have put us on the backfoot and are keeping us home. In such a scenario, it makes sense to give the home a switcheroo as we step into a new year. New year, new beginnings — and all that. Let’s begin with the living room, the place where the family laughs, learns and lives. Here’s what you can try here: The ladder shelf A stylish shelf that makes as much of a statement as the things you put on it. What’s not to love? It can be stacked with accessories, or show off books and souvenirs. The statement mirror There’s art work and there’s art work, but a statement mirror makes sure your wall stands out. Will you get yours framed in wood or opt for a sunburst? Bye-bye to the TV Once upon a time, the TV went hand in hand with a living room. But with it having moved to the informal area or bedroom, it’s time to spend time in a room that promotes conversation. Throws on the sofa They may have a very cold-place vibe, but we love the stylish touch knitted throws and blankies added to the living room on a cold day. Accent ceilings Coloured and wallpapered walls have been around for decades. But colour and accents such as wallpaper, panelling, or beams on the ceiling add a completely different look. DIY everything With the DIY craze sweeping across the country, a DIY decor project was a sure-shot find in the living room. It could be a bottle or yarn lamp, an embroidered cushion or button art. Geometric prints We loved the Chevron trend, which is why no one was complaining about the surfeit of geometrics seen in the living room. Be it the walls, upholstery or art, geometric prints were in. And how. New neutrals For a long time, neutrals translated into beige and boring. But a neutral can be almost any shade now — blush, jade, tourmaline, agate or grey. Just use it as a monochrome and stun visitors. Global textiles Be it the Turkish Killim rugs, Moroccan poufs, ikat pillows or phulkari tapestries, colourful and embroidered folk textiles could be spotted in living rooms galore. Cool comfort All living areas are supplemented by bathrooms. Bathroom décor receives as much attention as that of other rooms; it’s important to remember the thumb rule: clean and breathable design. Be it an attached bath, a powder room, or a fancy shower stall, here’s how you can make a splash: Stone styling What wood does to floors, stone does to bathroom décor. It adds style and a certain gravitas. Stone doesn’t have to lend your bathroom a cold look; look for warm colours and use options like stone basins, tubs, wall cladding or even shelving. Sustainable design With the environment and conservation on top of everybody’s mind, no surprises that sustainable design remains a winner. Low-flow taps, faucets and showerheads combine with solar heating systems to protect the environment and bring down your bills. Patterned tiles Who said tiles have to be stuck on the walls and floors? Experimenting with tiling, be it chevron, herringbone, mosaic or geometric patterns, is de rigueur these days. Choosing a striking tile pattern can create great impact! Large mirrors Be it square, round or rectangular, large mirrors that let you see yourself should be a part and parcel of the bathroom. Instead of just adhering them to the wall, framing them in wood or other materials can help make a bold statement. Save space In an age where we are constantly strapped for space, space-saving designs rule the roost. Creative layouts, innovative designs, and smart storage options ensure that space isn’t as big an issue as it could have been. Open shelving no longer needs to be relegated to the kitchen — show off colourful mugs, candles, and toiletries.  Creative layouts, innovative designs, and smart storage options ensure that space isn’t as big an issue as it could have been||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/where-you-laugh-learn-live/article37929571.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Mixed-use development is the new urbanism||In the last few decades, cities have grown haphazardly resulting in congestion. Lack of infrastructure, increase in traffic and travel time have created discomfort among people. The incapability of addressing the essential needs of citizens by providing quality living spaces has been a major setback. Over many years, certain mixed-use developments have come up in various cities in the form of townships. Townships have the capability to provide quality of life, good socio-civic infrastructure, and holistic community living — all within close proximity. This particular style of urban planning includes a versatile set of structures-all assembled in one single space. Mixed-use integrated townships are the ‘new-age construction’ that includes a combination of residential, commercial, housing, office, retail, medical, recreational, commercial, and/or industrial components. It provides a developed city area where both trading and residential can co-exist. Developers should consider this new form of construction in a big way to promote a healthy and well-balanced lifestyle. Keeping in view such concepts of progression, the Indian government has initiated policies for the ease of doing things. In 2005, the Government of India announced an integrated township policy with three categories of mixed-use development projects. They are small-scale development (5-10 acres), medium-scale development (20-50 acres) and large-scale development (100+ acres). As cities are getting dense and congested we will see a trend of large scale development taking place in extended suburbs known as ‘downtowns’. This rise of suburban cities will redefine new cityscapes of the future. The development of new micro-markets will be a huge boon for the upcoming regions to witness progress and growth. A slew of infrastructure growth will majorly transform these sleepy towns and transportation corridors into thriving economic hubs. Such futuristic ‘integrated cityscapes’ will accelerate the economic development of the nation. Sustainable design One of the limitations of a stand-alone building is that it offers little scope to imbibe sustainable measures into one’s lifestyle. With such integrated townships coming into reality, one can have access to an ample amount of space and opportunity to create a sustainable community. Recycling of water and sewage, well-built parks, green and open spaces, tree line boulevards will upgrade the lifestyles of the future. Diversity Such ‘integrated cities’ will create a diversified portfolio of consumers with a mix of different income people. This will bring in the flavour of community building with a sense of shared togetherness. Urban dwellers will be able to relish the range of products suiting one’s needs. Community living A 24x7 community living concept will be shaped to offer a vibrant social fabric to such townships. Quick access to branded education, healthcare, high-street retail, and entertainment will improve the citizen’s standard of living. Assembled at a one-stop destination, the social network will flourish uprightly to meet the demands of quick accessibility. A content lifestyle ‘Walk to work’ concepts will bring in a huge relief to people who will be able to enjoy the benefits of close proximity to workspaces. This will, in turn, elevate the quality of lifestyle of the people who can savour the benefits of work-life balance. The commercial development within such townships will reduce the commute time and carbon emissions leading towards a sustainable way of life. Risk mitigation Integrated mixed-use development has a lesser rate of risk mitigation as it witnesses a substantial amount of price admiration over the years due to the overall growth of the region.    Certain barriers that have to be overcome in order to create such spectacular future projects will have the required coordination from both the government and the industry working together. Acquisition of land tracts Foregathering a litigation-free contagious tract of huge land parcels is a major challenge. Hence, the Industry recommends introducing corrective measures with innovative policy reforms and technology integration to digitise the land record. It makes it a hassle-free acquisition with more transparency and accountability. Long-term planning Conceptualising and planning large-scale developments is a daunting task. The change in government policies and coining it correctly with the ongoing market cycles is quite a challenge. The successful implementation of such megaprojects requires qualitative market research, consumer trends insights, single window clearance for quick government approvals, skilled manpower and labour, and meticulous master planners. Fund sourcing Land acquisition is known to be a costly affair. Mixed-use real estate developments demand comprehensive and complex funding for the viability and feasibility of such a long-term project as construction financing models vary as per the land use. Industry reiterates its long-pending demand to grant industry status which makes them eligible for cheap long-term funding. Real estate is the second-largest employment and GDP growth contributing sector with a multiplier effect on 270 allied industries. Cheap lending will enable the real estate sector to improve the affordability quotient of shelter — the primary need of each citizen. Documentation The countless paperwork is a crucial challenge in the industry. Adopting blockchain technology will digitise the land acquisition process, making it a seamless process. A hassle-free and time-bound order of doing business will accelerate greater development activity.    The future of urbanisation is mixed-use township development in the extended suburbs of cities. This has been a successful global phenomenon and India will scale up to global par excellence. The industry and government further need to collaborate to fuel growth of future sustainable greenfield developments. The emergence of new economic corridors will foster manifold GDP growth and employment.  The writer is National Vice-Chairman, NAREDCO,   and MD, Hiranandani Group.   Certain barriers that have to be overcome in order to create such spectacular future projects will have the required coordination from both the government and the industry working together||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/mixed-use-development-is-the-new-urbanism/article37929561.ece
11 December 2021||December 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Make way for a balmy season||Fleck’s latest collection features an array of accent pieces and scented candles. All of the products infuse a sense of warmth in the spaces they inhabit. Adding love to your cosy dinner gatherings, the collection features functional fluted glass, chic lotus centrepieces, shimmering deer tongs, wabi brass fruit forks, serving trays, fluted glass planters and sage scented candles. The clear glass and brass lanterns and marble candle holders are perfect for infusing a warm glow in your intimate gatherings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/make-way-for-a-balmy-season/article37929563.ece
11 December 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai resident, back from Tanzania, tests Omicron positive||A resident of Dharavi in Mumbai, who recently returned from Tanzania, tested positive for Omicron on Friday, taking the cases of the new coronavirus variant in Maharashtra to 11, according to officials. The 49-year-old Muslim cleric, who is not vaccinated, was asymptomatic and was isolated before he could mingle in the community, said a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official adding that he was shifted to BMC-run Seven Hills hospital. He returned to Mumbai from Tanzania on December 4 and his samples were sent for genome sequencing when he tested positive for coronavirus. With this, the number of Omicron-infected patients in Mumbai rose to three. One case had been found in Thane. Tanzania does not figure in the list of ‘at-risk’ countries, but the Dharavi resident tested positive for COVID-19 during the mandatory random checking of 2% of arrivals at the Mumbai airport. Vaccine coverage Seven cases have been found in Pune district, but Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday that five of them have now tested negative. Mr. Pawar, who is also the Guardian Minister for Pune, told reporters after a weekly review meeting on the COVID-19 situation, “The health of all seven patients is good. Four out of six Omicron patients in Pimpri-Chinchwad and a patient in Pune city have tested negative.” These seven persons, including an NRI woman and her two daughters from Nigeria, had tested positive for Omicron in Pune last week. Mr. Pawar further said that 100% of the eligible population in the district has been covered with the first dose of vaccines, and over 1.38 crore shots have been administered so far. The pace of vaccination has increased in the last 10 days, he said, adding, “It is true that people were a bit reluctant about taking the second dose, but now after the recent developments, the pace of vaccination has increased.” Mr. Pawar said a booster dose comes into picture only when the eligible population is fully vaccinated against the viral infection and that is the current priority for the State Government. However, a decision on administering the booster dose to further enforce immunity against the infection has to be taken by the Centre, Mr. Pawar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mumbai-resident-back-from-tanzania-tests-omicron-positive/article37930078.ece
11 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘We must give him a smiling send-off’||Brigadier L.S. Lidder, who died along with 12 others in the chopper crash in Tamil Nadu, was cremated with full military honours at the Brar Square crematorium here on Friday. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal earlier in the morning laid wreaths on Brig. Lidder’s mortal remains, which were kept at Brar Square in Delhi Cantonment. Many senior defence personnel also paid their last respects. Geetika Lidder, wife of Brigadier Lidder, told reporters after the cremation that she is feeling more pain than any pride. “Life is too long to spend but if this is the wish of God, we will live with it. This is not the way we wanted him back,” she said. She added he was a very good father and their daughter will really miss him. “It is a big loss,” she said. She said he was larger than life and one can judge that by the number of people who came to the cremation ground. He was really friendly and used to spread love, she added. “Probably, that is why people are mourning my loss. But we must give him a good farewell and a smiling send-off. I am a soldier’s wife,” she said. Their daughter Aashna Lidder said she is 17 and would keep all the good memories of the 17 years she spent with her father. “I am happy he did not have to suffer. It is a national loss. My father was a hero,” she said. She said her father was a happy-go-lucky person and was her best friend. “He used to infuse passion not just in me but in every person. He was a great motivator. I feel scared as I was really pampered by my father.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/we-must-give-him-a-smiling-send-off/article37929816.ece
11 December 2021||Mumbai,||Shelar moves HC to quash FIR filed by Mumbai mayor||Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Ashish Shelar moved the Bombay High Court to quash the FIR against him filed by Mumbai’s Mayor Kishori Pednekar after he allegedly made objectionable remarks against her. On December 1, a cooking gas cylinder had exploded in a BDD chawl in Worli in which three people died. Soon thereafter, Mr. Shelar blamed Ms. Pednekar for delayed response. He asked “if Ms. Pednekar had been sleeping for 72 hours”. This was criticised heavily by the ruling parties. An FIR was registered against him on December 8 at the Marine Drive police station under sections 354 (A) (4) (sexual harassment) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code. He had also tweeted, “I wrote to Mumbai Police CP Shri Hemant Nagrale ji to protest manipulation of facts and against pressure by ruling party elements to foist false cases against me!” He moved the court on December 9 through senior advocate Rizwan Merchant. His plea mentions, “The act of filing a false and malicious FIR is prima facie politically motivated, with the intention of causing a deterrence of soaking up against the Government’s failures and dictatorship.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shelar-moves-hc-to-quash-fir-filed-by-mumbai-mayor/article37930080.ece
11 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha start-up to transform primary healthcare||In rural hinterland of India where the number of primary healthcare centres (PHCs) is limited and service delivery is handicapped further by doctors’ shortage, patients are left with little options. An ambitious start-up — CureBay — has now been launched to bridge the critical gap in the under-served market. A group of top-rung executives of multinational companies has joined hands to aggregate all branches of healthcare services and make those available to villagers at their doorstep through an innovative technological platform. “It will prove to be a game-changer,” said Priyadarshi Mohapatra, founder and Chief Executive Officer of CureBay. These professionals found that majority of investments in health sector have taken place in secondary and tertiary sectors in Tier-1 or Tier-II cities. Primary healthcare has not been given due attention. Majority of people in countryside depend on PHCs. But, in reality shortage of doctors defeats all stated objectives. Similarly, interventions had been made on technological front. “Telemedicine and e-commerce have not helped people in remote areas,” said Mr. Mohapatra. The group decided to use hybrid model which is combination of technology and physical presence. “We aggregate doctors, hospitals, pharmacy and laboratories. We created a healthcare ecosystem through our platform with hyper local focus,” he said. “The physical centres have two trained healthcare persons such as nursing staff and pharmacists. The start-up provides three basic facilities to them – access to platform, medical grade devices and point of care devices which enable them to carry out basic tests.” People are advised to reach the nearest centre. The trained staff would facilitate teleconsultation with a doctor. Soon, the centre extracts two basic things from e-prescriptions —- medicine and required tests. CureBay is planning a physical logistic by which they will deliver the branded and ethical medicine physically in the interior area. The trained staff would draw samples and send those to NABL approved laboratories. The idea is to provide 70% of healthcare needs including consultation, pathological tests and medicine at the centre itself without letting patients to undertake travels. CureBay opened its first centre at Bamanala on November 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-start-up-to-transform-primary-healthcare/article37930082.ece
11 December 2021||Kolkata,||‘Withdraw order on mandatory use of health card in govt. hospitals’||A prominent association of doctors in West Bengal has written to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, asking her to revoke a recent order that makes it mandatory for patients to use the Swasthya Saathi card while seeking treatment in Government-run hospitals. Swasthya Saathi is the Trinamool Congress Government’s insurance scheme providing a cover of Rs. 5 lakh a year per family. According to the Joint Platform of Doctors, treatment at Government hospitals was always free and using the insurance card there would not only lead to decrement of the sum assured but would also fatten the wallets of insurance companies. The premium paid to the insurance companies, the body pointed out, was nothing but the taxpayers’ money. According to Dr. Koushik Chaki, a senior member of the platform and of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, the November 25 order put the “whole concept of welfare state, at least the matter of public health, and the right to free and quality healthcare” to question.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/withdraw-order-on-mandatory-use-of-health-card-in-govt-hospitals/article37930084.ece
11 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha fails to retrieve Rs. 456 crore: CAG||The Odisha Government failed to retrieve Rs. 456.46 crore towards the cost of excess iron ore excavated in different mining circles, according to a Comptroller and Auditor General of India report. The CAG report on revenue sector for the year ended March 2020, which was tabled in Odisha Assembly on Friday, says excess iron ore excavation was found to the tune of 8,20,797 metric tonne. “The production limit capped in the mining plan is among other stipulations which need to be adhered to by the mining lease holders. As per Rule 22 (5) (v) of the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960, the mining plan shall incorporate a tentative scheme of mining and annual programme and plan for excavation from year to year for five years,” the CAG report points out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-failed-to-retrieve-rs-456-crore-cag/article37929840.ece
11 December 2021||Prayagraj,||FIR against Mirzapur producers quashed||The Allahabad High Court on Friday quashed an FIR against Mirzapur web series producers Farhan Akhtar and Ritesh Sidhwani in a case that accused them of hurting religious, social and regional sentiments. A two-judge Bench comprising Justices M.C. Tripathi and Subhash Vidyarthi allowed the petition filed by Mr. Akhtar and Mr. Sidhwani. Earlier in January, the court had stayed their arrest in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fir-against-mirzapur-producers-quashed/article37930079.ece
11 December 2021||Ahmedabad,||Gujarat HC rejects Asaram’s bail plea in 2013 rape case||The Gujarat High Court on Friday rejected the bail application of jailed self-styled godman Asaram in a rape case filed against him by a woman in 2013. While rejecting his bail plea following objections raised by the prosecution, Justice A.J. Desai also directed the Gandhinagar sessions court to wind up the trial in four months. In his bail plea, filed through advocate Dipak Patel, Asaram sought relief on the ground that he is already above 80 years of age and that his health was deteriorating. Mr. Patel sought bail for his client claiming there were no signs of the trial concluding anytime soon as Gandhinagar sessions court is yet to examine 22 to 24 witnesses, and cited Supreme Court judgments of the past to claim the court cannot keep an accused behind bars forever. Public Prosecutor R.C. Kodekar objected and told court the facts of Asaram’s case was different from the cases cited by his lawyer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gujarat-hc-rejects-asarams-bail-plea-in-2013-rape-case/article37929837.ece
11 December 2021||Patna,||NIA special court convicts 8 JMB terrorists||A special NIA court here on Friday convicted eight operatives of the Jamaat-ul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) terror group for planting IEDs at the Mahabodhi Temple complex in Bodh Gaya in 2018, an official said. Paigambar Sheikh, Ahmad Ali, Nur Alam Momin, Adil Sheikh, Dilwar Hossain, Abdul Karim, Mustafizur Rahman and Arif Hussain have been convicted under Sections of the IPC, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Explosive Substance Act, the official of the premier investigation agency said. The quantum of sentence against the eight convicts would be pronounced on December 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nia-special-court-convicts-8-jmb-terrorists/article37929838.ece
