12 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India sends medical relief to Afghanistan||In a significant gesture, India on Saturday supplied the first consignment of materials as part of humanitarian assistance to help the Taliban-ruled Afghanistan deal with the deteriorating health situation in the country. India has not recognised the Taliban administration in Afghanistan and has urged the international community to proceed cautiously in dealing with the Taliban because of uncertain security guarantees and the outfit’s rigid position on human rights-related issues. “In view of the challenging humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, the Government of India has dispatched humanitarian assistance consisting of medical supplies on the return flight today. These medicines will be handed over to the representatives of the World Health Organization (WHO) in Kabul and will be administered at the Indira Gandhi Children Hospital, Kabul,” a press release from the Ministry of External Affairs announced. The consignment consisting of medicines and injections were sent in the special Kam Air flight that had flown in with 10 Indians and 94 Afghan minority community members on Friday, the Ministry of External Affairs said. Marked as a gift The boxes carrying the items were marked with stickers bearing the words — Gift from the People of India to the People of Afghanistan. With Saturday’s move, India joined countries such as Iran, Qatar, the UAE, Turkmenistan and Pakistan that have sent humanitarian support to Taliban-ruled Afghanistan. In a speech delivered on September 13, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar had sought “unimpeded, unrestricted and direct access to Afghanistan” for ensuring supply of humanitarian assistance to the general Afghan population who are dealing with a harsh winter and a breakdown in medical supplies. Help is also required for the large number of internally displaced persons living in temporary and unsafe shelters. Since August, the Taliban regime has been seeking international help to operate the Kabul airport and to supply essential medicines to hospitals in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-sends-medical-relief-to-afghanistan/article37936787.ece
12 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.S. ban on para unit stuns Dhaka||Bangladesh reacted sharply to the U.S. Treasury’s decision to sanction a special military and police task force for alleged human rights violations. Foreign Secretary Masud Bin Momen has summoned U.S. Ambassador to Dhaka Earl Miller to protest against the actions. The decision by the U.S. to ban the Rapid Action Battalion, came as a shock to the Sheikh Hasina Government, just days before its planned celebrations for the 50th anniversary of its Liberation Day, where President Ram Nath Kovind will represent India. “The Foreign Secretary [Mr. Momen] regretted that the U.S. decided to undermine an agency of Government that had been on the forefront of combating terrorism, drug trafficking and other heinous transnational crimes that were considered to be shared priorities with successive U.S. administrations,” a Government statement said. It added that the sanctions were imposed “unilaterally” and without any “prior intimation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/us-ban-on-para-unit-stuns-dhaka/article37936781.ece
12 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers bid adieu to Singhu||On the 380th day of their protest, farmers camping on Delhi’s borders left for their homes with much fanfare — just the way they had reached here on November 26 last year. The stage at Singhu border, which had become a platform for farmer leaders and speakers to make their voices heard, was dismantled on Saturday morning. The Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway was abuzz with activity since early Saturday with trucks, trolleys and cars lined up for the journey, most of them decorated with flowers and balloons. A fully decorated yellow bus left for Mohali with protesters who had come to Singhu in the first week of December last year. The farmers sang and danced to drums and ensured that everyone crossing the street danced with them. “We have won and now we are going. This happiness must be shared,” said 22-year-old Balwinder Saini. Iron rods removed A few metres away from the protest site from KMP Expressway, Sardar Budh Singh, 68, from Ludhiana was busy pulling out iron rods which the farmers had installed on the road to erect their tents. “If bikers hit these iron rods, they would get hurt very badly. At night, they might not even see them. We are removing them so that no inconvenience is caused to the people,” Mr. Budh said. He added that after digging up the rods, they will quickly fill up the craters. “ Jaise aaye they, vaise hi jayenge (We will leave the place the way we were welcomed).” Many of the protesters cleaned up the sites before leaving. “There was a lot of waste here, especially disposables, which had to be removed. We cleaned up the place because we didn’t want the blame that we left a mess behind,” said Malkit Singh from Fatehgarh Sahib.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-bid-adieu-to-singhu/article37936779.ece
12 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Govt. plans EV charging stations along NHs||Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy opened an exhibition and road-show of electric vehicles (EVs) organised at Necklace Road here on Saturday. Speaking at the event, the minister stated that the future of mobility was that of EVs and people need not have any apprehensions on using electric vehicles as they would not only help in environment protection, but also save money spent on petrol and diesel. Mr. Jagadish Reddy also drove some electric vehicles including a car, a bike and an auto-rickshaw. He stated that 136 EV charging stations were opening in the city and efforts were on to open such stations along all the highways. Special Chief Secretary (Energy) Sunil Sharma, Chairman of TSREDCO Syed Abdul Aleem, V-C and Managing Director N. Janaiah, Director General of Bureau of Energy Efficiency Abhay Bakre and others attended the event. The event was organised by by the Telangana State Renewable Energy Development Corporation Ltd ( TSREDCO).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ev-charging-stations-along-highways-soon/article37937015.ece
12 December 2021||Chittoor,||Govt. will stand by Sai Teja’s family: Peddireddi||Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Saturday called on the family members of Lance Naik Sai Teja, who was among the 14 killed in the recent chopper crash in Tamil Nadu, at their village, Regadapalle, of Kurabalakota mandal in the district, and handed over a cheque for Rs. 50 lakh towards ex gratia. Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat was among those who had died in the accident. Addressing the media after paying tributes to the portrait of Sai Teja, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had deputed him to hand over the cheque to Sai Teja’s wife Shyamala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-will-stand-by-sai-tejas-family-peddireddi/article37937275.ece
12 December 2021||Chittoor,||Govt. will stand by Sai Teja’s family: Peddireddi||Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Saturday called on the family members of Lance Naik Sai Teja, who was among the 14 killed in the recent chopper crash in Tamil Nadu, at their village, Regadapalle, of Kurabalakota mandal in the district, and handed over a cheque for Rs. 50 lakh towards ex gratia. Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat was among those who had died in the accident. Addressing the media after paying tributes to the portrait of Sai Teja, the Minister said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had deputed him to hand over the cheque to Sai Teja’s wife Shyamala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-will-stand-by-sai-tejas-family-peddireddi/article37936785.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka’s TPR remains below 1% for 112 days||Karnataka has been consistently maintaining a test positivity rate (TPR) of less than 1% for the last 112 days. The State’s TPR has been on a steady decline since August 15 when the seven-day average TPR touched 1.01%. It reduced to 0.63% in a month by September 15 and 0.26% on November 15. Although TPR slightly increased to 0.42% by November 30, mainly due to clusters across the State, it again declined to 0.36% on December 9. Although five districts have a TPR higher than the State average, it is still hovering between 1.27% and 0.45% in these districts. Chikkamagaluru has the highest at 1.27% while Bagalkot and Bidar have the lowest at 0.01%. Five districts — Gadag, Koppal, Raichur, Ramanagaram, and Yadgir —have been maintaining zero TPR for the last three days. TPR, a vital marker in assessing the spread of an outbreak, is the percentage of people who are found to be infected by the virus from those who are being tested. According to epidemiologists, a high positivity rate indicates that testing is relatively limited to people with high suspicion of COVID-19 and may miss new chains of transmission in the community. With the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) having fixed a 2% cut-off threshold for TPR to impose restrictions, sources said districts were under pressure to increase testing and sustain the low TPR. TAC chairman M.K. Sudarshan said the low TPR indicated that the infection rate was low despite a higher rate of testing. “We have recommended that the daily tests of one lakh should be maintained. Although TPR slightly increased by November-end, it was mainly due to clusters reported in educational institutions, especially nursing colleges in the border districts, hostels and boardings. However, the good thing is that cluster outbreaks are being promptly addressed and contained,” he said. The TAC chairman attributed the cluster outbreaks to lack of proper screening and implementation of COVID appropriate measures in the institutions. He said: “We have now recommended random checks in educational institutions, hostels, and residential schools by joint monitoring teams at the taluk level.” Besides, the TAC had also recommended weekly testing of kitchen staff, wardens, and other office personnel of hostels and residential schools. “These people should furnish weekly negative RT-PCR reports during random checks. Unless these things are monitored and implemented, clusters are bound to occur, more so in the winter months. We have to continue to remain watchful,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said it was most important to sustain the low TPR now. “It is high time we abolished the bunker bed system in boarding schools and hostels as bunker beds become easy source of infection,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnatakas-tpr-remains-below-1-for-112-days/article37936813.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi records second case of Omicron||A 35-year-old man with travel history to Zimbabwe and South Africa has tested positive for Omicron, becoming the second patient to contract the new variant of COVID-19 in Delhi, sources said on Saturday. He has been admitted to LNJP Hospital and is now only experiencing weakness, the sources added. The patient returned to India from Zimbabwe and had even travelled to South Africa. Sources said he was fully vaccinated. The man belongs to Andhra Pradesh and was admitted to the hospital on December 5. LNJP Hospital has been designated for treatment of patients infected with the Omicron variant. The hospital currently has 35 patients. Till Friday night, there were 31 patients admitted to the hospital, while four patients were brought in on Saturday, according to sources. Last week, a 37-year-old fully vaccinated man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania became the first patient of Omicron in the national Capital. The patient, a resident of Ranchi, had travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2. He stayed in Johannesburg, South Africa, for a week. The patient had mild symptoms. 52 new COVID-19 cases Meanwhile, Delhi recorded zero deaths due to COVID-19 and 52 fresh cases in a day, with a positivity rate of 0.09%, according to data shared by the city health department on Saturday. The total number of cases reported in Delhi so far stands at 14,41,662. Over 14.16 lakh patients have recovered from the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-records-second-case-of-omicron/article37936933.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||City lights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-lights/article37936935.ece
12 December 2021||Tirumala,||Vaikunta Dwara Darshan for 10 days at Tirumala||The TTD Trust Board, which met on Saturday, resolved to provide Vaikunta Dwara Darshan for 10 days from January 13. Disclosing the deliberations, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy said elaborate arrangements were being made for the conduct of Vaikunta Ekadasi on January 13. Free darshan would be provided to SC, ST, BC, tribal and fishermen communities as was experimented during recent Brahmotsavams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaikunta-dwara-darshan-for-10-days-at-tirumala/article37937276.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,||BBMP to restart sanction of plan approvals||The BBMP that had stopped approving building plans or levying any charges or fees since early August is likely to resume the process next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bbmp-to-restart-sanction-of-plan-approvals/article37936814.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,||North MCD workers to protest from tomorrow||Workers under various civic body unions have called for protests from Monday against the North Delhi Municipal Corporation over the issue of non-payment of salaries, dearness allowance and other pending dues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/north-mcd-workers-to-protest-from-tomorrow/article37936936.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,||CPI(M): nix move against namaz in public places||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal is denying basic constitutional rights to one section of Indian citizens, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) said, calling his remarks against namaz in public spaces “extremely objectionable”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cpim-nix-move-against-namaz-in-public-places/article37936937.ece
12 December 2021||Mangaluru,||MIA offers pre-booking for COVID-19 test||Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) has commenced pre-booking facility for passengers who need to undergo RT-PCR testing. RT-PCR, rapid RT-PCR testing facility has been arranged in the pre-immigration arrival hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mia-offers-pre-booking-for-covid-19-test/article37937152.ece
12 December 2021||Mangaluru,||‘Complete 90% of vaccination by month-end’||Minister in charge of Udupi V. Sunil Kumar on Saturday asked the Health Department to cover 90% of the eligible population with both COVID-19 doses by December-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/complete-90-of-vaccination-by-month-end/article37937153.ece
12 December 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool launches Kolkata manifesto||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday launched its manifesto for the upcoming Kolkata municipal polls, with focus on drainage, water supply and road infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trinamool-launches-kolkata-manifesto/article37937111.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,||CPI(M): nix move against namaz in public places||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal is denying basic constitutional rights to one section of Indian citizens, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) said, calling his remarks against namaz in public spaces “extremely objectionable”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cpim-nix-move-against-namaz-in-public-places/article37937112.ece
12 December 2021||Salem,||Will eradicate poverty from State: Stalin||The State Government is working towards making Tamil Nadu hunger-free and eradicating poverty from the State, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Saturday. He said T.N. ranked fourth among the least poor States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-eradicate-poverty-from-state-stalin/article37936850.ece
12 December 2021||Chennai,||T.N. records 681 Covid-19 cases, 13 fatalities||With 681 people testing positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, Tamil Nadu’s tally touched 27,34,715. The State recorded 13 deaths, pushing its toll to 36,599. Chennai and Coimbatore continued to record over 100 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-681-covid-19-cases-13-fatalities/article37936851.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Back in the hunt||The stork has visited the Sakkarbaug zoo of Junagadh in Gujarat as three of its Asiatic lionesses have given birth to 13 cubs. On November 4, Deepavali, one of the lionesses gave birth to three cubs. On November 15, another five was born, and just eight days later, five more was brought into the world. Riyaz Kadivar, veterinary doctor at the zoo, and his team have been taking care of the mothers and cubs. The Sakkarbaug Zoological Garden is a 210-acre facility that provides pure-bred Asiatic lions for the Indian and international endangered species captive-breeding programme. Wild, free-ranging Asiatic lions have become extinct in most parts of Asia, and are now found only in and around the Gir Forest. Zoo Director Abhishek Kumar says, “My team and the veterinary doctors worked very hard and provided the best environment for the births, which is very cheerful news for wildlife enthusiasts, especially for people who have put in efforts to save an endangered species such as Asiatic lions.” Nirav Kumar, Assistant Director and Range Officer of the zoo, says, “We are the only breeding centre in the world for Asiatic lions, but we are also taking very good care of orphaned cubs. Right now, two cubs are under observation with the help of the veterinary doctor and his team. In the Gir Forest, the Asiatic lion population went to 674 in 2020.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/back-in-the-hunt/article37936773.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The Taliban that’s fighting Pakistan||The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan’s (TTP) recent decision to end a ceasefire with the Imran Khan Government has turned the tables on Pakistan, which was at a relatively advantageous position with the arrival of the Afghan Taliban in Kabul. The TTP has declared that it is a part of the Emirate of Afghanistan led by the Taliban of Kabul and that it is not a part of Pakistan. While the Afghan Taliban have rejected this claim, the ties between the two Taliban branches go back years. The TTP has also accused Pakistan of not keeping a part of the agreement which “guaranteed” the release of its fighters, mainly in the tribal northwest of the country. The TTP says the Government had promised the release of over 100 prisoners, which it did not keep. Pakistan says it would release the prisoners but would not allow them to cross the border to Afghanistan. The disagreement appears futile as most of the fighters to be released are from the northwest and once freed, it is just a matter of time before they cross over to Afghanistan. Another demand of the TTP is that it wants Pakistan to embrace the Sharia law like in Afghanistan. Pakistan’s immediate concern is that after securing the release of its militants, the TTP, already emboldened by the return of the Taliban to power in Kabul, could carry out attacks inside Pakistan, pursuing its goal of turning the country into a land where a stricter version of the Sharia is imposed. Another worry is that the TTP has expressed allegiance to Hibatullah Akhundzada, the Taliban’s supreme leader, thereby securing the blessings of the Taliban leaders in Kabul and Kandahar. Since August, Pakistan has been struggling to take advantage of the Afghan theatre. It had sent the Inter-Service Intelligence chief to Kabul twice to secure support of the Taliban leaders for its strategic goals. However, the script did not go as expected. The rise The TTP first hit the headlines in 2007 when it was blamed for the assassination of former Pakistan Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. The assassination, during an election rally, was blamed on the then TTP leader Baitullah Mehsud, who wanted to get rid of Bhutto because of her pro-U.S. leanings. The TTP denied involvement in the killing but there were reports that the group had sent two assassins for the mission as they feared Bhutto would have collaborated with the Americans to defeat the Taliban in Afghanistan. The roots of the organisation go back to the 2001 U.S. invasion of Afghanistan. The air raids and ground invasion of Afghanistan forced thousands of foreign fighters, including Osama bin Laden-led al Qaeda, to leave Afghanistan and take refuge in the tribal territories of Pakistan such as Bajaur, Mohmand and Khyber. It was in the mud hills and mountain caves of these enclaves that the foreign fighters dug in and established underground networks to survive air attacks. It was in the mountains of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) that the fraternity between the Afghan Taliban and the Pakistani wing of the group took shape. Platform of militants The TTP was formed in 2007 as a platform of militants under the leadership of Mehsud. An ethnic Pashtun, Meshud was associated with the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (F), the Deobandi Islamic party of Maulana Fazlur Rahman. In the 1990s, after the Taliban took Kabul, Mehsud went to Afghanistan to fight the Northern Alliance, the united front of anti-Taliban militias that was backed by India, Russia and Iran. After the Taliban regime was toppled in 2001, Mehsud emerged as a major tribal leader in the Pakistani tribal belt, where he brought together different militia groups to form the TTP. Mehsud was killed in a U.S. drone attack in 2009 but by that time, the TTP had established itself in Pakistan’s FATA, fighting the Pakistani military as well as the U.S. drones. The TTP’s goals in Pakistan are similar to that of the Taliban in Afghanistan. The TTP wants to overthrow the Pakistani state and implement its hardline interpretation of Sharia across the country. They had nurtured close ties with al-Qaeda, and had carried out some of the deadliest terrorist attacks inside Pakistan. Their worst attack came in 2014 when they killed 147 persons, mostly students, in an Army Public School in Peshawar. The attack even received condemnation from the Afghan Taliban. The TTP claimed responsibility for the attack, stating it’s a retaliation to the ongoing Zarb-e-Azab campaign of the Pakistan military, which began in 2014 to rid the tribal areas of foreign and native terrorists. Over the years, the TTP has emerged as the most powerful terrorist organisation within Pakistan. Powered by native Pashtuns and Sunni extremist groups like Lashkar-e-Jhanvi, the TTP has often been chosen by the foreign fighters from Chechnya, Central Asia and Arab countries as a refuge. As of 2019, there were about 4,000 TTP militants in Afghanistan, according to a Pentagon report. The most recent addition to the arsenal of the TTP is the Islamic State of Khorasan or the IS-K, which has been facing pressure within Afghanistan from the Taliban rulers. Over the last several weeks, the Taliban have been carrying out attacks against the IS-K in the eastern part of the country near the Pakistani border. For the Afghan Taliban, the TTP is both a liability and a weapon. It’s a liability because the Taliban are seeking international legitimacy and economic aid as well as continued support from Pakistan. Close ties with the TTP could be a hurdle in its bid for legitimacy. It’s also a weapon because the Taliban can use the TTP against Pakistan if their relations with the Pakistani military-intelligence establishment is disturbed in any way. Two factions Most of the top Taliban leaders like Mullah Baradar, Hibatullah Akhundzada and the Haqqanis were either based in Pakistan or given shelter in the country by the military establishment. However, after taking power, two dominant factions have emerged in the Taliban — the Kandahar faction and the Kabul faction. The Kandahar faction, led by Deputy Prime Minister Mullah Baradar and Mullah Yaqoub, son of the former Taliban leader Mullah Omar, appears to have asserted itself as an independent entity unwilling to be controlled by the ISI. The Kabul faction, dominated by the Haqqani Network, keeps deep ties with the Pakistani establishment. The Afghan Taliban had played a role in the ceasefire between Pakistan and the TTP. With the ceasefire now broken and divisions running deep within the Afghan Taliban, an emboldened TTP could pose fresh security challenges to Pakistan. On Saturday, within hours of the collapse of the ceasefire, a TTP gunman opened fire at two policemen in northwest Pakistan, killing one of them. The TTP immediately claimed responsibility as if it’s warning the government of what’s to come in the days ahead.  In Focus The TTP was formed in 2007 as a platform of militants under the leadership of Baitullah Mehsud, an ethnic Pashtun who was associated with the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (F) Over the years, the TTP has emerged as the most powerful terrorist organisation within Pakistan, which is powered by native Pashtuns and Sunni extremist groups like Lashkar Jhanvi After the Afghan Taliban captured Kabul in August, they brokered a ceasefire between the TTP and Pakistan, which has now come to an end   The TTP has demanded the Pakistan government enforce a stricter version of Sharia in the country and vowed to continue fighting until it meets its goals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-taliban-thats-fighting-pakistan/article37936731.ece
12 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Govt. empowering small farmers: Modi||Underlining the BJP’s election pitch for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election — fark saaf hai (the difference is clear), Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that under previous Governments in the State, women had to think 100 times before stepping out of their homes but under the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government it was the criminals who needed to think hard. Comparing the law and order situation under the Adityanath government with that during the previous governments, Mr. Modi accused those formerly in power of protecting “mafia”, promoting baahubalis (political strongmen) and illegally grabbing land. Mr. Modi said that today Yogiji ki sarkar was engaged in the safai (wiping out) of mafia, empowering the poor, Dalits, backward caste communities and tribals. “That’s why the people of U.P. are saying fark saaf hai ,” Mr. Modi said in Balrampur, where he inaugurated the Saryu Nahar National Project. 6,200 villages to benefit The project aims at providing water for irrigating over 14 lakh hectares of land and seeks to benefit 29 lakh farmers in over 6,200 villages in nine districts of eastern U.P., including Bahraich, Sravasti, Balrampur, Gonda, Siddharthnagar, Basti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Gorakhpur and Maharajganj. The Saryu Nahar National Project was built at a total cost of more than Rs. 9,800 crore, out of which more than Rs. 4,600 crore was provisioned in the last four years, the Government said. Mr. Modi said that for the first time a government was linking small farmers, those with less than two hectares of land, to public facilities and benefits. For the small farmers, the irrigation facility would be “life-changing”, said the Prime Minister. From beej to bazaar (seed to market) and khet to khalihan (farm to barn), they are being helped at all levels, Mr. Modi stressed. While emphasising the benefits of a “double engine government”, Mr. Modi said before 2017, sugar cane farmers had to wait for years for their dues and 20 sugar mills were forced to shut down. In contrast, the government of Mr. Adityanath had expanded and modernised sugar mills, he stated. Referring to the death of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others in a chopper crash in Tamil Nadu, Mr. Modi said that while the country was still in mourning, it would not stop its progress. “India will not stop, it won’t halt.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-empowering-small-farmers-modi/article37936708.ece
12 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||MSP is key to diversify crops: farmers||Guaranteed minimum support prices (MSP) for all crops may be the best route to crop diversification in Punjab and Haryana, farmers think. Farmers in these two States already get the benefit of MSP rates for paddy and wheat because of the high levels of procurement. However, they say they will join the upcoming fight for an MSP guarantee for all crops, as it will enable them to shift away from input-expensive, environmentally harmful and climatically unsuitable paddy to grow oilseeds and lentils instead. “Why would I want to pay Rs. 3 lakh for a borewell that is going to drain even more groundwater from my lands if I can be assured of MSP rates for growing other crops,” asked Jagmohan Singh, a leader of the Dhakaunda faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, who is a member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). He suggested that paddy cultivation and procurement be shifted instead to a State like Telangana, which is fast earning the moniker of the new rice bowl of India due to major improvements in irrigation. Mr. Singh said input costs are also cheaper in places where water availability is higher and the need for fertilizers and pesticides is lower than in Punjab. Paddy farmers in Punjab need thrice the amount of irrigation water used by those in Bihar to produce one kg of rice, according to a study by the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations, and Punjab faces rapidly increasing groundwater depletion at a rate of up to 120 cm a year. Nationwide, paddy and sugarcane use up half the country’s water resources, largely because procurement policies skew profitability and distort cropping patterns. For instance, maize uses only a fifth of the irrigation water of rice, but farmers are wary of shifting to a crop where remunerative prices are not guaranteed. “Crop diversity is impossible without a guaranteed MSP. If all crops were procured, not just rice and wheat, then the average Punjab farmer would stop growing paddy and instead grow safflower, moong or chana dal,” said Mr. Singh. Punjab, Haryana in focus More than half of government procurement of wheat and paddy over the last five years has taken place in Punjab and Haryana, according to the Agriculture Ministry data. Over 85% of wheat and paddy grown in Punjab, and 75% in Haryana, is bought by the Government at MSP. No other crops receive such support. The support could also help solve the bugbear of stubble burning that has darkened the skies of northern India. “Punjab farmers are well aware of the pollution caused by stubble burning as it affects them even more than the citizens of Delhi. But the solution is not to criminalise the burning of paddy stubble, but rather to provide financial incentives so that farmers can shift to other crops,” said Kavitha Kuruganti, convenor of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture, who is also one of the few women leaders in the SKM. “The environmental degradation of Punjab because of the demands of the Green Revolution hurts all farmers. The drop in the level of groundwater is alarming,” said Darshan Pal, a senior SKM leader who heads the Krantikari Kisan Union in Punjab. “We will join the struggle for MSP not just on behalf of our brothers in other States who do not get remunerative prices for their crops, but in our own self-interest, so that we have sustainable choices beyond paddy,” he said, suggesting maize and oilseeds as the best alternatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/msp-is-key-to-diversify-crops-farmers/article37936719.ece
12 December 2021||Srinagar/ New Delhi,||NC undecided on attending delimitation panel meeting||The National Conference (NC) has continued its flip-flop over participating in the delimitation exercise for Jammu and Kashmir, with the party undecided on attending the meeting of the Delimitation Commission scheduled for December 20 in New Delhi. The meeting is the first such since Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a multi-party meeting in June. Official sources said the commission had completed its report and was likely to share it with all the five associate members — three NC and two BJP MPs. “An invitation has been sent to us [NC]. The leadership is yet to take a decision on whether to attend the meeting,” NC MP Hasnain Masoodi told The Hindu . The NC has been upset with the commission’s failure to formally include the MPs during a four-day tour of the Union Territory in July, when it held meetings with local political parties, public representatives and officials. “We were not associated with the commission’s visit to J&K and thereafter. No report or any material has been shared with us,” Mr. Masoodi said. Unconstitutional steps In February, the NC MPs boycotted the the three-member commission, headed by Justice Ranjana Prakash Desai (retd.), though they were extended an invite to join the proceedings. The party had argued that the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019 and measures thereafter, including the formation of the commission, were “unconstitutional and the case was before the Supreme Court”. However, the party changed its stand after the multi-party meeting chaired by the Prime Minister and assurances of a follow-up and announcement of J&K-centric measures. NC president Farooq Abdullah, Srinagar MP, then showed willingness to be part of the delimitation process and his party presented a memorandum to the commission members during their J&K visit. But more recently, Dr. Abdullah had expressed his anger on December 8 over the pace of the commission on finalising its report. “Being members of the commission, we were neither invited nor shown any preliminary report. The Centre was deviating from its promise and assurance that there will be no extension to the commission beyond March 6, 2022 for submitting its report to enable elections to the J&K Legislative Assembly,” Dr. Abdullah said. Addition of seats The commission is mandated to carve out seven additional seats for the 83-member Assembly of the Union Territory. It is also likely to announce reservation for the Schedule Tribes (ST) and Schedule Castes (SC) in its report. A senior Election Commission official in New Delhi said the draft delimitation plan was “almost ready”. Asked whether separate representation for Kashmiri Pandits had been made, the official said no such recommendation had been finalised yet.  (With inputs from   Damini Nath in New Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nc-undecided-on-attending-delimitation-panel-meeting/article37936694.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The IAF’s workhorse||On December 8, an Indian Air Force (IAF) Mi-17V5 helicopter with the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 12 defence personnel, including the crew, crashed in Coonoor ghat in the Nilgiris, Tamil Nadu. The cause of the chopper crash, in which there was only one survivor who is battling for his life, is being investigated. Mi-17V5 of Russian Helicopters is considered one of the most advanced choppers of its class globally. It has incorporated the best engineering solutions of previous generations, according to Rostec State Corporation of Russia. Each Indian Mi-17V-5 has a complex navigation and electronic display KNEI-8. The numerous indicators for various information in the earlier series of Mi helicopters have been replaced with four multi-function displays which unloads dashboards and greatly facilitates the work of the crew. The complex also significantly simplifies pre-flight check of the helicopter with information from all sensors of conjugate systems on a single monitor screen, according to the manufacturer. In addition, the helicopters are equipped with modern powerful engines, which significantly extends the capabilities for the transport of heavy and bulky loads, especially suited for mountainous and high altitude regions of India. Mi-17 V5 is a twin engine helicopter designed with full glass cockpit, advanced avionics, weather radar and powerful aero engines for high altitude operations, according to the Defence Ministry. Various operations “The helicopter is being exploited for various civil and military operations such as transportation, paratrooper induction, search and rescue, medical evacuation and fire fighting in all weather conditions,” the Defence Ministry had stated earlier. India is one of the largest operators of Russian helicopters and the Mi series have been in the IAF’s inventory for decades. According to Rostec, over the decades, Russian Helicopters and its earlier companies have delivered 110 units of the Mi-4, 128 units of the Mi-8 and about 160 units of the Mi-17 to India. In fact, Mi-4 helicopters, supplied by the Soviet Union, played a seminal role during the 1971 Liberation War of Bangladesh. On December 9, 1971, IAF Mi-4s were used to ferry Indian troops across river Meghna, which proved decisive in their advance to Dhaka. The Mi-17 fleet — Mi-17, Mi-17 1V, Mi-17 V5 — has been the workhorse of the IAF, observed Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (Retd), a former helicopter pilot. The safety record of a fleet is worked on accidents/incidents per 10,000 hours of flying — and the stats for the Mi-17 show that its record is good, AVM Bahdaur stated. “It is rugged, reliable and ideal for field operations. Pilots swear by its dependability.” In 2008, India had signed a contract with Rosoboronexport for 80 Mi-17V-5, which was completed in 2011-13. In 2012-13 three additional supplies have been signed for a total of 71 Mi-17V-5 for the IAF, the Home Ministry and also to be used for VVIP transport. In February 2016, Rostec handed over the final batch of three helicopters of the contract for 151 Mi-17V-5 helicopters. The Mi series in general and the Mi-17 in particular have a good safety record in the IAF fleet. There have been at least five accidents with the Mi-17V5s since induction, including the one shot by own air defence system in February 2019 during the aerial dual with Pakistan, a day after the Balakot air strike. According to a recent report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence, the number of air accidents in the IAF has reduced from an average of 13 accidents per year in 11th plan (April 1, 2007 to March 31, 2012) to an average of 7.6 per year in 12th plan (April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2017). In the last two decades, the IAF had flown approximately 2.5 lakh hours per year, with the available inventory of aircraft, according to the report. Comparing safety records from 1990 in a block of five years, as submitted by the IAF to the Standing Committee, the average number of accidents has gone down at each level. Between 1990-95, there were an average of 27 accidents a years, which is an accident rate of 1.07, and the average has come down for each five-year block and from 2015-18, there were an average of 7.33 accidents a year, an accident rate of 0.28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-iafs-workhorse/article37936729.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||At the centre of the Ukraine crisis||Donbas, a small region in eastern Ukraine adjoining the Russian border, is no stranger to military conflicts. After the fall of the Russian empire, the region was incorporated into the newly created Ukrainian People’s Republic in 1918. And then came the Bolsheviks, who were fighting a civil war against the remnants of the old regime. Donbas became part of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. During the Second World War, the Nazis took the region. Over 3,00,000 civilians were killed in Donbas alone during the Nazi occupation. In 1943, after defeating the Nazis in Stalingrad, the Red Army took Donbas back. In 1991, with the disintegration of the Soviet Union, the region, which comprises the Donetsk and Luhansk Oblasts, became part of the newly born Ukrainian nation. Now, Donetsk and Luhansk are two self-declared republics run by rebels backed by Russia. With Russia mobilising thousands of troops on its border with Ukraine, which has sparked fears of war, Donbas is once again at the centre of a looming conflict. The current crisis started with the 2013 Euromaidan protests in Ukraine. When pro-western protesters forced President Viktor Yanukovych to resign in 2014, counter-protests broke out in the Crimean Peninsula and Donabs, where a majority of people speak Russian. Immediately after Russia’s annexation of Crimea, protests picked up in Donbas, eventually leading to an armed rebellion. In Donetsk and Luhansk, separatists declared self-ruled republics in May 2014. Ukraine and Western countries accused Russia of supplying weapons to the rebels and sending military personnel to the region to fight the Ukrainian army. Russia’s official position is that it has nothing to do with the insurgency, but President Vladimir Putin said in 2016 that Russia “was forced to defend the Russian-speaking population in the Donbas... ”. In Donbas, ethnic Ukrainians make up a majority, while ethnic Russians are the largest minority. But over 70% of the population, across the ethnic divisions, speak Russian. Moscow says the post-Yanukovych regimes in Kiev are discriminatory to the Russian-speaking people in the east. Unable to defeat the Russian-backed rebels, Ukraine agreed to the Minsk Protocol, after holding talks with the rebels and Russia that were mediated by France and Germany, in 2014. The Protocol called for an immediate ceasefire. As the agreement collapsed, the Ukraine Trilateral Contact Group, comprising representatives from Russia, Ukraine and the OSCE, called another summit of the concerned parties in the Belarusian capital in February 2015, which is called Minsk II. Call for ceasefire As per Minsk II, Ukraine and rebels were required to enforce a full ceasefire in the Donbas region, pull out heavy weapons and start talks on holding local elections. Ukraine is also supposed to devolve more powers to the Donbas “republics”, introduce constitutional reforms codifying the decentralisation of power and announce an amnesty to the rebel fighters. Rebels, in turn, should allow the Ukrainian troops to restore control of the border with Russia. These terms were never implemented. A war of attrition continued on the border. Ukraine started getting enhanced military and financial aid and training from the U.S. and other western nations. Since 2014, the U.S. has committed over $2.5 billion in military assistance to Ukraine. As the Minsk process hit a dead end and Ukraine, under President Volodymyr Zelensky, moved closer to the West, Russia changed its approach. Earlier this year, Russia had gathered thousands of troops on the border, but pulled them back after Mr. Putin’s Geneva summit with U.S. President Joe Biden in June. But as the Western aid to Ukraine continued to flow in with NATO members enhancing their activities in the Black Sea, the Russian troops were back. Mr. Putin sees Ukraine joining NATO or the latter moving advanced weaponry to Ukraine as a direct threat to Russia’s “command positions” . He demands a commitment from the U.S. that Ukraine would not be taken into the NATO fold. The U.S. would not give any such assurance. As the stalemate continues, Donbas, a region of roughly 4 million people, has been caught in the middle of the most dangerous great power rivalry in Europe since the end of the Cold War.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-the-centre-of-the-ukraine-crisis/article37936733.ece
12 December 2021||Guwahati,||Nagas want apology from Centre for killing 14 civilians||Civil society organisations in Nagaland’s Mon district have asked the Centre to apologise for the killing of 14 civilians on December 4 and repeal the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act of 1958. Led by the Konyak Union, the apex body of the district’s dominant Konyak Naga community, hundreds took out a protest rally at Mon’s Tizit and slammed the Centre for not apologising for the killings by the armed forces in a botched ambush. The protesters demanded justice for the family members of the victims and vowed not to remain silent till the guilty soldiers are punished. “So far, the Government of India has not apologised for the botched ambush that claimed 14 innocent lives. It has instead peddled the lies of the security forces claiming the victims, who were travelling in a vehicle, did not stop when signalled by the security forces,” a protester said. The protesters also demanded the repeal of the AFSPA that has “made our lives hell”. The Chief Ministers of Nagaland, Meghalaya and Mizoram had sought the repeal of the AFSPA. The Nagaland Assembly also resolved to ask the Centre to withdraw the Act from the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagas-want-apology-from-centre-for-killing-14-civilians/article37936705.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,||Men in India take 82% of labour income, says report||Men in India capture 82% of labour income, while women earn just 18%, according to the first-ever estimates of the gender inequality in global earnings presented in the World Inequality Report 2022 released earlier this week. The female share of the total labour income is the national aggregate labour income earned by women relative to the total aggregate of labour income within a country. In a country with perfect equality between women and men, the female labour income share would be 50%. But the report finds that it is below 50% around the world, with significant variations across countries, ranging from below 10% to 45%. The report covered 180 countries between 1991 to 2019. Female labour income in India of 18.3% is lower than the average for Asia, which was at 27% in 2019. Eleven countries in the region have values above 30%. Among the neighbours that performed worse than India were Bhutan (17.5%), Bangladesh (16.9%), Pakistan (7.4%), and Afghanistan (4.2%); and those with a higher share were Nepal (23.2%), Sri Lanka (23.3%) and China (33.4%). Pandemic impact After the pandemic, there was a worsening of female labour participation rate, which fell to 16.1% during the July-September 2020 quarter, according to the Ministry of Statistics. Eastern Europe has the highest female labour income shares, with the average female share near 41%. Moldova has the highest female labour income in the world at 45%. Overall, the share of women in total incomes from work neared 30% in 1990 and stands at 34% today. “Unpaid care work is likely to prevent women from participating in the labour market, and, when they do work, to prevent them from attaining high-paying positions. When paid and unpaid work are combined, women’s contribution to work increases substantially and thus makes the female labour income share appear even more unfair,” states the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/men-in-india-take-82-of-labour-income-says-report/article37936714.ece
12 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pinaka extended range rocket system tested: DRDO||Successful tests of the Pinaka Extended Range (ER) multi-barrel rocket launcher system, Area Denial Munitions (ADM) and indigenously developed fuses have been carried out at various test ranges, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) said on Saturday. “The DRDO, along with the Army, conducted a series of performance evaluation trials of these industry-produced rockets at field firing ranges during the last three days,” it said in a statement. “In these trials, enhanced-range Pinaka rockets were test-fired at different ranges with various warhead capabilities. All the trial objectives were met satisfactorily.” The DRDO said 24 rockets were fired for different ranges and warhead capabilities to meet the objectives of accuracy and consistency. With this, the initial phase of technology absorption of Pinaka-ER by the industry partner has successfully been completed making the industry partner ready for series production of the rocket system, it said. The technology of the Pinaka ER rockets was transferred by the DRDO to the industry partner, which manufactured the enhanced Pinaka Mk-1 rockets with DRDO’s handholding during the production and quality assurance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pinaka-extended-range-rocket-system-tested-drdo/article37936717.ece
12 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||No drop in stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana this year||A programme this October to check stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana by a private “agri-tech” firm claims to have reduced the paddy-area being burned by 92% over last year. This, however, does not seem to have dissuaded the bulk of farmers in the States from burning stubble as multiple accounts suggest that instances were not noticeably reduced from last year. In the programme, the Bengaluru-based nurture.farm sprayed a bio-decomposer in the paddy fields of about 25,000 farmers in Punjab and Haryana in October. The decomposers are a powder mixed in water meant to accelerate the process of turning rice stubble into compost. Untreated rice straw takes four to eight weeks to disintegrate which is too long for the average farmer to wait to be able to sow the winter wheat crop. Expensive option The other option is to employ farm labourers who will cut the stalk and pile it into bundles, but that is expensive and unaffordable for more than 95% of the farmers. The chemical formula for the decomposer, which is essentially a bio-enzyme, was developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), in Pusa, Delhi. The bio-enzyme developed was initially formulated as a capsule and needs to be mixed with an organic liquid mixture to be usable. However, it emerged that a capsule was not the best way to put the product into fields. Hence the company made it into a powder that can be mixed with water, which is loaded into a tank in the boom sprayer. After spraying, the soil needs to be turned over and irrigated. When done correctly, the straw can be disintegrated in eight days, said company officials. An acre could be sprayed in seven minutes with the boom sprayer whereas manually it took half a day. The IARI, which monitors stubble burning via data from multiple satellites based on a protocol from the Indian Space Research Organisation, has reported that there were 78,291 instances of stubble burning from September 15 to November 30 in Punjab and Haryana which comprise over 85% of instances of the kharif crop. Last year there were 84,771 instances recorded in these States in the same interval. The Delhi-based environment think-tank, the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), has a different set of figures based on data from the NASA VIIRS satellite that says there were more fires this year than the last. Between October 1 and November 28, the satellite, which tracks thermal radiation at high resolution, showed there have been 86,296 fires cumulatively in the two States this year — 6,700 more than last year’s 79,518 — according to media reports citing experts from the organisation. What’s common though in both reports is that Punjab and Haryana accounted for a very high number of fires. The contribution of farm fires to the air pollution in Delhi varies from as low as 5% to 40%. It is so polluted that it prompted the Supreme Court to sharply rebuke the Centre and ordered it to take urgent steps to quell the problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-drop-in-stubble-burning-in-punjab-haryana-this-year/article37936689.ece
12 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Remains of all crash victims identified||The mortal remains of all the military personnel killed in the Mi-17V5 chopper crash have been positively identified, defence officials said late on Saturday morning. While six of the mortal remains were handed over to the families in the day, the remaining four which were confirmed later in the day would be handed over to the family members on Sunday morning, they said. “The positive identification of the mortal remains of Lance Naik B Sai Teja and Lance Naik Vivek Kumar has been done and they have been released to close family members,” an Army official said. The mortal remains of all four IAF crew were also identified and handed over. Wreaths will be laid on Sunday at the Base Hospital, Delhi Cantt, for the mortal remains of Lt. Col. Harjinder Singh, Hav Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar prior to departure. The last rites of Lt. Col. Harjinder Singh are likely to take place at Brar Square on Sunday, a defence official said. The positive identification of the last four mortal remains was done through DNA testing, the official said. For the six mortal remains identified earlier in the day, which includes Lance Naik B Sai Teja and Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and the four IAF chopper crew, wreath laying was done and the remains were sent to their respective destinations in an IAF transport aircraft. The last rites will be performed with appropriate military honours, the official said. Lone survivor Gp. Capt. Varun Singh’s medical condition continues to remain critical but stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/remains-of-all-crash-victims-identified/article37936696.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,||Scrap move against namaz in public places, says CPI(M)||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar is denying basic constitutional rights to one section of Indian citizens, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] said, calling his remarks against namaz in public spaces “extremely objectionable”. The CPI(M) Polit Bureau in a statement here said that congregations of people belonging to all religions are regularly held in the open. The party pointed out that the Chief Minister had also withdrawn permission granted by his own administration to members of the Muslim community in Gurugram to offer Friday prayers in open spaces because they are deprived of the mosques in which this could be done. ‘No help from police’ In the last few months, every Friday, people belonging to organisations like the Bajrang Dal had disturbed or prevented Muslims from offering prayers in designated spaces, the CPI(M) said. The police, the Left party said, had stood by allowing the miscarriage of justice to take place. “Instead of ensuring that miscreants are punished and prayers allowed to be undertaken peacefully, the Chief Minister is denying a basic constitutional right to one section of Indian citizens,” the statement said. The party has demanded that Mr. Khattar withdraw his comments and that the Haryana Government make arrangements to ensure that Friday prayers proceed peacefully. Necessary permission should given to the Muslim community to construct mosques and gain control of Waqf properties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scrap-move-against-namaz-in-public-places-says-cpim/article37936711.ece
12 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Students take out anti-CAA protests across northeast||The northeast on Saturday saw the return of the protests against the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act after almost two years. The North East Students’ Organisation (NESO), an umbrella body of the State-based students’ groups, observed the second anniversary of the Act as a “black day” on Saturday while the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), formed after anti-CAA protests in September 2020, burnt copies of the Act. The passage of the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill by the Rajya Sabha on December 11, 2019, had triggered widespread protests across the northeast, the most violent of which was in Assam and claimed at least five lives. On Saturday, members of NESO hoisted black flags and banners at all important places across the region as a mark of protest. The NESO appealed to people to keep fighting against the CAA. “Despite relentless opposition by the indigenous people of the northeast, the Government of India passed the draconian law,” it said. The AJP took out a rally in Guwahati seeking its repeal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/students-take-out-anti-caa-protests-across-northeast/article37936703.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,||Kiren Rijiju, Chidambaram spar over sedition law||Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju and former Home Minister P. Chidambaram on Saturday sparred on Twitter over Mr. Rijiju’s reply on the sedition law in the Lok Sabha. In a series of tweets, the former Union Minister targeted Mr. Rijiju for saying on Friday that the Union Home Ministry has no proposal to scrap Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code that deals with sedition laws. “What he did not say was that MHA has proposals to book many innocent people under the sedition law!” said the Congress leader. Mr. Chidambaram also targeted the Law Minister for asserting that the Supreme Court had not made any observation about the sedition law being “a colonial” law. “The Law Minister also said that there is no record of the Supreme Court making any observations on the sedition law. What he did not say was that he does not read newspapers reporting the proceedings of the SC,” he said. Mr. Rijiju questioned the Congress record and made a fine distinction between any oral observation by the Supreme Court and what was said in an order. “How many thousand sedition cases were slapped on people by Congress Govt.? Law Minister may not read newspaper but Law Minister knows that media reports do not become part of official Depart records. Hon’ble SC is aware of how to make observations & how to pass formal orders!” he said in response to Mr. Chidambaram’s tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kiren-rijiju-chidambaram-spar-over-sedition-law/article37936709.ece
12 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Shah credits PM with reviving holy sites||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi with “saving the Hindu community from humiliation and reviving important but forgotten centres of the Hindu religion”. The Union Home Minister was speaking at the foundation stone laying ceremony of a temple in Ahmedabad. “Under Modiji’s leadership since 2014, work on our forgotten centres of our faith have been without fear and with full respect,” Mr. Shah said, referring to the Prime Minister’s constituency of Varanasi, Kedarnath and other pilgrimage sites. Mr. Shah said that the Kashi Vishwanath temple has been restored to full glory by the Prime Minister. Mr. Modi will inaugurate it on December 13. “For decades, our faith centres and temples remained neglected or forgotten but now things have changed,” Mr. Shah said, while thanking the Patidar community for planning the temple of their deity in Ahmedabad. “Earlier, people visiting temples used to feel a sense of shame but now under Modi ji , a new era has begun when he performed the maha arti at Varanasi,” he added. Mr. Shah also inaugurated development projects in his constituency Gandhinagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-credits-pm-with-reviving-holy-sites/article37936715.ece
12 December 2021||Kolkata,||Protecting wildlife: 2,054 cases registered in three years||Between 2018 and 2020, about 2,054 cases were registered for killing or illegal trafficking of wild animals in India, Central Government statistics say. In the three years, about 3,836 accused were arrested for the crime. The number of cases registered in the year 2018 was 648 and 1,099 persons were arrested; followed by 805 cases and 1,506 arrests in 2019; and 601 cases and 1,231 arrests in 2020. The data was made available on the basis of cases registered by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau and State Forest and Police Authorities in the past three years. The details were made public by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change in response to a question in the Lok Sabha by BJP MP G.M. Siddeshwar. The reply on November 29 also pointed out that Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) has been created for control of wildlife crime at the Central Government level, to work in close coordination with State forest department and other law enforcement agencies. In response to another question on December 6 by DMK MP K. Shanmuga Sundaram, the Ministry said the WCCB has conducted a number of species-specific enforcement operations in coordination with State enforcement agencies. Illegal trade The WCCB had launched operation “Save Kurma” from to December 2016 to January 2017 to focus on the poaching, transportation and illegal trade of live turtles and tortoises. The operation resulted in seizure of more than 15,912 live turtles and the arrest of 55 suspects. Another operation “Operation Turtshield- I” from December 2019 to January 2020 and Operation Turtshield-II” (December 2020 to February 2021) was taken up to tackle the illegal trade of live turtles, resulting in the seizure of 4,601 live/dead turtles and arrest of 45 accused in the first operation. In the second operation, 59 accused were arrested and the efforts led to the recovery of 11,771 live turtles/tortoises and 45 kilograms of turtle calipee. “Operation Softgold” was undertaken from October, 2018 to March, 2019 to tackle illegal trade in Shahtoosh shawls (made from Chiru wool). During the operation, 350 shawls were found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protecting-wildlife-2054-cases-registered-in-three-years/article37936723.ece
12 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Punjab moves Supreme Court against extended BSF area||Punjab has filed a suit in the Supreme Court against the Centre’s move to increase the limits of jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15 km to 50 km along the India-Pakistan International Border. The State has filed an original suit challenging the October 11 notification issued by the Union Home Ministry extending the Central force’s area of jurisdiction, calling it a breach of the federal form of governance under the Constitution. The Supreme Court has asked the advocate on record for the Centre to appear when the case is called out. Punjab said the notification issued under Section 139 of the Border Security Force Act, 1968 encroaches on a State subject in List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. The State said it was neither consulted nor kept in the know before the issuance of the notification in October. The notification was unilateral. It pointed out that earlier notifications from 1969 to 2014 had limited the BSF jurisdiction to 15 km from the International Border in Punjab. The State said many districts, towns and villages of Punjab fell within the 50-km radius and came within the jurisdiction of the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-moves-supreme-court-against-extended-bsf-area/article37936774.ece
12 December 2021||Srinagar,||Pak. militant behind Bandipora attack: IGP||The J&K police on Saturday said a Pakistani militant and his local associates from the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) were behind the killing of two policemen in Bandipora on Friday. “A Pakistani terrorist opened fire upon the policemen. They couldn’t snatch the weapons [from them] due to the retaliation by the police. Two over-ground workers have facilitated the attacker,” IGP Vijay Kumar said. The IGP held a meeting with the offices of the Army, CRPF and police in Bandipora. He asked the security forces “to jointly track the attackers by working out specific inputs and strengthening anti-militancy operations in the district”. Police and Army officers visited Gulshan Chowk and inspected the scene. Senior constable Mohammad Sultan and constable Fayaz Ahmad died in the attack. DGP J&K Dilbag Singh on Saturday visited the families of the deceased policemen. While interacting with the family of Sultan in Sopore, DGP Singh said, “Every support would be provided to the family.” He said the police had got some clues and were working to identify the terrorists. “There have been recent incursions by Pakistan in some places in which some Pakistani terrorists have infiltrated to this side. The terrorists are on our radar. I hope that Pakistani terrorists who have recently infiltrated will be neutralised soon as the operations are on against them.” Main motive He said the main motive of the Pakistan-sponsored terrorists was to kill someone and harm the lives of people and their property. “The police along with other security agencies work for the security and safety of people so the police become the target. We have been fighting this war for the last 30 years and it is our responsibility to protect the lives and property of people.” Hundreds of locals attended the last rites of the two policemen in their villages. Paying his tributes, Peoples Conference president Sajad Gani Lone said in a tweet, “20 years ago, a policeman from Bandipore was killed alongside my father. My father was killed too. Saw photos of orphaned daughter and son. Remember just because today’s orphan doesn’t belong to you doesn’t mean tomorrow’s orphan won’t belong to you.” “The biggest threat that we as people face is that death has become a statistic. A good statistic and a bad statistic depending which side of the ideological divide you are on,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-militant-behind-bandipora-attack-igp/article37936692.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Omicron scare brings in fresh Mumbai curbs||On Friday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation had said that three more individuals were infected with the Omicron variant, out of which two persons were asymptomatic while the third had mild symptoms, taking the total number of those infected by the variant to five in the city. The order, issued by Chaitanya S., Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations), also referred to incidents of violence reported in Amravati, Malegaon and Nanded during in November 2021, “posing a threat to the prevailing law and order situation in the state of Maharashtra”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-scare-brings-in-fresh-mumbai-curbs/article37936700.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||India sends medical relief to Afghanistan||Afghanistan’s leading hospitals including the Indira Gandhi Children Hospital in Kabul, had exhausted supplies of anaesthetics necessary for surgical procedures which prompted Taliban’s acting Deputy Prime Minister Mullah Baradar to reach out to the UNDP in Doha. This is the first time that India has sent humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan after the Taliban took over Kabul by dislodging the government of President Ashraf Ghani in August. This is an important development as it is likely to be followed by the large scale humanitarian assistance from India to Afghanistan which will be supplied through a transit facility from Pakistan. It was reported earlier that India is unlikely to recognise the Taliban administration though there is a possibility that there could be medical, educational and other kinds of exchanges between both sides. As part of the Operation Devi Shakti, which was launched in August to evacuate Indians and Afghan minority community members from the strife torn country, the Government has evacuated a total of 669 people from Afghanistan. This includes 448 Indians who were working on various projects and businesses and 206 Afghan nationals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-sends-medical-relief-to-afghanistan/article37936701.ece
12 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||PMO takes note of Chakma-Hajong census||The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has registered a complaint filed by the Chakma Development Foundation of India (CDFI) on December 2 against racial profiling of Chakmas and Hajongs in Arunachal Pradesh through an exclusive census of both the communities from December 11-31. The Deputy Commissioner of Arunachal Pradesh’s Changlang district, on November 26, notified the “census of Chakmas and Hajongs 2021”, which the CDFI said was in clear violation of their right to life, including the right to privacy and the right to equality. The Deputy Commissioner has denied such a notification. The PMO wrote to the State’s Chief Secretary on December 7 seeking appropriate action on the complaint. There are about 65,000 Chakmas and Hajongs in the State; about 4,500 are migrants from 1964 to 1969. The rest are descendants and citizens by birth under Section 3 of the Citizenship Act of 1955, the CDFI said. The migrants were primarily displaced by the Kaptai dam in the Chittagong Hill Tracts of present-day Bangladesh, then called East Pakistan. The CDFI had termed the exclusive Chakma-Hajong census in the State as an act of racial profiling “because there is no census on the illegal immigrants from Myanmar and China, the illegal immigrants who had entered through Assam as well as thousands of people who had entered Arunachal Pradesh without inner line permit (ILP)”. “The Chakmas and Hajongs were settled by the Union of India from 1964 to 1969 to permanently settle them in the State and they do not require ILP,” the CDFI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pmo-takes-note-of-chakma-hajong-census/article37936706.ece
12 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Hand of god: Maradona’s stolen watch recovered||The Assam police have recovered a limited edition Hublot watch that belonged to football legend Diego Armando Maradona. The police in eastern Assam’s Sivasagar district retrieved it from the house of one Wazid Hussain during an operation at 4 a.m. on Saturday. Hussain was not at home in Sivasagar town. The police caught him from his in-laws’ house in the adjoining Charaideo district later. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, taking to Twitter, said the recovery of the “heritage” watch was an outcome of international cooperation between the Dubai and the Assam police through a Central law enforcement agency. “According to the information received from the Dubai police, Hussain once worked at the place Maradona used to stay in Dubai and had stolen a box containing many of his belongings,” Sivasagar’s Superintendent of Police Rakesh Roushan told The Hindu . “The watch was among the footballer’s belongings Hussain had taken away before returning to India in August 2020,” he said. Interrogation on “We are interrogating the man and hope to recover the other stolen items,” Mr. Roushan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hand-of-god-maradonas-stolen-watch-recovered/article37936727.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers bid adieu to Singhu protest site||The farmers sang and danced to drums and ensured that everyone crossing the street danced with them. “We have won and now we are going. This happiness must be shared,” said 22-year-old Balwinder Saini. A few metres away from the protest site from KMP Expressway, Sardar Budh Singh, 68, from Ludhiana was busy pulling out iron rods which the farmers had installed on the road to erect their tents. “If bikers hit these iron rods, they would get hurt very badly. At night, they might not even see them. We are removing them so that no inconvenience is caused to the people,” Mr. Budh said. He added that after digging up the rods, they will quickly fill up the craters. “ Jaise aaye they, vaise hi jayenge (We will leave the place the way we were welcomed).” Many of the protesters cleaned up the sites before leaving. “There was a lot of waste here, especially disposables, which had to be removed. We cleaned up the place because we didn’t want the blame that we left a mess behind,” said Malkit Singh from Fatehgarh Sahib. At the Singhu border, several items were stacked for donation — cots, mattresses, string beds, tarpaulins, raw food and wood, among others. “We helped the needy throughout the year. Why not now when we are leaving,” said Mandeep Singh, 21, from Patiala. He gave away bedsheets, rations, containers and mattresses. Lakhvir Singh, 30, from Ludhiana — who took 10 days to customise his trolley with an air conditioner, LED TV, bed and other equipment — got emotional while dismantling the attachments. He said they would reinstall the truck in their village as a remembrance of their struggle. “We spent a year here struggling and fighting for our rights. This truck will remain as it is,” he said. The Jangi Kitab Ghar, a library which was set up by Jasveer Singh and Zia-Ur-Rahman, will leave the site at the end, the duo said. “I had given my word that I’ll be here in solidarity with them till the end,” said Mr. Rahman, a resident of Hyderabad, adding that there are plans to set up the library in Punjab. Nachhatar Singh, 87, one of the two famous senior protesters at Singhu border, stayed put at the site on Saturday as he has decided to leave in the end. He said he has decided to walk back “even if it takes 10 days”. Mr. Singh, who is a part of ‘Mitti Aid’, an NGO engaged in helping protesters with joints and leg pain, said they will continue to help people on their way back home. While the majority was getting ready to leave the protest site at Singhu, 20-odd protesters sat there, wearing chains and continuing their agitation. “We’ll stay here as long as we can because we are demanding an assurance on Minimum Support Price, which the Government hasn’t given. Those who have left are traitors. We will not be fooled by the Government,” said Subhash Sandhu, a resident of Hisar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-bid-adieu-to-singhu-protest-site/article37936687.ece
12 December 2021||Srinagar,||Displaced Pandits betrayed, says Farooq||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Saturday said displaced Kashmiri Pandits were betrayed by those who claimed to be their messiahs, and promised to pass the Kashmiri Hindu Shrines Management Bill once in power to protect them. “The NC had tabled the Kashmiri Hindu Shrines Management Bill in 2009. I was threatened not to get this legislation through. Today, they are pretending to be the well-wishers of Kashmiri Pandits, who they are using to strengthen their vote bank,” Dr. Abdullah said at a day-long convention organised in Jammu. He said when the Centre with a majority in Parliament could get the Bills on farm laws through, why could not Bills regarding Kashmiri Pandits? “The Kashmiri Hindu Shrines Management Bill will definitely be passed when the NC will be mandated to form the Government. They [Centre] will never pass such a Bill,” he said. He said J&K would never go into the hands of those who believed in “engineering ethnic cleansing”. “You [Kashmiri Pandits] have suffered a lot and what happened then had never been even comprehended.” He accused former J&K Governor Jagmohan of “facilitating the exodus of Kashmiri Pandits with the promise to get them back in two months. Jagmohan got Padma Vibhushan but never brought KPs back”. Downplaying the bickering between his party and the Gupkar alliance partner Peoples Democratic Party, NC vice-president Omar Abdullah said the alliance was working towards a cause. “The existence of the Peoples Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration is for a certain cause and every member is doing the job at their level,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/displaced-pandits-betrayed-says-farooq/article37936691.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||United States’ ban on para unit stuns Dhaka||On Friday, the U.S. Treasury announced the designation and sanctions against the RAB force for “serious human rights abuse”, as a part of a batch of sanctions announced on International Human Rights Day against China, Russia, Myanmar and North Korea as well. The MEA declined to comment on the U.S. action, which followed a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi participated in President Joseph Biden’s Democracy Summit, to which Bangladesh was not invited. However, the sanctions against Bangladesh, based according to the Treasury note on “widespread allegations” and reports by NGOs, could set off alarm bells in India and across the region, for the possible use of sanctions against security forces similarly accused of human rights violations here. Magnitsky Act “NGOs have alleged that RAB and other Bangladeshi law enforcement are responsible for more than 600 disappearances since 2009, nearly 600 extrajudicial killings since 2018, and torture. Some reports suggest these incidents target opposition party members, journalists, and human rights activists,” the U.S. Treasury said, invoking its “Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act”. The Magnitsky Act as it is known, was named after a Russian lawyer who was arrested after he exposed corruption in the Putin administration, and died in prison in 2009. Subsequently the U.S. Congress extended the 2012 law. It authorised its President to “impose economic sanctions and deny entry into the United States to any foreign person identified as engaging in human rights abuse or corruption”. “Our actions today…send a message that democracies around the world will act against those who abuse the power of the state to inflict suffering and repression,” Deputy Secretary of the Treasury Wally Adeyemo said. In its response, the Bangladesh Foreign Ministry said it took exception to being sanctioned along with Myanmar which has been accused by the United Nations of a “textbook example of ethnic cleansing” of its Rohingya population, and said the sanctions “appeared to have been based more on unverified or unsubstantiated allegations of command responsibility than on the facts involved.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/united-states-ban-on-para-unit-stuns-dhaka/article37936697.ece
12 December 2021||Madurai,||YouTuber moves HC seeking quashing of FIR||YouTuber Maridhas has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, seeking the quashing of an FIR registered against him by the Madurai police. In his petition, M. Maridhas said on December 9, he had posted a message regarding the death of Chief of the Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. He said he asked the government to take action against “the persons who smile on the death of the Chief of the Defence Staff”. Instead, the government had taken action against him, Mr. Maridhas said. He said he had raised his voice against separatism and terrorism, as a social activist. Mr. Maridhas said the Madurai police had registered the FIR against him under multiple sections of the IPC. He said there were no materials to invoke the provisions against him. The petition has been listed before Justice G.R. Swaminathan, and will be taken up for hearing on December 13. The Madurai police had picked up Mr. Maridhas for an inquiry over his social media post, which questioned whether Tamil Nadu was turning into another Kashmir. Formally arrested The Central Crime Branch of the Chennai police on Saturday formally arrested Mr. Maridhas, in connection with a pending case of forgery. The Madurai police had arrested Mr. Maridhas and lodged him in Theni prison. The CCB arrested him at the prison in connection with the case, registered last year on a complaint from Vinay Sarawagi, associate executive editor, News18 group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/youtuber-moves-hc-seeking-quashing-of-fir/article37936938.ece
12 December 2021||Mumbai,||HC quashes FIR related to Facebook post||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court recently quashed an FIR against a man for allegedly hurting the feelings of a minority community through a social media post. However, the man was directed to pay Rs. 20,000 to the investigating officer (IO) “as compensation for valuable time spent by the police machinery”. A Division Bench of Justices A.S. Chandurkar and G.A. Sanap was hearing an application filed by Pradeep Yadav, 39, from Chandrapur seeking to quash an FIR against him filed on October 1, 2018. Gaus Siddiki, 32, filed a FIR against him for promoting a feeling of enmity between different religious groups. On September 29, 2018, Mr. Yadav uploaded a post on Facebook that had been forwarded to him. Mr. Siddiki said that the post hurt the sentiments of Muslims. The advocate appearing for Mr. Yadav said his client was not the author of the post and that he simply forwarded the post without reading it properly and that it was a mistake on his part. The court quashed the FIR and asked Mr. Yadav to pay Rs. 20,000 to the investigating officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-quashes-fir-related-to-facebook-post/article37936721.ece
12 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha extends free rice scheme||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday directed that distribution of free rice under the State Food Security Scheme (SFSS) be extended by four more months. Each beneficiary will get an additional 5 kg of rice per month till March 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-extends-free-rice-scheme/article37936702.ece
12 December 2021||Lucknow,||BJP taking credit for SP’s work: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday took potshots at the BJP Government over the Saryu Nahar National Project, saying three-fourths of the project was completed by his Government. According to the Centre, the project was launched in 1978 but got delayed for four decades due to “lack of continuity of budgetary support, interdepartmental coordination and adequate monitoring”. “There are basically two types of people in the world, some who really work and some who appropriate others’ work. This is the difference between the government of SP and today’s ‘ kainchijivi ’ (ribbon cutting) government. That’s why in 2022 elections the BJP is going to be completely wiped out,” Mr. Yadav said in another tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-taking-credit-for-sps-work-akhilesh/article37936712.ece
12 December 2021||Kolkata,||Tiger in Buxa cheers wildlife enthusiasts||In a major success for tiger conservation, a photograph of a tiger was captured in a camera trap in West Bengal’s Buxa Tiger Reserve on Saturday. The last time there has been an undisputed claim of the presence of a tiger in the reserve located in north Bengal was in 1998. “ A male tiger was captured in a camera trap today in the Buxa Tiger Reserve,” V.K. Yadav, Principal Chief Conservator of Forest and Chief Wildlife Warden West Bengal, told The Hindu . The photograph was captured at 12.02 a.m. on Saturday. The development has brought cheer to wildlife experts and nature enthusiasts as questions were raised on the presence of big cats in the reserve. There are about 98 tigers in the Sundarbans in south Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tiger-in-buxa-cheers-wildlife-enthusiasts/article37936720.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Back to the roots||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/back-to-the-roots/article37936725.ece
12 December 2021||Mumbai,||Omicron scare brings in fresh Mumbai curbs||With new patients infected by the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2, the Mumbai Police have imposed Section 144 of the CrPC in the city for the weekend to prevent large gatherings and rallies. The total number of patients affected by the Omicron variant has gone up to five in Mumbai. The order will remain in place for Saturday and Sunday. Any person violating it shall be punishable under Section 188 of the IPC. On Friday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation had said that three more individuals were infected with the Omicron variant. The order, issued by Chaitanya S., Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations), said, “As I am satisfied that Greater Mumbai continues to be threatened by the COVID-19 pandemic and it is imperative to continue emergency measures to prevent and contain the spread of COVID-19 virus, with a view to prevent danger to human life, health or safety, and to prevent any threat to the law and order situation, do hereby prohibit any rally or morcha or procession etc of either persons or vehicles.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-scare-brings-in-fresh-mumbai-curbs/article37936775.ece
12 December 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool launches poll manifesto||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday launched its manifesto for the upcoming Kolkata municipal polls with focus on drainage, water supply and road infrastructure. Senior Trinamool leaders, including State president Subrata Bakshi, Sudip Banerjee, MP, and Ministers Firhad Hakim and Partha Chatterjee, released the manifesto titled “ Kolkatar 10 Diganta (Ten Milestones for Kolkata)”. The manifesto promises a ‘SHE toilet complex’ in every ward, equipped with a bathing area, sanitary napkins and baby care rooms. The Trinamool Congress, which has been running the board of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) for 15 years, has also resolved to provide accessible infrastructure for persons with disabilities, including installation of ramps and handrails along with Braille signage in all public places. On the crucial issue of drainage and sewerage, the manifesto talks about a waterlogging action plan, ‘zero blockage of drains’ and rejuvenation of the Adi Ganga canal. On culture and tourism sector, it pledges to carry out beautification of ghats, heritage walks and cultural festivals. Election to the 144 ward Kolkata Municipal Corporation is scheduled on December 19. Counting of votes for the city’s civic body will be held on December 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-launches-kolkata-manifesto/article37936699.ece
12 December 2021||Nagpur,||Flight makes emergency landing||A Gorakhpur-Mumbai flight of SpiceJet made an emergency landing at Nagpur airport due to a medical emergency involving a three-month pregnant passenger, an official said.  A doctor of the private hospital, who attended to the passenger, said she was fine now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/flight-makes-emergency-landing/article37937113.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras HC finds TNUSRB guilty of creating fake records||In a shocking development, the Madras High Court on Friday found Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board (TNUSRB) of having created fake documents to get a recruitment case dismissed by the court. To top it, when the illegality came to light, they shifted the blame on two academicians who prepare question banks for the board, registered a criminal case against the duo and made one of them languish in prison for 22 days. Justices P.N. Prakash and R. Hemalatha quashed the criminal case, despite the efforts taken by the Chennai Central Crime Branch (CCB) police to “pre-empt” any such move by hurriedly filing a chargesheet on November 9 this year, and directed the State Government to pay a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh to G. Vijayakumar, a senior citizen against whom “the machinery of the police was set upon to terrorise and silence him.” The judges also found the TNUSRB guilty of criminal contempt of court and sentenced it to pay a fine of Rs. 2,000 (the maximum fine amount prescribed under the Contempt of Courts Act of 1971). It however exonerated the Board’s former Member Secretary N.K. Senthamarai Kannan from the criminal contempt proceedings by according him the benefit of doubt since he had never dealt with the two academicians directly. The issue pertains to a written examination conducted by TNUSRB on December 22, 2018 for the post of Sub Inspector of Police (Finger Print). An initial answer key stated that option ‘a’ was the correct answer for question 145 in numerical ability section of the psychology paper. However, on receiving objections from the candidates, the answer was changed to option ‘b’ after obtaining opinion from D. Murthi, an academician. Aggrieved over the change, one of the candidates filed a writ petition in the High Court in 2019 but Justice S.M. Subramaniam dismissed his case after the TNUSRB submitted a letter stating that Mr. Murthi was a professor in Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) – Madras. The judge, however, reopened the case and recalled his dismissal order after the candidate found, through Right to Information Act, that the academician was not a professor in IIT-M. He also initiated suo motu contempt of court proceedings. The TNUSRB then lodged a criminal complaint alleging that it was Mr. Vijayakumar who introduced Mr. Murthi as an IIT-M professor. Nevertheless, the duo took a consistent stand that they never duped anyone. It was also their stand that Mr. Murthi was actually a retired math teacher of Kendriya Vidyalaya school inside IIT-M campus. Mr. Vijayakumar also submitted several documents before the court to prove that he was actually delivering a lecture at Anna Institute of Management in Udhagamandalam on February 27, 2019 when the TNUSRB claimed that he had come its office in Chennai to collect a letter seeking recommendation of an academician to a given opinion on the correct answer. He also stated that the letter was actually concocted by the Board. After analysing the issue threadbare, the Bench led by Justice Prakash, with the assistance of advocate B. Vijay representing the High Court Registry, found that the two academicians had been “reduced to a pawn in the larger plot by the TNUSRB to deceive the single judge in the writ petition.” They found that even the Chennai CCB had not investigated the case in right earnestness and not dealt with the claim of alibi raised by the academician. “Constitutional courts cannot turn a Nelson’s eye to a brazenly orchestrated violation of the dignity and self respect of the individual by the TNUSRB and the police,” the judges wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-hc-finds-tnusrb-guilty-of-creating-fake-records/article37936973.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sewage inflow into lakes remains a major challenge||The chain of waterbodies in western parts of the city are full after the recent heavy rain. But sewage pollution remains a major challenge in developing them into drinking water sources. The lakes in Ambattur, Korattur, and Madhavaram Retteri are interlinked and continue to be a major source for recharging groundwater. Efforts are on to restore the lakes and develop them into drinking water sources. Madhavaram Retteri was among the waterbodies chosen for pilot project to build a modular water treatment plant to be used as one of the buffer sources for Chennai’s growing water needs. Officials of the Water Resources Department (WRD) said the three waterbodies had a combined storage capacity of 500 million cubic feet. Water from Retteri was used for city supply during drought and sewage pollution had reduced here compared to other lakes. Members of the Korattur Aeri Padukappu Makkal Iyakkam (KAPMI) said Korattur lake was unable to store sufficient quantity of water. Its secretary S. Sekaran said copious inflow into Korattur lake drained through the weir into surplus course as the lake bed and weir are at same elevation. “We made representations to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin during his recent visit about the improvements needed in the lake. It has lost its water holding capacity and weir’s height must be increased. The lake must be deepened for better storage,” he said. Narrow inlet Some of the other demands of KAPMI were removal of encroachments and prevention of sewage pollution. The inlet channel is narrow and floodwater spills over on to the neighbouring areas instead of draining into the lake, Mr. Sekaran said. Although rejuvenation project was taken up in Ambattur lake, it continued to face issues of sewage pollution from surrounding areas like Ayapakkam and Tirumullaivoyal. The major lakes often get covered with thick layer of vegetation that indicates sewage inflow, the residents said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sewage-inflow-into-lakes-remains-a-major-challenge/article37936857.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Groundwater law may cover commercial users||The proposed law on groundwater development and management, being fine-tuned by the State Government, essentially seeks to cover every commercial user of groundwater in the State. The term “commercial user”, though not explicitly defined in the draft legislation, being debated among departments of the Government, however, refers to industrial units, regardless of their size, and those engaged in the transportation of groundwater. Among the construction and infrastructure projects that may be covered are resorts, theme parks, hotels, educational institutions, marriage halls, malls, farmhouses and residential buildings with over six dwelling units. Among the purposes exempted from the purview of the legislation are agriculture, horticulture and domestic consumption. In the case of domestic consumption, wells or structures using pump sets of not more than 3 horse-power capacity will not come under the coverage of the proposed law. The formulation of the law is in tune with the announcement made in June by the then Governor, Banwarilal Purohit, in the Assembly. It is also in pursuance with the directions of the Madras High Court in October 2018, in a case concerning a group of packaged drinking water units, which had challenged the government’s regulations of July 2014 on groundwater extraction and the issue of no-objection certificates (NOC)/licences. In addition to the 2014 regulations, Chennai city and 302 revenue villages in the neighbouring districts are covered exclusively under the Chennai Metropolitan Area Groundwater (Regulation) Act, 1987. Eight years ago, the then AIADMK regime had repealed a law on groundwater use, which was brought in 2003, when the same party was in power. The 2003 Act was found to be not workable due to a variety of reasons. If the draft law gets fructified, it will apply to the entire State. Apart from the court’s directions, the DMK regime has taken the initiative, keeping in mind that all other southern States and Puducherry have specific laws to handle the matter. Besides, Goa, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh are implementing similar laws. In addition, the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) is regulating extraction in 23 States and Union Territories. In Andhra Pradesh and Telengana, the CGWA is looking after water mining projects. As for the need for the proposed law, the annual extractable groundwater resources in the State went down from 20.76 billion cubic meter (BCM) in 2004 to 17.69 BCM in 2020. The stage of groundwater extraction has gone up from 60% to about 83% over the years. Another factor is the geological formation of the State, which is not conducive to groundwater recharge, as 73% of the State is covered with hard rocks that have low potential for recharge. A groundwater authority The draft law has proposed the creation of the Tamil Nadu Groundwater Authority, to be headed by Secretary, Water Resources Department. Apart from officials from different departments, the authority will have a member who is not an official, but an expert. Every existing commercial user of groundwater has to apply to the authority concerned for an NOC. If any new well is to be sunk or groundwater transported, a permit has to be obtained. Those extracting groundwater of less than one million gallons a day (MGD) or about 4.55 million litres a day (MLD) will have to approach the chief engineer of the State Groundwater and Surface Water Resources Data Centre, and for others, the authority. Offences and penalties have been proposed for violators of the law. Commercial, industrial, infrastructural and bulk users, withdrawing groundwater of two lakh litres a day, will be mandated to recycle water. The installation of sewage treatment plants will be mandatory for all residential apartments where groundwater requirement is more than 20 cubic metre a day or 20,000 litres a day. A senior Water Resources Department official said a few more stages would have to be passed before the legislation is presented as a Bill to the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/groundwater-law-may-cover-commercial-users/article37936886.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Take off delayed for multi-level parking lot at Chennai airport||Air passengers will have to wait another month to use the new multi-level car parking at Chennai airport as the work has been delayed yet again. The new facility, which can accommodate over 2,000 cars, will go through a trial run only in January before being thrown open. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said the construction was almost complete and that very little work was remaining after which they would carry out a trial run and then start the operation. The building was scheduled to be opened by April, then pushed to October and subsequently December. “Initially, lack of resources due to COVID-19 and then more recently the intermittent rains in the city are some of the reasons for the delay but we are trying to make up for it. The work is nearly finished and we will open it soon,” an official said. Sources said the road connectivity from the multi-level car parking facility to the terminals and the entry/exit of the airport have to be finished in a month after which it can be opened. The Rs. 250 crore car parking facility spread over 4.25 acres has been under construction since 2019. Earlier, the AAI had planned to have two towers for parking and later it was changed to one; similarly, they had envisaged to have commercial space for 3.3 lakh sq. ft but following the pandemic, they decided to bring it down to 2.5 lakh sq. ft. In a refreshing change, the multilevel car parking will host a huge entertainment options for air passengers. There will be five multiplex screens, two food courts, retail shops, children’s engagement stores and other such facilities. But these may come up only after a couple of months, the officials said. Officials said that at a time when the Chennai airport was getting back its passenger traffic, it was essential to have a bigger parking facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-off-delayed-for-multi-level-parking-lot-at-airport/article37936870.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Leave app to be launched for city police to ensure transparency||A new mobile-based app is going to be rolled out for police personnel in the city for applying leave and getting the sanction quickly without any hassle. At the initiative of the Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal, the new system has been planned to eradicate delays, summary rejection or favouritism by sanctioning authority and to ensure more transparency. Mr. Jiwal told The Hindu , “Once the system is in place, personnel need not physically wait for any paperwork. By clicking on the application, the personnel can get their leave sanctioned in three hours without any hassle. In case of rejection, the sanctioning authority should cite the reason. If there is delay for more than three hours, it will be escalated to the superior officer above the sanctioning officer.” Called “TN Police CLAPP”, the app will be introduced from December 31 for processing casual leave for the police personnel from the rank of constables to the rank of special sub-inspectors working in Armed Reserve force in the city police. It will be extended to other wings later. The government sanctioned Rs. 10 lakh for the project. Mr. Jiwal said the app can be downloaded in smartphones from Google Play Store. It ensures transparency with regard to leave application, affording the facility for the applicant to view the status of his/her leave application even at his/ her place of work and can be accessed in offline and online mode. The officer will have a clear idea on how many personnel were on leave through a dashboard. “The new system is expected to address the complaints of delay in sanctioning, harassment and summary rejection without citing any reason,” he said. Among other welfare initiatives taken, Mr. Jiwal has been giving surprise gifts to policemen on their birthday besides granting a day off. He invites the personnel celebrating their birthdays to his office and personally wishes them. Mr. Jiwal has been awarding a “star of the month” recognition for city police personnel for exceptional work beyond call of duty. The reward is a cash prize of Rs. 6,000, a special certificate and a prestigious spot on the cover of the city police magazine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leave-app-to-be-launched-for-city-police-to-ensure-transparency/article37936862.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Complaint boxes to be installed in govt. schools||Around 31,214 government elementary and 6,177 government secondary schools across Tamil Nadu will soon install complaint boxes for students on campus as a part of the measures undertaken to ensure student protection and safety on campus. Schools in each district will be given Rs. 1,000 each to set up the complaint box and an awareness flex board, which will explain the aspects of student safety and will prominently display the Education Department’s helpline number 14417. Funds to the tune of Rs. 61 lakh will be released for government secondary schools and Rs. 3.12 crore has been earmarked for elementary schools by the Samagra Shiksha. Over the last month, the department has been raising awareness about the helpline, and has encouraged students to call in and register complaints or concerns if they face harassment or abuse on school campuses. Schools have been instructed to place these boxes prominently on campus with a label titled Manavar Manasu , in front of the principal’s office. Every 15 days, members of the Students Safeguarding Advisory Committee (SSAC) will check these boxes for complaints and will take immediate action. A government order earlier this year had called for the formation of SSACs in all schools to continually review, monitor and recommend measures at the institutional level on all aspects of student safety. In addition to installing safety boxes, awareness and training on various aspects of child safety for both teaching and non-teaching staff on school campuses are to be conducted. Schools have also been asked to create awareness among students about the usage of these complaint boxes. Calling for regular counselling to be made accessible to students, Patric Raymond, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers’ Federation, said at the block level, the School Education Department could ensure that a counsellor was appointed to reach out to students in the area at regular intervals. “At least twice a month, counsellors can visit government schools and speak to the students. Additionally, students can also be shown pre-recorded videos on handling stress, anxiety and other concerns,” he added.  Calling for regular counselling to be made accessible to students Patric RaymondGeneral secretary, Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers’ Federation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complaint-boxes-to-be-fixed-at-govt-schools-to-protect-students/article37936867.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A reform move that ended Rajaji’s stint as Chief Minister||C. Rajagopalachari (1878-1972), also called CR or Rajaji, whose birth anniversary was observed on Friday, had two eventful innings as Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. Just as his first stint came to an abrupt end (which was due to the stand of his party, Congress, on the Second World War), the second term too was cut short. This time, it was due to a combination of factors, one of which was the Elementary Education Scheme that was introduced in June 1953. Ten months later, CR had quit as Chief Minister, following the political controversy that the scheme had triggered. What is important is that the political narrative that was used to attack the scheme in the early 1950s is still in vogue. The phrase, coined then to dub the scheme as ‘Kula Kalvi Thittam’ (caste-based education system), has come in handy for critics of the New Education Policy, which was unveiled by the BJP-led Central Government last year. D. Veeraraghavan (1958–2009), a member of the faculty at the IIT-Madras, had chosen CR’s Elementary Education Scheme when he did M.Phil. for his dissertation at the Pachaiyappa’s College in 1980-81. He published a monograph on the scheme. He originally wrote in English, and it appeared as a book last year titled ‘Half a Day for Caste? Education and Politics in Tamil Nadu, 1952-55’. This has now been translated into Tamil, ‘Saathikku Paathi Naala? Rajajiyin Kalvi Thittam’ and published by Kalachuvadu Publications. While the duration of school hours under the scheme was fixed at three hours a day with a six-day-a week system, students had to spend the other half of each day with their families, taking part “in their work in the house, field or elsewhere according to their age”, a report published by The Hindu on June 9, 1953, quoted M.V. Krishna Rao, Education Minister in the CR’s Cabinet, as having said. It was the second component of the scheme that was responsible for the row. Contrary to Mahatma Gandhi’s position that a child’s socialisation took place at school, the CR’s scheme, according to the author, had sought to separate education from socialisation of children. Veeraraghavan’s account had covered philosophical and historical context in which CR came out with his scheme, apart from developments in the field of education following its withdrawal. The publication contains an introduction by A.R. Venkatachalapathy, historian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-reform-move-that-ended-rajajis-stint-as-chief-minister/article37936894.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 681 COVID-19 cases and 13 deaths||With 681 people testing positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, Tamil Nadu’s tally touched 27,34,715. The State recorded 13 deaths due to COVID-19, pushing its toll to 36,599. Three districts — Kallakurichi, Perambalur and Theni — recorded no case, and 20 saw fewer than 10 each. Ariyalur, Ramanathapuram, Tenkasi and Virudhunagar logged a single case each. The number of daily cases continued to exceed 100 in both Chennai and Coimbatore — the former logged 120 cases, taking its tally to 5,59,359, while the latter saw 108 cases, pushing its tally to 2,51,500. There were 54 cases in Erode and 50 in Chengalpattu. While 49 people tested positive in Namakkal, there were 48 cases in Tiruppur and 43 in Salem. Thirty districts recorded no death due to the infection. Of the 13 fatalities, four were reported in Coimbatore, while there were two deaths each in Chennai and Erode. Three of the deceased had no co-morbidity. Among them was a 35-year-old man from Coimbatore, who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on November 27, and died on December 10 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Another 719 people, including 102 in Chennai and 121 in Coimbatore, were discharged after treatment. With this, the total recoveries touched 26,90,346. As many as 7,770 people are currently under treatment for COVID-19 in the State. Of them, Chennai’s active caseload stands at 1,307, and Coimbatore’s at 1,200. Tenkasi has the least number of active cases at six, while Perambalur and Theni have eight each. With 1,02,414 more samples tested in the State, the total count touched 5,53,94,861.  Three of the deceased had no co-morbidity. Among them was a 35-year-old man from Coimbatore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-681-covid-19-cases-and-13-deaths/article37936882.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City start-up develops technology that can keep track of beehives||Apiarists can now monitor their bee boxes and hives from anywhere, anytime through their mobile and other devices eliminating the usual manual process. Dev Beetech India Pvt. Ltd, a Tamil Nadu-based start-up, has come out with an IoT (Internet of Things)-based product called GoBuzzR which when installed on the bee box monitors details like weight of honey deposited, temperature and humidity of the beehives, among others. “Traditionally, beekeepers monitor each box manually. These boxes are kept at different places and moving around takes a lot of time and involves huge cost. Not just that each time before checking the boxes they have to wear a bee suit to prevent getting stung,” said G. Kapildev, founder of the start-up. “Beekeepers have to pull out each frame from the box to keep track of the honey. And this takes a lot of time. But now with this technology, all they have to do is to plug in the device and they can monitor beehives from anywhere and get the report of all them together in a few seconds in their devices,” he said. Mr. Kapildev explained that this was an IoT based device communicating to the mobile application via website based server. GoBuzzR monitors the weight of the beehive round the clock with the help of sensors in the device. From time to time, the device sends out statistics pertaining to the bee box to the beekeepers. “This works similar to a CCTV – you install it and monitor it through your devices from anywhere,” Mr. Kapildev said. Pilot studies done The start-up began its research work for this venture in 2018 and since then has done several pilot studies. And this year, the start-up applied for the Tanseed funding given by the State government and is one among the nineteen winners who will receive grant of Rs. 10 lakh (the grant will be given in two tranches). This year, 640 start-ups applied for this funding, of which 53 were shortlisted for a boot camp. Only 51 firms turned up for the boot camp and from here 30 start-ups were picked for the pre-final pitch and 19 were chosen for funding. In the coming days, Mr. Kapildev and his team will be experimenting on solar and battery based models. Government data shows that there were 10,000 beekeepers, beekeeping and honey societies, firms and companies in India with over 16 lakh honeybee colonies that had been registered with the National Bee Board. Honey production has increased from 35,000 tonnes(2005-06) to 1,20,000 tonnes (2018-19) which is 242.86% increase. Honey production has been estimated 1,15,000 tonnes in 2019-20. Export of honey has increased from 16,769 tonnes (2005-06) to 61,333.91 tonnes (2018-19) which is a 265.76% increase. 59,536.74 tonnes of honey was exported in 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-start-up-develops-technology-that-can-keep-track-of-beehives/article37936865.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Call to give national-level award to poet Subramania Bharathi||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday led the State in paying tributes to poet Subramania Bharathi (1882-1921) on the occasion of his birth anniversary. In a tweet, he said his government would continue to follow his principles. Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P. Sekarbabu, and Member of Parliament Tamizhachi Thangapandian garlanded the statue of the poet on Kamarajar Salai. Call for national award Former Chief Election Commissioner T.S. Krishnamurthy on Saturday called for a national-level recognition like the Bharat Ratna for poet Subramania Bharathi. Speaking at the birth anniversary celebrations of the poet organised by the Vanavil Pannpattu Maiyam (Vanavil Cultural Centre) in association with the Department of Information and Public Relations, he said this was important, especially since his contribution was immense in such a short lifespan. He said that Bharathi was more than a poet. He was a translator, a linguist, he worked for social justice and for empowerment of women. Appreciating the Maiyam’s contribution, he said that the writings of Bharathi should be taken to children all over. The former CEC presented the Bharathi Award for 2021 to historian and author K.R.A. Narasaiah. Replying to the felicitation, Mr. Narasaiah said that the very first thing that he learnt in Tamil was a poem by Subramania Bharathi. Earlier, Mr. Sekarbabu and former Minister K. Pandiarajan took part in the “Jadhi Pallakku” conducted by the Maiyam. Launch of band tune The day witnessed other events too, including a musical tribute and launch of Kavi Bharathi, a band tune where the poet’s Oli Padaitha Kanninai has been notated for playing using instruments in bands. A band comprising 30-odd members rendered the song in front of Bharathiyar Illam in Triplicane. The RSS has introduced several band tunes based on Hindustani and Carnatic music. This is the first time a tune had been created based on a Tamil patriotic song. Later, speaking at an function organised by the RSS Uttar Tamil Nadu to mark the event, Ramdutt Chakradhar, All India Joint Secretary of the RSS, extolled the greatness of the Mahakavi, who campaigned against untouchability and against caste discrimination. He said that Bharathi wanted the nation to move towards self-reliance based on Swadeshi principals. Pianist Anil Srinivasan participated. For children of Tiruvottiyur, Bharathi was the subject of the music, debate and quiz competitions organised by Bharathi Pasarai. “Around 100 children took part in the events. The debate threw up interesting insights about the poet, who imagined a future in which communication would open up and great strides be made in science and technology,” said Ma. Ki. Ramanan, founder of the Pasarai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-give-national-level-award-to-poet-subramania-bharathi/article37936874.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||50% eligible population fully vaccinated||Tamil Nadu has inoculated 50% of its eligible population with both doses of COVID-19 vaccines. At the end of the 14th mega vaccination camp held on Saturday, the State’s second-dose coverage reached 51.31%. The State’s eligible population for vaccination is 5,78,91,000. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said first-dose coverage stood at 82.48%. During the mega vaccination camp, held at 50,000 places, 20,45,347 people got jabs — 6,81,346 received the first dose and 13,64,001 the second. “So far, 7,74,53,917 people have been vaccinated in the State,” he said. The Minister said it was a reason for cheer, as the State’s second-dose coverage had crossed 50%. He said Tamil Nadu would soon achieve the national average of 53% in second-dose coverage. He expressed gratitude to doctors, nurses, health inspectors, village health nurses, sector health nurses, community health nurses and field staff of the department for making the camps successful. He said the daily average of vaccination had increased to 3.10 lakh. So far, 10,005 people from “at-risk” countries have been tested for COVID-19 at the four international airports. Of them, 11 have tested positive. In the last week, 45,500 people have arrived from non-risk countries to these four airports. Taking up the random testing of 2% of them, 1,359 people have been tested on arrival. Of them, six have tested positive. On Saturday, 2,207 people were tested, of whom two from Singapore were found to be infected. So far, 19 travellers have tested positive, he said. “All of them are asymptomatic and are doing well. Initial analysis found that the samples were of the Delta variant. No case of Omicron has been identified in the State,” he said. He said the samples were sent to InStem, Bengaluru, for confirmation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-eligible-population-fully-vaccinated/article37936884.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two universities in State get new Vice-Chancellors||Governor R.N. Ravi on Saturday appointed V. Thiruvalluvan and M. Sundar as Vice-Chancellors of the Tamil University in Thanjavur and the Tamil Nadu Physical Education and Sports University in Chennai, respectively. Mr. Thiruvalluvan, who has a teaching experience of 28 years, was working as a professor with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Linguistics, Annamalai University. According to a press release from the Raj Bhavan, Mr. Thiruvalluvan has administrative experience of eight years, serving as the director of the Centre for Advanced Studies in Linguistics, and dean of the Faculty of Indian Languages at the Annamalai University. Headed a committee He has also served as convenor of the Vice-Chancellor Convenor Committee and Registrar (in-charge) in Annamalai University. Mr. Thiruvalluvan has executed nine research projects and presented four papers at international academic events, the press release said. Mr. Sundar, who has 26 years of teaching experience, was working as the principal of the College of Physical Education in Alagappa University in Karaikudi. Administrative work The release said Mr. Sundar was familiar with university administration, while serving as the principal of the college. He has served as technical official, track referee, Indian coach and team manager during various events, including the 20th Asian Athletic Championships and 19th Commonwealth Games. He has authored seven books and presented 25 papers at international events, the press release said.  Mr. Thiruvalluvan, who has a teaching experience of 28 years, was working as a Professor with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Linguistics in Annamalai University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-universities-in-state-get-new-vice-chancellors/article37936891.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||21 students get nagaswarams||A total of 21 students were given free nagaswarams as part of the plan to distribute 100 instruments to mark the birth centenary celebrations of nagaswaram player Karukurichi P. Arunachalam. Students from various parts of the State came to Tiruvarur to receive the instruments at an event organised in connection with the centenary. Nagaswaram players Kelvelur N.G. Ganesan, Pandanallur P.V. Kalidan and thvail player T.R. Govindarajan distributed the instruments. “We have ordered another 20 nagaswarams for the next batch of students. The instruments are made in Narasingampet,” said Lalitharam, founder of Parivadini, the organisation responsible for mobilising funds for purchase of nagaswarams. He said Parivadini would organise similar events in other parts of the State. “The idea is to celebrate the centenary in various parts,” he explained.  We have ordered another 20 nagaswarams for the next batch of students. The instruments are made in Narasingampet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-get-free-nagaswarams-to-mark-karukurichi-arunachalams-centenary/article37936902.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle insurance claims spike due to rain||Insurance companies have so far received most claims from the motor vehicle segment due to the damages caused by the recent heavy rain in Chennai. Sanjay Datta, chief of Underwriting, Claims and Reinsurance at ICICI Lombard General Insurance said as of now, the company had received 296 claim intimations after the recent Chennai floods. “We saw a maximum number of claims reported in the private car category (260 claims), followed by 33 claims in the two-wheeler and three claims in the commercial vehicle categories,” he said. “Given the magnitude of the heavy rain that affected major parts of the city, we have received several claims under various segments, like motor vehicles and property,” Atul Deshpande, Head - Claims, SBI General Insurance, said. He said 40 claims were received under the motor vehicle segment and around 39 property claims have been received so far, and the company was in the process of assessing and settling the respective claims. Top categories The top category of claims have been received from the standard fire/business package or long-term home insurance products, affecting small and medium units and homes. A majority of the claims had been settled, he added. Industry executives said the number of claims received this time was lower when compared to those received during the 2015 Chennai floods. During that period, SBI General Insurance settled about 1,000 claims with a paid liability of about Rs. 80 crore under property insurance and 530 claims amounting to Rs. 7.40 crore under motor category. A senior official from United India Insurance Company Ltd. said so far the claims were being settled by the regional offices and not escalated to the Head Office. “During the 2015 Chennai floods, several claims were escalated to the Head Office as the amount breached the threshold limit set for the regional office. This time so far we have not seen any escalation, indicating that the impact may be lower,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicle-insurance-claims-spike-due-to-rain/article37936877.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Robotic surgical procedures will soon become more affordable’||Stating that robotic surgical procedures will soon become widely prevalent, Swaminathan Sambandam, head of the Department of Liver and Multi Organ Transplant Surgery at GEM Hospital, Chennai, expressed hope that the procedures will soon become even more affordable to the larger public as well. Investment required Speaking at the webinar organised on Saturday by The Hindu as part of its Wellness Series in association the GEM Hospitals on “Kidney and liver transplants with minimally invasive laparoscopic and robotic surgery,” he acknowledged that the equipment for robotic procedures required significant investments at the moment. He drew parallel with the evolution of laparoscopic procedures. He said a couple of decades ago, laparoscopic procedures were done only in select hospitals by a small number of surgeons. Highlighting how laparoscopic procedures had become so common now, he said robotic procedures would similarly become common in the near future. ‘Schemes helpful’ Insurance schemes such as the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme in Tamil Nadu was helping make the procedures affordable. P. Senthilnathan, Head, Hepato-Pancreatico-Biliary Surgery and Minimal Access Surgery and Liver Transplantation, GEM Hospital, Chennai, spoke on the benefits of laparoscopic and robotic procedures owing to their high accuracy and efficiency. He highlighted in particular the use of the procedures in liver transplant. K. Prabhu, head of the Department of Nephrology and Renal Transplant, GEM Hospital, Chennai, said that recent advancements in the medical field had made transplants easier and far more efficient. Pointing out that renal transplants provided far better relief to patients than dialysis, he said there need not be any hesitancy to opt for transplants. Anand Vijai, head, Department of Liver and Multi Organ Transplant Surgery, GEM Hospital, Coimbatore, laid stress on the need for increased awareness on demystifying some of the misconceptions regarding transplants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/robotic-surgical-procedures-will-soon-become-more-affordable/article37936880.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested for drug abuse in Anakaputhur||Four youth have been arrested for possessing psychotropic tablets in Anakaputhur in Sankar Nagar police station limits. Following a tip-off, a special team, led by the inspector, launched an investigation to nab the peddlers. The police nabbed the accused near the Kamarajapuram burial ground in Anakaputhur. The accused were identified as Ajith Kumar alias Ajith, 24, Vinith, 20, of Kamarajapuram, Gowtham, 19, of Chromepet, and Aravinda Kumar, 20, of Pallavaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested-for-drug-abuse-in-anakaputhur/article37936858.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM to inaugurate CREDAI’S Statecon 2021||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will be inaugurating the third edition of Statecon 2021, a real estate event organised by the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), Tamil Nadu Chapter in Chennai on Monday. He will also release the Tamil Nadu CREDAI report by CBRE, a real estate services firm. The theme for the two-day event (December 13 and 14) is “Vision Tamil Nadu, Growth for the next 10 years”. Suresh Krishn, President of CREDAI, Tamil Nadu, said, “We are very excited to host ‘Statecon 2021’ at the time where the real estate industry in the State of Tami Nadu recovers from the pandemic-induced slowdown.” “Statecon 2021 will be an interactive platform for the real estate stakeholders of the State, and will focus on the need for development of the real estate industry in the State. It will have a discussion on topics related to emerging industry trends, affordable development, and optimisation of cost challenge,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/credai-statecon-2021-to-kick-off-tomorrow/article37936875.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Class X English paper was challenging ’||Teachers and students of Class X in CBSE schools have raised concerns about a particular portion of the English Term 1 board exam paper on Saturday. The exam was in the multiple choice question format for 40 marks which students had to take up in 90 minutes, as part of a new format this year. “Many students said that the reading comprehension passage as well as the questions that followed were beyond their thinking capacity and that it was ambiguous. Several students were flustered by the difficulty of this section and this affected them while completing the rest of the paper on time,” said the head of a CBSE school in the city. He said the content of the reading comprehension passage, which spoke about children, discipline and families, was inappropriate and questioned how it had found a place in an exam paper. One of the questions based on the passage asked students to identify if the writer was a “male chauvinist pig”. In the run up to the exam, students had been trained in the MCQ pattern since it was a new one. “Despite having practised many comprehension passages, this one was hard to understand. Several phrases and words were beyond their understanding level. Even in the literature section, there were a few questions for which more than one choice seemed to be relevant as the answer,” said another teacher. ‘CBSE should apologise’ Balaji Sampath, founder of AhaGuru and social activist called the passage given as a part of the reading comprehension “anti-women” and expressed shock that such ideas were being thrust into young minds. “CBSE and education boards are supposed to promote progressive ideas and help children visualise a better world. But the passage is teaching students that in a perfect world, wives must obey their husbands,” he said. He said the board should apologise to students and take action against those responsible for this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/class-x-english-paper-was-challenging/article37936868.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Properly close down dump yard, says Minister||Environment and Climate Change Minister Siva. V. Meyyanathan has called for closing down properly the dump yard of chromium-bearing solid waste lying in Ranipet for long. At a meeting to review the working of engineers of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board on Friday, the Minister stressed the need for constant vigil to be maintained to prevent any discharge of effluents into the Palar. He called for proper disposal of salt-laden solid waste of tanneries. He stressed the need for establishing effluent treatment plants in coordination with local bodies and using the treated effluent for the benefit of agriculture, a release said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/properly-shut-dump-yard-in-ranipet-says-minister/article37936872.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Officials lay stress on accelerating vaccination||With Tamil Nadu’s first dose coverage reaching 81.18%, a little over one crore eligible persons are yet to receive the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine. As many as 93.4 lakh persons are due for the second dose of the vaccine in the State that is inching closer to the half-way mark in second dose coverage. “Our first dose coverage has crossed 81%. Still, 1.09 crore persons are yet to take it,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. As of Thursday, 48.72% of the State’s eligible population — 5,78,91,000 — were fully vaccinated. Of the 93,40,751 persons who were due and over due for second dose of vaccination, 82,92,875 persons were due to receive Covishield and 10,47,876 persons Covaxin, according to data with the Health department. In a letter to the district Collectors, Mr. Radhakrishnan said the State task force had recommended certain measures in the light of theOmicron variant. Among the measures recommended was strengthening of vaccination drive. The task force recommended strengthening surveillance at the State level. The State border surveillance should be strengthened to ensure that the inter-State transmission of the new strain may be prevented. The government should ensure appropriate COVID-19 behaviour, it said. The Health Secretary requested the Collectors to keep abreast of the various developments and ensure that all followed COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and standard procedures for permitted activities should be enforced effectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-lay-stress-on-accelerating-vaccination/article37937216.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 norms in place for Vaikunta Ekadesi||With Vaikunta Ekadasi being celebrated on December 14 at a few temples in the State, including Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam and Adi Kesava Perumal temple in Sriperumbudur, the HR&CE Department has directed officials to follow last year’s standard operating procedures for COVID-19. Devotees will not be given theertham (holy water), shadaari or tulsi leaves. They can only have darshan of the deities. People will not be allowed if they don't wear masks and will have to maintain personal distance. Temples have been told to hold processions inside the temples itself. “We are worried how the festival will pan out this time with the threat of Omicron,” said Venkatesh at Veeranarayana Perumal temple. This time the festival will be celebrated on December 14 in the Tamil month of Karthikai and on January 13 in the Tamil month of Margazhi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-norms-in-place-for-vaikunta-ekadesi/article37936983.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNCC district presidents appointed||Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi has approved the appointment of district presidents of its Tamil Nadu unit. V. M. Binulal Singh and K.T. Udayam have been appointed as district presidents of Kanniyakumari West and Kanniyakumari East respectively. Naveen Kumar is the district president for Nagercoil. Tharahai Cuthbert was named General Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tncc-district-presidents-appointed/article37936878.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for grabbing property||The Central Crime Branch on Saturday arrested a 51-year-old woman on charge of usurping a commercial complex in T. Nagar by impersonation and forgery. According to police, R. Ramesh, 59, of Venkatanarayanan Street, T. Nagar, lodged a complaint with the police alleging that a commercial complex belonging to his family was grabbed by someone using a forged will in 2005. Subbiah, grandfather of Ramesh, had bought the property in 1946. The accused forged a will as if the property was bequeathed to Lakshmi and then transferred it to her husband. Then they attempted to sell the property. Police arrested Lakshmi, 51, of Kodambakkam and efforts are on trace other accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-held-for-grabbing-property/article37936863.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||World Tamils economic meet to be held in Chennai||The eighth World Tamils conference and Chennai Global Economic Summit will be held in city from December 27 to 29. The conference will be held both in physical and virtual mode. Former Prime Minister of Guyana Moses Veerasamy Nagamootoo, former Acting President of Mauritius Dr. Paramasivam Pillai Vyapoory, and former Minister of South Africa Ravi Pillay will address the conference virtually. We will confer “Crown Jewel of World Tamils” award on 10 prominent Tamils from all over the world on the final day, Madras Development Society President V.R.S. Sampath said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-tamils-economic-meet-to-be-held-in-chennai/article37936859.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Annamalai’s appeal||BJP State unit president K. Annamalai urged the police to take action against those making speculative and derogatory comments over the death of the Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat. Speaking to reporters here, he criticised YouTuber Maridhas’ arrest and alleged that the police were not under the DGP’s control but were being directed by the DMK’s IT wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annamalais-appeal/article37936895.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||11DECTRKNS2/school TRK/AIADMK/OPS||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Saturday took exception to the reported incident of physical harassment of a Class XI student at a school in Coimbatore. In a statement, he said the school could have counselled the student if the latter had not worn proper attire while coming to school. He wanted teachers and students to be advised on their conduct in schools. He added that such an incident should not recur, and disciplinary action should be taken against wrongdoers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/11dectrkns2school-trkaiadmkops/article37936897.ece
12 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Foundation laid for construction of bridge across River Noyyal||Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthilbalaji on Saturday laid the foundation for construction of a high-level bridge across River Noyyal at Vellalore. Project cost The Rs. 4.4 crore project will be completed in a year. According to officials, the bridge on Singanallur-Podanur road will have three spans and will be 12.9 metre wide. The 53.8 metre long bridge will benefit those in Vellalore, Singanallur, Podanur, Sulur, Pattanampudur, Idayarpalayam, and Kanjikonampalayam. An official of the Highways Department said the existing bridge in that area would be dismantled and a new one constructed. In a move to facilitate construction, there will be a diversion route for vehicles. The new bridge will be a three-lane one as vehicle movement on the stretch is high. The project funding is 20 % by the State government and 80 % as loan assistance from NABARD. The Minister also laid foundation for development of roads in a couple of neighbourhoods in that area, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foundation-laid-for-construction-of-bridge-across-river-noyyal/article37936919.ece
12 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. to use WhatsApp to monitor elephant movements in two forest ranges||The Forest Department has announced that it would utilise WhatsApp to monitor movement of elephants in two forest ranges – Valparai and Manombolly – of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), Pollachi division, in Coimbatore district. According to Deputy Field Director (Pollachi) of ATR M.G. Ganesan, the decision was taken at a review meeting held to discuss measures to mitigate man-animal conflict, at the Wildlife Management Training Centre in Attakatti on Thursday. The meeting saw the participation of Forest Department officials, tea estate managers and conservationists. The WhatsApp group will have tea estate managers, Forest staff and NGOs as members and they will post updates on elephant movements so that the frontline staff will be alerted to monitor the situation. An ‘elephant cell’ led by a forester will monitor the WhatsApp group, Mr. Ganesan said. ‘Furnish documents’ The estate managers were advised not to allow senior citizens to enter the estate in the dark and to install street lights on the estate premises. The estate managements must furnish to Forest Department the documents of its employees who die in attacks by wild animals to ensure provision of solatium to their kin at the earliest, according to a statement issued by Manambolly Forest Range Officer A. Manikandan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-to-use-whatsapp-to-monitor-elephant-movements-in-two-forest-ranges/article37936909.ece
12 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Atal Innovation Mission to develop platform for startups, incubators||The Atal Innovation Mission is working on a platform that will bring together startups, investors, industries and all other stakeholders and facilitate commercial development of innovations and solutions. In Silicon Valley or even Bengaluru, if an entrepreneur nails an idea, there is a functional eco system that develops the idea into a product. Evolution of such an eco system may take some time. The platform will create an opportunity for the emergence and growth of such an ecosystem, explained Chintan Vaishnav, Mission Director for Atal Innovation Mission. Mr. Vaishnav told The Hindu on Saturday the Atal Innovation Mission is working on designing and operationalising such a platform It will then be experimented in some clusters. “There is a need to create a system where contracts are easy to sign and trust is built,” he said. So far, the focus was on building the infrastructure to promote innovations in the country. Now, “We should make the connect happen (between startups and the eco system),” he said. Atal Tinkering labs On the various activities of the Mission, he said about 9,300 Atal Tinkering labs, including a large number in Tamil Nadu, were operational across the country in schools. The Atal Incubation Centres, numbering 68, are broad based as these operate in industry associations, foundations, etc. There are startups in different sectors in these incubation centres that have made impressive impacts. For instance, one startup at the CODISSIA Defence Innovation and Atal Incubation Centre has developed a product that has helped save Rs. 6 crore in imports in the defence sector. “In each sector there are winners who have made an impact,” he said. The Mission also runs challenges every year. “We go to different ministries, curate their problem statements, run them as challenges, pick the right solutions and give funds to develop these solutions in 12 to 18 months,” he said. As the next step, the Mission is working on the platform, he added. The CODISSIA Defence Innovation and Atal Incubation Centre, which started functioning two years ago, has so far incubated 14 startups and will incubate another 11 this year. These are in defence and other sectors. Mr. Vaishnav spoke to the incubatees and also visited the Centre.  There is a need to create a system where contracts are easy to sign and trust is built. Chintan Vaishnav, Mission Director, Atal Innovation Mission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atal-innovation-mission-to-develop-platform-for-startups-incubators/article37936916.ece
12 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries submit demands to Minister||Minister for Electricity, Prohibition, and Excise V. Senthilbalaji has assured the industries in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts that the State government will take the required steps to address the issues that the units face. Representatives of over 45 industrial associations here and one from Tiruppur had a meeting with the Minister here on Friday. President of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia) M.V. Ramesh Babu said the industry owners raised issues related to several areas - migrant labour, infrastructure, electricity, raw material prices, GST, etc. The Minister said he would prepare a report of all the demands in a couple of days and submit it to the Chief Minister. He said immediate, medium and long-term solutions would be worked out. The Minister also said that he would hold such review meetings with the industry here once in three months, said Mr. Ramesh Babu. The Codissia president said the Association pointed out the need to train local workers and encourage them to take up jobs in industries. There were also demands related to better roads, airport, etc. The Tiruppur Exporters’ Association highlighted the need for bridges and ring roads in Tiruppur and also upskilling programmes for garment unit workers and hostels for these workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-submit-demands-to-minister/article37936917.ece
12 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Federation members observe fast||Members of the All India Students’ Federation observed a fast here on Saturday demanding the Governor to send to the President a resolution passed in the Assembly seeking exemption from NEET for Tamil Nadu. According to a press release from the Federation, the Tamil Nadu Assembly passed a resolution seeking exemption for the State from NEET. The Governor, without any delay, should send this to the President for his consent, the protestors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/federation-members-observe-fast/article37936910.ece
12 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Lawyers must be torchbearers of human rights: Addl. District Judge||Lawyers must be the torchbearers of human rights and stay vigilant to ensure that the institutions follow the rule of law, said Additional District Judge and Special Judge for TNPID Court, Coimbatore, A.S. Ravi here on Friday. He delivered the keynote address at the event organised by the Coimbatore Bar Association (CBA) to mark the International Human Rights Day. “The essence of human rights is justice, that is Dharma which is paramount in the Indian cultural ethos exemplified by its epics,” he said, according to a release. Listing out the human rights principles incorporated in the Constitution and quoting several judgements of the Supreme Court, the Judge said that the erosion of Constitutional values and rule of law is “not just a threat to individual liberty but very foundation of democratic polity,” the press release said. CBA president P.R. Arulmozhi and lawyer V.P. Sarathi were among those who participated in the event.  The erosion of Constitutional values and rule of law is not just a threat to individual liberty but very foundation of democratic polity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lawyers-must-be-torchbearers-of-human-rights-addl-district-judge/article37936911.ece
12 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||1,760 cases resolved in ADRS||As many as 1,760 cases were resolved and a sum of Rs. 9,33,45,347 was awarded as compensation at the Alternate Dispute Resolution System (ADRS) at the Coimbatore District Sessions Court complex on Saturday. ADRS is being conducted once in three months to resolve long pending cases relating to family court, cheque bounce and motor vehicle accidents. On Saturday, matrimonial disputes were taken up and a few families were united, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1760-cases-resolved-in-adrs/article37936912.ece
12 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 108 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 108 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday. Four deaths The Health Department reported four new deaths, which took the toll to 2,487. As many as 121 persons recovered on Saturday and the district had 1,200 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 48 new cases on Saturday. The district had 614 active cases as 58 persons recovered. The Health Department did not report any new deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-108-new-covid-19-cases/article37936922.ece
12 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||School teacher booked for corporal punishment||The Coimbatore City Police on Saturday registered a case against a school teacher, who allegedly subjected a Class XI student to corporal punishment, at a private school near Saravanampatti. According to the police, physics teacher Sivaranjith allegedly reprimanded the 16-year-old student for not wearing his uniform properly on the premises of the private matriculation higher secondary school on Friday. Following this, the teacher allegedly thrashed the boy with bare hands, causing injury to his back and shoulders, the police said. The boy was hospitalised by his parents on Saturday morning. The Saravanampatti police recorded the student’s statement, following which they registered a case against the teacher under section 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code in the evening. Further investigations are on, according to the police. In a statement on Saturday, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam condemned the incident and urged the teachers to uphold discipline. He also sought the intervention of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to provide guidelines for teachers and students regarding behaviour in schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-teacher-booked-for-corporal-punishment/article37936924.ece
12 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco creates awareness on EVs||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) joined hands with Bureau of Energy Efficiency to conduct an awareness campaign on electric vehicles and EV battery charging stations. The campaign is part of a State-wide programme held in 12 circles of Tangedco, including Coimbatore, to encourage people opt for electric vehicles. There are plans by companies to set up the charging stations along the Highway roads, according to an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-creates-awareness-on-evs/article37936915.ece
12 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Southern Railway announced on Saturday that the daily train services between Coimbatore and Palani Junctions via Podanur, Kinathukadavu and Pollachi, which were suspended during the COVID-19 lockdown in 2020, will be resumed from December 15. According to a release, Train No. 06462 Palani – Coimbatore Unreserved Daily Express Special train will leave Palani at 10.35 a.m. and reach Coimbatore at 1.15 p.m. the same day. Train No. 06463 Coimbatore – Palani Unreserved Daily Express Special train will leave Coimbatore at 2 p.m. and will reach Palani at 4.30 p.m. the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37936921.ece
12 December 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Transfer nursing college case to CB-CID: CPI(M)||The police should move the higher court to cancel the bail granted by the Mahila Court here to the accused Jothi Murugan, the correspondent of a nursing college, detained under POCSO Act, said former CPI(M) MLA and senior leader Balabharathi here on Saturday. Leading a demonstration at Manikoondu here, she said that when the Communist, Student Federation of India, AIDWA and other organisations demanded justice for the victims studying in the nursing college run by Jothi Murugan, the police not only opposed the bail granted by the court but also registered cases against the CPI (M) cadre, including her. She said that her party would not be cowed down by such threats and they would not rest unless and until the police took firm action as per the laws. When Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had spoken to the victims and assured them that the State government would deal with the accused booked under the POCSO Act with an iron hand, the police here seem to have neglected the CM’s promise. The way the police dealt with the victims had made the parents apprehensive and threats loomed large that the accused and his men would tamper with the evidence. The demonstrators urged the Director General of Police to immediately transfer the case to CB-CID for a thorough probe and appealed to the Health Department to offer counselling to the students. They said that they insisted on cancellation of the bail granted to the POCSO Act accused for the simple reason that he was an influential person. Many top officials in the district were directly or indirectly in contact with the correspondent for various reasons, Ms Balabharathi said. They charged that the crimes against children seemed to have risen in the last six months when compared with the corresponding period last year. District secretary V Sachidanandam, State executive committee member N. Pandi participated in the demonstration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transfer-nursing-college-case-to-cb-cid-cpim/article37936978.ece
12 December 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Fill up vacant posts, say land surveyors||The State government should immediately fill up vacant posts in the Survey and Land Records Department as the serving employees were mentally stressed out. Various demands were placed at the district-level conference in which State president R. Kayambu, State general secretary Raja and others spoke. The TN Survey and Land Records Department had about 50 % vacant posts across the State and the existing staff were finding it tough to execute their works. For various reasons and for long number of years, the previous government had not filled up the vacant posts. Posts of employees, especially, those at the field level, who had retired on superannuation, were not filled up, thus burdening the employees in the department. The government should create new posts under the Assistant Director (Survey) in each district and the anomalies in the pay scale between the Inspector (Survey) and deputy inspectors should be removed. The government should also examine the modalities to include the Survey department in the IT department and the data should be preserved and collated. The meeting placed a nine-point charter of demands and district president Vijay Kumar presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fill-up-vacant-posts-say-land-surveyors/article37936976.ece
12 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Modernisation work in Erode bus stand begins||All the four packages to modernise, carry out improvement works, construction of commercial complex and additional parking facilities have began at the Corporation’s Central Bus Terminus here at Rs. 45.32 crore. The bus stand, spread across 12 acre, is located in the heart of the city that caters to town buses, mofussil buses and mini buses. Under the Smart City Mission projects, works were planned in four packages, construction of commercial complex with parking facilities at Rs. 14.14 crore, modernisation works at Rs. 15.94 crore, construction of additional parking facilities and mini bus-shelter at Rs. 5.76 crore and carrying out improvement works at Rs. 9.48 crore. Modernisation works include realigning the bus bays to create more space, modifying the entry and exit ways of buses, granite flooring, installing solar lights on the entire premises, modern seating arrangements for commuters and other works. Compound walls will be constructed and front elevations will have new designs under the improvement works. Additional parking facilities and mini bus-shelter are to come up at the rear side of the premises. Officials said works under all the four packages would be completed in 18 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modernisation-work-in-erode-bus-stand-begins/article37936988.ece
12 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plan to train tribal people in furniture making||The district administration has offered to provide training for tribal people in making furniture from Lantana camara in Bargur hills to enable them to generate income and improve their livelihood. L. Madhubalan, Additional Collector (Development) / Project Officer, District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), visited the Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association at Thamaraikarai in the hilltop where chairs, tables, racks and tree guards made from the invasive weed were kept. V.P. Gunasekaran, State Committee Member of the association, said 20 tribal people were trained by Asoka Trust for Research into Ecology and the Environment from Male Mahadeshwara at Chamrajanagar in Karnataka two years ago. He also said they were in the process of constructing a centre on the premises that could accommodate 40 to 50 people. The association urged the governments and the Forest Department to support their activities financially. Mr. Gunasekaran said they were seeking funds for constructing the building that would be around Rs. 12 lakh. “We planned to complete the building works in three months,” he said. The weed occupies thousands of acres of forest land preventing regeneration of native species. Since the Forest Department has insufficient funds to clear the weeds, the association is planning to use the weed to make furniture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-train-tribal-people-in-furniture-making/article37936992.ece
12 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Factory owner dead, 13 others hospitalised after gas leakage||One person died and 13 others were hospitalised following a chlorine gas leakage at a chemical manufacturing factory at Sandaimedu village in Chithode on Saturday. The victim was identified as Dhamodaran (47) of Nadupalayam, the owner of the factory. At 2.50 p.m., the workers inhaled chlorine gas that leaked from the factory and alerted the Chithode police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel. Dhamodaran and three workers were rescued and rushed to hospital. But doctors declared Dhamodaran as brought dead. Ten other workers from the nearby textile manufacturing units complained of breathlessness and burning sensation in the throat and were admitted to the District Headquarters Hospital. Fire fighters plugged the leak in an hour. Collector H. Krishnanunni, along with revenue officials, inspected the factory. Police said that the incident had happened while transferring chlorine from the storage tank to cylinders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gas-leakage-claims-factory-owners-life-in-erode/article37936900.ece
12 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Special train from Patna to Erode junction||A fully reserved one way special train will be operated from Patna Junction to Erode Junction on December 13. A release from the Salem Railway Division said that Train No.03358 Patna Junction – Erode Junction special train will leave Patna Junction at 2 p.m. and reach Erode Junction at 8.40 a.m. on December 15.  The train will have stoppages at Patna Saheb, Bakhtiyarpur, Mokameh, Kiul, Jhajha Jasidih, Madhupur, Chittaranjan, Asansol Main, Adra, Bankura, Bishnupur, Midnapore, Hijli, Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur K Road, Cuttack, Bhubaneswar, Khurda Road, Berhampur, Palasa, Srikakulam Road, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, Rajahmundry, Vijayawada, Perambur, Katpadi, Jolarpettai and Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-train-from-patna-to-erode-junction/article37936925.ece
12 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Human Rights Day observed||Rights of humans were explained to students at the Government High School at Vadavalli Vedar Nagar in Sathyamangalam on Friday. Human Rights Zonal Coordinators C. Sathish and Thamaraiselvan spoke on the current year’s theme, “Equality – Reducing inequalities, advancing human rights” and explained the importance of observing the day. They stressed on equality and non-discrimination. A drama that stressed equality and rights was performed.   Water level at the Bhavanisagar dam stood at 104.84 feet against the full reservoir level of 105 feet on Saturday. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the dam was 3,204 cusecs while the discharge was 1,800 cusecs into the Lower Bhavani Project canal, 500 cusecs into Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals and 100 cusecs into River Bhavani. The storage was 32.66 tmcft against the capacity of 32.80 tmcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/human-rights-day-observed/article37936990.ece
12 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen plant set up||An oxygen generation plant was inaugurated at Grace Kennett Foundation Hospital in Madurai on Saturday. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar, who was the chief guest, mentioned that the steps taken by CII, Madurai Zone, along with Grace Kennett Foundation Hospital, were important as the plant would work as a sustainability model by helping smaller and mid-size hospitals to utilise the oxygen produced. “During the second wave of the pandemic, approximately 2,000 beds in private hospitals and an equal number in government hospitals in Madurai district provided healthcare but we were facing oxygen shortage and could not save many lives. Keeping that in mind, this initiative will support the entire healthcare providers in the city,” he said. Earlier, B. Subbaraman, Chairman, CII, Madurai Zone, said that shortage of oxygen during the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic led to the installation of the sustainability model. Dr. (Capt.) Augustus Samuel Dodd, CEO, Grace Kennett Foundation Hospital, explained the process, capacity of the plant and how it would be used for the hospital and hospitals in Theni, Dindigul, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar. “This plant will produce 7,000 litres of oxygen a day with a capacity to refill 60 to 70 cylinders. Approximately 150 cylinders of oxygen are required a day in Madurai during non-pandemic times. Hence, we initiated this scheme,” he pointed out. A. P. J. Jaisinh Vaerkar, Vice-Chairman, CII, Madurai Zone, thanked fellow CII members who supported the team in bringing up this unique project in Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-plant-set-up/article37937147.ece
12 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Juvenile dies in GRH||A juvenile, who was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) here, died here on Saturday. Two days ago, when four juveniles were returning from Ramanathapuram district after attending a hearing at the Juvenile Justice Board in connection with a murder case reported in 2019. After the criminal offence, the police said that the four juveniles, in conflict with law, shifted to Madurai and were living at Villapuram here. It is said that the gang, which was reportedly following the four juveniles in a car, intercepted and got into the bus near Paramakudi. After attacking them with weapons, they left in a waiting car. The police said that the attackers had targeted only the four juveniles and looked like it was a retaliation. The four were rushed to the GRH. The three others are being treated. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/juvenile-dies-in-government-rajaji-hospital/article37936984.ece
12 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||44 out of 325 cases settled in Lok Adalat held in city||A total of 44 cases were settled out of the 325 cases that were taken up for settlement at the Lok Adalat held in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Saturday. A total amount of Rs. 4.76 crore was settled. In the Lok Adalat held at the Madurai District Court, a total of 3,407 cases were settled out of the 5,313 cases taken up for settlement. The total settled amount was Rs. 33.26 crore. A sum of Rs. 20 lakh was settled in a case involving a 22-year-old youth who lost his right hand in an accident last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/44-out-of-325-cases-settled-in-lok-adalat-held-in-city/article37937148.ece
12 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC ruling on employment||It is well settled that a person appointed on compassionate grounds cannot be deprived of his employment simply because he has not completed the departmental examination or has not undergone training, observed the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court. Referring to a Supreme Court judgment, Justice S.S. Sundar observed that even if a person is unable to complete the departmental test, his service cannot be terminated and the authorities should accommodate him in Class IV post. The court was hearing the petition filed by S. Chinnadurai of Virudhunagar district. He was appointed as a Surveyor on compassionate grounds following the death of his father. The petitioner’s father had worked as a Surveyor. However, the appointment was subject to conditions. He had to complete the departmental test and training as prescribed. A show-cause notice was issued seeking explanation as to why he had not completed the test within the prescribed time. Later, he was terminated from service on the ground that he had not completed the test. The court set aside the termination order and directed the authorities concerned to appoint the petitioner in the post of Office Assistant of Field Assistant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-ruling-on-employment/article37937149.ece
12 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||YouTuber moves HC against FIR||YouTuber Maridhas has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, seeking the quashing of an FIR registered against him by the Madurai police. In his petition, M. Maridhas said on December 9, he had posted a message regarding the death of Chief of the Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. He said he asked the government to take action against “the persons who smile on the death of the Chief of the Defence Staff”. Instead, the government had taken action against him, Mr. Maridhas said. He said he had raised his voice against separatism and terrorism, as a social activist. Mr. Maridhas said the Madurai police had registered the FIR against him under multiple sections of the IPC. He said there were no materials to invoke the provisions against him. The petition has been listed before Justice G.R. Swaminathan, and will be taken up for hearing on December 13. The Madurai police had picked up Mr. Maridhas for an inquiry over his social media post, which questioned whether Tamil Nadu was turning into another Kashmir. The Central Crime Branch of the Chennai police on Saturday formally arrested Mr. Maridhas, in connection with a pending case of forgery. The Madurai police had arrested Mr. Maridhas and lodged him in Theni prison. The CCB arrested him at the prison in connection with the case, registered last year on a complaint from Vinay Sarawagi, associate executive editor, News18 group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youtuber-moves-hc-against-fir/article37936887.ece
12 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Mullaperiyar dam stood at its maximum permissible level of 142 ft with an inflow of 1,412 cusecs and a discharge of 1,200 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 70.14 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 2,686 cusecs and a discharge of 2,263 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 11,115 mcft. There was no rainfall in the region during the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37936981.ece
12 December 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||17 sovereigns of jewellery stolen||A masked gang burgled three houses in Tiruchengode and decamped with 17 sovereigns of jewellery during the late hours of Friday. According to the police, the gang broke into the house of Vijay Anand in Vetri Nagar near Tiruchengode. As the residents raised an alarm, the gang fled the spot. They then burgled the houses of two rig owners in Ezhil Nagar and Unjapalayam and decamped with the jewellery and Rs. 10,000. The police are collecting CCTV visuals from the place to identify the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-sovereigns-of-jewellery-stolen/article37936993.ece
12 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tamilisai assures Aurovillians of no damage to environment||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Saturday assured Aurovillians that no harm would be done to the forest cover of Auroville. “Steps are being taken to make Auroville as per the dreams of the Mother (Mirra Alfassa, who founded the universal township). The old trees will be replaced by planting more saplings in some other areas,” Ms. Soundararajan, who is also a member of the governing board of the Auroville Foundation, said. She was responding to a question on the stand-off between Aurovillians and the Auroville Foundation while interacting with reporters after paying tributes to poet Subramania Bharathi on his birth anniversary here. “The dream of the Mother on the international township is yet to be achieved. But in achieving it, we will not damage the environment,” she added. Ms. Soundararajan said she had received several communications from people extending support for her call to build a sky-high statue for Bharathi in Puducherry, similar to the one built for Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in Gujarat. Earlier in the day, alongside Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, Speaker R. Selvam, Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan and legislators, she garlanded the statue of the poet near Bharathi park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-harm-will-be-done-to-green-cover-of-auroville-says-tamilisai/article37936904.ece
12 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Digital mapping of rural areas under SVAMITVA begins in U.T.||The Department of Revenue and Disaster Management has selected Manalipet village in Villianur Taluk for implementing Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas (SVAMITVA) scheme as a pilot project. SVAMITVA, a Centrally sponsored scheme, envisages surveying of land parcels in rural areas using drone technology for issuance of property cards, updating property and asset registers, and the creation of digitalised Geographic Information System (GIS) mapping of villages. In the Union Territory, as many as 67 villages covering 235 square km and 32 villages in Karaikal covering 157 sq km would be covered under the scheme. The department has started marking of houses using lime before flying the drones to map them at Manalipet village on Friday. Collector Purva Garg, Sub-Collector (South) Rishita Gupta and Director of Survey and Land Records M.S. Ramesh were present. For implementing the scheme in the Union Territory, the department had entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Survey of India, Chennai Office to carry out survey using drones. The Commune Panchayats and District Rural Development Agency are also partners in the programme, Mr. Ramesh said in a release. Images captured by the drones will be processed in the GIS lab of Survey of India. Based on the images, base GIS maps would be prepared and subsequently ground truthing would be done by the survey and revenue officials to generate digital maps, the release said. Property cards would be distributed to house owners based on the digital maps. The card would have name of the district, taluk, revenue village, year of survey, unique identity number of the property, property classification, area of the property, dimensions with sketch and boundaries, name and image of the house owner, address of the owner, and share of the owner, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/digital-mapping-of-rural-areas-under-svamitva-begins-in-ut/article37937212.ece
12 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 22 fresh COVID- 19 infections||The Union Territory on Saturday recorded 22 new COVID-19 cases from 1,974 tests. Of the total fresh cases registered, 11 are from Mahe region, six from Karaikal and five from Puducherry. Currently there are 230 active cases in the Union Territory, of which 57 are undergoing hospital treatment and the remaining are under home quarantine, data released by the Health Department said. Meanwhile, the number of people vaccinated crossed the 13 lakh mark in the Union Territory. As on Saturday, 7,935,32 persons received the first dose and 5,070,19 got both doses, according to official figures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-22-fresh-covid-19-infections/article37937210.ece
12 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Outlet selling alternatives to plastics inaugurated||The Puducherry Pollution Control Committee (PPCC) has launched an outlet to provide alternative products to the banned single-use plastic items at Bahour. As per the direction of National Green Tribunal (NGT), Bahour Commune Panchayat has been declared as a single-use plastic free commune on October 2, this year. Chief Minister N. Rangasamy inaugurated the outlet ‘SOLAI,’ on Friday. Member of the Legislative Assembly Senthil Kumar and Smitha, Secretary, Science, Technology and Environment, were also present, a release from the PPCC said. In order to create awareness among the residents of Bahour, the committee distributed alternative materials such as areca plates, paper cups, paper straws, wooden spoons and cloth bags to the 7,000 houses at Bahour. The government had imposed a ban on single-use plastic items such as carry bags, cups, plates, thermocol plates, plastic sheet pouches used for cooked food wrapping, plastic sheets used for spreading on dining tables, water pouches and plastic straw in the Union Territory two years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outlet-selling-alternatives-to-plastics-inaugurated/article37937214.ece
12 December 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Two cooperative bank officials suspended||Two officials of Primary Cooperative Agricultural and Rural Development Bank in Keeranur were placed under suspension on Saturday for alleged irregularities in sanction of jewel loans to the tune of Rs. 1.08 crore. The gold appraiser has been dismissed from service. The State government had formed a team to enquire into irregularities in sanction of jewel loans by the cooperative societies and to submit the report by November 20. The bank in Keeranur was also inspected in this regard. As per records, there should be 934 pouches of jewels valued at Rs. 3.63 crore. But only 823 pouches were in the bank’s lockers. The remaining jewels worth Rs. 1.08 crore, supposed to be in 102 pouches, were missing. Regional Joint Registrar of Cooperatives Societies Uma Maheshwari received the report of the inspection and the keys to the locker. Bank secretary P. Neelakandan, Superintendent N. Sakthivel and gold appraiser N. Kanakavelu were inquired. It was found that Rs. 1.08 crore was loaned without pledging jewellery. Following this, Neelakandan and Sakthivel were suspended, and Kanakavelu was dismissed from service. Criminal action would be taken against the three, an official source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-cooperative-bank-officials-suspended/article37936971.ece
12 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM announces Rs. 1,242-cr. schemes for Salem||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday announced Rs. 1,242 crore-worth development schemes for Salem district at an event held to launch the ‘Namakku Naame’ scheme and an urban employment programme. He also handed over aid to several beneficiaries. Addressing the event, Mr. Stalin said development works to the tune of Rs. 1,242 crore would be implemented in the district. Listing some of the projects, Mr. Stalin said an underground drainage system would be laid at cost of Rs. 530 crore in the Salem Corporation limits, in places where it is yet to be laid. He said drinking water schemes, at a cost of Rs. 158 crore, would be implemented in the Salem Corporation limits to ensure uninterrupted drinking water supply. A total of Rs. 69 crore will be allocated for development of Bodinaikenpatti, Mokkaneri and Alikuttai waterbodies. A rail overbridge at a cost of Rs. 120 crore in Ammapet, a multi-purpose sports complex worth Rs. 20 crore, development of Corporation roads at Rs. 20 crore are among the other projects. Mr. Stalin said an integrated textile park would soon come up in Salem. The Chief Minister said a multi-purpose production centre would be set up at a cost of Rs. 25 crore, and it would benefit silver anklet manufacturers. A TIDEL software park would be set up in Karuppur to create job opportunities for the youth, Mr. Stalin said.  Drinking water schemes, at a cost of Rs. 158 crore, will be implemented in the Salem Corporation limits M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-announces-rs-1242-cr-schemes-for-salem/article37936888.ece
12 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem GH leads in cardiac treatment in State||The cardiology department at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital leads in State in providing primary acute myocardial infarction treatment. According to Hospital authorities, the department is the tertiary care centre for patients from six districts, including Sale, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Namakkal, Erode and Karur. Doctors said that about 12,000 outpatients and 1,000 inpatients undergo treatment at the department a month. Talking to presspersons, Valli Sathyamoorthy, Dean of the Hospital, said that over 100 patients with heart attack have undergone primary percutaneous coronary intervention within two hours of admission and revascularization of blocked coronary arteries are established before the occurrence of irreversible myocardial injury. Dr.Valli said that under spoke and hub model, doctors from 32 hospitals are being trained on treatment techniques. She said that medicines are being provided under Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam scheme to patients to ensure proper medication. Kannan, Head of the department, said that the department handled 75 cases in October and angiogram was done to 70 patients. In November, 85 cases were attended by the department and angioplasty was done to over 35 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-gh-leads-in-cardiac-treatment-in-state/article37936995.ece
12 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Over 20 injured as mini van topples||A mini van in which over 20 persons were travelling toppled near Pethanaikenpalayam here. According to the police, over 20 persons travelled in a mini van from Chinasamuthiram near Pethanaikenpalayam to Selanaikenpatti reportedly to attend the Chief Minister’s event. The driver lost control over the vehicle and it toppled near Kalichettiyur. Passers-by rushed the injured persons to Pethanaikenpalayam government hospital and they were later taken to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-20-injured-as-mini-van-topples/article37936994.ece
12 December 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||‘Research in alternative sources of energy is need of the hour’||The 34th convocation ceremony was held at Kalasalingam University on Saturday and 1,740 students including 18, who are speech and hearing impaired, received degrees. Chief guest Sanghamitra Bandyopadhyay, Director, Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata, distributed the degrees to rank holders and Ph.D. students while the guest of honour Subramani Ramakrishnan, Director, Workforce Management, IBM Ltd., Chennai distributed the certificates. The chief guest said that Kalasalingam University had become an important centre for learning and it was ranked 50th in the country in quality teaching, research as well as in societal contributions. She congratulated all the graduands and said they have a great responsibility to prove themselves worthy of the institution and also the country. Saying that research in alternative sources of energy was the need of the hour, she said that mankind had realised the importance of replacing fossil fuels with other means of energy production that were sustainable in the long run apart from being clean and green. “This is an era of big data and data driven science. Massive data is getting collected at every instance. An expert data scientist needs to be strong in computer science, statistics and mathematics. It is here that institutes like the Indian Statistical Institute score high,” she said. India has become self-reliant, feeding its billions was not an easy task but India has done it. “Times are indeed trying, challenges are indeed many, and therefore opportunities are immense and possibilities are endless,” Ms. Bandyopadhyay said. “When you can, try to return something to this society. This country needs you”, she added. Chancellor Dr. K. Sridharan presided. Pro Chancellor Dr. Arivalagi Sridharan, vice-presidents Dr. S. Shasi Anand and Arjun Kalasalingam, Vice-Chancellor Dr. R. Nagaraj, Registrar V. Vasudevan, Board of Directors Dr. G. Swaminathan, and Advisor S. Gnanasekar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/research-in-alternative-sources-of-energy-is-need-of-the-hour/article37936980.ece
12 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Four boys rescued||Revenue officials rescued four boys employed for rearing of goats and lodged them at the Government Boys Home here. A release from the Revenue Divisional Office said the boys were taken to Surakottai by Govindaraj of Ramanathapuram district after obtaining the consent of Sundarraj and Papaththi, parents of the boys, while their family was engaged in wood charcoal preparation work at Kalancheri village in Papanasam taluk, two years ago. Govindaraj deployed the boys in goat rearing work at Surakottai. Recently, a call was received through Childline number 1098 stating that the boys were engaged as bonded labourers at Surakottai. Subsequently, officials from the Revenue Divisional Office, Thanjavur, District Child Protection Unit and Thanjavur Taluk Police along with Childline Shed India organisation representatives went to Surakottai and rescued the boys.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-boys-rescued/article37936972.ece
12 December 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Break barriers and achieve big things in life, girl students told||Encouraging the girl students to achieve big things in their lives, Lok Sabha MP M.K. Kanimozhi said on Saturday that they have plenty of scope and opportunities. She was speaking at the 140th birth anniversary of Mahakavi Bharathi at Ettayapuram in the district and gave away prizes to winners of various contests on the occasion. The MP said that she was overwhelmed to hear about the huge participation. About 2,000 students had participated in the competitions and it reflected not only on the popularity of the poet, but also the involvement of students, particularly girls. Normally, parents encourage their girl children to go to schools and colleges and finally get them married. However, Ms Kanimozhi said that in today’s world, there were aplenty of opportunities. Hence, girl students should explore new avenues and rise up to the occasion. “By thinking big, you can achieve bigger...Thus, you can bring home more and more laurels,” she stressed. Poet Bharathi remained popular even today and this showed his involvement as a poet. And as a poet, he could not eke out a living but his principles, the grit and determination he displayed till his death were some of the finest qualities, that makes him relevant even today, she said and added that the youth should imbibe these qualities. The late poet had always insisted on dreaming big and thus setting the tone for achieving the goal. When a young girl said at the meeting that her dream was to become the Collector of Thoothukudi district, Ms Kanimozhi lauded the student and wished her good luck. Ministers Thangam Thennarasu, Geetha Jeevan, Mahesh Anbil Poyyamozhi, MLAs and a large number of poets from the district participated. Collector K Senthil Raj welcomed the gathering. Representatives from various literary forums in Thoothukudi and neighbouring districts garlanded the statue of Bharathi. Many voluntary organisations also gave away prizes to the students who had won in the competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/break-barriers-and-achieve-big-things-in-life-girl-students-told/article37937251.ece
12 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Watch out for bacterial leaf blight disease, farmers told||With sporadic incidence of bacterial leaf blight disease in the standing samba and thaladi paddy crop in a few parts of the district, the Agriculture Department has advised farmers to take up appropriate measures to check its spread if symptoms appear in their fields. Samba and thaladi paddy crop has been raised on about 49,000 hectares in the district. Due to the intermittent rains during the north-east monsoon and favourable climatic conditions, symptoms of bacterial leaf blight are appearing in the crop in some places. The bacterium enters through the cut wounds in the leaf tips and edges, becomes systemic and causes orange and yellow coloured wavy margins in the leaf tips and edges. The disease symptoms first appear as small water-soaked translucent lesions on the edges of the leaf blade which later turn yellowish orange or brown, mostly confined to the edges of the leaf with wavy margins. As the disease progresses, the yellowish orange or brown lesions cover the entire leaf blade which may turn straw coloured .This will affect the photosynthesis of the plant, thereby reducing the yield. For easy diagnosis, the leaf blade of the plant can be cut and dipped in water. If affected, white bacterial ooze could be noticed making the water turbid. Further, the bacterial infestation could lead to secondary infestation of the fungal pathogens which causes fungal diseases in the later stage of the crop. Apt conditions Clipping of the tip of the seedling at the time of transplanting, heavy rain or dew, flooding, deep irrigation water, severe wind and application of excessive nitrogen, especially late top dressing are some of the favourable conditions for the spread of the disease. If the disease is in the initial stage, 20% cow dung extract can be sprayed twice at 15 days interval. To control developed symptoms, 120 grams of streptomycin sulphate and tetracycline hydrochloride combination along with 500 grams of copper oxychloride mixed in 200 litres of water should be sprayed per acre. The spraying should be repeated 15 days later. Farmers could contact the officials at the nearest Agricultural Extension Centres for more details and appropriate advice, Agriculture officials said.  Symptoms & Cure The bacterium causes orange and yellow coloured wavy margins in the leaf tips and edges Later, the entire leaf blade may turn straw coloured and affect photosynthesis and yield For initial stage, 20% cow dung extract can be sprayed twice at 15 days interval||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/watch-out-for-bacterial-leaf-blight-disease-farmers-told/article37937272.ece
12 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dancer alleges abuse at Srirangam temple||Bharatanatyam dancer Zakir Hussain has alleged that he was abused and forced to exit the Sri Ranganathaswamy temple in Srirangam by an activist on Friday. The incident took place around 1.30 p.m. on Friday, after a darshan of Lord Ranganathar at the moolavar sannadhi, Mr. Hussain said. In an online complaint, addressed to the Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi, G. Karthikeyan, Mr. Hussain, a recipient of the Kalaimamani Award, said Rangarajan Narasimhan of Srirangam rushed towards him at the kili mandapam , abused him citing his religion, and made derogatory remarks against him for visiting the temple. Mr. Hussain said he was insulted and threatened for visiting the temple, which he revered and held in high esteem. Several devotees and staff at the temple were witness to the incident, he said. ‘Causing mental agony’ “I felt humiliated and insulted by Rangarajan Narasimhan. He has no right to prevent me or any individual from visiting the temple. It has caused severe mental agony to me,” Mr. Hussain said . Mr. Hussain said he was followed and pushed from behind until he reached the Ranga ranga gopuram. Mr. Hussain said he had visited the temple on several occasions. He was familiar with the temple staff and priests, but had never faced any opposition while visiting the temple until now. The HR&CE Department has sought a report on the alleged incident. S. Marimuthu, Joint Commissioner, Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple, said he had conducted preliminary inquiries about the incident. Mr. Marimuthu said he had also watched CCTV camera footage from the temple. If any one has any reservation about an individual visiting the temple, he or she should bring it to the notice of the temple administration. No one has the right to force anyone out of the temple. A report on the incident will be submitted to the HR&CE soon, he said. ‘Upholding law’ HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu said even if there had been a violation, it should have been approached from a legal angle. “No one has the right to take the law into their own hands. We have a government which is upholding the rule of law. The Chief Minister will not hesitate to take action if anyone goes against the rule of law, because he transcends the narrow considerations of caste, religion and language,” he said. When contacted, Mr. Narasimhan declined to comment on “speculations”.  I felt humiliated and insulted by Rangarajan Narasimhan. He has no right to prevent me or any individual from visiting the temple Zakir Hussain Dancer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dancer-alleges-abuse-at-srirangam-temple/article37936829.ece
12 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||65 cases reported in central districts||The central region reported 65 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, in line with the decreasing trend over the last few weeks. Two patients -one from Pudukottai and the other from Tiruchi - died of the viral infection. A total of 18 patients reported positive in Tiruchi, 14 in Karur, and 13 in Thanjavur. Eight patients reported positive in Tiruvarur, five in Nagapattinam and four in Pudukottai. In Mayiladuthurai, two patients tested positive, while Ariyalur reported one. Perambalur reported no case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/65-cases-reported-in-central-districts/article37936965.ece
12 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Defence expo from tomorrow||As part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ and India@75, an exhibition of defence products will be held at the Junior Staff Club of Ordnance Factory here from December 13 to 19. The Ministry of Defence is organising such exhibitions at 75 locations across the country. The Ordnance Factory in Tiruchi, a unit of Advanced Weapons and Equipment India, will display modern defence products as well as vintage weapons used in World War II. The exhibition, to be inaugurated by the Defence Minister through video conference, will be open to the general public, including students from schools and colleges between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/defence-expo-from-tomorrow/article37937273.ece
12 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Water supply suspended||Drinking water supply would remain suspended at areas where it is suppled from the overhead tank at Puthur on Sunday owing to a burst in the pumping mains on Nachiyarkoil Road in Woraiyur. Work on repairing the damaged pipeline was taken up on Saturday. Regular water supply would be restored on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-supply-suspended/article37936964.ece
12 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Saturday stood at its full capacity of 120 feet. The inflow was 13,322 cusecs and the discharge 12,680 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article37936968.ece
12 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘State will implement housing scheme for the homeless’||The State government will positively examine and implement the housing scheme for the homeless, said Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Speaker Appavoo here on Saturday. Speaking at a camp conducted to receive petitions from the applicants at Panagudi, Valliyoor and Thisayanvilai town panchayats, he said that around 500 applications had been received. The district administration would verify them by deploying about 20 Village Administrative Officers, Mr. Appavoo said. As and when the screening was over and eligibility norms were fulfilled, the beneficiaries would get their concrete dwellings in about two to three months. “Under the TN Urban Livelihood Mission, the beneficiaries will have to give Rs. 1.05 lakh each and the TN government will give Rs. 2.10 lakh for each dwelling which costs Rs. 3.15 lakh,” he said. He gave an assurance that the selection criteria was already announced by the government and he appealed to the applicants not to get carried away by any middleman. He urged them to lodge complaints with the Collector directly and assured them of firm action. The government had given funds to the tune of Rs. 6 crore with which the basic amenities in the Panagudi Town Panchayat would be provided in a phased manner. More infrastructure, which were promised during the electioneering, would be fulfilled, Mr Appavoo said and added that the kumbabishekam for the Sri Ramalinga Swami Temple here would be performed in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-will-implement-housing-scheme-for-homeless-speaker/article37936899.ece
12 December 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Tvl_water level||The water level in Papanasam dam was 138.10 feet with an inflow of 1,086.69 cusecs and discharge of 804.75 cusecs. In Manimuthar dam, it was 116.50 ft with an inflow of 400 cusecs and discharge of 1400 cusecs. Rainfall during the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. (in mm): Manimuthar: 6.4, Nanguneri: 2, Palayamkottai: 5 and Nellai recorded 2.8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tvlwater-level/article37937252.ece
12 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Youth arrested in Tiruppur for online sexual harassment||The cyber crime unit of Tiruppur City Police has arrested a youth on charges of sexually harassing and issuing threats online to a college student. In a statement released on Saturday, the police said that the accused N. Niyaz (23) allegedly created a fake account on Instagram and befriended a 20-year-old girl from Tiruppur. He pretended to be a woman while speaking to her over the phone, the police claimed. The victim shared her personal photographs with the accused, using which he allegedly fabricated sexually explicit images. He threatened her to leak the images online if she does not appear in a video call with him, according to the police. The victim lodged a complaint at the cyber crime unit of Tiruppur City Police on December 2, following which the police registered a case on Friday. The case was registered under sections 354 A (Sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment), 354 B (Assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe) and 354 D (Stalking) of the Indian Penal Code, sections 66 D (Punishment for cheating by personation by using computer resource) and 67 A (Punishment for publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act, etc., in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 read with section 4 (Penalty for harassment of woman) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act, 1998. The accused, who is from Kuniamuthur in Coimbatore, was arrested by a special team led by Inspector I. Sornavalli. He was remanded in judicial custody on Saturday. His phone, which was confiscated, had several sexually explicit images and further investigations are on, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-arrested-in-tiruppur-for-online-sexual-harassment/article37936920.ece
12 December 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Probe implementation of ATMA scheme: farmers||Farmers have alleged that the huge haul of cash from the office of the Assistant Director, Agriculture, Valangaiman block in Tiruvarur district effected by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption on Friday was a pointer to the malpractices indulged in by the Agriculture Department officials in the implementation of various schemes such as the Central government-sponsored ATMA scheme. The objective of the scheme (Agricultural Technology Management Agency) was to involve farmers’ groups in planning, implementation and empowerment to achieve best results through the transfer of technology and was implemented with a funding pattern of 60:40 % between the Central and State governments, respectively. Addressing the media at Mannargudi Saturday, the president, All Farmers Associations Coordination Committee, Tamil Nadu, P. R.Pandian said that not even a rupee had been spent for the betterment of farmers, though the Central and State governments used to allot sufficient funds for implementing the ATMA scheme. Alleging that the practice of nominating ruling party-affiliated farmers in the State and district-level committees of ATMA and other schemes leads to misappropriation of funds by the Agriculture Department officials in connivance with the “nominated members,” the committee president called upon the Chief Minister to order an inquiry into the implementation of the ATMA scheme in the past and also requested him to ensure that apolitical farmers were involved in ATMA and other schemes. Meanwhile, the DVAC has issued a press release stating that the check at the office of the Assistant Director (Agriculture), Valangaiman block conducted on December 10 was a sequel to the complaints of misappropriation of funds allotted for implementation of schemes such as disbursement of oil seeds under subsidy to farmers, etc., by the official in connivance with the subordinate officials and staff in the office. Unaccounted money of Rs. 23,14,650 was seized from the office, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-implementation-of-atma-scheme-farmers/article37936966.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The N EE T quota cauldron||The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate medical and dental courses has been in the eye of the storm in Tamil Nadu since its introduction in 2017, with both the ruling and the principal Opposition parties not in favour of it. The Legislative Assembly passed a Bill in September to spare the students here from the requirement of clearing the test, and it is awaiting the President’s assent. When two similar Bills passed during the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam regime failed to receive assent, the Assembly came up with a law in October 2020 to provide 7.5% horizontal reservation to government school students in medical admissions. Now, this State law is being challenged before the Madras High Court and the incumbent Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam government has filed an exhaustive counter affidavit defending the law. The government has relied heavily upon a report submitted by a Commission constituted under the chairmanship of former Madras High Court judge P. Kalaiyarasan to substantiate its argument that the number of government school students gaining admission in medical colleges had dropped ever since the introduction of NEET in 2017, and therefore, there was an imminent necessity to ensure a level playing field for these students. Cognitive gap The Justice P. Kalaiyarasan Commission had concluded that government school students were placed at a disadvantageous position compared to private school counterparts due to a ‘cognitive gap’ created by socio-economic factors such as caste, wealth, parental occupation, gender and so on, and that these psychological and socio-economic barriers could not be bridged by a few months of intensive coaching for NEET even if it was provided free of cost. The Commission was of the opinion that though the State Government runs more than 30,000 schools, the students of these schools do not gain admissions in professional courses in big numbers. Unlike the pre-NEET era when medical admissions were made based on Plus Two marks, the number of government school students who had gained admission in medical colleges had fallen to single digits — three, five and six in the academic years 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-2020 respectively. Providing a top-down view of how students from different types of schools had succeeded in gaining medical admissions, the Commission stated that the number of government school students who had enrolled in the MBBS course reduced from 38 in 2014-15 to just six in 2019-2020. On the other hand, the number of CBSE students who had gained admission jumped from just two in 2014-15 to 1,368 in 2019-20 because of NEET. Stark decline “Government school students secured about 1% of MBBS seats before NEET, and this has dropped to an abysmal 0.1% now,” the Commission’s report read. However, after the implementation of the law currently under challenge, as many as 435 out of 5,567 undergraduate medical and dental seats in the State were reserved for government school students in the academic year 2020-21, the State told the court. It has also highlighted how the Commission had concluded that the ‘cognitive gap’ between government school students and others was not due to lack of intelligence but because of a lack of opportunities to develop and become capable of competing with others. The Commission had found that even between the government school and government-aided private school students, the latter had performed better than the former when it came to securing medical admissions. While 1,426 government-aided private school students had cleared NEET in 2018-19, only 1,157 government school students could do so that year. A majority of government school students had scored only around 200 out of 720 marks. Though 22 government-aided private school students had scored between 300 and 400 marks and three students had scored above 400, the corresponding figures for the government school students were just two and nil respectively, the Commission pointed out. It also found that most of the government school students were from Most Backward Classes, Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Further, taking note that the average parental income of government school students was much less compared to the income of students enrolled in private schools, the Commission, in its report, said: “From this, it can be inferred that the economically backward students are also socially backward and go to government schools.” After analysing the advantages of being a private school student and the difficulties faced by government school students, the Commission recommended the enactment of a law to reserve at least 10% of medical seats for government school students. The government, however, decided to accept the recommendation to the extent of setting apart 7.5% of medical seats and accordingly the State law was passed. The challenges to the law before the court are two-fold. One batch of cases had been filed by individual private school students, who had questioned the constitutional validity of granting such reservation, and another by an association of Catholic educational institutions, who had questioned the benefit of reservation having been restricted to government school students alone and not extended to government-aided private school students. Extensive study Opposing the batch of cases, the government has contended before the court that the Tamil Nadu Admissions to Undergraduate Courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy on Preferential Basis to Students of Government Schools Act of 2020 was passed only after conducting an empirical and scientific study and extensive deliberations in order to ensure equalisation of educational opportunities by providing a push for government school students. The Justice P. Kalaiyarasan Commission was constituted on March 21, 2020, and its report was submitted to the government on June 8, 2020. Thereafter, the Cabinet deliberated upon the report on June 15 and July 14 last year. “This is a policy decision of the government and is not ordinarily to be interfered with unless it is found to be capricious, non-informed by reasons, arbitrary or in violation of Article 14 (right to equality) of the Constitution,” the government said. Though private school students contended that the Act falls foul of Article 14 as it was discriminatory, the government replied that “the concept of equality does not prohibit reasonable classification to be made, which should be on the basis of intelligible differentia and must have a rational nexus to the object sought to be achieved by the legislation. It is submitted that the respondent (government) has satisfied the above mentioned twin test.” It said the Justice P. Kalaiyarasan Commission had highlighted how government school students form a separate class unto themselves, and thus are entitled to a reasonable percentage of medical seats on a preferential basis. The government also relied upon a 2012 Supreme Court verdict to point out that while upholding a provision of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act of 2009, the top court itself had acknowledged the inability of government school students to perform well. Stating that the objective behind the 2020 Act was to bridge the inequalities between government and private school students and take affirmative action to bring real equality between the two by giving them an equal chance to become medical professionals, the government said: “In view of the above, it is submitted that there is an intelligible differentia between two classes of students and reasonable nexus of such a classification with the object sought to be achieved.” It was also stressed that medical seats have been reserved only for those who had studied from Class VI to XII in government, corporation, municipal, Adi Dravidar and tribal welfare, Kallar reclamation, Forest Department and other schools managed by government departments. Students of government-aided private schools were consciously excluded on the basis of the Commission’s report that they were comparatively better placed. Explaining the reason for not including students of the Central Government schools under the ambit of reservation, the court was told that schools such as Kendriya Vidyalaya could not be equated with State Government schools since the former comprises those from better social and economic backgrounds. ‘Preposterous parallels’ “The attempt by some of the writ petitioners to compare a daily wage labourer with a Central Government employee is preposterous,” the government said. Further, denying that the 7.5% reservation was repugnant to the object sought to be achieved by NEET, the State said the law under challenge makes it mandatory for government school students, seeking reservation, to have secured the minimum pass marks in NEET. “It is only because of the social, economic and educational backwardness of government school students that preference is being given to them without jeopardising merit,” the State said. Now that submission of all written documents in the batch of cases, challenging the law, has been completed and the matter is ripe for commencement of final hearing on December 15, the fate of the Act will rest upon the final bang of the gavel.  After analysing the advantages of being a private school student and the difficulties faced by government school students, the enactment of a law to reserve at least 10% of medical seats was recommended by the Justice P. Kalaiyarasan Commission   Unlike the pre-NEET era when medical admissions were made based on Plus Two marks, the number of government school students who had gained admission in medical colleges had fallen to single digits — three, five and six in the academic years 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-2020 respectively||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-n-ee-t-quota-cauldron/article37936855.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu to step up daily COVID-19 testing||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, in a letter to Collectors and the Greater Chennai Corporation, said that routine COVID-19 surveillance should be strengthened by increasing the number of tests conducted every day in the State. “As a thumb rule, we test 10 times the number of cases. We are way above that now, but are still looking to increase focused testing in case of clusters,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said in the letter. “This will be done by going for saturation testing, rather than testing those living with patients or those who have been in contact with them,” he said. For instance, all 763 students of Anna University’s ACTECH campus hostel were subjected to RT-PCR tests, after 10 students tested positive, he said. The Greater Chennai Corporation plans to increase the number of daily tests to 15,000. At present, on average, 12,000 to 13,000 tests are being conducted in the city in a day. Specific focus will be given to market places, government offices, factories, places where people gather and college hostels and campuses in the city, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-to-step-up-daily-covid-19-testing/article37936892.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Colourful display||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colourful-display/article37936997.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Eyesore||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eyesore/article37936914.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 54 fresh COVID-19 cases||Erode district reported 54 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total cases to 1,06,923. While 69 persons were discharged, 670 persons continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll to 702. Salem saw 43 positive cases on Saturday. According to health officials, 34 cases were indigenous and 14 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 49 cases were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-54-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37936989.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Periyanaikenpalayam sub-station- December 13 (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.): Periyanaikenpalayam, Naikenpalayam, Kovanur, Gudalur Koundampalayam, Jothipuram, Press Colony, No.4 Veerapandy, Idigarai, Sengalipalayam, Poochiyur, Narasimhanaikenpalayam, Thiruvalluvar Nagar, Palamalai, Samichettipalayam, Naikanur, Raji Nagar, Vanaankoil Pirivu, and Veerapandi Pirivu.  Chiinnathadagam sub-station- December 14 (9 a.m. to 5 p.m.): Anaikatti, Nanjundapuram, part of Pannimadai, Periya Thadagam, Chinna Thadagam and Pappanaickepalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37936908.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||RELIGION  Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple: Vaikunta Ekadasi festival, pagal pathu, Sri Namperumal purappadu from sanctum sanctorum, 6.30 a.m.; reaching Arjuna Mandapam, 7 a.m.; Arayar seva, 7.30 a.m. to noon and 1 to 3.30 p.m.; purappadu from Arjuna Mandapam, 9 p.m.; reaching sanctum sanctorum, Srirangam, 10 p.m. GENERAL  Tiruchi Arivalar Peravai: Mupperum vizha, P. Masilamani, Dean, Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute, and A. P. Sivakumar, District Library Officer, speak, Thirumurai by Balasubramania Odhuvar, Tamil Sangam building, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article37937270.ece
12 December 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Priest escapes attack||Police rushed to the Church of St Joseph the Worker on Bauxite road in Belagavi on Saturday, after the local priest alleged that an unidentified miscreant tried to attack him with a weapon. Rev. Fr. Francis D’Souza had climbed the stairs of the first floor of his residence inside the church to look after his pet dog and allegedly found a stranger waiting with a sword. The dog was missing. According to the police, the priest ran down and out of the compound. The alleged miscreant also ran away. The incident has been captured on CCTV camera, police said. Officers of the district canine squad visited the spot. A case is yet to be registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/priest-escapes-attack/article37937009.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to restart sanctioning plan approvals in a few days||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) that had stopped approving building plans or levying any charges or fees since early August is likely to resume the process next week. Last week, the civic body had issued a circular notifying the rates to be charged for the sanction of building plan approval, occupancy and completion certificates as well as ground rent, licence fees, scrutiny fees, and security deposit. According to highly placed sources, the BBMP has decided to retain the rates that were notified in September 2015. Sources said that in all likelihood, the sanction of plan approvals would begin on Monday. The civic body had stopped building plan-related activities after the High Court of Karnataka declared that the bylaws under which the various fees and charges were levied were “unenforceable” and contrary to the provisions of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976. The development had a bearing on not just the construction activity in the city, but also larger legal and financial implications for the BBMP. However, in November, an Ordinance was promulgated for the amendment of the KMC Act, and the BBMP Act, 2020. This allowed the BBMP to levy the various charges and fees. It effectively safeguarded the BBMP from refunding around Rs. 2,000 crore fees and charges to landowners, real estate developers, and others. The civic chief had written to the Urban Development Department (UDD) earlier this month seeking fixation of the rates for the various fees and charges. However, the UDD maintained that the Chief Commissioner, in the new amendment to both the KMC Act and the BBMP Act, had been empowered to fix the rates for levy of fees or penalty related to the issue and execution of the approval as he may deem fit. That apart, the fees shall be based on the guidance value fixed by the Department of Stamps and Registration under the provisions of the Karnataka Stamp Act, 1957. The decision to fix the rates that were notified in September 2015 was taken after the UDD’s response to the BBMP’s request, said sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-restart-sanctioning-plan-approvals-in-a-few-days/article37936824.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police open fire at, arrest man involved in kidnapping of Varthur Prakash||The Indiranagar police on Saturday opened fire at and arrested a 31-year-old history-sheeter who was allegedly involved in the kidnapping of the former Minister Varthur Prakash. The accused, Rohith, was also involved in the kidnap and subsequent murder of an autorickshaw driver in July this year. According tothe police, in an attempt to evade arrest, Rohith attacked head constable Syed Moinulla with a chopper at Challaghatta early Saturday morning. PSI Amaresh Jegarkal, who was part of the arresting team, fired a warning shot in the air, and then shot Rohith at his right leg. Both Mr. Moinulla and Rohith are in hospital. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) S.D. Shanarappa said Rohith is a notorious rowdy with 17 criminal cases pending against him in and around the city. He was involved in kidnapping Mr. Prakash and his driver Sunil from Hosahalli, near Kolar, in November 2020. The accused was also involved in the kidnapping of a 48-year-oldautorickshaw driver and financier, Vijay Kumar, in July 2021. “He and his associates tortured the victim after they realised that the gold jewellery he had on him was fake. They killed him after he could not arrange a ransom,” said a police officer. The Indiranagar police arrested had nine persons in the autorickshaw driver kidnap and murdercase, but Rohith wason the run. “On Friday night, we got credible information that he was hiding at an isolated place at Challaghatta and a team went to secure his arrest,” said a police officer.Rohith and three others were in an SUV and as soon as the police team surrounded them, he attacked one of them and tried to escape.The police are now on the lookout for the duo who were with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-open-fire-at-arrest-man-involved-in-kidnapping-of-varthur-prakash/article37936818.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Farmers up the ante on rollback of amendments||A confrontation between the farmers and the State Government is brewing as the latter seems unlikely to repeal amendments brought to State laws to effectively implement farm laws enacted by the Union Government. This is despite the Narendra Modi-led Government repealing three farm laws recently. Farmers’ organisations are demanding that the State Government should not delay rollback. Samyukta Horata-Karnataka, a coalition of farmers, labour, Dalit, and other organisations will hold a ‘Raitha Adhiveshana’ led by Dr. Ashok Dhavale, a core committee member of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, at Belagavi on Sunday. They will pass a resolution demanding rollback three laws — Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Act, 2020, The Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 2020, and The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020. The Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha has planned gherao of Suvarna Vidhana Soudha on Monday. Badagalpura Nagendra, a convener of Samyukta Horata, said: “If the three laws are not repealed in the Winter session, we will launch a State-wide agitation, hold 10 raitha mahapanchayats across the State, and the Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders who succeeded in taming the Union Government will join the protests in the State. We will gherao Vidhana Soudha with over a lakh farmers during the Budget session in February,” he said. Another farmer leader, Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, said it will be suicidal for the ruling party to persist with the laws in the State, especially after the Union Government has repealed them. “We will be forced to take the fight to every village and ensure BJP is defeated in the upcoming the Assembly and Parliamentary elections,” he said. However, the State Government, as on Saturday, had no plans to repeal these amendments in the legislature session starting Monday. “Presently, there are no plans to withdraw the amendments brought to the Karnataka APMC Act and Karnataka Land Reforms Act. We need not repeal the amendments just because the Union Government has rolled back the farm laws,” said Law and Parliamentary Affairs minister J.C. Madhuswamy.  At present, there are no plans to withdraw the amendments brought to Karnataka APMC Act and Karnataka Land Reforms Act. We need not repeal the amendments just because the Union Government has rolled back the farm laws. J.C. Madhuswamy Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-up-the-ante-on-rollback-of-amendments/article37936833.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Anti-conversion Bill will come in the way of attracting investment: Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar on Saturday said his party would oppose the proposed anti-conversion Bill, arguing that it was aimed at targeting the Christian community. Speaking to mediapersons after launching a membership drive of the party here, he said the anti-conversion Bill would come in the way of attracting investment and development of the State. The Government had been attempting to undermine the contributions of the Christian community in education and other fields by proposing such a Bill, he alleged. The BJP Government was planning to introduce the Bill with an eye on the Assembly elections 2023. “In whatever form the Government introduces the Bill, we will oppose it,” the KPCC chief said. Provisions to punish The proposed Bill would have provisions to punish the accused involved in forced conversions and make a declaration before a magistrate ahead of religious conversions mandatory. The law would empower authorities to conduct a police inquiry, if needed, sources pointed out. A couple of days ago, Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development K.S. Eshwarappa hit out at Mr. Shivakumar, saying the BJP had decided to introduce anti-conversion Bill to preserve and protect Indian culture. Earlier, Mr Shivakumar launched the membership drive through a virtual meeting with senior leaders. The membership drive was taken up from 2000 different locations in the state. AICC general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and other leaders participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anti-conversion-bill-will-come-in-the-way-of-attracting-investment-shivakumar/article37936838.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Recruitment norms relaxed for Kalyana Karnataka region||With the uptick in economic activities and surge in revenues, the State Government has relaxed norms on filling vacancies in the Kalyana Karnataka region, comprising seven districts. In its order issued a few days ago, the Government said the Kalyana Karnataka region had been facing shortage of personnel in various departments for execution of development works . To enable implementation of developmental activities in the region, it was decided to relax rules for recruitment of personnel in various departments, the order said. The Government had suspended recruitment for new posts and for filling existing vacancies, including backlog, following COVID-19 in July, 2020. The Finance Department had directed several departments to suspend the recruitment process as the Government’s revenue declined and the existing financial resources were diverted for management of the pandemic. Meanwhile, the Finance Department has asked department heads to commence the recruitment process in cases where the department’s cadre strength is below 80% and not otherwise. In the case of direct recruitment of posts, Additional Chief Secretary, Finance, I.S.N. Prasad has asked department heads to obtain prior permission of the Finance Department which would enable it to make financial provision in the State Budget for providing salaries of employees. With regard to recruitment of typists, drivers of vehicles and Group ‘D’ employees, the departments have been instructed to outsource services depending on the availability of the budget. Congress MLAs Eshwar Khandre, Ajay Singh, and Priyank Kharge had demanded that the Government fill vacancies in the region. They had said that the Kalyana Karnataka Board, which was formed under Article 371(J) of the Constitution, had remained understaffed. There were over 30,000 vacancies in various government departments in the region, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recruitment-norms-relaxed-for-kalyana-karnataka-region/article37936839.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC allows opening of Mantri mall with conditions||Observing that prima facie the acts ofboth the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) in locking Mantri Square mall and the default in paying property tax by the mall’s promoters were contrary to law, the High Court of Karnataka has allowed opening of the mall subject to payment of Rs. 2 crore. Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed interim order on Friday on the petition filed by Abhishek Propbuild Private Ltd., the promoters of the mall. The petitioner had questioned the BBMP’s action of locking the mall when customers were inside the premises for non-payment of property tax of over Rs. 6.77 crore. As December 11 and 12 are holidays for the banks, the court accepted the petitioner’s alternative request for issuing a cheque in favour of the BBMP for Rs. 4 crore by Friday evening and to submit a demand draft for Rs. 2 crore in favour of the BBMP by 12 noon on December 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-allows-opening-of-mantri-mall-with-conditions/article37936817.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Total cases breach 30 lakh mark||With 320 new cases reported on Saturday, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka breached the 30 lakh mark and touched 30,00,105. Nearly 42% of the total caseload is from Bengaluru Urban alone. This district reported 190 cases and two deaths. With the two deaths, the toll rose to 38,257. This is apart from death 29 of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 317 people were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 29,54,513. The State now has 7,306 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.30%, the case fatality rate (CFR) touched 0.62%. As many as 1,05,978 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 89,718 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,44,56,951. Meanwhile, two international passengers, including a nine-year-old, who landed at the Kempegowda International Airport have tested positive for COVID-19 on arrival. Both of them have been admitted to the State-run Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute. With this, a total of seven international passengers are under observation in the hospital. Doctors said all of them are asymtpomatic and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-total-cases-breach-30-lakh-mark/article37936821.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Guard held for burglary||The Annapoorneshwarinagar police arrested a security guard from Nepal who allegedly burgled the house of a Central Government employee at Mallathahalli and made away with Rs. 2.5 lakh in cash and gold jewellery valued at Rs. 11 lakh in October. The complainant and her husband had gone to the airport to pick up their children on October 8, but did not lock the main door and left the house in a hurry. The accused, identified as Bheem Bahadur Thapa, worked as security guard in HSR Layout during the day and moved in the area identifying houses he could break into at night. On October 8, he happened to be in the area and noticed that the house was empty and not secured properly. The theft came to light when the family returned home and filed a complaint with the police. “Investigations revealed that the guard moved around the area pretending to be a night watchman,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guard-held-for-burglary/article37936826.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two school van drivers arrested for vandalising parked vehicles||The Kamakshipalya police on Saturday arrested two school van drivers who allegedly vandalised five vehicles that were parked in and around their school. The vandalism was discovered in the morning when vehicle owners found out that their vehicles had been damaged and windshields smashed. The police rushed to the spot and after a detailed investigation zeroed in on the two drivers, Tony, 36, and Shivkumar, 23. Both drove vans for a school in the area. According to the police, the duo used to have frequent arguments with the owners of the vehicles who would park their vehicles outside the school gates and sometimes even on the school grounds obstructing the movement of their vans. “When arguments and warnings yielded no result, the duo decided to damage the vehicles to teach their owners a lesson. They have been arrested and remanded in judicial custody,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-school-van-drivers-arrested-for-vandalising-parked-vehicles/article37936828.ece
12 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Exhibition||A public exhibition to showcase the journey of the Directorate General of Quality Assurance (DGQA), and Defence Manufacturing over the last 75 years, will be held here from December 13 to 19. It will be held at the Controllerate of Quality Assurance (Electronics) Complex, J.C. Nagar, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exhibition/article37936819.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||6 hospitals notified in city||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has notified six hospitals that will have designated wards for international travellers who have tested positive for COVID-19 in the city. Patients can be admitted on the condition that they will bear the prescribed cost entirely, stated the civic body in a press release. It added that the cost of treatment cannot exceed the slabs set by the Government. The notified hospitals are: Manipal, Apollo, Fortis, Saguna, Sakra, and Rainbow Children’s Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/6-hospitals-notified-in-city/article37936822.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Examination postponed||The Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed) and Diploma in Pre-school Education (DPSE) examinations conducted by Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) and scheduled to be held from December 13 to 18 stands postponed. Revised timetable will be available on the KSEEB website shortly. More details can be obtained from Director (Other Exams) KSEEB, Malleswaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/examination-postponed/article37936835.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Hold institution heads accountable’||Following COVID-19 cases emerging from cluster outbreaks in educational institutions and not from the community, some experts are now pushing for holding heads of such institutions and wardens of hostels accountable. “We feel wardens and principals should be held responsible under the State Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act if they are found to have failed in proper screening of students on arrival at the institutions and regularly monitor COVID-19-appropriate measures in residential schools and hostels,” a COVID-19 expert said. This is likely to be discussed in the next meeting of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hold-institution-heads-accountable/article37936820.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC gets Armed Forces Flag Day award||KSRTC has received the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund award for highest contribution among State Government departments. KSRTC MD Shivayogi C. Kalasad received the award from Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot and Home Minister Araga Jnanendra. KSRTC received this honour for the 7th time in a row, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-gets-armed-forces-flag-day-award/article37936832.ece
12 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||NEP 2020 implemented in haste: AIDSO||Opposing the State Government’s decision of implementing the National Education Policy 2020, members of the All-India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO) staged a demonstration in Dharwad on Saturday. The protest was held as part of a call for a Statewide protest by AIDSO. The members staged the demonstration at the Swami Vivekanand Circle in Dharwad. Addressing the protesters, district president of AIDSO Mahantesh Belur said that as the NEP 2020 had been implemented in State, from this year it will be a four-year degree course. The first year of the degree courses had begun, and the internal examinations are scheduled to be held next week. However, the students were yet to get their syllabus, he said. He said that the Government which showed a keen interest in implementing the NEP 2020, had failed to provide the syllabus to the degree students. This apart, teaching staff shortage had hit almost all government colleges and the teachers had not been able to complete the syllabus yet. Consequently the educational activities had not started in full force in the last two months, he said. Mr. Belur said that it took a minimum of two years for the Government to discuss with students and academicians before implementing an education policy and to develop the syllabus. But this Government had not performed any such exercise and had implemented the policy in a haste, he alleged. The student-teacher ratio was widening in the colleges and also there was need for educational infrastructure in colleges. Therefore, the Government should recruit more teachers and focus on the new syllabus before marching ahead with NEP, he said. AIDSO office-bearers Shashikala Meti, Sindhu Koudi, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nep-2020-implemented-in-haste-aidso/article37937007.ece
12 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Legislature session begins in Belagavi tomorrow; Standard Operating Procedure announced||In the wake of the legislature session beginning on Monday, the Standard Operating Procedure to be followed has been notified by the administration. It is as follows: All those participating in the Assembly session at Belagavi shall compulsorily undergo a RT-PCR testing on or after December 10 and have a negative report (not older than 72 hours). The report shall be valid for a period of two weeks. All should have received two doses of the vaccination. Strict COVID -19 protocols shall be followed at the venue and places of stay and travel by the attendees like, at the entry – a physical distancing of at least one metre, hand sanitisation at entry and every hour, thermal scanning for fever (> 99.5 Degrees Fahrenheit or 37.5 Degrees Celsius), use of pulse oximeter (>94%), screening for symptoms like fever, cough, cold, throat pain, breathing difficulty, loss of taste, loss of smell, etc. Compulsory wearing (correctly covering nose and mouth) of mask (preferably N95) should be ensured by all those present in the venue. Those aged above 50, those having comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, cardiac condition, liver issues, kidney problem, etc. may additionally consider wearing face shield. This apart, a team of physician and pulmonologist, general duty medical officer (MBBS), staff nurse, physiotherapist and others shall be on duty at the venue along with necessary support staff, medicines, consumables, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/legislature-session-begins-in-belagavi-tomorrow-standard-operating-procedure-announced/article37937001.ece
12 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KSLU students’ protest in Hubballi against offline mode of examination continues; one hospitalised||Unrelenting law students have continued their agitation seeking cancellation of offline mode of examination scheduled by Karnataka State Law University (KSLU) and one of the four students on the indefinite fast, whose condition deteriorated, was shifted to hospital on Saturday. On Friday, KSLU issued a circular to affiliated colleges clarifying that the examinations would be conducted as scheduled as any decision on postponing or cancelling offline examinations would amount to contempt of court. However the protesting students are not ready to buy this line of argument and have decided to continue the agitation. While ABVP office-bearers have threatened to launch a Suvarna Soudha chalo agitation seeking canellation of the offline examination and seeking other modes of examination, members of the National Students Union of India (NSUI) staged a demonstration before the KSLU in Hubballi on Saturday. Meanwhile Kotresh, one of the four students who was on indefinite fast, was rushed to KIMS Hospital on Saturday after his health deteriorated. Anil Kalgi, one among the students who is coordinating the protest, said the condition of three other students [Santosh, Abhijit, and Mahanthesh] was also not that good. An ambulance has been stationed at the protest site to take care of any eventuality. The main grouse of the protesting students is the insistence of the Vice-Chancellor to hold the offline examinations when there were other modes of examination permitted by the Bar Council of India. Mr. Anil Kalgi alleged that the Vice-Chancellor was misleading all by saying that not holding the examination would amount to contempt of court. “Let the legal experts come before the students and explain how it will amount to contempt of court, when the court has permitted to hold the examination without specifying any date. Moreover the final judgement on the writ petition against offline examination is to be given by the single-judge bench and that too the court has barred the university from announcing the results of the examination,” he said. Meanwhile, the support for the protest is increasing daily day and on Saturday Congress council members visited the spot and extended support to them. Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah is expected to meet the protesting students on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agitation-by-kslu-students-continues/article37937008.ece
12 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Karnatak University’s NSS unit bags ‘Best Unit’ award||The NSS unit of the Karnatak University, Dharwad has bagged the State’s ‘Best NSS Unit’ award. According to a press release issued here, university’s NSS coordinator M.B. Dalpati has been adjudged as the ‘Best NSS programme officer’. The award carries a purse of Rs. 50,000 and a citation. The awards were presented by Sports & Youth Empowerment Minister K.C. Narayan Gowda at a programme held in Bengaluru recently. The NSS unit had been holding a series of creative community programmes from the last four years and the award was given in recognition of the services, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnatak-universitys-nss-unit-bags-best-unit-award/article37937002.ece
12 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KVS general body meeting today||All steps will be taken to ensure the progress of the Karnataka Vidyavardhaka Sangha and protect Kannada and Kannadigas, newly elected vice-president Malati Pattanashetti has said. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Saturday, Prof. Pattanashetti said that the ‘samana manaskara tanda’ (team of like-minded people), which had registered a thumping victory in the KVS election held on November 30, would strive hard to protect Kannada. However, she said that petty politics, caste, and gender discrimination had now entered KVS and the recent election had exposed it. But the voters had elected new members who have fire in their belly to work for Kannada and for Kannadigas, she said. Prof. Pattanashetti said that the new team would launch a struggle against all kinds of injustice meted out to Kannadigas and also Horanadu Kannadigas (Kannadigas staying outside Karnataka ), she said. Newly-elected general secretary Shankar Halgatthi said the KVS was contemplating expanding its activities to rural parts too. He said that the general body meeting of the sangha would be held on December 12 (Sunday) at 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kvs-general-body-meeting-today/article37937005.ece
12 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Activists celebrate farmers’ win in agitation on Delhi border||Activists associated with various organisations celebrated farmers’ victory in the prolonged agitation on the Delhi border against the three controversial farm laws, among other issues, by bursting crackers and distributing sweets at SVP Circle here on Saturday. Former deputy chairman of Legislative Council B.R. Patil, State secretary of Raitha Krishi Karmikara Sanghatane H.V. Diwakar, district secretary of Communist Party of India (Marxist) K. Neela, All-India Kisan Sabha leader Bhimashankar Madyal, leaders of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Umapathi Malipatil and Mallannagouda were among the leaders participated in the event. “With their uncompromised and determined struggle for over one year, the farmers have finally won the battle. The people’s power has defeated the political power. The BJP and the Union Government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had tried to label the protesting farmers as terrorists and anti-nationals in the initial stage, had to bend before the same farmers. It is a victory in one battle. But the war for farmers’ rights will continue,” Mr. Patil told The Hindu at the celebration site. He added that the struggle for repealing what he called “anti-farmer amendments” to the Land Reforms Act and APMC Act in Karnataka would continue with more vigour. Terming the farmers’ agitation a historic, Ms. Neela said that it had shown that collective and uncompromised resistance of the oppressed communities could defeat the corporate-backed rulers. “The crisis-ridden capitalism tends to unleash more intensified attacks on the working class in the days to come. The oppressed people will also have to wage more intensified and heroic battles to defeat capitalism and establish a new society free from exploitation. The corporate class is the real enemy. The farmers’ struggle has exposed both the corporate class and their representatives in the government. The protracted struggle has infused a great deal of confidence among the toiling masses,” Ms. Neela said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activists-celebrate-farmers-win-in-agitation-on-delhi-border/article37937000.ece
12 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Withdraw four-year courses introduced as part of NEP’||Led by the All-India Democratic Students’ Union (AIDSO), an arm of the Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist), students staged a demonstration outside the office of Deputy Commissioner here on Saturday demanding that the Government withdraw four-year degree courses introduced in some of the universities in the State as part of National Education Policy 2020 (NEP 2020). “In its mad race to be the first State in the country to implement the NEP 2020, the Karnataka Government is hurriedly going for the implementation of the policy without preparations. The replacement of three-year degree courses is one such move. Before introducing any new policy of great importance concerning the lives and futures of millions of people, the Government has to consult stakeholders, which may take a couple of years. But, the NEP 2020 is introduced without such a process. The policy, as many educationists and students’ organisations have expressed, is not in the interests of the learning community,” Hanamantha S.H., district president of AIDSO, said during the agitation. Speaking specifically on the four-year degree courses, N.K. Tulajaram, district secretary of the organisation, said that the universities had introduced the new courses without with curriculum. “Owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, the offline classes have been delayed by three months. First internal examinations would begin within a few weeks. Yet, neither the curriculums are ready nor are the study material available for the students and teachers. Moreover, apart from the opted course subjects, the students are compelled to study an additional subject under the choice-based credit system. It means that a student in Science must take a subject from Arts or Commerce which is, in no way, related to his/her core subjects. Such a forcible mixture of subjects against the will of learners would not just affect the quality of research but also cause disinterest in the students. Though the teaching and learning communities are in a state of dilemma, the universities are imposing the policy on students,” Mr. Tualajaram said. A memorandum, addressed to Minister for Higher Education, was submitted to the office of the Deputy Commissioner. Students’ leaders Sneha Kattimani, Shilpa B.K., Arun, Venkatesh, Preethi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/withdraw-four-year-courses-introduced-as-part-of-nep/article37937004.ece
12 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Complete 90% of vaccination by month-end: Sunil Kumar||Minister in charge of Udupi V. Sunil Kumar on Saturday asked the Health Department to cover 90% of the eligible population with both COVID-19 doses by December-end. Speaking at a meeting to review the progress in vaccination and measures taken to prevent the spread of third wave of the COVID-19, the Minister said that 95% of those aged above 18 have been given the first dose of vaccine in the district. Senior officials should visit such places where people refused to get vaccinated and convince them to get the jab. Those who have not received the second dose should be identified at the earliest. Mr. Kumar, who is also the Minister for Energy, Kannada and Culture, asked officials to conduct more swab tests in residential schools and in private and government hostels of students to check the spread of the infection if any. The Minister said that many donors have donated different medical equipment to the government hospitals during the second wave of COVID-19. The Health Department should ensure that they are maintained and utilised properly. If required, COVID-19 management training, to prevent the third wave, should be organised for the staff. Mr. Kumar asked the officials to stay updated on the number of beds, ventilators, and oxygen cylinders available both in government and private hospitals. In case of emergency, there should be no dearth of medical facilities, he said. Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao said that about 4,000 swabs are being tested in the district daily. The test positivity rate was at 0.16 %. Of 72 active cases, 66 patients are under home isolation and six patients are being treated in hospitals. He said that the officials have been visiting such places where people refused to get vaccinated and are convincing such people. Community leaders have been roped in to convince people to get vaccinated. Kaup MLA Lalaji R. Mendon, ZP CEO Y. Naveen Bhat, District Health and Family Welfare Officer H. Nagabhushana Udupa and other senior officials took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complete-90-of-vaccination-by-month-end-sunil-kumar/article37937161.ece
12 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman arrested for abetment to suicide||The city police have arrested Noor Jahan, 50, in connection with the death of four members of a family at their home near Jeppu Market on Wednesday. She was arrested on charge of abetment to suicide of the family including Nagesh Shiraguppi, 30, his wife Vijayalakshmi, 26, and their children Sapna, 8, and Samarth, 4. The woman was arrested on Friday and produced before the jurisdictional magistrate, who remanded her in judicial custody. Wife, children killed Shiraguppi reportedly killed his wife and two children before hanging himself from the ceiling. Before hanging himself, he sent a message to Assistant Sub Inspector K. Chandrashekar accusing Noor Jahan of Bejai, in whose house Vijayalakshmi worked as maid, of attempting to convert her and held her responsible for the death of the family members. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters on Saturday that an investigation revealed that Shiraguppi and Vijayalakshmi worked in the apartment in which Noor Jahan stayed for a few weeks. When Vijayalakshmi confided in Noor Jahan about her husband’s harassment, Noor Jahan, who worked as a match maker, asked her to divorce him. She had reportedly assured her of finding a new partner in her caste. Having heard about Vijayalakshmi’s intention to embrace Islam with her two children, Shiraguppi fought with his wife. Both had confided in their friends about the need of an advocate for divorce. When Vijayalakshmi left the house in October with her children and taken shelter in the house of Noor Jahan, Shiraguppi filed a missing complaint with the police. He then went to Noor Jahan’s house and had a heated exchange of words with her and Vijayalakshmi before bringing them back to the house. Shiraguppi also had a heated exchange of words with Noor Jahan in front of his children’s school. “We have gathered evidence regarding Noor Jahan’s alleged attempt to find a groom for Vijayalakshmi. There is evidence about the fights Shiraguppi had with Noor Jahan,” Mr. Kumar said and added that this and other circumstantial evidences have been gathered for the abetment to suicide. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 or the mental health helpline Ph: 080-46110007 for help .)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-arrested-for-abetment-to-suicide/article37937156.ece
12 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Let crisis not demoralise you, students told||Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog, on Saturday asked students to consider every crisis like the COVID-19 pandemic as an opportunity to bring about transformation instead of getting demoralised. He was addressing students at the 11th annual convocation of Yenepoya Deemed to be University. The convocation was held in the virtual mode. Asking graduates to have compassion and develop a humane approach, he said they should acquire skills required to come up in the competitive era. Technology-driven innovations have helped the society to a great extent, he added. M.K. Ramesh, Vice-Chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Bengaluru, and President of Postgraduate Medical Education Board, National Medical Council, Delhi, who delivered the convocation address asked the students to maintain ethical standards and develop communication skills. A total of 903 candidates with Ph.D., M.Ch/DM degrees, postgraduate degrees, postgraduate diplomas and undergraduate degrees in the faculties of Dentistry, Medicine, Nursing, Allied Healthcare and Professions, Science, Commerce and Management were conferred the certificates. In all, seven gold medals were awarded to the toppers. The Chancellor of Yenepoya (Deemed to be University) Yenepoya Abdulla Kunhi presided over the function. M. VijayaKumar, Vice Chancellor, Yenepoya (Deemed to be University) spoke, a release from the university said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/let-crisis-not-demoralise-you-students-told/article37937164.ece
12 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘GST council meeting has taken steps to help taxpayers’||Ranjana Jha, Principal Chief Commissioner of Central Excise and Central Taxes (GST), Bengaluru Zone, has said that the 45th GST council meeting held about two-and-half months ago has taken some taxpayer-friendly measures. Interacting with taxpayers from various large-scale industries, MSME units, exporters, traders and service providers in Mangaluru and Udupi on Thursday and Friday, she said that tax departments and taxpayers can work together for the development of the nation as a whole to reach the goal of achieving a five trillion-dollar economy soon. She congratulated the Mangalore Central Excise and Central Taxes Commissionerate on exceeding the fixed target revenue collection, a release issued by the commissionerate stated on Saturday. Ms. Jha also met the representatives of the trade and industry of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts from various organisations like the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), Kanara Small Scale Industries Association (KSIA), and Mangaluru and Udupi Chapters of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). During the interaction, the taxpayers raised queries pertaining to GST law and decisions taken in the 45th GST council meeting in particular. They also gave several representations to Ms. Jha who assured them that all would be examined and taken further to the policy-making level to arrive at a national-level solution to the problems faced by the businesses, the release said. Speaking on the occasion, the Commissioner of Central Excise and Central Taxes (GST), Mangaluru Imamuddin Ahmad explained the measures taken by the department during the pandemic to aid the taxpayers in getting their businesses back on track. Mangaluru Commissionerate is committed to ensure quick grievance redressal and transparency, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gst-council-meeting-has-taken-steps-to-help-taxpayers/article37937166.ece
12 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Case registered for derogatory posts against Gen. Bipin Rawat, Ajit Doval||The police have registered a case on charges of derogatory references made against former Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on three Facebook accounts. In a complaint filed at the Mangaluru South Police Station on Friday, Sushanth Poojary, a resident of Kulashekar, said a day after Rawat and 12 others died following helicopter crash, a derogatory post was made on December 9 on the Facebook account of Vasanth Kumar T.K. The post stated that Rawat was among those who made pompous statements about PM Modi when China built a village in Indian Territory. “Rawat’s death has brought satisfaction as this will bring new Chief of Defence Staff, who would be a man of steel,” the complainant quoted the post. Similarly, Mr. Poojary pointed out, Subbarao Ravikumar, in his Facebook account, said with the death of Rawat, one of the voices of ‘Pheeku’ has been silenced. On the Facebook account of Shrinivas Karkala, a statement was posted indicating a similar end to life to the National Security Adviser Mr. Doval. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters on Saturday that the compliant has been registered for offences under Sections 505 (1) (A), 505 (1)(B) and 505(2) (statements conducing to public mischief) of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-registered-for-derogatory-posts-against-gen-bipin-rawat-ajit-doval/article37937159.ece
12 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: 22 new cases in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada reported 20 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. With 19 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 142. Test positivity rate was put at 0.31%. A fine totalling Rs. 1,09,11,770 has so far been collected in 90,175 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported two new cases. One patient each are from Udupi and Karkala taluks, and each of them were in home quarantine and designated health care centre respectively. With one patient discharged, there are 59 active cases in the district. With 28,030 people vaccinated on Saturday, the total number of people covered has gone up to 28,37,518 in Dakshina Kannada. Of these, 15,91,269 have received their first dose and 12,46,249 their second dose. In Udupi district, 5,797 people were vaccinated taking the total number to 17,37,536. Of these, 9,51,973 have received their first dose and 7,85,563 their second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-22-new-cases-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada/article37937167.ece
12 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fake FB page created||Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar has cautioned people against responding to requests demanding money from a fake account created in his name on Facebook. In a post on his actual Facebook account, Mr. Kumar said, “Fake account is created and request is put up to deposit money into bank account. Please don’t share any money or other details.” Stating that it was the 10th time a fake account was created in his name, Mr. Kumar said people should call the person concerned before responding to requests for money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fake-fb-page-created/article37937168.ece
12 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MIA offers pre-booking for COVID-19 test||Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) has commenced pre-booking facility for passengers who need to undergo RT-PCR testing. RT-PCR, rapid RT-PCR testing facility has been arranged in the pre-immigration arrival hall. Similar rapid RT-PCR testing facility is also available in the departure area. The pre-booking link bit.ly/3IbldkM takes users to the COVID-19 page of MIA which provides information, has a COVID-19 gallery, helpline numbers, and FAQs on mandatory compliance.  This will be particularly useful for passengers arriving from at-risk countries who can now book the test beforehand and get it done on arrival. A dedicated testing counter has been set up for those who pre-book their test and will save time otherwise taken for registration. The MIA has also set up waiting area for 92 passengers, six registrations counters, and two sampling booths, including 70 rapid RT-PCR machines. The waiting area is equipped with washrooms, food, and beverage facilities, Wi-Fi and foreign exchange services, it said. Dedicated passenger service executives are also available. Stringent sanitising at regular intervals and deep cleaning are being conducted at the areas where testing and seating arrangements have been made for passengers at arrivals. MIA has enhanced safety measures to handle international arrivals efficiently, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mia-offers-pre-booking-for-covid-19-test/article37937162.ece
12 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Awareness drive on fire emergency on board trains conducted||A special drive to create public awareness about fire emergency on board trains was carried out by the Mysuru Division of South Western Railway on Friday at 15 locations. Inspection was also done on board two express trains between Mysuru and Mandya stations. A release said fire incidences in trains are among the most disastrous events leading to the loss of lives and property of Indian Railways and hence prevention was underscored as important but it also required public and passenger support. The authorities said a train fire is different from a fire in other places- in terms of outbreak and spread, in the method of fighting it and in terms of damage it can cause. Fire on board a running train is more dangerous than a static one because the fanning effect could spread the fire fairly quickly to other coaches, and in panic, the passengers might jump out of the running train as it had happened in past train accidents, said the authorities. Fire, especially in an uncontrolled state, is a source of very rapid destruction, and this gets compounded when loss of human life is involved. Hence, taking all possible steps to prevent a fire from breaking out in coaches, and if it breaks out, to prevent it from spreading and causing further damage are being given great importance. Driving home the point that awareness was the key to eliminating fire mishaps in trains, the team held demonstration sessions at 15 locations about the importance of the emergency windows in passenger trains. A cross-section of passengers, numbering nearly 1,000, were explained the sequence in which the emergency windows open as mentioned in the pictorial notices provided in the compartments. The release said that a majority of the passengers were unaware or had real difficulty understanding the technique of opening the emergency windows. The inspecting officials felt that a more focused approach was the need of the hour in this area, involving the train crew. The passengers were also given a demonstration about the use of fire extinguishers provided at both ends of the passenger compartments near the vestibules. About 20 passengers - students, women, and senior citizens - were part of the group which participated in operating the fire extinguishers in exigencies.. Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, called upon the rail passengers to cooperate with the railways in preventing fire mishaps in trains. He also warned that transportation of highly inflammable and dangerous articles, smoking inside compartments, and other unsafe practices were unlawful, and the violators would be prosecuted.  Mysuru Division of South Western Railway carried out the drill on Friday at 15 locations Inspection was also done on board two express trains between Mysuru and Mandya stations About 20 passengers were part of the group which participated in operating the fire extinguishers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/awareness-drive-on-fire-emergency-on-board-trains-conducted/article37937180.ece
12 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Heart diseases on the rise among the younger generation’||Change in lifestyle and stress are contributing to the increase in cardiac-related diseases and diabetes even among the youth, according to K.S.Sadananda, Medical Superintendent, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Science and Research. Speaking after inaugurating a cardiac check-up camp for journalists here on Saturday, he said work-related stress and lack of exercise were compounding the issue and there was an alarming increase in the number of youngsters being afflicted with heart-related diseases. The age at which they contract the disease was also decreasing. Dr. Sadananda said compared to rest of the world, the number of patients with high blood pressure and diabetes was almost two- to three-fold higher among Indians and even the ratio of people with cardiac-related issues to the general population, was high. The number of youngsters with heart-related issues being treated in the present times was higher than what it was two or three decades ago. The sudden death of actor Puneeth Rajkumar created a general concern in society about cardiac-related issues and the hospitals saw a surge in the number of people coming in for check-ups and evaluation, he said. A healthy lifestyle with the right mix of diet and moderate exercise could help avoid such diseases. Speaking about the hospital he said Jayadeva Institute had risen to great heights and credited it to the efforts of Dr.Manjunath. The institute has opened branches in different parts of the State and the Kalaburagi branch was set for inauguration in due course, he added. The medical camp was held fro 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 160 scribes availed themselves of the facility. Resident Medical Officer of the hospital M.Pashupathi; Nursing Superintendent Harish; S.T.Ravikumar, President, Mysuru District Journalists Association; and M.Subramanya, General Secretary, were present.  Compared to rest of the world, the number of patients with high blood pressure and diabetes was almost two- to three-fold higher among Indians||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heart-diseases-on-the-rise-among-the-younger-generation/article37937184.ece
12 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||SDPI wants police to crack down on Hindu Jagarana Vedike||The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) has accused the Hindu Jagarana Vedike of fomenting trouble in Srirangapatna and wanted the local authorities to ensure peace in the town. Addressing a press conference in the city on Saturday, SDPI State president Abdul Majid said the vedike activists have made certain claims which has raised fears among the community members over the safety of a place of worship. He said creating an atmosphere of fear was inimical to harmony in society and wanted the local authorities to crack down on such efforts. The SDPI also wanted the police to register a case on ‘inflammatory’ statements of the vedike members and prosecute the accused. When contacted, the Srirangapatana police said that the vedike had sought permission for a procession of 20,000 people which was turned down owing to the pandemic. Responding to the claims over a place of worship, the local police said a similar statement was issued a few years ago and a case had already been booked against the accused and there was no threat to any place of worship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sdpi-wants-police-to-crack-down-on-hindu-jagarana-vedike/article37937187.ece
12 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Expo to showcase products for armed forces||An exhibition to showcase new technologies and products for the armed forces will be held opposite the North Gate of Mysuru Palace (Balarama Jayarama Gate) on December 13 and 14. According to a statement here, Defence Research and Development Organisation’s (DRDO) Defence Food Research Laboratory (DFRL), Mysuru, and Defence Bio-Engineering and Electro-Medical Laboratory (DEBEL), Bengaluru, will be organising the two-day-long “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” Exhibition to mark 75 years of Independence. Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Gautham will inaugurate the indoor exhibition while Commissioner of Mysuru City Police Chandragupta will inaugurate the outdoor exhibition at 10 a.m. on December 13. The exhibition will remain open from 10.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on both the days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/expo-to-showcase-products-for-armed-forces/article37937183.ece
12 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||AAP wants MCC to repair public libraries||Some public libraries in Mysuru lack basic infrastructure and are in need of immediate attention, according to the Aam Aadmi Party. This can be gauged from the rise in number of letters written in a section of press by the aggrieved library-goers, it said. “The Central Library situated in Chamarajapuram Service Centre has a leaking roof that destroyed books and furniture, causing serious inconvenience to readers. An official from the library had himself raised the issue and sought repairs. The MCC must immediately repair the building,” said Malavika Gubbivani, President, AAP, Mysuru. Subhashnagar Central Library road is completely unusable and there is every possibility of people falling and injuring themselves during rains. The road needs urgent repairs, she demanded. In Rajeev Nagar 2nd Stage, a private library with more than 11,000 books went up in flames which attracted national attention. Library founder Syed Issac collected about Rs. 28 lakh through crowd funding but folowing assurance of rebuilding coming from the MCC and the MUDA, the money was returned to the donors. But with no further action from the MCC or the MUDA, Syed Issac is still struggling with neither books nor money to rebuild his library, Ms. Gubbivani said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aap-wants-mcc-to-repair-public-libraries/article37937186.ece
12 December 2021||Mysuru/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. exploring alternative to egg: Nagesh||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education B.C. Nagesh has said that the Government was exploring options to provide protein-rich food to children as an alternative to egg. This comes in the backdrop of pressure building on the Government from a section of religious heads, demanding rollback on inclusion of eggs. Speaking to presspersons in Mandya on Saturday, Mr. Nagesh said egg was included in the midday meal schemes for students based on surveys and reports of the Centre that malnutrition among children was high, particularly in the seven districts of Kalyana Karnataka region. Experts had also said that egg was the best-known single source of protein and hence was included in the midday meal scheme to combat malnutrition. But it was not being forced and those against it were being provided plantain as a substitute, said Mr. Nagesh. “We are also discussing with experts to explore alternatives to egg and which is also protein-rich, so that it could be included in the midday meal scheme,” the Minister said, without elaborating on the alternatives. 15,000 recruitments The Government had decided to recruit 15,000 teachers. Existing vacancies of teachers teaching from VI to VIII classes would be filled. Out of the 15,000 vacant posts, 5,000 posts came under the cadre of Kalyana Karnataka. The government is likely to issue a notification on filling vacancies in a couple of days. It is said that the Finance Department had given its green signal to fill the vacant posts, in November itself. Due to elections to the Legislative Council, the Government could not issue a notification. Mr. Nagesh said that the Government has availed the services of 23,000 guest teachers, and in addition, services of 4,000 more guest teachers will be available in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-exploring-alternative-to-egg-nagesh/article37936834.ece
12 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Man held on theft charge||The Shahpur police have arrested a person on the charge of theft and recovered Rs. 33,000 on Saturday. The police have identified the arrested as Mallikarjun. According to the police, he would steal from bakeries at night. Srinivas Allapure, Shyamsundar Nayak, Babu Naikal, Narayana, Bhaganna, and other officials were in the team .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-on-theft-charge/article37937012.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Karnataka’s TPR remains below 1% for 112 days||According to epidemiologists, a high positivity rate indicates that testing is relatively limited to people with high suspicion of COVID-19 and may miss new chains of transmission in the community. With the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) having fixed a 2% cut-off threshold for TPR to impose restrictions, sources said districts were under pressure to increase testing and sustain the low TPR. TAC chairman M.K. Sudarshan said the low TPR indicated that the infection rate was low despite a higher rate of testing. “We have recommended that the daily tests of one lakh should be maintained. Although TPR slightly increased by November-end, it was mainly due to clusters reported in educational institutions, especially nursing colleges in the border districts, hostels and boardings. However, the good thing is that cluster outbreaks are being promptly addressed and contained,” he said. Attributing the cluster outbreaks to lack of proper screening and implementation of COVID appropriate measures in the institutions, the TAC chairman said: “We have now recommended random checks in educational institutions, hostels, and residential schools by joint monitoring teams at the taluk level.” The TAC had also recommended weekly testing of kitchen staff, wardens, and other office personnel of hostels and residential schools. “These people should furnish weekly negative RT-PCR reports during random checks. Unless these things are monitored and implemented, clusters are bound to occur, more so in the winter months. We have to continue to remain watchful,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said it was important to sustain the low TPR. “It is high time we abolished the bunker bed system in boarding schools and hostels as bunker beds become easy source of infection,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnatakas-tpr-remains-below-1-for-112-days/article37937011.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Seven held in two ‘moral policing’ incidents||Mangaluru Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told presspersons on Saturday that the police had contacted the male student, who hails from Shivamogga and the female student, who hails from Udupi. Their statements would be obtained. The two are studying D. Pharma in a city college. The police are on the lookout for other persons allegedly involved in the attack, he said. The Manipal police arrested three persons also on the charges of harassing a man and a woman, who were known to each other and belonging to different faiths, near Mannapalla Lake on Saturday. The names of the accused were given as Praneesh, Vinooth Poojary, and Sanjay Kumar. The police said the accused confronted 27-year-old Altaf from Saligrama when he was seen with a woman, his family friend, near Mannapalla Lake. The accused abused the two for moving together and also threatened Altaf. The police rushed to the spot immediately. Following a compliant by Altaf, the accused were arrested for offences punishable under Section 323, 341, 504, and 506 of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seven-held-in-two-moral-policing-incidents/article37937170.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Time to play||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/time-to-play/article37937158.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Courtesy call||photo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/courtesy-call/article37937182.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tribute||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tribute/article37936841.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Rangasangathi Cultural Foundation: Scholar B.A. Vivek Rai book festival, release of five books and interaction with Mr. Rai, former Vice-Chancellor of Kannada University and KSOU, former Vice-Chancellor of Kannur and Kozhikode Universities M. Abdul Rahman presides, Karnataka Bank hall, Kodialbail, 10 a.m.  Sangeet Bharati Foundation: Swar Samarpan, a tribute to Bhimsen Joshi, Hindustani classical concerts, vocal by Krishna Mukhedkar and Manjusha Patil and Santoor by Dhananjay Daithankar, University College, Hampankatta, 5.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article37937155.ece
12 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Autokast may get preference||When it comes to government procurement of grey iron, ductile iron and steel castings, preference will be given to domestic manufacturers like Autokast Limited, Union Minister of Steel Ram Chandra Prasad Singh has said. He was replying to a question by A.M. Ariff, MP, in the Lok Sabha recently on whether the Centre would explore the possibility of Central public sector undertakings such as the Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML), Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL), among others, purchasing castings from Autokast. Individual companies The Union Minister said all commercial decisions were taken by individual companies keeping in view the commercial considerations and market dynamics. “However, in its role as a facilitator, the government has announced a Domestically Manufactured Iron and Steel Products Procurement (DMI&SP) Policy, which provides for preference to domestically manufactured steel products both from the public and private sector in government procurement, which includes BEML, BHEL, Cochin Shipyard etc,” Mr. Singh said. Autokast Limited, Cherthala, a State public sector undertaking and one of the largest ferrous foundry manufacturing units in south India, recently bagged an order from the CSL to supply cast iron bricks for solid ballast (used to maintain stability) to INS Vikrant, India’s first indigenous aircraft carrier. The order for 3,750 cast iron bricks is worth more than Rs. 1 crore. The company expects to hand over the bricks, each weighing 30 kg, by the end of December. In March 2021, Autokast supplied five deck-mounted closed chocks, manufactured as per ISO 13729, for INS Vikrant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/autokast-may-get-preference/article37937105.ece
12 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Aid for kin of COVID-19 victims being distributed||The distribution of financial assistance of Rs. 50,000 each to the next of kin of COVID-19 victims has begun in Alappuzha district. District Collector A. Alexander said here on Saturday that families of 103 COVID-19 victims would get the aid in the first phase. Of the 103 beneficiaries, 58 have already been provided aid. Officials said 310 more applications are under scrutiny in various village offices. The applications forwarded from village offices will be examined by a three-member team consisting of the Collector, deputy collector (disaster management) and finance officer. The final nod will be given by the District Disaster Management Authority. The officials said applications submitted by 12 people for a monthly pension of Rs. 5,000 had been approved. The State government in October announced an ex gratiaAID of Rs. 5,000 a month to the next of kin of COVID-19 victims from below the poverty line (BPL) families. The beneficiaries will get assistance forthree years as a direct benefit transfer. Applications for the one-time financial assistance of Rs. 50,000 and the pension scheme should be submitted through the online portal relief.kerala.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-for-kin-of-covid-19-victims-being-distributed/article37937139.ece
12 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Many programmes for Idukki’s golden jubilee||Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine, who is also in charge of Idukki district, has said that the 50th anniversary of the formation of the district will be celebrated in a befitting manner. The anniversary celebration would reach each corner of the district, said the Minister, adding that all sections of people would be part of it. The district was formed on January 26, 1972. Inaugurating a website on the anniversary festivities on Saturday, the Minister on Saturday said a logo and a development slogan too would be launched. Idukki Fest, an exhibition of farm produce including spices, is part of the event. Seminars Fifty prominent persons from various walks of life who helped in developing the district will be felicitated. Seminars and discussions would be organised. The Minister said a solution to the land-related issues in the district would be chalked out. District Collector Sheeba George, district panchayat president Jiji K. Philip, and representatives of political parties participated in the meeting, which discussed the developmental projects envisaged in the district as part of the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-events-for-idukkis-golden-jubilee/article37937130.ece
12 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||A bountiful yield from his vertical ‘fields’||A 1.5-acre farmland at Pulpally in Wayanad is a laboratory of sorts for its owner, C. Varghese. It is here that he conducts experiments in agriculture. The farmer could increase the yield manifold through vertical farming, a practice of growing food crops on vertically stacked layers. Mr. Varghese’s crops are grown on PVC pipes which are fixed on soil in a vertical position. Twenty tomato seedlings are planted in a single 5-foot-long PVC pipe with a diameter of 1 ft. This method is also suitable for cultivating tuber crops such as sweet potatoes, dioscorea (Kaachil in local parlance), and potatoes. Holes are made in the PVC pipes every 8 cm using heated iron rods. The hollow space in the pipe is filled with a potting mixture mostly comprising coir pith and a smaller amount of soil and cow dung. Crops are planted in the punched holes. Most vegetables such as tomatoes, brinjal, cumin, and leafy greens are being grown in the garden. “Fruits such as strawberries or flowers can be grown, even in apartments, through vertical gardening,” says the farmer. Less labour, space Mr. Varghese is continuously improving his methods in vertical farming and has now fitted two or three hinges on two layers of PVC pipes. The method allows hassle-free filling of potting mixture and harvesting of crops. “This technique requires less labour and space. Crop management too is easy. Residents of flats can try this method on their balcony,” he says. Another major advantage is that water consumption is less. Moreover, if the topmost layer is watered, the water will slowly get drained to the lowest layer. “Time too can be saved to a large extent,” he says. Kitchen waste can be used as manure, which in turn can solve the problem of waste disposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vertical-fields-give-a-rich-yield/article37937128.ece
12 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Panel sitting at Vythiri on Tuesday||The Committee on Government Assurances will hold a sitting at Vythiri, in the district at 2 p.m. on Tuesday. The panel will collect evidence from district-level officials of Tourism, Forest, Environment, and local self-government departments on various waste management projects being executed in tourism destinations in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-sitting-at-vythiri-on-tuesday/article37937078.ece
12 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||7 families ousted for airport await compensation||They knocked at every door for help but the pleas for compensation by seven families that lived adjoining the Kannur International Airport have fallen on deaf ears. The families, which had been living at Moolayil Kannad village in Keezhallur panchayat, were evicted by the airport authorities after water, mud, and rocks flooded the village and damaged their houses and property during heavy rain in 2017. For three-and-a-half-years now, the families have been running from pillar to post, meeting officials, political leaders, and government authorities, seeking compensation for the loss incurred. However, all they got was empty promises. Many of them are now living with their relatives or in rented houses. K. Lekha, daughter of Thambayi Amma, said that her mother was staying in the house when the floods occurred in May 2017. She died without being able to return to the house. The airport authorities forced the families to leave, citing threats to their lives. They promised to pay the rent for their stay, said Ms. Lekha. However, later they realised that it was just a ploy and that the area had been notified for airport runway expansion without their knowledge, she alleged. Later, the authorities and CPI(M) leaders, including E.P. Jayarajan, said that a good compensation would be paid. “We believed them and even took loans for constructing a house. But now, I am neck deep in debt with Rs. 11 lakh dues,” she lamented. The bank is now sending attachment notices, she said, adding that the authorities had stopped paying the rent eight months after the incident. Another evictee, K. Manoj, said that they were suffering because of the KIAL’s poor planning, rainwater managing and construction, and deforestation, which had devastated a whole village. Agricultural fields, houses, vegetation and the total ecosystem of the place had been destroyed. He alleged that the place was not included in the environmental assessment study, which had resulted in such a situation. Complaints sent “We have knocked on every door and have sent complaints to the Central Ministry of Aviation, KIAL MD, Chief Minister’s Office and the District Collector,” he said. “The administration says that the land has been included along with 240-acre land earmarked for further acquisition and hence, it’s a closed chapter,” he said. “They have disowned, left us in the lurch and refuse to address the issue,” said K. Balakrishnan Nambiar, a 90-year-old ex-serviceman. When contacted, District Collector K. Chandrasekhar said that the issue had come to his notice and that it was being taken up with the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-families-ousted-for-airport-await-compensation/article37937070.ece
12 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Not aware of reappointment: Kannur VC||Kannur University Vice Chancellor Gopinath Ravindran has said he was never aware of his reappointment until it was known through the media and it is up to the Governor to explain about his reappointment. Prof. Ravindran said here on Saturday that he had sent the joining letter after the appointment order was sent to him from the Chancellor’s office and anything more was pure speculation. “There is nothing wrong with the reappointment. It may be for the first time in Kerala, but everywhere in other universities reappointments have been made,” he said. “There is nothing illegal about the reappointment,” he said Prof. Ravindran said he had no knowledge of his reappointment as he had left for Delhi after his term was over. He would not comment further as it was a matter for the court to consider. Senate member Premachandran Keezhoth and academic counsellor Shino P. Jose had challenged the reappointment of Prof. Ravindran in the Kerala High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/not-aware-of-reappointment-kannur-vc/article37937099.ece
12 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||For students, a glimpse of history||A much-awaited heritage-walk programme for students has begun in what is considered as the ancient port of Muziris, spread over North Paravur and Kodungalloor near the Ernakulam-Thrissur border. “This informal way of learning is helping students see for themselves Kerala’s rich history, through monuments at Muziris, a port that faded into oblivion following floods,” said P.M. Noushad, Managing Director of the Muziris Heritage Project. Each batch comprises 40 students, four teachers and four guides and the heritage walk is held almost on all days now. Its State-level inauguration is slated for January 7, alongside the launch of a solar tourist boat handed over by Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL). “In addition, efforts are under way to translate guide books to popular Indian languages, aimed at students from other States as well. While a two-day heritage walk is ideal, they can choose to limit it all to a day. The upcoming development of NH 66 will see visitors being able to reach the locale in just over 30 minutes from Kochi city,” said Mr. Noushad. Accommodation  The residential programme, for which accommodation is arranged, including in tents, is being hosted using a budgetary allocation of Rs. 5 crore, of which Rs. 50 lakh was given for the current fiscal. In the long run, the heritage walk is expected to help revive the local economy and conserve traditional arts and crafts.  “A key aim is to help generate a yearning for research as children get to see exhibits and antiques in museums and other historic buildings. It thus helps them establish an emotional connect with the places they visited, to appreciate architecture and sensitise them to conserve cultural and environmental heritage,” said official sources. That they get to visit different locales in the region, spread over 10 panchayats and two municipalities, in hop-on, hop-off boats is an added attraction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-students-a-glimpse-of-history/article37937083.ece
12 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Civic bodies passing onus to citizens for waste disposal: NGT||The National Green Tribunal has pulled up the authorities in Ernakulam responsible for the proper collection and disposal of biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste while stating that there is none to monitor compliance under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The Southern Bench of the tribunal, comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Satyapal Korlapati, stated that the erring local bodies had failed to achieve 100% compliance. The court flayed the lack of concrete action by the government and the district administration on its order dated December 7 in the case related to the non-compliance with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 in the State. Most of the municipalities were not carrying out door-to-door collection on a daily basis of both biodegradable as well as non-biodegradable waste as required under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. Some of the local bodies had shirked the responsibility of collecting this by passing resolutions directing the residents themselves to dispose of the biodegradable waste by undertaking some in situ management. Nobody was there to monitor whether was being done properly or not, it said. Biogas units The court said that the local bodies were also spending huge amounts by providing biogas units. But that had not yet achieved the purpose for which it had been intended as there was no proper mechanism to monitor whether it was being properly done. There was no monitoring to check whether there was any possibility of any consequential damage being caused to the environment including breeding of mosquitoes, in that area as well in view of the poor management of the bio-gas units. Even as regard to the collection of non-biodegradable waste, they were selecting the items of waste to be collected, leaving other items to be disposed of by the residents themselves, which was not permissible under the rule, according to the order. The local bodies had no discretion to avoid collection of certain type of waste, which was the responsibility of the local bodies to collect as per the rules. Any resolution passed by them against the rules would not absolve them from the statutory liability of implementing the Solid waste Management Rules, it said.  Most municipalities are not carrying out door-to-door collection on a daily basis of both biodegradable as well as non-biodegradable waste as required under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-face-flak-for-poor-waste-management/article37937093.ece
12 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Periye case accused to appear before court||The Ernakulam Chief Judicial Magistrate Court has issued notice to the eight accused, including former MLA K.V. Kunhiraman, arraigned as accused by the Central Bureau of INvestigation (CBI) in the Periye twin murder case to appear on December 15. Among the accused are Raghavan Velutholi, K.V. Bhaskaran, Gopal Velutholi, and Sandeep Velutholi, who were arraigned as accused by the investigating agency on December 2 and K. Manikandan, Balakrishnan, and Mani. Among them, Sandeep is abroad. The CBI has reportedly initiated measures to bring him back. By the time the CBI had taken over the case following a High Court direction, the police had already arrested 14 accused, including the first accused and CPI(M) local leader Peethambharan, in connection with the murder of Youth Congress activists Kripesh and Sarath Lal on February 17, 2019. Later, the CBI arrested Raju, aka P. Rajesh, a CPI (M) branch secretary, and party activists Vishnu, Sura, aka Surendran, Shastha Madhu, aka Madhu, Regi Varghese, and Hariprasad on December 1. Besides, the CBI arraigned more including Kunhiraman, taking the number of accused to 24. The court has now asked the accused to appear as part of further taking forward the proceedings. Since the CBI is now in charge of the probe, further proceedings will have to take place at the CBI court in Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/periye-case-accused-to-appear-before-court/article37937106.ece
12 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Maiden Kochi Art Week gets under way today||On Sunday, the curtains will go up on the maiden week-long Kochi Art Week (KAW), conceptualised by the Kochi Biennale Foundation (KBF), to “activate audiences in the post-pandemic landscape”. What better way than this to come together and build a sense of community, while giving artists visibility, especially after the pandemic, says Bose Krishnamachari of the KBF. December 12  December 12 is significant as the first edition of the Kochi-Muziris Biennale kicked off on that day in 2012. “We, at the Biennale Foundation, thought it [the art week] would be the best thing to do on the day and bring galleries in the city together. Such art weeks are held in various cities across the world, why not bring it to Kochi as well?” says Mr. Krishnamachari. This will be an annual event, he adds. As many as 11 galleries from the city are part of the event, which will pivot around Pepper House, Fort Kochi, the central venue which will host exhibitions, screenings, talks and affiliate events. The climate-controlled Pepper House Gallery, designed by Mr. Krishnamachari, opens its doors on the opening day. The shows have been curated by the individual galleries, with the Biennale Foundation offering inputs and handling promotions, media and socials. Walks, tours Heritage walks, curated gallery walk-throughs with artists, talks, workshops for children, guided tours of art venues, film screenings, food trails and virtual events will be held as part of the KAW. The shows planned are diverse, ranging from solo shows to group shows to exhibitions of rarely seen works from collections that belong to participating galleries. “What is even more exciting is that it is not just the private galleries, but even those such as District Heritage Museum (Bastian Bungalow) are part of KAW,” adds Mr. Krishnamachari. Lokame Tharavadu The KAW is being held even as the hugely popular Lokame Tharavadu exhibition is on at Alappuzha showing the works of more than 250 artists. “Lokame Tharavadu was planned at a time when not much was happening in terms of physical or live shows. It was also an economic opportunity for artists, and some of them sold their works,” he says. The KAW concludes on December 19, but some shows will be on afterwards too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maiden-kochi-art-week-begins-today/article37937085.ece
12 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Leak in petroleum pipeline plugged||A leak detected in a petroleum pipeline of the Indian Oil Corporation at Irumpanam late on Friday night was rectified by Saturday evening. Area inspected The leak occurred in a pipeline that passed through the kerb of Seaport-Airport Road, following which personnel of all oil majors jointly inspected the area and a marshy plot in the vicinity. Official sources said personnel of the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation, the Fire and Rescue Services, and the police joined in the effort to detect and plug the leak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leak-in-petroleum-pipeline-plugged/article37937089.ece
12 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KSRTC to operate shuttle services from HMT Jn. to medical college||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will start shuttle services from HMT Junction to the Government Medical College, Kalamassery, from January 8 to address the travel woes faced by the people. The service will be available from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. Antony Raju, Minister for Transport, said here on Saturday that the service would be offered free of cost, if there were sponsors to meet the expenditure. Ticket rate The ticket rate would be Rs. 10. The start of the new service was announced after his discussions with P. Rajeeve, Minister for Industries, on how to resolve the issues related to the KSRTC services in Kalamassery Assembly constituency. Mr. Raju said that a Mattupuram-Paravur bus service would be available from January 1. Nearly 40 trips, which were cancelled owing to the COVID-19 situation in Kalamassery, would be restored from January 20. The KSRTC would open a ticket reservation centre in Kalamassery. Circular services The Transport department had plans to start city circular services based on the Thiruvananthapuram model. It would be available at a gap of 10 minutes. However, detailed studies would have to be conducted before starting the services. The officials had been told so submit a report by January, he said. Mr. Rajeeve said that 15 new buses were required immediately in the district. Mr. Raju said that five buses would be handed over immediately. Twelve drivers and conductors each would be deployed. The Minister for Industries recommended KSRTC services for the welfare of the workers in the Kalamassery industrial area. An Aluva-Kalamassery-Thripunithura-Kottayam super fast bus service had to be considered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-to-operate-shuttle-services-from-hmt-jn-to-medical-college/article37937095.ece
12 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IMA relaunches ‘no-honk’ campaign in city||The campaign to convert Kochi into a no-honk zone is set to gain momentum after a lull due to the pandemic, with IMA-Kochi joining hands with the MVD in organising a No-Horn Walkathon at 6.30 a.m. on Sunday from IMA Hall. The Association of Otolaryngologists of India and National Initiative for Safe Sound (NISS) too have joined hands in the initiative that is aimed at driving home the point that the use of air horns and other high-decibel devices severely impedes mental and physical health, and that honking be done only during emergency situations. The MVD has begun imposing penalty on vehicles that are fitted with air horns, heeding a directive issued by the Transport Commissioner. The IMA-Kochi began a campaign against honking in 2016 in order to bring about a calm and noise-pollution free city, said Dr. V.D. Pradeep Kumar, Chairman (Kerala) of NISS. Continuous exposure to any noise above 75 decibels (db) has a permanent impact on one’s hearing and stress level, since this affects the hearing cells of the inner ear. It induces irritability, loss of sleep, frequent awakening during sleep and worsens depression in vulnerable people. It also worsens diabetes, and acidity, while children residing in houses located near noisy roads have problems with their attention span and scholastic performance. A study done by IMA with the help of SCMS Group of Institutions in 2017 found that noise pollution due to honking was the highest at nine junctions in the city – the worst being at High Court Junction, followed by Kaloor bus stand premises and Palarivattom. It also showed that 45% of bus drivers and 41% traffic police personnel had sound-induced hearing loss. Enforcement RTO (Ernakulam) G. Ananthakrishnan said air horns and multi-tone air horns were the worst polluters, since the shrill sound they produced caused irritability. “All KSRTC buses have converted to ordinary horns,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ima-relaunches-no-honk-campaign-in-city/article37937086.ece
12 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Extremist links’ remark in remand report of Cong. leaders kicks up row||The Ernakulam Rural police have stirred up a hornets’ nest after a remark on “extremist links” in the remand report filed in a magistrate court in Aluva, in connection with the arrest of three local Congress leaders, was taken up by the party in a big way. The Aluva East police had arrested Ameen Ashraf, Kerala Students’ Union Aluva Assembly constituency president, and Congress leaders Nejeeb and Anas in connection with protests held in Aluva town demanding the suspension of inspector C.L. Sudheer, who was named in the alleged suicide note of law student Mofiya Parveen. She was found dead at her house at Edayapuram last month. Among the reasons cited for their custody in the remand report, the police said a probe had to be held to ascertain whether the accused had any extremist connections. This did not go down well with the Congress leadership as they held a slew of press conferences to register their strong protest. Anwar Sadat, Aluva MLA, who wrote to the Chief Minister, said no person who participated in the ethical protest held by the Congress demanding justice had any links with extremist elements. “The arrested youth have acceptance in society for their responsible and decent public lives. They were arrested like they were absconding by surrounding their houses in the middle of the night. To accuse Congress workers of extremist links in the court is serious and unacceptable. It is not befitting the Kerala Police and is a blot on their image. I strongly register my protest against this serious lapse on part of the police,” he said. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik said the Aluva DySP had been asked to look into the matter and submit a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/extremist-links-remark-in-remand-report-of-cong-leaders-kicks-up-row/article37937088.ece
12 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||AIE staff union plans protest||The Air India Express Employees Union will hold a dharna in front of the Air India Express headquarters in Kochi on December 14, demanding an end to the alleged discrimination shown towards cabin crew by curtailing their period of employment contract from five years to one year. The other demands include justice for disabled crew who met with accidents while on duty, an inquiry into the recruitment scam, and an end to the alleged malice towards women cabin crew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/air-india-express-staff-to-stage-protest/article37937090.ece
12 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Collector reviews Operation Breakthrough work||The third phase of Operation Breakthrough to resolve waterlogging in the city would be completed very soon, according to a press release here on Saturday. District Collector Jafar Malik reviewed the progress of work in rejuvenating Puncha thodu and dry thodu, near the KSRTC bus stand and issued instructions to rebuild the culvert on the narrow dry thodu. The obstructions in the Thevara-Perandoor canal would also be removed. Minor Irrigation Superintending Engineer Baji Chandran and Major Irrigation Executive Engineer D. Sandhya accompanied the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-reviews-op-breakthrough-work/article37937094.ece
12 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mangalavanam to be made a special park||The government has initiated steps to convert Mangalavanam near the Kerala High Court as the green lung of the city, Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve said on Saturday. “The project to make it a special park will be implemented jointly by the government, Kochi Corporation and Goshree Island Development Authority. Steps will also be taken to retain the forest area near the Hindustan Machine Tools in Kalamassery,” he said at the seminar organised as part of the district meet of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) here. Mr. Rajeeve said the focus was on planting trees that would increase the green cover. The planting of eucalyptus and acacia saplings will be completely avoided as they caused ecological imbalances. “Kerala is facing the challenges triggered by the extreme weather events. The deluge in 2018 and 2019 were an outcome of such climatic changes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mangalavanam-to-be-made-a-special-park/article37937087.ece
12 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||A liberal sprinkling of pepper on his terrace||When pastor P.D. Yohannan took a flight to Kerala in March 2020, he had his return ticket ready. But COVID-19 disrupted all his plans, confining him to his homestead in Kottarakara. Since lockdown meant zero routine business, he started cultivating pepper plants on the terrace and today his little garden is attracting visitors, including scientists, researchers, and students, from all parts of the State. At innovators’ meet “I had been living outside Kerala for the last four decades and suddenly there was no church or prayer meetings to conduct. I started looking for productive options and started researching about crops that require minimal maintenance. Since we have vegetables and tubers in the compound, I decided to cultivate pepper in our 1,500-sq-ft terrace,” he says. The method he developed is unique and it was later selected for the Rural Innovators Meet (RIM) 2021, an annual programme conducted by the Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE). Since pepper plants have long life, nursery pots and polythene bags were ruled out and a customised method similar to drip irrigation was installed. Big plastic drums were cut into two and filled with a mixture of trichoderma-enriched cow dung, neem cake, coir pith compost, bone meal and soil treated with limestone powder. Steel wire mesh was cut into cylinders and covered with green net to make poles for the runner shoots and they too were filled with the same mixture. “Usually pepper vines cling to trees or trellises with adventitious roots. But when we use PVC pipes or concrete poles, the grip will be very weak. Since our poles are filled with the soil-manure mix, the roots will grow stronger. I planted the saplings in May 2020 and now they are ready for harvest.” Yield all through year Pastor Yohannan adds that pepper vines growing on trees take more time to develop berries. “In this method we will get yield throughout the year and after three years I am expecting 3 to 4 kg of pepper from each plant,” he says. At present his garden has 48 plants and three varieties that include the popular Karimunda, Panniyur 2 and 7. Pastor Yohannan says he plans to continue farming along with his duty and the schedule will be arranged accordingly. “Recently, teams from Kerala Agricultural University, Thrissur, and the Pepper Research Station, Panniyur, visited my garden. I was given Panniyur 1,3, 4, 8 and 9 by the research station and I will plant them soon,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-liberal-sprinkling-of-pepper-on-his-terrace/article37936955.ece
12 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Pre-primary school||The first international model pre-primary school in the district will be opened on December 13 at Chavara South Government Upper Primary School. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty will inaugurate the school. Sujith Vijayan Pillai, MLA, will preside over the function. N.K. Premachandran, MP, will deliver the keynote address on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pre-primary-school/article37937131.ece
12 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||State to make more job opportunities for youngsters||The State government aims to create more job opportunities for the new generation utilising information technology, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. The Minister was inaugurating the district panchayat’s Skilltech project at Jayan Memorial Hall here on Friday. The project launched by the panchayat offers employment to Scheduled Caste candidates who have passed ITI, polytechnic, and engineering. The beneficiaries would be recruited to government departments or public sector undertakings for two years. “Skilltech is an exemplary project providing employment to around 300 Scheduled Caste candidates,” he said. M. Mukesh, MLA, handed over the appointment order to the candidates. In connection with the project, 269 candidates would be attached to the engineering departments of local bodies, Kerala Water Authority, Kerala Electrical and Allied Engineering Co. Ltd (KEL), farms and hospitals in the district along with departments including Soil Conservation and Public Works. While candidates who completed ITI would receive a monthly honorarium of Rs. 10,000, it would be Rs. 12,500 and Rs. 15,000 for polytechnic and engineering graduates.  Skilltech project to aid technically trained SC candidates||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-create-more-jobs-for-youth-using-it-minister/article37937140.ece
12 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited||The Institute of Human Resource Development (IHRD) has invited applications for various courses beginning in January 2022. Application form and details are available at www.ihrd.ac.in and completed forms along with the registration fee of Rs. 150 (Rs. 100 for SC/ST categories) should be submitted to the respective institution heads before 4 p.m. on December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited/article37937126.ece
12 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||NGT forms panel to study quarrying||Granite quarries in Kerala may have to wait longer for further licensing. Also, an order of the Mining and Geology Directorate on November 29, 2021 to permit quarries if the nearest residence is more than 50 metres away from it stands cancelled with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) forming a seven-member committee on Friday to study the effects of stone quarrying in the State. The committee was formed following the directions of the Supreme Court a month ago, citing that the tribunal should give a fair chance to quarry owners to present their point of view. The committee consists of officials from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the Indian Institute of Mines/IIT Dhanbad, Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR), Central Building Research Institute (CBRI), Roorkee, IIT Roorkee, Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Dehradun, and Directorate General of Mines Safety. The committee will study the impact of blasting with Nonel Detonation technology at distances of 50 m, 75 m, 100 m, 125 m, 150 m, 200 m, and 250 m. The study will include the impact caused by the vibrations on different soil strata or earth profile and on noise and air levels, buildings, humans and wildlife in the vicinity. In four months The committee may take assistance from any expert or institution and shall conduct field visits. However, the report needs to be furnished before the tribunal in four months. The issue began after the NGT set the distance between quarries and the nearest residence at 200 m based on just a copy of a memorandum submitted to the Prime Minister. After several stages, the matter reached the Supreme Court and it upheld the NGT’s jurisdictional power and directed it to conduct a proper study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ngt-forms-panel-to-study-quarrying/article37937096.ece
12 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Contests for local residents at Beypore Water Fest||The Beypore Water Festival, scheduled to be held from December 26 to 29, offers opportunities to local residents of Beypore to showcase their talent. A number of competitions have been lined up, for which registrations will begin on Monday. Anyone with access to row boats can apply for the Green Treasure Hunt, while expert oarsmen can compete in slightly bigger country boats. The entry in this category is for teams of two. Fibre boats with engine power less than 10 HP shall take part in the category. Boat owners shall register for the competitions with fishing boats that are more than 80 feet in length as well as large in-board fibre boats. Besides, separate line fishing and net fishing competitions will be held before the festival begins. Registration is free, and there is no entry fee either. Details will be provided at the time of registration. Registration will conclude at 4 p.m. on December 15. Applications should be submitted at the festival organising committee office at Beypore. Contact 0495-2720012 or 9037468723.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/contests-for-local-residents-at-beypore-water-fest/article37937072.ece
12 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Panchayat bids to cut methane emission||The Animal Husbandry department is encouraging dairy farmers to set up bio-gas plants in a bid to reduce methane gas emission, a major contributor to climate change. A scheme titled Bhoumadeepam was recently launched in Cheruvannur grama panchayat in Kozhikode. It will help farmers use methane as cooking gas. “Dairy cattle like cows, buffaloes, and farm animals contribute to methane, a major green house gas,” says the Kerala State Action Plan on Climate Change, brought out by the State government in 2014. The plan envisaged encouraging bio-gas plants to utilise the methane gas produced for energy resource as Methane Farming Project. Under the scheme, Rs. 5 lakh is allocated to one grama panchayat in each district as a model panchayat. Cheuruvannur was chosen for the 2021-22 financial year. According to department sources, 20 dairy farmers will be given Rs. 24,000 each to set up bio-gas plants. They will get technical assistance from the Agency for Non-conventional Energy and Rural Technology (ANERT). The plant will cost Rs. 48,000. The subsidy amount will be credited to farmers’ bank accounts once the plants are set up.  Cost analysis As many as 40 kg of cow dung will be used a day to produce cooking gas. The aim is to produce cooking gas equivalent to that is contained in 12 LPG cylinders a year. “If we calculate the cost of one LPG cylinder as Rs. 1,000, the farmer is thus able to get an economic benefit of Rs. 12,000 a year. They will also be able to make use of the scurry as bio-fertilizer. One of the advantages of the project is that it encourages the use of methane, a green house gas causing climate change, for cooking,” the sources said.  20 dairy farmers to get Rs. 24,000 each to set up bio-gas plants at Cheruvannur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bhoumadeepam-aims-to-reduce-methane-gas-emission/article37937073.ece
12 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Medicos’ strike affecting care at Kozhikode MCH||Patient care has been affected at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, with the ongoing indefinite strike by junior resident doctors seeking fast-tracking of NEET-PG allotment entering the 11th day on Saturday. Postgraduate medical students have been boycotting non-emergency duties such outpatient services, surgeries, and ward duty. From Friday, they kept off from emergency duties such as casualty, labour ward, and intensive care units as well. According to sources, the strike has led to a drastic fall in the number of patients visiting the hospital. The footfall at the OP department, which used to see around 2,500 patients a day earlier, has reportedly come down to around 1,400. Many non-emergency surgeries are being postponed. More assistant professors are being posted in wards now. One of the faculty members said the strike had affected their work as well. Meanwhile, the Calicut Medical College branch of the House Surgeons’ Association expressed solidarity with the striking doctors. In a letter to the principal, association president Muhammed Rashid and secretary K. Naveen said the strike had increased their workload. The association urged the principal to restore the 4% annual hike in stipend which was not implemented this year. It said a token strike had been called for between 8 a.m. on December 13 and 8 a.m. on December 14, exempting emergency services and COVID duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strike-by-medicos-affecting-patient-care-at-kozhikode-mch/article37937075.ece
12 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||KV students selected for national-level NCSC||Dwaipayan V. (team leader) and Awika Deepak (teammate), Standard 5 students of Kendriya Vidyalaya No. 2, Kozhikode, secured national recognition, as their project was selected under the Kendriya Vidyalaya junior category at the recently concluded 29th National Children’s Science Congress (NCSC) held online in New Delhi. The theme of the 29th NCSC 2020-2021 was ‘Science for Sustainable Living’. NCSC is organised annually under the National council for Science and Technology Communication. The innovative projects are selected for district congress, State congress, and national convention. Shiney O.P. was the guide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kv-students-selected-at-national-level-ncsc/article37937077.ece
12 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pandemic affects students’ preferences||The high test positivity in Kerala has been cited as one of the reasons for the lower closing ranks for BTech programmes this year at the National Institute of Technology, Calicut, (NIT-C) and at the Indian Institute of Technology, Palakkad, (IIT-P), two premier institutes under the Union Ministry of Education in the State. This pattern change in the closing ranks has been glaring when admissions were closed after the sixth and final round of allotment when compared to the closing ranks in 2020 and 2019. “The test positivity rate at two digits during the second wave of COVID-19 has been a cause of concern for parents and teachers. So the worrisome high incidence of positive cases was proportionately reflected in the closing ranks, especially at the IIT-P,” a professor, said. If the closing rank for the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced) in the gender neutral category for the much-sought after Computer Science branch was 4,656 in 2019, it were 4,854 and 5,227 in 2020 and 2021 respectively. Likewise, the closing ranks for the BTech programmes in Electrical, Mechanical, and Civil engineering branches were 9,435, 12, 351 and 14, 227 respectively. The closing ranks for these same branches in 2009 were 7,925, 9.885 and 11,394 respectively. “The pandemic has impacted students’ choice of colleges. Another factor is that the IIT-P is a fledgling institute which may take a couple of years to come on a par with the old generation IITs. But the brand and quality of the IIT remain,” Sanjay Kumar Sharma, Deputy Director, Aakash Educational Services, said. Significantly, the average test positivity rate for the State from the beginning of the pandemic stood at 12.87%. Kerala is second after Maharashtra on the list of States with the highest COVID-19 cases. The State recorded 51.8 lakh positive cases and 42, 239 deaths. Fluctuating pattern In the case of the NIT-C, however, the closing ranks based on the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) for branches such as Computer Science, Electronics and Communications and Electrical and Electronics have shown improvement both in home State and outside quotas when compared to 2019. But the closing ranks have come down in all other less preferred branches such as Civil, Mechanical and Chemical engineering. Nevertheless, the closing ranks show a fluctuating pattern when compared to 2020. If the closing rank for Computer Science for the home State quota was 9,703 in 2020, it was 10,297 in 2021. But this differs in the outside State quota. “Perhaps, this could be due to the preference of students for the NIT-C for various reasons, including better placements and rank of the institute at the national-level,” Mr. Sharma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandemic-affects-students-preferences/article37937080.ece
12 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Case against 5 IUML leaders and 10,000 activists||The police have booked five Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leaders and other 10,000 identifiable IUML activists on the charges of violating the COVID-19 protocol during a recent protest meet in the city against the decision of the State government to hand over Waqf postings to the Public Service Commission. They have been charged under various sections of the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act. Cases have also been registered against them on the charges of blocking the vehicular movement during the mass protest on December 8. Police officers from the Vellayil station who initiated the legal action said here on Saturday that they would check whether the organisers had secured all the mandatory permissions and clearance from the authorities concerned to host the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-5-iuml-leaders-and-10000-activists/article37937097.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,KERALA||ED probing acquisition of foreign assets by PFI||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is investigating the "acquisition" of some foreign assets, including a bar-cum-restaurant in Abu Dhabi, by Popular Front of India (PFI) leaders after the seizure of some documents in recent raids on its members in Kerala as part of a money laundering case, the agency said on Saturday. The raids were carried out on December 8 at the residences of Shafeeque Payeth, a member of the PFI and its linked outfit Social Democratic Party of India at Peringathur in Kannur; Abdul Razak B.P., PFI divisional president of Perumpadappu, Malappuram; Ashraf M.K., alias Tamar Ashraf/Ashraf Khader, a PFI leader based in Muvattupuzah, and the office premises of Munnar villa vista project at Mankulam in Munnar, the ED said in a statement. ‘Bd to disrupt raids’ It said the PFI attempted to "disrupt the search operations", but the agency officials, assisted by Central Reserve Police Force personnel, seized "incriminating documents, digital devices and evidences related to foreign funding and acquisition of properties abroad." The Kerala Police had said on the day of the searches that they registered a case against some PFI activists for allegedly trying to create trouble during the ED raids in Muvattupuzha. The ED said the seized documents "indicate about the money laundering activities of the PFI through various projects in Kerala, including the Munnar villa vista project which is being built by the PFI leaders to launder proceeds of crime generated in India and abroad." "Acquisition of foreign properties by the PFI leaders, including a bar and restaurant in Abu Dhabi, has come to the notice of the directorate and it is under investigation," it said. PFI general secretary Anis Ahmed, on the day of the raids, had issued a video message claiming the ED action was aimed at "harassing" them and the organisation will fight this through "legal and democratic means". The ED had carried out similar raids on the PFI in the past too. The Islamic organisation was formed in 2006 in Kerala and is headquartered in Delhi. The central probe agency has been investigating the PFI's alleged "financial links" on charges of fuelling the recent anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests in the country, the riots in Delhi that took place in February last year and a few other instances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ed-probing-acquisition-of-foreign-assets-by-pfi/article37937103.ece
12 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||570 find jobs at fair, 1,516 on the wait list||As many as 570 jobseekers were given spot appointments at a job fair conducted by the District Employment Exchange at Government Victoria College here on Saturday. As many as 1,516 candidates were shortlisted in the employment mela titled ‘Niyukti 2021’, in which 4,646 youngsters attended interviews. District Employment Officer P.K. Rajendran said that the presence of 73 companies offering jobs in various categories had lifted the mela to a higher scale. There were 4,800-odd vacancies and over 5,000 jobseekers had registered. The State government was conducting job fairs in all districts under the National Employment Services. Minister for Power K. Krishnankutty inaugurated the Palakkad edition of the mela. Shafi Parambil, MLA, presided over the function. K. Babu, MLA, K. Santhakumari, MLA, district panchayat president K. Binumol, Victoria College vice principal Sreenivasan, Employment zonal Deputy Director K. Rama, and Mr. Rajendran, spoke. District Collector Mrunmai Joshi welcomed the gathering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/570-find-jobs-at-fair-1516-on-the-wait-list/article37937240.ece
12 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Anjumalapara seeks a place on tourism map||With the hills and plains stretching far down, the view that it offers is immense. No pictures or video are enough to convey the awe of stepping on to its top and watching the green vista that spreads across in all directions. Anjumalapara, an obscure countryside rock formation in Pathanamthitta and one of the highest peaks that sits on its border with Kollam district, has kicked off works to place itself on the tourism map. The Enadimangalam grama panchayat, where the area is located, has planned several projects, from landscaping to bio-cultural diversity park and a butterfly corridor, with a view to developing the obscure countryside as a major destination. According to P. Rajagopalan Nair, the objective is to execute projects ensuring better facilities for visitors while also generating employment for the local populace. ‘‘The destination currently receives some 500 visitors a day for viewing the sunrise and sunset and our objective is to develop a tourism circuit by connecting it to various micro-destinations within the local body that include forests and waterfalls,'' explains Mr.Nair. Committee of villagers The project will be executed through a committee of villagers, who will also take training to serve as tourist guides or to do business in local handicraft or ethnic cuisine. Abhilash R., convener of the local body’s Biodiversity Management Committee, says the bio-cultural diversity park and the butterfly corridor would be set up along the path that leads to the rock top while the potential for adventure tourism too would be tapped. ‘‘The park will offer details of the rare plant and species varieties in this eco-sensitive zone and their connection with the local customs and tradition. Since hiking the rock can be an arduous task for elders and the differently abled, virtual tours of the rock-top that lets a wide exploration of the location in different seasons too will be arranged,'' he adds. Konni legislator K.U. Janeesh Kumar says Anjumalapara is also included in the upcoming Konni tourism circuit that seeks to cash in on the natural heritage of the region. ‘‘A master plan for developing Konni as a major ecotourism destination is expected by next month and the rock formations that dot the forest fringes, including Anjumalapara in Enadimangalam and Rakshasanpara in Kalanjoor, also form part of it,'' he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anjumalapara-seeks-a-place-on-tourism-map/article37937138.ece
12 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Weary’ ICDS supervisors seek succour||A couple of days ago, an Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) supervisor set out from her house in the morning to investigate if factories that employed more than 10 women had set up an internal complaints committee. En route, she visited four anganwadis to check if food was being supplied to children. By the time she was back in office, it was 2 p.m. After lunch, she had to conduct house surveys as part of the LIFE Mission project. She visited 30 houses. It was 7 p.m. when she called it a day. This week itself, the ICDS supervisor had to arrange a one-hour health class for pregnant women, but it got extended to two. She was asked to submit a report the next day on food distributed to anganwadi beneficiaries under the ICDS project in the past two years, and the expenditure on each item of food distributed for an audit. “It is impossible to prepare such an exhaustive report within 24 hours. The time was then extended till Monday. I plan to use the weekend to complete the report.” ICDS supervisors say all reports sought from them are ‘urgent.’ Reports are sought at all times — at night or on field visits. Of both departments Though the Women and Child Development (WCD) Department has been carved out of the Social Justice Department, the ICDS supervisors who are paid their salaries by the WCD are responsible for implementing projects of the parent department too, be it scholarships for the differently abled, camps for distribution of assistive devices, or getting them to vote during election, since the department separation is yet to be implemented at the grassroots. Services to the elderly are also their responsibility. The supervisors are also implementing officers in the panchayat for both the departments and have much work to do on fund utilisation. A good deal is done online, but they are not provided computers by the department. ICDS supervisors do not have a room or even a seat in many panchayats, they say. There is no clear definition of their work, the supervisors allege. “We may be working on a report but are expected to attend a meeting, visit two anganwadis a day, conduct surveys, convene Jagratha Samithis, do work related to women protection, pension, besides assist senior officials.” No grievance redressal They attribute the plight to their being women. “In a department for women, there is no mechanism to hear our grievances. There is little support, only recrimination. Ministerial staff do not treat us well. Our morale is getting affected,” they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/burdened-supervisors-of-icds-seek-succour/article37937141.ece
12 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||MCHs struggle to run OP clinics||As the strike by junior residents or postgraduate medical students in government medical colleges across the State, boycotting all hospital services except COVID-19 duty, crosses day two, more doctors’ organisations are joining the strike and the issue seems to be snowballing into a major stand-off between the entire medical fraternity and the government. The strike by the PG medicos which began as a nationwide protest against the inordinate and indefinite delay in the NEET-PG allotment for 2021 has not just drawn attention to the acute shortage of human resource in the medical colleges in the State, but has also highlighted the volatile situation in these institutions wherein the quality of patient care may be threatened by an unhappy and overworked workforce. All medical college hospitals (MCHs) struggled to run the outpatient (OP) clinics, inpatient care, ICUs and emergency departments for the second day in a row on Saturday. Reports from various MCHs said elective surgeries and procedures were badly affected and that all departments were being forced to discharge patients en masse as none had enough staff. Minister’s stance Health Minister Veena George said the government had looked at the problem of junior residents, the main workforce of all MCHs and who had been under severe work pressure right from the beginning of the pandemic. It was to ease the issue of staff shortage that the government had allowed the appointment of 373 non-academic junior residents for all MCHs. The Kerala Medical Postgraduates’ Association said they chose to strike after being driven to the wall, which finally seemed to get the government’s attention. There is a shortage of over 1,000 postgraduate doctors in all MCHs together and 373 posts are just not going to cut it. A huge tertiary care hospital like the Thiruvananthapuram MCH alone requires over 250 doctors, the KMPGA said. They would continue the strike till the government gave them a concrete assurance about the hike in stipend, the doctors said. More join the issue Various professional associations – the Kerala Government Postgraduate Medical Teachers’ Association, Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA), Kerala House Surgeons’ Association and the Senior Resident Doctors’ Association – all joined the issue with the striking junior doctors on Saturday. House surgeons have decided to boycott all duties except emergency services and COVID duty for 24 hours from 8 a.m. on Monday as a token protest. Senior residents are not officially on strike but in a statement issued here, they said that rather than resolve the human resource situation, the administrators were now leaning on the senior residents to run entire hospitals. The KGMCTA Thiruvananthapuram unit in a statement said that in protest against the workload that the faculty was being burdened with and in solidity with the PG doctors, the faculty will boycott OP, IP, elective surgeries and teaching activities at the MCH here for two hours on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mchs-struggle-to-run-op-clinics/article37937081.ece
12 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A tribute to those who are left behind||Every major transformation in any sector leaves behind quite a few who struggle to cope with the drastic changes. So it is with cinema too, the distribution and viewing methods of which have changed unrecognisably in recent years. With digital distribution of content directly to theatres, people who were working in the traditional distribution sector suddenly became irrelevant. Sanu Kummil’s documentary Cinemapetti (Film Reel Box), screened at the 13th International Documentary and Short Film Festival (IDSFFK), chronicles the life of a person who was left behind in the inevitable march of technology. Caught in tech flow Nizar was one of the hundreds of workers across the State who used to take the heavy boxes containing the film reels from the major release centres to the ‘C’ class centres in the villages. For 14 years till 2000, until the theatres in the villages began closing down, he used to cycle as much as 50 kilometres carrying the film reels, often reaching just in time for the show. “In my village, there was only one theatre for us to watch films. Nizar was the one who used to bring reels to the theatre. We used to wait in anticipation for his arrival with the latest reel. When cinema distribution and screening technologies were updated, quite a few like him lost their jobs and ended up taking up jobs like that of securities in hotels and flats. Usually, when we talk or write about the history of Malayalam cinema, it is usually about the filmmakers or stars. We tend to forget people like Nizar who sweated it out to ensure that these films reach the public on time. In this documentary, I have placed Nizar as a representative of all of them,” says Sanu, who made his debut in 2018 with the film Oru Chaya Kadakkarante Mann ki bath , which won the best documentary award in 11th IDSFFK. Cinema’s history Sanu uses the first few minutes of the documentary to give a basic idea of Malayalam cinema’s history, from the handful of movies made in the early 1950s to the explosion of films in the late 1960s and the later transformations through the 1990s and 2000s. Nizar speaks at length about the struggles of cycling long distances with the heavy reel boxes, the fears of transporting it at night and the tight deadlines of the whole job. Though the wages were just about decent, it was enough for the daily needs of his family. With the closing down of most ‘C’ class centres in the villages and the shift to digital distribution, he has been making ends meet with a lottery selling business and as a headload worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-tribute-to-those-who-are-left-behind/article37937133.ece
12 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||On finding freedom in city||The glorification of village or small town life in contemporary narratives tends to overlook the lack of freedom and privacy that many, especially women, experience in such areas. Priya Thuvasseri’s documentary City Girls , screened in the competition section at the 13th International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala (IDSFFK), takes a look at the other side, portraying the lives of two young women who managed to ‘escape’ small towns and find freedom in the city. Not popular narratives The freedom that they talk about often does not signify the lofty ideas associated with the word but the things that many people take for granted from the freedom to wear the clothes of their choice or to step out of the house when they feel like. The camera follows Umra and Kulsum from Banda in Uttar Pradesh as they savour the newfound freedom in Delhi, where they have found employment. But, their shift comes with its share of struggles, from overcoming parental pressure to stay behind, lying about having landed a job when they were still searching for one, and having to make do with the not-so-high salary in their entry-level jobs. Despite all these challenges, the duo is seen mostly talking positively about the shift, because the freedom that they experience in the city is enough to make them ignore the rest of the struggles. Casual conversations The documentary captures them in casual conversations within the household, recounting their experiences in the city, of struggling to fit it, the fears of standing out from the city crowd, and of being judged and about the harassment from bosses that makes one of them look for other jobs. The screenshots of their Instagram pages with photographs of them at a party or simply having a walk on the roads, and the short captions that reflect their thoughts, also signify how much life in the city means to them. Honest portrayal The COVID-19 pandemic had come for them, like many others, as a bolt from the blue. Many young women had to reluctantly return from the cities, either due to loss of jobs or due to a shift to work from home. Yet, here, they talk about somehow managing to come back to the city, even before the offices open up. City Girls is an honest portrayal of how the “big bad city” becomes a space for self-realisation for many women who live a suffocated life back home in small towns.  Documentary portrays the lives of two young women who manage to ‘escape’ small towns and find freedom in the city||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-finding-freedom-in-city/article37937135.ece
12 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pothencode youth killed, limb chopped off||In a gruesome incident borne out of intense gang rivalry, a 35-year-old man was murdered and his leg chopped off in the presence of his children near Pothencode on Saturday. Sudheesh who hailed from Lakshamveedu Colony in Chembakamangalam, near Kalloor, was murdered by a gang of 12 assailants who came in two motorcycles and an auto-rickshaw around noon. The victim, who was apparently absconding after an alleged murder attempt, dashed to his house on seeing the gang approaching him. However, the gang barged into his house and hacked him using swords before chopping one of his legs off. Brutal attack The brutal attack unfolded as his family looked on, the Pothencode police said. A CCTV footage recovered from the vicinity showed the perpetrators hurling the chopped limb nearly 500 metres away from the scene of crime as they sped away. They also created a scene of terror by hurling country bombs and wielding weapons as they threatened the other local residents. Despite being rushed to the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital, Sudheesh’s life could not be saved. Lending credence to the police’s claim that the murder is linked to a gang rivalry in the region, the victim reportedly told the police en route the hospital that he was attacked by a group led by notorious criminal ‘Ottakam’ Suresh. Many cases Sudheesh, who was involved in cases registered at the Mangalapuram and Attingal police stations, was wanted for his role in a recent murder attempt at Attingal. Four persons including his brother was arrested in the case. Senior officials including Deputy Inspector General of Police, Thiruvananthapuram Range, Sanjaykumar Gurudin, and District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) P.K. Madhu, visited the area and took stock of the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pothencode-youth-killed-limb-chopped-off/article37937264.ece
12 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||935 cases disposed of at Lok Adalat||As many as 935 cases were disposed of at a Lok Adalat organised by the District Legal Services Authority here on Saturday. An amount of Rs. 27 crore was awarded in various cases and Rs. 7.8 crore awarded on complaints by nationalised and private banks. As many as 467 bank-related cases were disposed of. A total of 412 motor vehicle accident dispute redressal cases were disposed of and Rs. 12.32 crore were awarded. About 10,167 cases were disposed of at a special sitting for petty cases in magistrate courts, and Rs. 66.22 lakh collected as fine. This is the second adalat to be held offline after COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/935-cases-disposed-of-at-lok-adalat/article37937269.ece
12 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Festschrift presented||T.K.A. Nair, former adviser to two Prime Ministers and patron of Historia, University College History Alumni Association, presented a publication titled ‘India’s Past and Present’ (edited by T.P. Sankarankutty Nair) to B. Sobhanan, former head of the department of History, University of Kerala. He also presented a Festschrift titled ‘Kerala’s Society and Politics in Transition’ (edited by G. Suraj) in honour of Mr. Sankarankutty Nair. Mr. Nair who studied History at the college from 1958 to1961 paid tributes to the work done by the two historians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festschrift-presented/article37937260.ece
12 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State to get new career policy: Sivankutty||A new career policy will be introduced in the State, Minister for Labour V. Sivankutty has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the ‘Niyukthi 2021’ job fair organised by the District Employment Exchange and the NSS unit of University Engineering College here on Saturday. The Minister said the policy was intended to bring together all career development activities in the State, set up a State career development mission, and bring those who had completed their education into the employment sector in a phased manner. Employment, as mentioned in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) manifesto, would be made available. Job fairs would be held in all districts with the support of employment exchanges and employability centres. Prominent companies in sectors such as Information Technology, textiles, jewellery, automobiles, administration, marketing, hospitality, and health care, are taking part in the job fairs. Details digitised Details of job aspirants who have registered with the exchanges have been digitised and an online software developed so that these details could be available to the aspirants online as part of transforming conventional employment exchanges to electronic ones. The Minister also inaugurated a mobile application developed with the help of National Informatics Centre to provide online services to job aspirants. As many as 1,608 people secured employment at the job fair, while 1,860 are on the shortlist. Nearly 85 employers and 9,000 job aspirants participated in the fair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-get-new-career-policy-sivankutty/article37937261.ece
12 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fisheries Bill to serve corporates: Medha||Social activist Medha Patkar has said the Indian Marine Fisheries Bill seeks to further the interests of corporate companies similar to the contentious farm laws that have been been repealed by the Centre. Speaking at a remembrance meet organised by the T. Peter Memorial Trust, in memory of the late coastal community leader, at Veliaveli on Saturday, Ms. Patkar said the proposed law threatened to take away the rights of traditional fish workers. It also did not take cognizance of women who were the real marketeers in the fisheries sector. By promoting Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZ), the Bill threatened to widen inequities that existed in society. “The Bill is being pushed in a manner of the farm laws without considering the power and authority that is granted to State governments in the federal structure by the Constitution. The Centre is hell-bent on privatising the fisheries sector. Such activities are being promoted without holding consultations with the fish workers’ community,” she alleged, exhorting the section to challenge the law with the “greatest possible force”. Coastal lands Ms. Patkar also hit out against the Vizhinjam international seaport project that, she alleged, witnessed the takeover of coastal lands for serving the interests of capitalist investors without showing regard for the human and natural resources that are the “real investments” of the land. Claiming that nearly 200 houses of fish workers have been destroyed due to the environmental impact of the project, Ms. Patkar accused politicians of viewing corporatisation as the sole path to economic growth with scant regard for sustainability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fisheries-bill-to-serve-corporates-medha/article37937263.ece
12 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3,795 test positive, case burden eases||Kerala logged 3,795 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 58,344 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 51,90,828 cases. 245 deaths The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State stands at 42,824 as on Saturday, with the State adding 245 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on the day. These include 50 deaths that occurred in the past few days and 195 deaths that have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the State government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. The total number of deaths added to the official COVID fatality list after the death reconciliation exercise, as on Saturday, is 13,021. The State’s active case pool dipped further below 40,000 and had 38,583 patients on Saturday. A total of 4,308 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health department, only 8.1% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals like COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals in the State was 588 on Saturday, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support dropped to 219 on the day. 206 hospitalisations On Saturday, the number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 206. Hospitalisations remain below the 5,000 mark. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 681, followed by Ernakulam 543, Thrissur 445, Kozhikode 413, Kottayam 312, Kollam 310, Kannur 202, Malappuram 192, Pathanamthitta 146, Alappuzha 139, Idukki 132, Palakkad 110, Wayanad 91, and Kasaragod 79 cases. Meanwhile, drawing attention towards three States where eight districts have been reporting over 10% positivity rate, the Centre has asked all States and Union territories to maintain strict watch on the situation with focussed district-level measures for containment of clusters of new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3795-test-positive-case-burden-eases/article37937102.ece
12 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Supplyco launches online sales||The Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) will use technology-assisted platforms to supply quality goods to the public at affordable rates, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil has said. Inaugurating the online sale and home delivery through Supplyco supermarkets at Thrissur on Saturday, he said the corporation was on the path of modernisation. A digital payment gateway would be introduced at all Civil Supplies outlets including Maveli stores. Efforts are on to establish more fuel outlets, medical stores, Maveli stores, and people’s bazaars, and network various regional and depot offices with the head office to monitor sales and stocks. The online sale will be through an app named Supply Kerala. All the 500 Supplyco supermarkets are expected to offer home delivery this financial year itself in a 10-km radius around the outlet. This will open up job opportunities for more than 10,000 youth. Orders received online through the Supply Kerala app would be eligible for a discount of 5%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supplyco-launches-online-sales/article37937104.ece
12 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Restore rail travel concession’||The Senior Citizens Friends Welfare Association has demanded that MPs from the State and national leaders organise protests against the Union government’s denial of rail travel concessions to the elderly. The concession was stopped during the lockdown. Even after the lockdown was withdrawn and train services restored, it was not restored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restore-rail-travel-concession/article37937262.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||More apps for battling crises||Inspired by the success of various online applications for crisis management, the district administration is planning to introduce a few more special purpose mobile applications to support the Disaster Management Authority as well as special squads deployed to address the pandemic scare. Graduates or postgraduates in computer applications with expertise in programming will be appointed on contract basis soon to complete the projects in time. Android applications that can streamline the existing services of the district administration are also on the cards. According to officials, the National Informatics Centre (NIC) will prepare a list of various applications needed to accelerate e-governance programmes. The increasing hit rate of previous applications and e-governance websites has also encouraged plans to roll out more user-friendly applications, they said. Since the COVID-19 outbreak, efforts by the district administration to source self-developed e-governance applications for crisis management and data analysis have been applauded at various national and State-level review meetings. The COVID-19 Jagrata portal developed by the district administration continues to be the best electronic platform for facilitating services. Apart from designing new applications, additional modules to update the existing portals and e-services will be considered with the support of another technical team. Nammude Kozhikode, a popular service app launched last year, will be updated with new features and interactive elements. Officials in charge of various e-governance initiatives pointed out that a team of well-trained and experienced IT volunteers were ready to extend technical guidance to the district administration in the implementation of the projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-apps-for-battling-crises/article37937071.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Governor’s letter triggers an uproar||Mr. Sudhakaran alleged that the government had appointed the spouses of Speaker M. B. Rajesh, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, Mr. Vijayan’s private secretary K. K. Rajesh, CPI(M) legislator M. N. Shamsheer, CPI(M) leader P. K. Biju and Mr. Vijayan’s special officer R. Mohanan in various varsities by sidelining meritorious candidates. The instances of preferential treatment out in the public domain are just the tip of the iceberg.  Mr. Sudhakaran said the government had used a questionable legal opinion as a fig leaf to overturn Mr. Khan’s counsel not to extend the service of the Kannur University Vice Chancellor beyond retirement age. Mr. Khan objected to the government populating varsity senates and syndicates with CPI(M) satraps instead of academically oriented and qualified individuals. Mr. Vijayan turned a blind eye to the Governor’s appeal. The government gave silent consent to the Vice Chancellor of Kalamandalam University to move the High Court against Mr. Khan.  Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan said Mr. Vijayan owed the public an explanation. The Governor’s scathing letter to the Chief Minister is a damning indictment of the unabashed politicisation of the higher education sector.  BJP State president K. Surendran said Mr. Vijayan had brought varsities under party cell rule. Mr. Khan's letter was a slap on the face of the Chief Minister. Mr. Surendran urged the government to revoke the controversial appointments or prepare to face turbulent mass protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governors-letter-triggers-an-uproar/article37937145.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Finding their strength||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/finding-their-strength/article37937242.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Final homecoming||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/final-homecoming/article37937247.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Mark of the season||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mark-of-the-season/article37937144.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Marking a beginning||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marking-a-beginning/article37937092.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Khader remembered||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/khader-remembered/article37937069.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||‘Keep your promise’||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keep-your-promise/article37937266.ece
12 December 2021||BELAGAVI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stormy winter session ahead for Karnakata||The Winter session of the State legislature, being held after three years in the border city of Belagavi from Monday, is expected to generate heat as allegations of a bitcoin scam, complaint made to the Prime Minister’s Office by the contractors’ association that people’s representatives and bureaucracy demand 40% commission to award contracts and clear bills and the delay in payment of compensation to flood victims have given adequate ammunition to the Opposition.  There is also anger building up among farmers’ organisations over several issues. The Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha has declared that it will lay siege to Suvarna Vidhana Soudha, the venue of the session, demanding statutory status to the minimum support price for farm produce.  But what can be more stormy is the reported efforts by the Government to set the stage for tabling anti-conversion Bill. Though there are indications of the Government not tabling the Bill immediately, it appears that it will test the waters when a private member’s Bill in this regard would be tabled in the Upper House. Results of the just-concluded elections to the 25 seats of the Legislative Council will also be announced on December 14, a day after the start of the session, which will be an important development in the midst of the session, as it can change the power equations in the Upper House. First for Bommai as CM It is also the first session being held in Belagavi after Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who hails from North Karnataka, took over. In this context, there are high expectations that he may announce measures for the development of North Karnataka in general and the border areas in particular, especially keeping in view that the Assembly elections are fast approaching. The Opposition, especially the Congress, is gearing up to bring up serious issues concerning the northern areas that have gone unaddressed. COVID-19 concerns Though all the legislature sessions held in Belagavi have been stormy, this session stands out as the propriety of holding the session itself has come under question since several sections of people including farmers’ organisations and secretariat staff have expressed concern over holding it amidst concerns over a possible third wave and the new variant, Omicron. Also, some farmers’ organisations have raised the issue of whether it is appropriate to indulge in additional public expenditure when the State is reeling under financial distress due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stormy-winter-session-ahead-for-karnakata/article37936750.ece
12 December 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tamil Nadu to step up daily COVID-19 testing||The number of daily tests for COVID-19 will be increased in Tamil Nadu, with specific focus on clusters where several cases have been reported and places where people gather in large numbers. Over the past several weeks, the State, on average, has been conducting one lakh RT-PCR tests a day. As of date, the overall positivity rate stands at 0.7%, with the daily infections dropping below 700 two days ago. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, in a letter to Collectors and the Greater Chennai Corporation, said that routine COVID-19 surveillance should be strengthened by increasing the number of tests conducted every day in the State. “As a thumb rule, we test 10 times the number of cases. We are way above that now, but are still looking to increase focused testing in case of clusters,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said in the letter. “This will be done by going for saturation testing, rather than testing those living with patients or those who have been in contact with them,” he said. For instance, taking up saturation testing, all 763 students of Anna University’s ACTECH campus hostel were subjected to RT-PCR tests, after 10 students tested positive. The Greater Chennai Corporation plans to increase the number of daily tests to 15,000. At present, an average of 12,000 to 13,000 tests are being conducted in the city in a day. Specific focus will be given to market places, government offices, factories, places where people gather and college hostels and campuses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tamil-nadu-to-step-up-daily-covid-19-testing/article37936831.ece
12 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||73 teachers get promotions as HMs in Chittoor||As many as 73 school assistants of various ZP high schools in the district on Saturday received promotions as Grade-II headmasters, after counselling here. District Educational Officer Shriram Purushottam said that in a record time of two hours, the promotions counselling and posting were completed. “It is for the first time in the history of the education department in Chittoor that the exercise was accomplished without any hassle,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/73-teachers-get-promotions-as-hms-in-chittoor/article37936788.ece
12 December 2021||Coimbatore,ANDHRA PRADESH||IAF thanks Stalin, T.N. police, local residents||The Indian Air Force (IAF) on Saturday thanked Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, the State police and residents of Kattery near Coonoor for the assistance offered following the December 8 helicopter crash that killed 13 people, including the Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat. In a tweet on Saturday, the IAF thanked the “prompt and sustained assistance” provided by the office and staff of Mr. Stalin, Nilgiris Collector S.P. Amrith, police officials and the locals from Kattery village “in the rescue and salvage operation after the unfortunate helicopter accident.” While local people rushed to the spot almost immediately after the accident, the district administration, police and multiple State departments came together, and also stepped up for rescue efforts and retrieving the bodies. Mr. Stalin visited Coonoor the very evening of the crash, and also paid homage to those killed in the chopper crash. Several theories were floated on social media and speculation was rife over the State’s handling of the crash episode. The IAF’s tweet puts a stop to those making such speculation, leaving no one in any doubt about their appreciation for the assistance rendered by multiple government agencies in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iaf-thanks-stalin-tn-police-local-residents/article37936752.ece
12 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bodies of students shifted to GGH||Poignant scenes were witnessed at the GGH here where the bodies of five students of Sri Swetha Srungachalam Veda Vedanta Gurukul Veda Pathasala, who drowned in the Krishna, were kept at the mortuary. A group of Ministers led by V. Srinivasa Rao visited the GGH and said the government would stand by the families of the boys who met a tragic end on Friday evening while they were having a dip in the river. Vijayawada Central MLA Malladi Vishnu, MLC Lella Appireddy, Mayor Kavati Manohar Naidu and MLA Md. Mustafa were present Six persons, including a teacher of the pathasala, died while they were having a dip in the river as part of ‘Sandhya vandanam’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bodies-of-students-shifted-to-ggh/article37937204.ece
12 December 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman held for colluding with cyber fraudsters||A woman from Gujarat who colluded with cyber fraudsters and cheated several people on WhatsApp, in the guise of medical help, was arrested by Hyderabad cyber crime police. The accused, Hemali, 33, was held in Ahmedabad. Recently, a man from Golconda got a message on WhatsApp from an unknown number with his friend's photograph as a profile picture and requested him to send money for medical treatment as one of their family members met with an accident. Believing the message to be from his friend, he transferred about Rs. 2 lakh and later when the sender stopped responding to his messages, he realised that he was cheated and lodged a complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-held-for-colluding-with-cyber-fraudsters/article37937035.ece
12 December 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Drop at Home for Women’ initiative gets good response||‘Drop at Home for Women’, an initiative of the East Godavari police, has been receiving overwhelming response from women in need of transportation during night time in Kakinada. East Godavari SP M. Raveendranath Babu kickstarted the initiative on Decmber 7, that facilitates free and safe transportation for women during night. A police vehicle with a woman constable will be operated between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. and will respond to the phone calls from women in need of transportation. Women who could not find a safe transportation facility to their home could request the facility. The needy can dial 94949 33233 or 94907 63489 for the vehicle to drop them at their home. The vehicle is monitored by the district control room. Mr. Babu said that the facility would be extended to more towns in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drop-at-home-for-women-initiative-gets-good-response/article37937218.ece
12 December 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||E. Godavari ZP general body meeting today||The first general body meeting of the East Godavari Zilla Parishad will be held here on Sunday. This will be the first meeting of the general body after the new ZP Chairman and ZPTC members have been elected recently. The meeting will be chaired by ZP Chairman Vipparthi Venu Gopala Rao and East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran. Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu, B.C. Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna and Social Welfare Minister P. Viswaroop will be present. The irrigation water facility for rabi season, compensation of crop damage due to recent rains, and other development issues would be discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/e-godavari-zp-general-body-meeting-today/article37937217.ece
12 December 2021||Kalpetta,ANDHRA PRADESH||Search for tiger intensified in Wayanad village||Forest officials have intensified operations to capture a tiger, which is believed to have killed as many as 10 domestic animals in a fortnight at Kurukkanmoola under the Begur forest range of the North Wayanad Forest Division. The animal reportedly killed one more goat owned by Annakkutty of Parekkattil at Padamala near Kurukkanmoola in the early hours of Saturday. Though Forest officials, led by North Wayanad Forest Divisional Officer Ramesh Bishnoi and Forest veterinary surgeon Arun Zachariah, conducted a combing operation in the area from the early hours, it was in vain. They also used an unmanned aerial vehicle to track the animal, but it also did not bear fruit owing to the dense canopy of trees in the area. “We could trace pugmarks, indicating that the animal had moved to the nearby Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary,” Mr. Bishnoi said. As many as 80 frontline forest staff took part in the search. “We will set up more cages with live bait after consultations with people’s representatives to trap the animal,” the officer added. As many as three mobile squads have been constituted for night patrol in the area, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/search-for-tiger-intensified-in-wayanad-village/article37936766.ece
12 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rayalaseema Dharma Deeksha’ in Vijayawada tomorrow||The Rayalaseema Praja Sanghala Samanvaya Vedika on Saturday gave a call to all the farmers and stakeholders in the development of the Rayalaseema region to participate in the ‘Rayalaseema Dharma Deekha’ proposed in Vijayawada on Monday. Addressing the media in Nandyal, where a poster on the deeksha was released, vedika convener B. Dasaratharami Reddy listed the demands for which the ‘dharma deeksha’ was being organised. Demands The demands were as follows: getting approval for all the ongoing irrigation projects – Galeru-Nagari; Telugu Ganga; Handri-Neeva; Veligonda; Muchumarri; Gururaghavendra; and Siddhapuram Lift Irrigation – and incorporating them in the KRMB notification through an amendment. Locating the KRMB office and the A.P. High Court in Kurnool also form part of their demands. The ‘dharma deeksha’ would begin at 10 a.m. at the Dharna Chowk and continue till 4 p.m.. The organisation had written letters to the general secretaries and heads of all the political parties, which included the YSRCP, the TDP, the BJP, the CPI, and the CPI(M), said Mr. Dasaratharami Reddy. Representatives of all the people’s organisations from Rayalaseema would participate, he added. Later, several farmer leaders released the poster at the Rayalaseema Saaguneeti Sadhana Samithi office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rayalaseema-dharma-deeksha-in-vijayawada-tomorrow/article37937199.ece
12 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure safety on boats, operators told||Equipping tourist boats with adequate safety material such as life jackets is essential, and the number of passengers permitted on the boat must be displayed at the main entrance of the launch, Joint Collector M.K. Srinivasulu has said. Mr. Srinivasulu was speaking after inspecting the condition of the launch being operated by the APTDC at Srisailam on Saturday. “Boat operators need to take all safety measures prior to putting a service in operation and at the beginning of every journey,” he said. Fire extinguishing equipment should also be kept ready on the boat, and every passenger must be told about it before embarking on a journey, he added. “Carrying passengers more than the number permitted should not be allowed. Every person boarding the boat must wear a life jacket, without which none should be allowed to travel,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. “These apart, keeping in view the threat being posed by the new COVID-19 variant, Omicron, everyone must follow the protocols while in public place,” he advised. “The names, addresses, and phone numbers of all the passengers boarding the launch must be noted and properly recorded before the journey begins,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-safety-on-boats-operators-told/article37937196.ece
12 December 2021||MANGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven arrested in two cases of ‘moral policing’ in Karnataka||Seven persons, including four crew members of a private bus, have been arrested in two separate “moral policing” incidents reported in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Friday and Saturday. The bus crew were arrested on charges of harassing a boy and a girl, D.Pharma students and from different faiths, at the private bus stand in Mangaluru on Friday. The police gave their names as Prakash, Raghavendra, Ranjith, and Pawa, all crew of AKMS private bus. The incident came to light after a video clipping of the crew harassing the students after they boarded the AKMS bus bound for Kollur, went viral on the social media on Friday. In a suo motu complaint, Mangaluru South police sub-inspector Sheetal Algur said that in the video, a group is seen entering the bus and demanding identity cards of the two students who were seated. The group abused the two and forced them to alight. The group abused the girl for travelling with a boy from a different faith. The boy was humiliated and assaulted for allegedly behaving in an inappropriate manner with the girl. The group allegedly warned the boy not to move around with the girl in future. Taking suo motu cognizance of the offence, she rushed to the private bus terminus and found that the incident occurred around 11 a.m. Treating this as an attempt to create communal tension and with evidence of sexual harassment of the girl, she registered a case for offence under Sections 143, 153 A, 323, 354, 504, 506 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code. Mangaluru Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told presspersons on Saturday that the police had contacted the male student, who hails from Shivamogga and the female student, who hails from Udupi. Their statements would be obtained. The two are studying D. Pharma in a city college. The police are on the lookout for other persons allegedly involved in the attack, he said. Three held in Manipal The Manipal police arrested three persons also on the charges of harassing a man and a woman, who were known to each other and belonging to different faiths, near Mannapalla Lake on Saturday. The names of the accused were given as Praneesh, Vinooth Poojary, and Sanjay Kumar. The police said the accused confronted 27-year-old Altaf from Saligrama when he was seen with a woman, his family friend, near Mannapalla Lake. The accused abused the two for moving together and also threatened Altaf. The police rushed to the spot immediately. Following a compliant by Altaf, the accused were arrested for offences punishable under Section 323, 341, 504, and 506 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-arrested-in-two-cases-of-moral-policing-in-karnataka/article37936777.ece
12 December 2021||Mysuru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Savarkar didn’t fight for Independence’||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Saturday claimed that V.D. Savarkar, whom the BJP party projects as a “patriot and freedom fighter”, did not participate in the freedom struggle. Launching the Congress party’s membership drive from his native Siddaramanahundi in Mysuru, he said Savarkar had not been jailed for participating in the freedom struggle. He had been released from prison by the British after he filed a mercy petition, giving an undertaking that he will not participate in any struggle against them.  Though it was the Congress party members who had sacrificed their lives and belongings for the country during the freedom struggle, it is ironical that the BJP was trying to teach patriotism to the Congress. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP stalwarts L.K. Advani and A.B. Vajpayee were also not freedom fighters. “They were all beneficiaries of freedom”, Mr. Siddaramaiah said. Claiming that he was born about 12 days before the country achieved Independence, he said even he is a beneficiary of the freedom. The Constitution framed under the leadership of B.R. Ambedkar ensured equality to all while removing discrimination between the rich and poor. BJP is not a party that favours the downtrodden, Mr. Siddarmaiah said. On the contrary, the BJP leaders claim that they have come to power to amend the Constitution. Unable to reform the caste system and the practice of untouchability in Hindu religion, Dr. Ambedkar had joined Buddhism, he said. There were people belonging to different castes and religions in the country, and the Congress party’s ideology was to love one’s own religion and respect the religions of others. Mr. Siddaramaiah said the JD(S) was a party whose presence in restricted to a few districts in the State. Yet, its leaders claim that they will come to power in 2023. Recalling that the party had won 59 seats in the Legislative Assembly when he was its State unit president, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the party’s strength in the Assembly has been declining ever since and asked how it could come to power. He called upon the people to read the Constitution and understand their responsibilities. “You will understand who you should vote and why you should vote”, he said while emphasising the need for people to be awakened if democracy is to survive. Mr. Siddaramaiah was accompanied by his son and MLA representing Varuna assembly segment Yathindra Siddaramaiah and party’s Mysuru district unit President B.J. Vijaykumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/savarkar-didnt-fight-for-independence/article37936754.ece
12 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sabarimala trekking path reopens today||Almost a month after the beginning of the annual pilgrimage season, the traditional trekking path to Sabarimala that passes through Neelimala and Marakkoottam will be thrown open to devotees on Sunday. According to officials, regulations on using the Neelimala path have been lifted and devotees will be permitted to ascend the hillock through the route from 2 a.m. on Sunday. The devotees will also be permitted to take the Swami Ayyappan road, which remains the only route to the hilltop now. Seven emergency medical centres have been set up on the route, besides two cardiology centres at Neelimala and Appachimedu. As many as 44 kiosks for drinking water have been opened and arrangements are in place to provide medicinal drinking water. A total of 56 toilet units have been set up and stretcher units comprising 40 volunteers of the Akhila Bharatha Ayyappa Seva Sangham deployed. The Travancore Devaswom Board had approached the State Government to open the traditional path, which passes via Appachimedu, Saramkuthi and Sabaripeedam, in view of its ritualistic significance. Also, the devotees are permitted to take bath in the Pampa before trekking up the hill from 11 a.m on Saturday. According to Pathanamthitta Collector Divya S. Iyer, bathing will be allowed along the 150-metre-long stretch from Triveni to the footbridge and 170 metres beyond the bridge. Pilgrims will be allowed to enter the river only through four entry points. The Additional District Magistrate of Sabarimala has the authority to prevent people from venturing into the river in case of any eventualities. Besides bathing, the authorities have permitted overnight stay for pilgrims at the Sannidhanam from Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sabarimala-trekking-path-reopens-today/article37936757.ece
12 December 2021||SALEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will eradicate poverty from State: Stalin||The State Government is working towards making Tamil Nadu hunger free and eradicate poverty from the State, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Saturday. Mr. Stalin said recent data that was published had shown that Tamil Nadu ranked fourth among the least poor States in the country. Social welfare schemes implemented by former Chief Ministers Annadurai and Karunanidhi contributed to this, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Stalin said poverty should be eradicated from the State, and Tamil Nadu should become hunger free. Tamil Nadu should stand first among the least poor States, and the government is working towards this, he said. Mr. Stalin said Tamil Nadu would stand first in all departments during his five-year tenure. The Chief Minister said that he never wished to rest, and would continue to work hard for the people. Mr. Stalin launched the urban employment scheme, at a cost of Rs. 100 crore, and the ‘Namukku Namme’ scheme at Rs. 300 crore. The Chief Minister also distributed welfare schemes worth Rs. 168.84 crore to 30,837 beneficiaries, inaugurated completed works to the tune of Rs. 38.52 crore and laid foundation stones for works to the tune of Rs. 54 crore. Addressing the event, PMK legislators R. Arul and S. Sadhasivam appreciated the government’s intiatves. Ministers K.N. Nehru, K. Ponmudi, M. Mathiventhan, A.V. Velu, M.R.K. Pannerselvam, K. Muthusamy, N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj, DMK MPs and DMK legislator R. Rajendran took part. Mr. Stalin later conducted a review meeting with officials. Mr. Stalin also unveiled a portrait of former DMK legislator A. Raja, who died recently.  Tamil Nadu should stand first among the least poor States, and the government is working towards this M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-eradicate-poverty-from-state-stalin/article37936890.ece
12 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM should make stance on adoption row clear: Medha||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should take a position on the row over the adoption of the child of Anupama S. Chandran, said activist Medha Patkar. She was speaking after meeting Anupama and her partner B. Ajith Kumar here on Saturday morning. Ms. Patkar said what happened to Anupama was unjust and unjustifiable. All women’s organisations must take a position on the issue. ‘Saddening incident’ The incident, she said, was very saddening. Government agencies should function within the framework of constitutional and legal rights – those of the parents and the rights of the child. It was necessary that agencies do their job of protecting both mother and child. That had not happened. “But she has won the battle... Adoption could not be formalised,” Ms. Patkar said. ‘Move ahead in life’ “Whatever Anupama has faced is criminal in a way. One does not expect this of any parent,” she said. Ms. Patkar who met Anupama at YMCA urged her not to feel troubled, raise her son well, and move ahead with her life. Asked about the Kerala Women’s Commission, Ms. Anupama told Ms. Patkar that apart from taking her statement, the commission had not intervened in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-should-make-stance-on-adoption-row-clear-medha/article37936765.ece
12 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala Governor’s letter triggers an uproar||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan’s caustic put-down remark on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for ‘political cronyism’ in university appointments has triggered a political uproar that seems to weigh heavily against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. The Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have sought to weaponise Mr. Khan’s criticism of Mr. Vijayan. Their student organisations are poised to launch stormy street protests to bring the government to heel on the touchy issue. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran said on Saturday that Mr. Vijayan had created a record of a sort for Chief Ministers by systematically undermining the constitutional office of the Governor. Earlier, Mr. Khan had to fast for a day to highlight the mounting criminality against women. Now, the Governor has thrown up his hands at the brazen nepotism in varsity appointments. Mr. Sudhakaran alleged that the government had appointed the spouses of Speaker M. B. Rajesh, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, Mr. Vijayan’s private secretary K. K. Rajesh, CPI(M) legislator A.N. Shamseer, CPI(M) leader P.K. Biju and Mr. Vijayan’s special officer R. Mohanan in various varsities by sidelining meritorious candidates. Mr. Sudhakaran said the government had used a questionable legal opinion as a fig leaf to overturn Mr. Khan’s counsel not to extend the service of the Kannur University Vice Chancellor beyond retirement age. Mr. Khan objected to the government populating varsity senates and syndicates with CPI(M) satraps instead of academically oriented and qualified individuals. Mr. Vijayan turned a blind eye to the Governor’s appeal. The government gave silent consent to the Vice Chancellor of Kalamandalam University to move the High Court against Mr. Khan. CM’s explanation sought Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said Mr. Vijayan owed the public an explanation. The Governor’s scathing letter to the Chief Minister is a damning indictment of the unabashed politicisation of the higher education sector. BJP State president K. Surendran said Mr. Vijayan had brought varsities under party cell rule. Mr. Khan's letter was a slap on the face of the Chief Minister. Mr. Surendran urged the government to revoke the controversial appointments or prepare to face turbulent mass protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-governors-letter-triggers-an-uproar/article37936763.ece
12 December 2021||Thrissur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala bids adieu to JWO Pradeep||Junior Warrant Officer (JWO) A. Pradeep, who was killed in the helicopter crash at Coonoor, was cremated with full State and military honours in the compound of his house at Ponnukkara here in Kerala on Saturday. Pradeep’s eight-year-old son, Dakshan Dev, lit the funeral pyre. Air Force personnel chanted the slogan “Warrant officer Pradeep amar rahe ”. His uniform and the national flag covering the coffin with his mortal remains were handed over to his wife Sreelakshmi. Union Minister V. Muraleedharan and Thrissur MP T.N. Prathapan accompanied the ambulance carrying the mortal remains from Coimbatore to Thrissur. People waiting on both sides of the National Highway paid floral tributes to the soldier. Thousands of people, including Ministers, elected representatives, military and paramilitary forces, police officers, cultural leaders, teachers, friends and local people paid homage to Pradeep when his body was kept from 2.45 p.m. to 3.45 p.m. at Government Vocational Higher Secondary School, Puthur, where he had studied. Pradeep joined the Air Force in 2004. He was later selected as air crew. He participated in many missions, including against Maoists in Chhattisgarh. Rs. 50 lakh for Sai Teja kin Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Saturday called on the family members of chopper crash victim Lance Naik Sai Teja, at their village, Regadapalle, of Kurabalakota mandal in the district, and handed over a cheque for Rs. 50 lakh as ex gratia . Addressing the media after paying tributes to the portrait of Sai Teja, the Minister said, “This is a very small gesture to Sai Teja’s family compared to his high achievements in service of the country. At a very young age, he had risen to the rank of the personal security officer to the highest defence personnel in the country.” Later, he consoled the family members, who included Sai Teja’s parents and younger brother Mahesh, who works in the Army in Sikkim. Andhra Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, Collector M. Hari Narayanan, and senior officials were present. Sai Teja’s last rites will be performed on Sunday morning.  (With inputs   from Chittoor)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-bids-adieu-to-pradeep/article37936761.ece
12 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vaikunta Dwara Darshan for 10 days’||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Trust Board, which met on Saturday, resolved to provide Vaikunta Dwara Darshan for 10 days from January 13. Disclosing the deliberations of the meeting, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy said that elaborate arrangements were being made for the grand conduct of Vaikunta Ekadasi slated for January 13. Free darshan would be provided to SC, ST, BC, tribal and fishermen communities as was experimented during recent Brahmotsavams. Pilgrim count In another path-breaking initiative, the board decided to print Sri Venkateswara Nama Koti books and distribute them among devotees and thereby provide required impetus in the promotion of Sri Venkateswara cult. The board resolved to petition both the Centre and State governments for permitting more number of pilgrims for darshan of Lord Venkateswara besides allowing limited participants in Arjitha Sevas, should there really be any relaxation in COVID protocols during the New Year. The board also gave its nod to develop the newly constructed Sri Padmavati Children Hrudayalaya in Tirupati into a full-fledged super-specialty hospital and accept donations to meet the expenditure. Donors would be extended the much-privileged Udayasthamana Sarva Seva Endowments Scheme (USSES) tickets abruptly stopped a few years back. Modalities were being worked out to fill the existing 500 vacancies under the scheme and provide tickets based on the volume of donation. Annamayya Marg The officials were directed to prepare estimates for revival of the ancient Annamayya Marg from Kadapa, as was proposed during the tenure of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, and re-construct all the temples badly damaged during the recent breach of Annamayya project. The birth place of Hanuman in the vicinity of Akasa Ganga and Nada Neerajana Mandapam would be developed on a full scale by inviting donations. The board gave its approval to take up the gold plating works to Shivaji Gopuram at the famous Srisailam temple and promote Hindu Dharmic activities in every district in the State as well as at important cities in the neighbouring States of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Telangana. The board also accorded a financial sanction of Rs. 2.8 crore for purchase of equipment at the newly constructed Parakamani Hall, Rs. 3 crore for installation of geysers at all cottages, Rs. 10 crore to SVIMS Hospital for construction of buildings and Rs. 12 crore for upgrading the existing hostel and construction of additional buildings at Sri Padmavati Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam, besides enhancing the piece rate to barbers from Rs. 11 to Rs. 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaikunta-dwara-darshan-for-10-days-ttd-chairman/article37936759.ece
12 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TVS Motor donates vehicles to temple||President of Chennai-based TVS Motor Company Ananth Krishnan on Saturday donated the new version of two-wheelers – Rider and Jupiter – and a King Cargo (CNG / LPG) Auto to the temple of Lord Venkateswara. At a function in front of the temple, the vehicles, whose cost was put at Rs. 4.29 lakh, were handed over to TTD Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tvs-motor-donates-vehicles-to-temple/article37937205.ece
12 December 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 30 lakh donated||Three devotees from Produttur in Kadapa, Thirupalaiah, Ramesh Babu and Lakshmi Narayana, on Saturday jointly contributed Rs. 30 lakh to the TTD’s Annadanam Trust and Sri Padmavati Children’s Hrudayala. The demand draft for the amount was handed over to TTD EO K.S. Jawahar Reddy at his camp office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-30-lakh-donated/article37936789.ece
12 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Time for democratic forces to unite: D. Raja||The Communist Party of India (CPI) perceives a suffocating environment across the country due to the presence of “fascist rulers” at the top. Addressing the media here on Saturday, party general secretary D. Raja accused the ruling dispensation led by the BJP at the Centre of trampling upon the rights of the opposition parties and dubbing those raising their voice against the government as “anti national.” Mr. Raju wanted the secular and democratic forces to unite, to provide a strong and effective alternative by the year 2024. Announcing the conduct of the party’s 24th national convention in Vijayawada in October next, Mr. Raja said the country would be eagerly watching the proceedings of the meeting to decide the alternative course of action. Dig at Jagan Accusing the YSRCP government in the State of remaining subservient to the BJP at the Centre, Mr. Raja wondered what benefits had the government achieved for the State by remaining so. He charged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy with creating “unnecessary ruckus” on the Amaravati issue. Accusing the Union and State governments of remaining indifferent to the recent floods, Mr. Raja said he would lead a delegation to New Delhi on December 14 and 15 and seek support to and rehabilitation for the flood victims. CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna and assistant secretary M. Nageswara Rao were among others present. At a round table conducted later, Mr. Ramakrishna said a public meeting would be held in Tirupati on December 17 expressing support to Amaravati as the sole capital. He warned the government against tabling the ‘three capitals’ bill again, in the garb of clearing the technical glitches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/time-for-democratic-forces-to-unite-d-raja/article37937208.ece
12 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Go electric to save energy, environment’||New and Renewable Energy Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (NREDCAP) has reiterated the importance of going electric as an alternative to fossil fuels, with the dual benefit of saving on energy as well as protecting the environment. In a bid to promote electric vehicles, the corporation conducted a road show from Mahati auditorium in the city on Saturday, which was flagged off by its chairman K.K. Raju, in the presence of MLA B. Karunakar Reddy and Mayor Dr. R. Sireesha. Mr. Raju said the corporation had so far facilitated installation of 8,300 MW of wind and solar power projects in the State, apart from being the nodal agency for promoting electric mobility. “Switching over to electric vehicles has environmental, health and economic benefits, as it helps save fuel expenditure, reduce emissions and protect human health,” he explained to the pedestrians and motorists. NREDCAP General Manager C.B. Jagadeeswara Reddy, and Officer on Special Duty A. Ramanjaneya Reddy also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/go-electric-to-save-energy-environment/article37936791.ece
12 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan should ask his MPs to resign for SCS, says Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy ask his party MPs to resign in order to mount pressure on the Central government to sanction Special Category Status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh as per the assurance given in Parliament. “On our part, the TDP MPs are prepared to resign and join the fight for achieving SCS and other promises made at the time of bifurcation,” Mr. Naidu said while addressing the media on Saturday, and exhorted people to understand the damage being done by the Chief Minister’s “double-standard” on issues that mattered. ‘Ill-conceived proposal’ For instance, instead of carrying forward the capital city project from where it had stopped due to the regime change in 2019, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy came up with the “ill-conceived proposal” to develop three capital cities, which no State had attempted so far, Mr. Naidu said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had insisted that the State needed a city such as Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad as the capital. But he suddenly hit upon the three-capital idea, notwithstanding the fact that thousands of crores of rupees had already been spent on buildings and infrastructure in Amaravati and the risks involved in reneging on the government’s commitments to the farmers, Mr. Naidu said. Railway zone He questioned how the government, which failed in securing the proposed South Coast Railway (SCoR) Zone with Visakhapatnam as its headquarters, could talk about developing the Port City as Executive Capital. The Polavaram and other projects too were neglected, he alleged. “The State’s legitimate rights conferred by the A.P. Reorganisation Act have been given up on the pretext that the BJP is in a dominant position in the Lok Sabha,” Mr. Naidu said. “Our MPs had resigned against the injustice meted out to the State. What is preventing the YSRCP, which has 22 MPs, from making a forceful plea to the Centre to deliver what all have been promised?” Mr. Naidu questioned. VSP row On privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, the TDP president said the State government had surrendered itself to the Centre, while making statements for the sake of public consumption. He blamed the State government for the steep escalation of the Polavaram project cost to about Rs. 55,000 crore, and doubted how it could be completed by the end of 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-should-ask-his-mps-to-resign-for-scs-says-naidu/article37937192.ece
12 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police solve city jewellery store heist within two hours||In a swift action, the Central Zone police solved a jewellery store heist within two hours of receiving a complaint in the city. They recovered Rs. 60 lakh, 1.5 kg of silver ornaments and 47 grams of gold intact, said Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata. The Machavaram police arrested a worker in the jewellery store, S. Jaya Chandrashekar, for the robbery. Mr. Kanthi Rana told the presspersons here that the accused had broken open the locks of the shutter, opened the almirah in the showroom and took away the silver and gold ornaments around 1.30 a.m. on Saturday. The showroom management had lodged a complaint at 10.30 a.m.The Clues team collected fingerprints and the CCTV footages. “The fingerprints matched with that of the accused and his photo was captured in the CCTV in the showroom, when he tried to cover the camera with a blanket,” Mr. Kanthi Rana explained. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP-Law and Order) V. Harshavardhan Raju, who investigated the case, said the accused had planned the robbery two months ago. Central Zone Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Khadar Basha said the accused had got duplicate keys of the showroom made some 45 days ago. He opened the locks and damaged them to make it look like a robbery. Mr. Kanthi Rana appreciated the police team for detecting the case swiftly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-solve-city-jewellery-store-heist-within-two-hours/article37937278.ece
12 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Police teams told to open fire on robber gangs’||With the police identifying the movements of ‘Chaddi gang’ of Gujarat in Andhra Pradesh, vigil has been stepped up in and around Vijayawada. ‘Chaddi gang’ robbers hail from Garbada taluk on the border Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. The notorious gangs move in different States and strike at posh houses. “With the Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh police alerting that ‘Chaddi gang’ members stay on the outskirts and in nearby railway stations, and commit thefts during night, we have kept a vigil on the small railway stations, located near Vijayawada,” said Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata. The Police Commissioner, along with a team of officers, visited the Uppaluru, Madhuranagar and Gunadala railway stations. Police appealed to the locals to alert them if they notice the movements of strangers. The police released the photographs of the ‘Chaddi gang’ members involved in burglaries in Vijayawada in the last few days. “Robbers wearing shorts (chaddis) carried iron rods and wore masks,” said Penamaluru Circle Inspector M. Satyanarayana. “Fifteen weapon teams have been deployed in Vijayawada Police Commissionerate limits. Besides, patrolling has been intensified to prevent thefts,” Mr. Kanthi Rana said. The apartment associations and the residents’ associations have been asked to install CCTVs and security guards and help the police to avoid robberies, said West Zone Assistant Commissioner of Police K. Hanumantha Rao. Police gave instructions to the weapon parties to open fire on robber gangs in self defence and to protect the public as well as their properties, a police officer said. Team visits Gujarat A police team from Vijayawada Police Commissionerate visited Dahod district of Gujarat and enquired about the operations of the local robber gangs, including the ‘Chaddi gangs’. “We have shown the photographs of some of the gang members captured in the CCTVs,” an investigation officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-teams-told-to-open-fire-on-robber-gangs/article37936753.ece
12 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||32nd Vijayawada Book Festival from January 1||The 10- day 32nd Vijayawada Book Festival will be inaugurated by Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on January 1. Announcing it in a press conference here on Saturday, Vijayawada Book Festival Society president T. Manohar Naidu and secretary K. Lakshmaiah said the main dais had been named after renowned Telugu story writer Kalipatnam Rama Rao, who passed away recently. On January 4, a walk to educate the masses about the importance of bookreading, would be organised. It would be flagged off by Chief Electoral Officer K. Vijayanand and led by R.P. Sisodia, special Chief Secretary to the Governor. Various literary events would be conducted on all days of the exhibition and there would be speeches by eminent persons. The venue is yet to be decided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/32nd-vijayawada-book-festival-from-january-1/article37937280.ece
12 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power utilities embark on structural reforms||Saddled with high purchase costs, a huge mismatch between costs and revenues, the burden of Renewable Power Purchase Obligations (RPPOs), among other exigencies, the Andhra Pradesh power utilities are exploring ways to wriggle out of the crisis that crippled the sector since 2014-19. Due emphasis is laid, according to official sources, on bridging the revenue gap, which stands at 24.18%, and bringing down the cost of supplying power to the consumer from the present Rs. .6.92 per kWh. The income and expenditure gap amounts to Rs. 10,345 crore. The fact that revenues, apart from tariff income, depend on various factors, and considering them might not truly reflect the proceeds from regular energy business, is kept in mind while sorting out the issues plaguing the sector. The real gap between the cost of supply and revenues realised from the same is Rs. 2.04 per kWh, which translates to a whopping Rs. 12,630 crore. TDP policies blamed A large portion of the blame is laid on the policies of the TDP government. For instance, it is alleged that during the first full year of the TDP government, the AP Electricity Regulatory Commission had provided for a revenue gap of only Rs. 1,909 crore (it was 7.78% of the total cost of supply), but the gap increased to Rs. 10,345 crore during 2014-19. Priority is now given to exercising prudence in incurring various expenditures, especially the Transmission & Distribution (T&D) costs, the sources say. PPA burden At Rs. 5 lakh per MW per month, the Point of Connectivity charges being paid to the Power Grid Corporation of India Limited imposed a big burden on the utilities. Another factor that hit the utilities hard was the execution of PPAs to buy expensive renewable energy to the tune of 7,000 MW, which reportedly caused a loss of about Rs. 3,500 crore every year throughout the term of the PPAs (25 years). Besides, 23% of the renewable power was purchased at exorbitant tariffs. Among various other things the utilities are grappling with is the debt on their books, which more than doubled from Rs. 33,587.98 crore to Rs. 70,254 crore between the year 2014 and 2019. Plus, the dues to be paid by the Discoms to generators increased more than seven-fold from Rs. 2,893.23 crore to Rs. 21,540.96 crore during the period. As the going got tougher with each passing day, the power utilities have embarked on structural reforms to recover at least some of the lost ground.  Exploring ways to wriggle out of the crisis that crippled the sector since 2014-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-utilities-embark-on-structural-reforms/article37937282.ece
12 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Manipal Hospitals ties up with South Asian Liver Institute||On the occasion of its 15th anniversary, Manipal Hospitals, Vijayawada, signed an MoU with South Asian Liver Institute, Hyderabad, for offering advanced liver care services, including transplants and cancer treatment. The MoU was signed by Tom Cherian from the South Asian Liver Institute and Sudhakar Kantipudi, Director, Manipal Hospitals, in the presence of Dilip Jose, MD & CEO of Manipal Hospitals, Karthik Rajagopal, COO, and V.V.S. Laxman, former Indian cricketer. According to a press release, Manipal Hospitals successfully completed 40 liver transplants, of which 35 were cadaver transplants and five were liver transplants. Dr. Cherian was quoted as saying that the partnership would help Manipal Hospitals and South Asian Liver Institute in synergising their medical expertise in liver care and delivering the best of treatments. Additionally, Manipal Hospitals launched the first cochlear implant programme in Vijayawada. Dr. Venkata Krishna Sandeep, Consultant–ENT and head and neck surgery said cochlear implants were done on children under the age of five.So far, two children aged below two years were operated under the mentorship of cochlear implant surgeon Yarlagadda Subbarayudu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/manipal-hospitals-ties-up-with-south-asian-liver-institute/article37937281.ece
12 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag police on high alert after movement of ‘Chaddi’ gang||After the suspected movement of the ‘Chaddi-Baniyan’ gangs in the Krishna district, the city police have reorganised and made several changes in the night-beat system. The police have also intensified drives to install CCTV cameras, especially on the outskirts. During September 2021, unidentified miscreants had gained entry into a house at Kakani Nagar at Pendurthi and made good with huge valuables. The police have collected the fingerprints at the crime scene and have verified with their existing database. However, none of the fingerprints of the criminals from A.P. had matched with them. Even after sending it to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), the fingerprints have not matched. Based on their crime pattern, the police suspect that they may be from the ‘Parthi gangs.’ Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha has re-organised the years-old beat system in the city. He has asked the officials to alter the timings of visit in the surveillance points. The beat police visiting some area at some time in the night was asked to change the timing. He also asked them to focus on secluded/isolated places. He has also initiated a strict Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in which the ACP rank-level Night Supervising Officer (NSO) will have to make a conference call to the beat police three times - 9.30 p.m., 11.30 p.m. and 2.30 a.m., and enquire about the functioning. The police were also asked them to focus on areas which do not have proper CCTV surveillance, especially after 2.30 a.m.. The D-Colts teams were also asked to keep a watch on locked houses in their limits. Suspecting movement of Parthi and Chaddi-baniyan gangs, the outskirt areas are being thoroughly checked. All the Sub-Inspectors working in suburban regions were asked to check railway station platforms in the night and also to observe movement on railway tracks, as these gangs are assumed to sleep on platforms and travel through train tracks. The police have collected the latest numbers of active rowdy-sheeters in the city to keep a watch on their movement. According to Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP-Crimes) Ch. Penta Rao, the the police have been arranging meetings with people, resident welfare associations, colony members and are appealing to arrange CCTV cameras in their limits, which would help in crime prevention as well as detection. All the Inspectors and Sub-Inspectors were also given targets to arrange CCTVs in their limits by motivating people. “Since December 1, we have arranged about 46 new CCTV cameras in various areas by motivating people,” he said. The ACP also said that the police are also making announcements in colonies about CCTV cameras and how to prevent thefts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-police-on-high-alert-after-movement-of-chaddi-gang/article37937220.ece
12 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 40k people receive COVID vaccine in Visakhapatnam district||As many as 40,135 people were administrated COVID-19 vaccine in a special drive organised in the district on Saturday. According to the Health Department officials, 23,806 people were administrated first dose of vaccine, while 16,329 were given the second dose. The officials carried out the special drive in all Primary Health Centres (PHCs), Community Health Centres (CHCs) and Sachivalayams from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., following instructions from the District Collector A Mallikarjuna. One death,12 new cases The total number of persons, who were given the COVID-19 vaccine in the district, has increased to 55,63,039. Among them, 31,88,026 people received first dose vaccine, while 23,75,013 people completed both the doses. The district recorded 12 new COVID-19 cases, 25 recoveries and one COVID-19 death in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning, taking the cumulative tally of total cases to 1,59,137. The death toll and recoveries have increased to 1,105 and 1,57,827 respectively. The total number of active cases reduced to 205.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-40k-people-receive-covid-vaccine-in-visakhapatnam-district/article37937224.ece
12 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alumni of govt. residential school establish digital library||Students passing out of government schools in rural areas are often at a disadvantage, when compared to their urban counterparts. This is due to lack of amenities like online facilities, audio visual education and digital libraries. The alumni of one such school have decided to bridge the gap. The alumni of the AP Residential School for Boys at Peda Boddepalli of Narsipatnam mandal in the district, who have come up the hard way in life, have established a digital library’ for the benefit of future generations, studying in their alma mater. They contributed Rs. 30 lakh for construction of the library building and purchase of computers and other equipment. “In 2003, the first batch (1986) of SSC students from our school, along with their juniors, formed the Old Students Association and got it registered. We made it a point to organise a picnic on the second Sunday in December, every year, and enjoy the day, apart from discussing on doing something for our school,” recalls V. China Nookaraju, a.k.a Chanti,, a Senior Assistant in Life Insurance Corpoation of India (LIC) at Narsipatnam, who belongs to the 1992 batch. Friendship Day “We used to donate books, worth about Rs. 1 lakh, on Friendship Day, every year, to the top three rankers of each class (5th to 10th) to motivate the children to study hard and bring laurels to the school. About five years ago, Bandaru Ramachandra Rao, an Associate Professor of ENT, at the Government ENT Hospital in Visakhapatnam city, who belongs to the 1986 batch, I and a few others decided on setting up of the digital library, which would benefit all students.” Says K.V. Appa Rao, an Assistant Manager in APSRTC and a former student: “The digital library will have short videos on the success stories of former students, who have become IAS and IPS officers, doctors and successful businessmen. It will inspire the present batches of students. to think: ‘When a former student of my school can make it big, why can’t I’ ”? Book donation “Though the foundation for the library was laid in December, 2019, the construction was delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We will procure 20 computers, projectors and provide internet facility soon. Our association has around 2,500 members and we will ask each member to donate one good book, which will be of use to students,” Dr. Ramachandra Rao, current president of the association, said. ‘Vigyana Vahini’ The digital library, christened ‘Vigyana Vahini’, will be inaugurated by Narsipatnam MLA P. Umasankar Ganesh in the presence of District Collector A. Mallikarjuna on December 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alumni-of-govt-residential-school-establish-digital-library/article37937219.ece
12 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIM-V hosts management doctoral meet||The first annual management doctoral colloquium ‘Shodh Samagam’ organised by the Indian Institute of Management – Visakhapatnam, concluded here on Friday evening. Delivering the inaugural address, Amit Shankar, chairman of the colloquium, said that the colloquium served as a platform for research scholars to seek knowledge, learn new research techniques and receive feedback from academicians. Delivering the keynote address, Ravi Vatrapu, Director, Centre for Digital Enterprise Analytics and Leadership (DEAL), Ted Rogers School of Management, Ryerson University, Canada, spoke about best practices in the doctoral journey and takeaways from a career in academic research. A total of 207 research papers were submitted to the colloquium and about 50 were selected for presentation. The colloquium also had sessions on Qualitative Research by Mukta Kulkarni (IIM Bangalore), Doctoral Journey by Vishal Gupta (IIM Ahmedabad), Case Research by Sanal Kumar Velayudhan (Ex Dean, IIM Kozhikode). Speaking at the valedictory, M. Chandrashekhar, Director IIM V, reinforced the need for building strong research culture through such colloquium and conferences. He announced the three best research papers awarded in the colloquium. Three awards Velavan S (IIM Bangalore), Nishi Malhotra (IIM Kozhikode) and Satender Pal Singh (IIM Ranchi) received the winner, runner-up and second runner-up award respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iim-v-hosts-management-doctoral-meet/article37937227.ece
12 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four injured in fire accident at Divis Lab||Four persons were injured in a fire accident that occurred allegedly due to a cylinder explosion at Divis Laboratories in Bheemunipatnam mandal in Visakhapatnam on Saturday. According to the police, the accident occurred in an open place in the industry when the workers were doing some welding work. Among the four, one was a private contractor, the other was his cousin and the remaining two were contract workers. All the four were shifted to private hospital and are said to be out of danger, according to the police.Bheemunipatnam Police are collecting the details. Meanwhile, the CPI(M) demanded that the officials conduct an inquiry into the accident and take action against the management. District Secretary of the party K. Lokanadham said that among the four injured, the condition of two is critical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-injured-in-fire-accident-at-divis-lab/article37937221.ece
12 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six doctors appointed in Agency hospitals||Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Gopala Krishna has said that the State Government has issued orders appointing six civil assistant surgeons to the Agency hospitals. In a release on Saturday, he said that among them anaesthetists were appointed to hospitals in Paderu, Munchingputtu and Araku. Ophthalmology surgeon was appointed at Araku and General Medicine Civil Assistant Surgeon was appointed at Araku hospital. Similarly, orthopaedic surgeon was appointed at Paderu hospital, he said. Mr. Gopala Krishna said that this was possible with the support of District Collector A Mallikarjuna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-doctors-appointed-in-agency-hospitals/article37937222.ece
12 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Hari Nama Japa Yagnam’ on Dec. 14||Hare Krishna movement is organising ‘Hari Nama Japa Yagnam’ (continuous chanting of holy names) on the occasion of Gita jayanthi on December 14, at the TTD Kalyana Mandapam, MVP Colony. Gita Jayanti, is observed as the anniversary of Lord Sri Krishna reciting the Bhagavad Gita to Sri Arjuna, 5,000 years ago, said Yadhu Raja Dasa of Hare Krishna Movement. The programme will be held from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hari-nama-japa-yagnam-on-dec-14/article37937225.ece
12 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agitation against sale of VSP is entering a criticial phase: AITUC||The agitation that has been taken up by the employees of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and trade unions against the Union Government’s proposal of 100% strategic sale of the VSP is entering a critical phase and from now on it will take the shape of the agitation that the farmers had taken up against the farm laws in Delhi, said AITUC national secretary G. Obulesu. He was speaking at the inaugural session of the two-day workshop of the AITUC at the Viskahapatnam Steel Plant, here on Saturday. He said that after wining in the second term, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his team has been focussing on privatisation of Central public sector units, which is bad for the nation. Mr. Obulesu said that despite not been given any captive mines, the employees of the VSP has toiled hard to take the production capacity from 3.2 to 7.3 million tonnes. State Secretary of AITUC D. Adinarayana said that the VSP was achieved after a long struggle and over 30 people have sacrificed their lives. This plant is wrapped with the emotion of people of Andhra and it will not be privatised, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agitation-against-sale-of-vsp-is-entering-a-criticial-phase-aituc/article37937230.ece
12 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||HSL to hold exhibition from tomorrow||As part of the ongoing ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’, and commemorate the 75 years of India’s Independence, the Hindustan Shipyard Limited will be organising an exhibition from December 13 to 19. The exhibition will be virtually inaugurated by the Defence Minister at around 3.15 p.m. at the GV Nilayam Auditorium, HSL Colony, near Scindia Junction. The HSL will showcase the maritime history of the country and the shipyard since its inception.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hsl-to-hold-exhibition-from-tomorrow/article37937226.ece
12 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hockey tourney begins||The 30th VB Naidu Hockey Tournament was inaugurated by D.K. Mohanty, Director (Commercial) of RINL at the VSP Hockey Ground, Ukkunagaram, here on Saturday. The tournament is being conducted by the Friends Hockey Association and 11 boys teams and three girls teams are participating. F.K. Lakhra, Chief General Manager (TA), M S Kumar, GM (Sports), and R Shankar former ED (Mktg), Ravishankar of FHA and others attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hockey-tourney-begins/article37937228.ece
12 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical camp organised by ENC||As part of the Navy Week activities, INHS Kalyani, the hospital of the Eastern Naval Command, in coordination with PIMT (Rambilli), organised a multi-speciality medical camp at Vadanarasapuram, Rambilli, for the residents in the surrounding villages on Saturday. The camp was inaugurated by Surg Cmde J. Sridhar, Commanding Officer, INHS Kalyani. Over 500 residents availed the medical facilities during the camp. Doctors from various specialities were available for consultation and treatment. Medicines were distributed to those in need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/medical-camp-organised-by-enc/article37937229.ece
12 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Graduation Day celebrated at Avanthi College||Avanthi Group Colleges celebrated Graduation Day at Avanthi Engineering College, Tagarapuvalasa here on Saturday. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao who attended the event as Chief guest, addressed the students to reach greater heights in life and believe in ones own strength and be self-motivated. He also advised the students not to stop learning even after getting job. Director of NSTL Y. Srinivas Rao said that the desired results can be achieved by utilising modern technology. CEO of Prospecta Technologies, Sudhakar Pantula, Superintendent of Police Vizianagaram, M Deepika and others attended. Heads of various departments, staff were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/graduation-day-celebrated-at-avanthi-college/article37937285.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. will stand by Sai Teja’s family, says Peddireddi||“This is a very small gesture to Sai Teja’s family compared to his high achievements in service of the country. At a very young age, he had risen to the rank of the personal security officer to the highest defence personnel in the country,” Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said. ‘Govt. job sought’ He said that Ms. Shyamala had urged the State government to provide her a government job to look after her two children. “We will take this to the notice of the Chief Minister and do the needful. The government will stand by the family of Sai Teja,” he said. Later, he consoled the family members, who included Sai Teja’s parents and younger brother Mahesh, who works in the Army in Sikkim. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, Collector M. Hari Narayanan, and senior officials were present. Cremation today Meanwhile, Deputy SP (Madanapalle) A. Ravi Manohar Achari told The Hindu that the body of Sai Teja had arrived in Bengaluru on Saturday evening and kept at the defence base camp mortuary. “After speaking to the family members, the Army officials have decided to perform the last rites on Sunday morning. As the body has to reach the village from Bengaluru by road, the officials want to avoid possible traffic snarls in case of public gatherings along the National Highway to pay tributes to the mortal remains of Sai Teja. Hence, the body will be starting from Bengaluru in the early hours and reach the village early,” Mr. Achari said. Because of the heavy congregation of people, political leaders, Army officials, and government officers, elaborate security arrangements were being made at the venue. The tentative schedule for cremation was 9 a.m. Candlelight tribute Meanwhile, the NCC Tirupati Group organised a candlelight tribute and condolence meeting to mourn the demise of Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat and 13 other personnel in the helicopter crash. Group Commander Col. Yogesh Dongrakoti led the prayers at SV University stadium in Tirupati. Speaking on the occasion, MLA B. Karunakar Reddy said, “At this juncture, the controversial remarks of China on the copter crash is unwarranted and provocative.” Col. Yogesh said the tragedy had thrown a blanket of grief on the defence forces in the country, and the services of the victims for the nation would never be forgotten.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-will-stand-by-sai-tejas-family-says-peddireddi/article37937203.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A whale of a time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-whale-of-a-time/article37937232.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Never too late||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/never-too-late/article37936768.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Set to light up night sky||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/set-to-light-up-night-sky/article37937284.ece
12 December 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Miners vow to take the stir forward||The three-day strike by workers of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) against the Centre’s decision to auction four coal blocks in the State for commercial mining ended on Saturday, crippling coal production for three days in a row. Members owing allegiance to the Joint Action Committee of trade unions staged a dharna in front of the SCCL’s head office in Kothagudem on Saturday. Speakers at the dharna hailed the three-day strike as a unified struggle by the workforce . They vowed to take forward the joint agitation with a renewed vigour to press for allocation of the four coal blocks to the SCCL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/miners-vow-to-take-the-stir-forward/article37937056.ece
12 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||84k COVID patients treated at Gandhi||A total of 84,127 COVID patients underwent treatment at Gandhi Hospital during the first and second waves of the pandemic. For the initial few months of the first wave, COVID patients were mainly admitted at Gandhi Hospital. By June 2020, corporate hospitals were also allowed to admit such patients. COVID nodal officer at the government tertiary care hospital (Gandhi Hospital) Dr. T. Prabhakar Reddy said that these 84,127 patients included 1,688 women who gave birth at the hospital, and 3,762 children (below 14 years). Since corporate hospitals charged exorbitant prices for COVID treatment, thousands of people preferred government hospitals, especially those who needed specialists’ services. Around 8,178 dialysis sessions were offered to patients with chronic kidney diseases. Whenever a new health crisis emerged during the two waves, Gandhi Hospital was the best bet to admit patients. When a large number of patients were detected with Mucormycosis, patients were mostly admitted at Gandhi Hospital and Government ENT Hospital. Dr. Prabhakar said that 1,786 patients with Mucormycosis were treated at their hospital and out of them, 1,163 underwent surgeries. “Around 5,358 patients with Mucormycosis were treated at the Out-Patient department. People used to come even from neighbouring States like Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka,” he said. Over 113 patients with COVID were operated on an emergency basis like those who suffered from critical injuries in accidents. Currently, there are only 44 patients at the hospital with COVID. Of them, 10 have Mucormycosis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/84k-covid-patients-treated-at-gandhi/article37937021.ece
12 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Reallotment for employees begins||An elaborate process aimed at re-allotment of government employees in 33 new districts as part of implementation of the new zonal system of employment began on Saturday. District level committees headed by Collectors and comprising officers of various departments today started considering options given by employees to their native districts. The process will continue till December 15. With the erstwhile ten districts as units, the government had invited in prescribed proforma till Friday options from employees for allotment to new districts within the erstwhile districts where they were already working. Preferences  The employees were asked to give their preferences on a scale of one to five. Sources said the employees were proposed to be allotted on the basis of the seniority of service in the erstwhile district. The district committees of erstwhile Warangal, Nizamabad, Mahbubnagar and Rangareddy updated the seniority list and displayed them outside Collectorates on Friday. The remaining districts were expected to follow suit from Saturday. The panels also considered claims of physically challenged employees, employees who had special children, widows who were appointed on compassionate grounds, employees suffering from cancer and those who underwent neurosurgery, kidney and liver transplant and open heart surgery. The decision of the government to re-allot employees on the basis of seniority was resented by unions as juniors stood to lose out. Their first preference claims may not be addressed in the midst of seniority on one hand and select considerations on the other. The unions expressed anger that it was a futile exercise because the junior staff was anyway working somewhere in erstwhile district. Their eagerness for state government employees for working in their native places after reorganisation of districts into thirty three new units went unaddressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/reallotment-of-employees-begins/article37937050.ece
12 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Probe construction of martyrs memorial’||Assigning the Telangana Martyrs Memorial construction work to a Andhra contractor shows how insensitive Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao has become towards Telangana martyrs while the escalation of cost from Rs. 60 crore to Rs. 180 crore reflected how the government squandered away public money, alleged TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy. Mr. Reddy, who visited the construction site on Tank Bund along with All India Congresss Committee (AICC) spokesperson Sravan Dasoju, Anil Kumar Yadav and Chamala Kiran Reddy, said despite the escalation of price all that the contractor had done in the last three years was to raise a few concrete pillars. He said the contract was awarded to Proddutur based Kamishetti Pullaiah Company (KPC) Project Limited that had secured tenders with false certificates. He said GO no. 339 was issued on June 17, 2017 at an estimated cost of Rs. 80 crore. But the tenders were called only after a year on June 26, 2018. Tanikella Integrated Consultants Pvt. Ltd was hired as consultant with a fee of 6% of total project cost. But the cost of construction had now escalated to Rs. 180 crore. ‘Just pillars’ As per the original agreement and the extension given later, the construction should have been completed by December 31 this year. But as of today there were just pillars and slabs even after spending Rs. 110 crore. There was no clarity on when the memorial would be ready for opening. He said the Chief Minister, Mr Chandrasekhar Rao, had the time to visit the Secretariat that is just a few hundred metres away for a review but what prevented him from visiting Martyrs memorial construction. K. Chandrasekhar Rao did not have respect for the martyrs but at least he should not have hatred, he said adding Telangana society should notice this behaviour. The Congress chief alleged that one Sridhar, a friend of Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao was the brain behind this escalation of costs and there should be a high-level probe into it. He also asked the government to clarify the reasons for delay in execution of the project and why the works were assigned to an Andhra contractor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/probe-construction-of-martyrs-memorial/article37937051.ece
12 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Healthcare suffering in govt. hospitals: TJUDA||Several issues at government hospitals leading to poor healthcare were brought to the notice of Health Minister Harish Rao during his visit to Gandhi Hospital on Saturday. Members of the Telangana Junior Doctors’ Association (TJUDA) requested him to expedite the process of direct recruitment of assistant professors, non-academic junior residents, and increase stipends. In a representation submitted to him on Saturday, the junior doctors stated categorically that public health was at stake because of poor healthcare services at hospitals. Lack of the requisite number of doctors and other healthcare workers at various levels was pointed out as the main reason. The required number of assistant professors and other teaching staff in tertiary care hospitals were not available, they said. “Hence, there is an urgent need for immediate recruitment to fill up these posts. We request you to direct the authorities concerned to initiate the process as early as possible,” the TJUDA members said. Meanwhile, officials from the Health department said that the process of filling up the vacancies, and recruitment of new posts is underway. “Around 1,100 posts will be filled up on direct recruitment basis,” they said. Apart from the lack of required medical professionals, junior doctors have requested appointment of non-academic junior residents to reduce the burden on current residents. Since PG-NEET counselling was not conducted yet, only two batches of PGs were attending to patients. As one batch is not available, the current resident doctors (PGs) are burdened with work load. A solution to the ‘pathetic’ condition of Osmania General Hospital building, and regularisation of stipends for all PGs, senior residents, super-specialty residents, and house surgeons were also demanded.  There is an urgent need for immediate recruitment to fill up these posts. We request you to direct the authorities concerned to initiate the process as early as possible. TJUDA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/healthcare-suffering-in-govt-hospitals-tjuda/article37937022.ece
12 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A dignified burial for unclaimed bodies||It began on a warm April day in 2003 when Zahid Ali Khan received a rather strange phone call. “A police constable was on the line. He wanted to know if I can do something about an unclaimed body of a Muslim man that the police were in the process of cremating as per procedure. I decided to step in to help with the funeral,” says Mr. Khan, the editor of Siasat Urdu newspaper, sitting inside the Darul Shifa Masjid. Outside, 11 biers brought from different mosques were covered with the white cloth. The 11 bodies would take the total number of bodies buried through the network of Siasat reach 5,030 over a period of 18 years. On Saturday at 1.30 p.m., the funeral prayers were read for 11 bodies that were brought from the mortuaries of Gandhi Hospital and Osmania General Hospital. The bodies were later taken for burial to a graveyard in Kukatpally. “There is no space in the graveyards in the city. So, burials are being done at Kukatpally,” said Mr. Khan, a retired police official who supervises the burials of unclaimed bodies. “After the first unclaimed body was buried, I wrote to the then Hyderabad Police Commissioner M.V. Krishna Rao about my plan to carry on the work of dignified burials. Now, whenever there is an unclaimed Muslim body, the police reach us,” said Mr. Khan, adding that the organisation with the help of readers has spent about Rs. 2 crore over the years. “The number of bodies for which we performed funerals did not go up during the pandemic as we deal with mostly those handed over by the police from their morgue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/on-a-mission-to-give-dignified-burial-to-unclaimed-bodies/article37937025.ece
12 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Writing non-fiction is easier for me, says Tharoor||Nearly 40 years after the launch of his Reasons of State , author and Member of Parliament Shashi Tharoor launched his 23rd book: Pride, Prejudice and Punditry in Hyderabad on Saturday. “I am a former UN official. I am a former Minister. I may become a former MP, but I hope I will never become a former writer,” said Mr. Tharoor in conversation with former anchor Nidhi Razdan at a city hotel. The book is compilation of some of his earlier writings as well as a few commissioned pieces. “My first story was published when I was 10 years old. I have been writing since then,” said Mr. Tharoor. “Writing non-fiction is easier for me in the line of my work as I can pick up the pieces even with many distractions that come with political life,” said Mr. Tharoor while extolling the delights of writing fiction.  In the course of the conversation, Mr. Tharoor shared the inside story of how he became the Indian candidate for the top job at the United Nations as well as his many trials and tribulations on Twitter. “When I used the phrase ‘cattle class’ I didn’t think it would become such a big issue with even calls for my resignation. Now, I don’t censor myself but I am more careful of what I post,” said Mr. Tharoor. “I believe in the wisdom of Shakespeare’s adage that the success of a jest lies not in the tongue of the teller but the ear of the hearer. It doesn’t matter what you are saying or what you intend to say all that matters is what the listener believes he has heard or made to believe they have heard and that ultimately is a profound lesson we have to learn. I still lose votes because that comment,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/writing-non-fiction-is-easier-for-me-says-tharoor/article37937027.ece
12 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Centre discriminating against Telangana’||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Government at the Centre of discriminating against Telangana in the matter of coal blocks’ privatisation, irrigation projects and highways. After causing agony to the farming community, it is now targeting the Singareni Collieries workers. Government Whip Balka Suman, Public Undertakings Committee Chairman A. Jeevan Reddy and MLC Egge Mallesham said here on Saturday that after pushing the farming community intro distress with new farm laws and with its approach on the procurement of paddy, the Centre was now trying to privatise Singareni coal mines although Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) was in profits. They stated that the TRS had supported the coal miners strike in Singareni and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao wrote to the Prime Minister with a request not to auction coal blocks in Singareni area keeping in mind the future of workers and SCCL. However, there was no response from the Centre. Addressing a press conference, they pointed out that the task of extracting coal reserves in Gujarat was handed over to a State Government agency and Coal India Ltd since there was BJP Government in that State. Similarly, the BJP leaders in Odisha and Jharkhand had got the process of fresh auction of coal blocks stopped there. However, in case of Telangana the Centre was acting with a vengeance. After causing distress to farmers in the matter of paddy procurement, the Centre was trying to unsettle the Singareni workers and a conspiracy was in the making to hand over the coal blocks in Telangana to Adani group, the TRS leaders alleged. The BJP-led Centre was trying to cripple every economic sector of Telangana in a planned manner and the Telangana society was observing it. They further alleged that the Centre was heaping injustice on Telangana in the matter of irrigation projects and highways. It was denying national project status to Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation scheme and delaying clearance to several other projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-discriminating-against-telangana/article37937041.ece
12 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL asks OC miners to resume work||To make up the loss suffered in production and dispatch of coal for three days due to the strike call given by the trade unions to some extent, the management of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has modified the play day guidelines to allow workers to resume work in the opencast mines and coal handling plants on Sunday. According to the company authorities the financial loss to the company due to the three-day strike was Rs. 120 crore with a production loss of 4.5 lakh tonnes at 1.5 lakh tonnes a day. The management asked it workers and officials to put in extra efforts to achieve the targets fixed for the year by meeting the daily targets first. The management has changed the norm for working on play day (Sunday) by reducing the number of musters (shifts) from four to two during the week keeping in mind the needs of power generation and other units depending on coal supplies from Singareni. Workers who work a play day would get wages for two musters. Accordingly, the company asked all those working in the opencast mines and coal handling plants to resume duties on Sunday. During the talks held with trade unions at the Regional Labour Commissioner office on Saturday, the management reiterated that the proposal to auction JVR OC-3, Shravanapalli, Koyagudem Block-3 and KK-6 Incline mines and hand them over to SCCL for mining after removing them from auction list was a policy decision taken by the Centre and a resolution was possible in Centre’s purview. The management offered its cooperation when the unions stated that they would visit Delhi to meet the Coal Minister and others on the issue. On other demands of the unions, the officials of Union Labour Department suggested that the two sides resolve them through talks. Accordingly, the two sides agreed to meet again on January 20 to discuss other outstanding issues. The management also stated that over 10 letters were addressed to the Coal Ministry not to include the four blocka in the auction list and hand them over o Singareni Collieries Company Ltd for mining and the Chief Minister had written to the Prime Minister twice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-asks-oc-miners-to-resume-work-from-today/article37937046.ece
12 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vegetable prices hit the roof||Greens on the table, essential for daily nutrient content required for human body, are getting out of bounds for the poor, owing to skyrocketing prices. Prices have soared by more than 100 per cent for several kinds of vegetables in the market without exception, even as people’s livelihoods are hit by the pandemic influenced economy, bringing their income down. In six months’ time, the monthly budget spent on vegetables has grown by more than three times, vouch buyers. Six months ago, I would spend about Rs. 40-50 every time I visited the vegetable market, and at the most Rs. 90 when I went extravagant with the purchases. But now, even for normal vegetables, I am spending Rs. 130 to Rs. 140 per instance,” shared Shyamala, a home maker. Even in Rythu Bazaars of the city where vegetables are a lot more affordable, prices are going up drastically. Tomatoes which costed Rs. 10 per kg in June this year, are now available only for Rs. 60 per kg in Rythu Bazaars. Brinjal’s price rose from Rs. 23 to Rs. 50 during the same period, while lady fingers cost Rs. 60 per kg now against Rs. 35 per kg six months ago. Green chillis have gone up to Rs. 45 from Rs. 25 per kg., while its cousin capsicum has hit the roof at Rs. 80 per kilogram altogether. “Rythu Bazar prices are no comparison to the same in markets outside. Even at weekly shandies, no vegetable is cheaper than Rs. 80 per kg. Some regular vegetables are not even seen any more in the market,” says Ravi Kumar, who says he spent Rs. 1000 on weekly purchase of vegetables and fruits alone. The exponential rise in prices is being attributed to the untimely rains in October, which damaged vegetable crops extensively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vegetable-prices-hit-the-roof/article37937038.ece
12 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Drive to achieve 100% vaccination||The administration of Mahabubnagar district has launched a special drive to achieve 100% vaccination of all eligible persons, administering at least the first dose to about 7.1 lakh and second dose for all those eligible for it, over the next one week by deploying health workers covering habitations from 8 am to 8 pm every day. The decision to administer at least the first dose to eligible persons has been taken following the entry of Omicron variant of COVID-19 infection into the country with its trait of spreading fast. The vaccination teams are in the field in all 435 gram panchayats and 3 municipalities in the district and several teams were continuing the inoculation till late in the night – up to 10 pm-11 pm. According to District Collector S. Venkata Rao, about 18,300 doses were administered on December 4, 24,120 on December 5, 24,500 on December 6, and 22,500 on December 7. “Till December 3 the coverage of first dose was 5.56 lakh persons and second dose was 2.02 lakh persons and on December 10 it reached 6.1 lakh and 2.34 lakh, respectively”, the District Collector said. To ensure a seamless exercise, the tahsildars and municipal commissioners concerned have been providing water, food, snacks on time to the visiting teams in the field itself. The district officials stated that administering the vaccine to more number of eligible persons was possible as most of those who go out for work would return home in the evening. The officials stated that about 50,000 personnel of the health department, Asha and Anganwadi workers and women self help groups were engaged in the special drive of vaccination. The percentage of administering first dose was 86% and the second dose was 34%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drive-to-achieve-100-vaccination/article37937044.ece
12 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Christmas celebrations at Gandhi Bhavan||Christmas celebrations were held at Gandhi Bhavan where all the senior Congress leaders participated and recalled the contribution of Christians in nation-building. The celebrations were attended by former PCC president and MP Uttam Kumar Reddy, working president J. Geetha Reddy, MLC T. Jeeven Reddy, former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir, ex-MP Ponnam Prabhakar, AICC Spokesperson Dasoju Sravan, Youth Congress national General Secretary Anil Kumar Yadav and AICC Minorities Department Co-Convener Anil Thomas. Mr. Revanth Reddy promised that the Congress, if voted to power in next elections, would include Dalit Christians in the Scheduled Castes. He praised the services being rendered by Christian organisations in the country in providing quality education and medical care. He said that the Congress had been working hard to maintain communal harmony and unity in the country. Congress believed in unity in diversity and while in power it took measures to provide equal growth opportunities to all sections of society. Mr Revanth Reddy recalled that former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi gave a call for 'Garibi Hatao' with an intention of addressing the needs of all sections of society. Now AICC president Sonia Gandhi had been striving to protect the interest of all citizens in the country. He said Sonia Gandhi, who lost her mother-in-law Indira Gandhi and then her husband Rajiv Gandhi in tragic incidents, knew the value of life. For the same reason, she granted statehood to Telangana as she wanted to stop youth and students from committing suicide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/christmas-celebrations-at-gandhi-bhavan/article37937053.ece
12 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘I created trouble for TRS trouble-shooter Harish’||Sangareddy legislator and Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) working president T. Jayaprakash Reddy claimed that he was able to create trouble to trouble-shooter of the TRS Health Minister T. Harish Rao in the MLC elections in Medak by fielding Congress candidate despite insufficient numbers. He said though Congress had just 230 votes it would poll at least 400 votes with cross voting from the TRS. “My first victory is stopping the unanimous election of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) candidate and also forcing Mr. Harish Rao to organise camps and give some respect to the TRS members who are otherwise ignored by the Minister,” he claimed. Attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the TRS, the Congress leader said that ministers in the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government and the BJP government at the Centre were just dummies and they were in cahoots to sideline the Congress. But that would not happen as the Congress worked with the people and for their welfare. Farmers’ suicides Mr. Reddy said it was unfortunate that farmers were committing suicide, after addressing letters to the Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao. At least, now the Chief Minsiter should respond and ensure that their issues were taken seriously. He said the governments cannot direct the farmers to cultivate crops of their choice but their duty was to ensure support price for whatever crops the farmers cultivated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/i-created-trouble-for-trs-trouble-shooter-harish/article37937055.ece
12 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Drug peddling racket busted in Nizamabad||With the arrest of six persons, including a juvenile, and a realtor, Nizamabad police on Saturday claimed to have busted an organised drug peddling racket. A total of 44 kilograms of cannabis worth Rs. 8 lakh was seized from the possession of the accused, Additional DCP (Law and Order) G. Vineeth said. The arrested were identified as Osman Khan, 32, a realtor, Shaik Moiz, 20, a cook, Shaik Shiraz, 31, an auto driver, Badramaina Sudhakar, 38, a private employee, a juvenile in conflict with the law, all residents of Nizamabad and Kadari Raju, 32, an auto driver from Jadalpeta in Jayashanker Bhupalpalli district. According to Dr. Vineeth, the gang was caught by the sleuths of 5th Town police station while they were checking vehicles at Babansaba Pahadi on Friday afternoon. “During vehicle checking, our team noticed two autorickshaws and a bike moving in a suspicious manner and intercepted them. A thorough examination of the autos resulted in the seizure of 44 kilograms of ganja,” the officer said. He said that that the gang procured the contraband from a supplier on Andhra-Odisha Border and were trying to smuggle it to Nanded in neighbouring Maharashtra. “They were selling it for at least Rs. 15,000 per kilogram,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drug-peddling-racket-busted-in-nizamabad/article37937237.ece
12 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||1 more person was involved in Banjara Hills accident||It was not just realtor Bazar Rohit Goud and his friend Vedulla Sai Soman, their friend and realtor Kosaraju Venkatesh alias Venky, too was travelling in the former’s Porsche car when it hit and killed two persons at Banjara Hills on the night of December 5. Venkatesh (27), whose marriage was would be solemnised on December 12, is a resident of Alkapuri Colony in LB Nagar. During their one-day police custody, Goud and Soman confessed to the police that they tried to safeguard Venkatesh as he was supposed to get married. “To reconstruct the scene as well as to ascertain whether any other person is also involved in this offence or not, we took the duo into custody and after confronting with the substantial evidence (CCTV footages, CDRs and tower locations), they confessed that Venkatesh was also present in the car when the accident took place,” Joint Commissioner of Police (West Zone) AR Srinivas said. Accordingly, Venkatesh left the place in his vehicle but Goud and Soman were caught by the police, the officer added. Currently, Venkatesh is at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1-more-person-was-involved-in-banjara-hills-accident/article37937033.ece
12 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 400 Ham operators take part at annual meet||It was a day of circuitous wizardry with around 400 Ham operators from across the country converging at the Lamakaan Annual Radio Convention (LARC 4) on Saturday, and sharing information about frequencies, antennae, and wireless technologies. It also witnessed the sBITX, a software-defined indigenously designed radio. Explaining what this means, Ashhar Farhan, who developed the sBITX transceiver, and wrote the code, says, “Software defined radios are more compact. Hardware defined radios are much larger. Otherwise this radio would have been the size of a trunk. Software defined radios allow for correction of data, and storage of data. They also amplify weak signals.” The sBITX transceiver, Mr. Farhan said, was developed on LINUX. The idea was to add more features, and this was possible on open source platforms. “Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow,” Mr. Farhan quotes Eric Raymond, a famous open-source software advocate. This implies that the more access to the code a larger number of people have, the easier it is to identify bugs, fix them, and the better the radio can be. The sBITX requires lesser complex circuits and runs on a low-cost computer board so as to process complex signals. “It is the first software defied radio to be developed from scratch in India,” he said. LARC 4, a two-day event, was organised at Muffakham Jah College of Engineering and Technology. Head of the Department of Electronics and Communications Prof. Mohammed Arifuddin Sohel described the convention as important for students as they could see for themselves how latest technologies work. The event also included technical sessions by those who have made a name for themselves in the field of radio communication, home brewing, and building antennas and radios. They shared insights with participants, many of whom had several questions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-400-ham-radio-operators-take-part-in-annual-convention/article37937029.ece
12 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Homemaker, two children found dead in Rajendranagar||A homemaker and her two children were found dead at their residence at Fort View Colony under Rajendranagar police station limits on Saturday evening. The woman, Kusuma Swathi, 35, killed her son Tanvik Sri, 5, and daughter Shreya, 3, by hanging them from a ceiling fan before she resorted to the extreme act, Rajendra Nagar ACP B. Gangadhar said. He said that Swathi took the drastic step as was unable to put up with her husband, Sai Kumar’s harassment. “Though all the time he was in the house, Kumar, a techie addicted to alcohol, did not bother to check why his wife and children were not coming out of their room since last night,” he said. The incident reportedly took place on Friday evening but came to light only around 6 p.m. on Saturday only after Swathi’s father reached the victims' house to know why her phone was not getting connected. A suicide note purportedly written by Swathi on her bedroom wall said: Sai harasses me. I cannot live with him as he is a sadist. Even he will harass my children.” Sai Kumar and Swathi were in love and got married five years ago. “Her parents alleged that Kumar was torturing their daughter, both physically and mentally,” the ACP said. Bodies of the victims were shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy.  (Roshni - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/homemaker-two-children-found-dead-in-rajendranagar/article37937034.ece
12 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CT Scanner inaugurated||A CT Scanner worth Rs. 2 crore was inaugurated at Gandhi Hospital by Health Minister Harish Rao on Saturday. Head of the radiology department Dr. P. Sreehari said that charges for diagnostic tests at private hospitals depend on the body part being scanned. Around Rs. 3,000-Rs. 4,000 is charged for scanning brain, Rs. 6,500 for abdomen, and Rs. 3,500 for chest. This will be performed free of cost at Gandhi Hospital. Mr. Harish Rao said that an MRI machine worth Rs. 12.5 crore, and Cath Lab worth Rs. 6.5 crore would be arranged in 45 days. He added that a 200-bed Mother and Child Healthcare Centre would be opened in six days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ct-scanner-inaugurated/article37937019.ece
12 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||188 more test positive in TS||Telangana recorded 188 COVID cases on Saturday, taking the total to 6,78,142. While 35,978 samples were examined, results of 4,761 were awaited. One more COVID patient died. One more person who has come from an ‘at risk’ country has tested positive. Samples collected from the air passenger were sent for genome sequencing. The new cases include 78 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 21 from Hanamkonda, 15 from Karimnagar, and 12 each from Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy. No case was recorded in nine districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/188-more-test-positive-in-ts/article37937023.ece
12 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Club raided for obscenity||Two owners of Club Tollywood (previously Lisbon Pub) at Country Club, Begumpet, were apprehended by the Commissioner’s Task Force (West zone) in the late hours of Friday for allowing obscene dances. cting on a tip-off, the team raided the pub and found women dancing in an indecent manner, indulging in obscene and shady activities by creating nuisance to other people, Officer on Special Duty (Task Force) P Radha Kishan Rao said. Apart from pub owners, N. Venu Gopal, 43, from Road No.2, Banjara Hills, and R. Sai Baradwaz, 30, from Housing Board Colony, Tarnaka, the police also apprehended 33 male customers and rescued nine women. Manager Ramu, a resident of Ramanthapur, is still at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/club-raided-for-obscenity/article37937032.ece
12 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Policemen enhancing technical skills: DGP||When technology-based frauds are on the rise at alarming levels, the police department is also gearing up and is enhancing the skills of their personnel, Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy said. Addressing the third annual conference of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE), Hyderabad, ‘Unfolding Fraud Deterrence’, Mr. Mahender Reddy said that with the rising number of cases, the government also recognised the need for an enhanced skill set, and established National Forensic University at Gandhinagar, Gujarat. Thanks to the rapid strides in technology, crimes are also being investigated and are successfully cracked,” Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/policemen-enhancing-technical-skills-dgp/article37937036.ece
12 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1.80 lakh pending cases settled by Lok Adalat||A total of 1.80 lakh cases pending in courts were cleared on Saturday, thanks to the national Lok Adalat conducted by the Telangana State Legal Services Authority. The Lok Adalat, an alternative dispute redress system, was conducted at all courts across the districts and at the High Court level. The total redressed cases include 49, 875 pre-litigation cases and 1, 30, 125 pending court cases under various categories, TSLSA Member Secretary M.V. Ramesh said in a release. Compensation to the tune of Rs. 85 crore was awarded to beneficiaries in the settled cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/180-lakh-pending-cases-settled-by-lok-adalat/article37937047.ece
12 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Truck goes berserk, student killed||An engineering student of Vignan college was killed instantly after he came under the wheels of avtruck that went berserk in Abdullapurmet police limits on Saturday. The victim was identified as Pranay Goud, 20, hailing from Rajanna Sircilla district. He was in the ECE stream. The incident, police said, was reported at 3.30 p.m. when students were leaving the college and around the same time brakes of the truck reportedly failed. The driver, alerted by the failure, had pulled the truck to one side and collided against a compound wall to minimise the damage. However, from the same end Pranay was on his way. While the student was killed instantly, the truck driver who suffered injuries was admitted to a nearby hospital. Police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/truck-goes-berserk-student-killed/article37937048.ece
12 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Farmer dies of cardiac arrest||In yet another incident, another farmer died on Saturday at Aurangabad tanda in Haveli Ghanpur mandal of Medak district. According to sources, Bhagavath Ravi (35) died of cardiac arrest. He was worried about not clearing debts even after selling the paddy harvested in the field. The villagers said that he was burdened with debts leading to cardiac arrest. He is survived by wife and three children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmer-dies-of-cardiac-arrest/article37937049.ece
12 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||New born baby girl found dead||In a shocking incident, a new born baby girl was found dead at a public toilet complex at Ramnagar area in the town on Saturday morning. Sources said that some locals noticed the body wrapped in a cloth lying on the premises of the public toilet complex in the early hours of the day. They immediately alerted the watchman of the complex, who passed on the information to the local police. The watchman reportedly told them that an unidentified pregnant woman used the public toilet facility late on Friday night. It is suspected that the newborn died minutes after her birth and the woman left the dead baby abandoned at the toilet complex. The police recovered the body and shifted it to the mortuary. Further investigation is underway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-born-baby-girl-found-dead/article37937238.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Gamanam’ movie review: Director Sujana Rao’s anthology of stories, framed against Hyderabad floods, is earnest even if not completely absorbing||Remember the line ‘Water, water, everywhere, not a drop to drink’ from Samuel Taylor Coleridge’s ‘The Rime of the Ancient Mariner’? When the city gets battered during monsoon and low-lying colonies are inundated each year, the line assumes more relevance. In a passing scene in debut writer-director Sujana Rao’s Telugu film Gamanam , an elderly lady in a slum questions why water channels are encroached upon and turned into high rises, allowing no room for rainwater to drain. Neither is it one of the best scenes in the film nor does the question come across as forceful, but the relevance is hard to miss. Sujana Rao presents three stories that cut across age groups and social segments in Hyderabad and shows what the deluge can mean to different people. Water is the ever-present additional character. At first, we see women in a slum line up near a tanker to get their daily quota of water. Elsewhere, a young ragpicker chances upon a bottle of mineral water and treasures it. Binding the stories deftly is Ilaiyaraaja’s background music, filling the scenes soulfully with joy, poignancy or indicating a looming threat, the way only he can. Kamala (Shriya Saran) is a hearing impaired mother of an infant in a slum, trying to make ends meet while waiting for her husband to return from Dubai. With an undercurrent of pathos, it is a story that can be used to emotionally manipulate viewers to pity the woman. However, the story progresses to show how Kamala draws on her innate strength to fight for survival. Shriya enacts Kamala with conviction. The scene in which she reacts to the different sounds and later her child’s giggles can make your eyes well up and leave you with a smile. Running parallel to this is the story of young love and aspirations.  Gamanam falls short of being an absorbing survival drama. But despite the rough edges, it holds its own.  (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)   Gamanam Cast: Shriya Saran, Shiva Kandukuri, Priyanka Jawalkar Direction: Sujana Rao Music: Ilaiyaraaja||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gamanam-movie-review-director-sujana-raos-anthology-of-stories-framed-against-hyderabad-floods-is-earnest-even-if-not-completely-absorbing/article37937031.ece
12 December 2021||Jaipur,||‘Cong. rally to script downfall of Union Govt.’||The Congress rally over the price rise will prove to be a factor in the downfall of the Centre’s BJP-led Government, said former Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot here on Saturday. The Congress will be holding the rally in Jaipur on Sunday. Mr. Pilot said the rally will effect political developments and send across the message that the coming days are “bad for the BJP”. “It will become a factor for the downfall of the BJP Government at the Centre in 2024,” he said in a statement. Mr. Pilot said the Centre will have to give answers for seven years’ “misgovernance” and take measures to check inflation. Meanwhile, State BJP president Satish Poonia called the rally a “political hypocrisy” and said the Congress should first talk about the promises it made during the last Assembly elections in the State.  Political hypocrisy: BJP “It is going to be three years for the Congress Government of the State, which is known for not fulfilling promises and making false promises. This is its report card and this Congress rally is just a political hypocrisy,” Mr. Poonia told reporters in Jhunjhunu. Asking Congress leaders to pay attention to their promises, Mr. Poonia said Rahul Gandhi must come to Rajasthan but also answer why petrol and diesel and electricity in Rajasthan are most expensive in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-rally-to-script-downfall-of-union-govt/article37937124.ece
12 December 2021||Kota (Rajasthan),||Man arrested in Kota for impersonation||A Himachal Pradesh man was arrested here on Saturday, along with a relative, for impersonating as a Rajya Sabha MP and visiting government offices under fake identity, police said. The accused, Jugjeet Singh alias Puran Singh, impersonated as Narinder Gill, Rajya Sabh MP from Punjab, and had been visiting government offices for the last three days and inquired about land related work, police said. The accused introduced himself to the district officials with a fake visiting card and held meetings with them. The two also availed a brief stay at Bundi Circuit House, they said. According to police, the ‘MP’ had on Thursday held meetings with Bundi District Collector and Divisional Commissioner at an official programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-arrested-in-kota-for-impersonation/article37937116.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,||Salary non-payment: North MCD workers to protest from tomorrow||Workers under various civic body unions have called for protests, from Monday, against the North Delhi Municipal Corporation over the issue of non-payment of salaries, dearness allowance (DA) and other pending dues. The Confederation of Mu-nicipal Corporation of Delhi Employees Union (CMCDEU) said protests will be held outside the North MCD headquarters from Monday after negotiations between the Union and the BJP-led civic body, over the payment of salaries and dues, drew no conclusion on Friday. Indefinite strike warning “No written assurance was given by the North MCD officials regarding the payment of salaries. We will hold protests starting Monday and we will observe the situation on a daily basis. If the civic body still remains adamant, we will go on an indefinite strike,” said A.P. Khan, convener of CMCDEU, adding that the Union served as an umbrella body for employees under the civic bodies. Kuldeep Singh Khatri, president of Shikshak Nyay Manch, an association of teachers under the North MCD, said that “close to 3,000” teachers will protest outside the BJP’s national office if their salaries are not paid by Monday. “Previously, 2,500 teachers had protested outside the BJP’s Delhi office over the non-payment of salaries. No leader came to speak with us, which shows that they have no concern for us. This, despite 7,000 teachers stepping away from the online teaching duties for 13 days and counting. Our salaries have been pending for close to four months now and our DA has not been paid since July,” said Mr. Khatri. Simultaneously, category C and D workers at hospitals under the North civic body have also called for a 24-hour strike starting from Monday. “Lab technicians, sweepers and other workers from hospitals under the North MCD, including Hindu Rao and Kasturba Hospital, will be part of the 24-hour strike. Nurses from Girdhari Lal Hospital will also join us,” said Vinod Kumar Parcha, the president of the Hospital Employees’ Union, adding that salaries were last paid for the month of October. ‘No funds’ “We tried convincing the CMCDEU representatives and mentioned that the money for the salaries will come soon but they refused. A total of Rs. 84 crore is yet to be paid to us by the Delhi Government for September. How can we commit to paying the salaries?” asked North MCD’s Standing Committee Chairman Jogi Ram Jain. North MCD’s Leader of House Chhail Bihari Goswami said the civic body officials had “approached the Ministry of Finance” to discuss a possible solution to the fund crunch. “We were assured by the Ministry that some decision will be taken to help us with the ongoing situation. Currently, we have been using all our incoming revenues to pay salaries and we have assured the workers that there will be no disruption in payments from January.” Former North MCD Mayor Jai Prakash said the Delhi Government’s “delay in sanctioning the funds” was the key reason behind the delay. “Even during my tenure last year, there was a backlog of Rs. 600 crore, which was not assigned to us because the Delhi Government cited COVID-19 as the reason... This year, there’s a backlog of Rs. 900 crore, which the Delhi Government is yet to sanction to the North MCD. This is because the civic body elections are nearing and they (AAP) want to cause a ruckus by withholding the funds.”  We will hold protests starting Monday and we will observe the situation on a daily basis. If the civic body still remains adamant, we will go on an indefinite strike A.P. Khan Convener, CMCDEU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/salary-non-payment-north-mcd-workers-to-protest-from-tomorrow/article37936948.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,||Yogendra Yadav equates protest sites with Char Dham||Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav on Saturday equated the four venues at Delhi’s borders, where farmers were protesting for over a year against the Centre’s farm laws, with Char Dham, four pilgrimage sites for Hindus. Addressing a gathering at the Ghazipur border, Mr. Yadav said this is not a day for speeches, adding that whatever the farmers had said, they have done it. “Now, we will not speak but books and history will speak. The entire nation will speak. Today is just a day to remember that for the last one year, the meaning of Char Dham has changed in our country. People from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu used to come and say that they wanted to do a yatra of four places — the Singhu border, the Tikri border, the Ghazipur border and the Shahjahanpur border.... These [protest sites] had become Char Dham for the country,” he said. Although the protesting farmers will vacate these sites in two-three days, the names of these places will forever be etched in the hearts of people, Mr. Yadav said. “When our nation will recall the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, it will also recall the brutal killings of Lakhimpur Kheri,” said Mr. Yadav. He credited Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait for ensuring that the protest does not die down.  “When people ask me what have you gained from this and what are you taking back home, I respond saying the farmers of the country have got their lost self-respect back,” Mr. Yadav said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/yogendra-yadav-equates-protest-sites-with-char-dham/article37936958.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,||Civic body selling school plot much below market price, alleges Atishi||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday said the BJP-governed North Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to sell a primary school in Shalimar Bagh and alleged corruption in the deal. AAP leader Atishi said that after looting the money of the poor, the BJP was now robbing their children’s right to education by selling corporation-run schools. She said the school was being auctioned at a rate way below the market price. She added that the “Delhi Government is working day and night to educate children and the BJP is hell bent on ruining their lives”. “The 2,800-sq.m plot belonging to the MCD primary school in Shalimar Bagh is being sold off at Rs. 126 crore. If we estimate its worth in terms of commercial parking rates, it’s Rs. 500 crore. That is how much itshould be sold for,” Ms. Atishi said.  Dismissing Ms. Atishi’s allegations as “baseless and concocted”, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said: “The North MCD is not selling the plot but has gone for a joint lease agreement with a private party for construction of 354 vehicles parking. Under the agreement, North MCD will get Rs. 126 crore and half share in constructed car parking.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/civic-body-selling-school-plot-much-below-market-price-alleges-atishi/article37936941.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC stays notices to ED officers by Bengal police||The Delhi High Court has stayed the two notices issued to the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) officers by the West Bengal Police pursuant to an FIR lodged by Tinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee. The court said there was no merit in the preliminary objection raised by the police on the maintainability of the petition filed by the ED and its three officers. “It is necessary to consider the question of interim relief. It is a settled proposition of law that the three conditions are required to be established for grant of any interim relief: a strong prima facie case, balance of convenience and irreparable injury to the petitioner. In view of the discussions hereinabove, I find that the present case is a fit case for grant of ad-interim relief. “Therefore, in view of the same, the operation of the notices dated July 22, 2021 and August 21, 2021 passed qua the petitioners in FIR… dated April 5, 2021 registered by the respondents is stayed till further orders,” Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar said, in the order which was passed on December 7 and made available on Saturday. Next hearing on Feb. The High Court said the West Bengal government and police may file their response to the petition within a period of four weeks and the petitioners may file a rejoinder affidavit within two weeks thereafter and listed the matter for further hearing on February 18, next year. The ED has alleged that West Bengal Police is acting at the behest of Mr. Banerjee, who “enjoys clout” in the State government, to derail the probe into an alleged coal pilferage scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-stays-notices-to-ed-officers-by-bengal-police/article37936959.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Govt. should accept pollution mostly due to internal reasons’||The BJP on Saturday said the time has come for the Delhi Government to accept that the reasons behind most of the pollution in the Capital were internal. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri referred to Centre for Science and Environment director general Sunita Narain to the effect that a Singapore-like transport system should be implemented in Delhi which would in effect make it difficult for people to keep personal vehicles. “Till the time public transport is not accessible to the public, the people of Delhi will continue to be forced to travel in personal vehicles. In such conditions, it is impossible to control pollution,” Mr. Bidhuri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-should-accept-pollution-mostly-due-to-internal-reasons/article37936940.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,||Elderly woman murdered inside house||A 79-year-old woman was found dead inside her house on Saturday in central Delhi’s Old Rajinder Nagar area, police said. The deceased has been identified as Kusum Singhal, they said, adding that she was living alone. Singhal had two daughters — one lives in south Delhi and the other in Switzerland.  “It seems to be a friendly entry. She was hit on the head with a brick. The household items were found dispersed. It’s not clear if the accused robbed anything,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/elderly-woman-murdered-inside-house/article37936942.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,||EDMC builds kitchen gardens in 30 schools||East Delhi Municipal Corporation Commissioner Vikas Anand on Saturday said the civic body has built kitchen gardens in 30 schools under its jurisdiction. He said that the produce from these gardenswill be used for the mid-day meals provided to the students at the civic body’s schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/edmc-builds-kitchen-gardens-in-30-schools/article37936943.ece
12 December 2021||New Delhi,||DJB suspends 10 employees, directs to file FIR||The Delhi Jal Board on Saturday said that 10 employees were suspended and services of 20 outsourced workers were terminated in connection with erroneous water meter readings. An FIR has also been ordered on all the persons involved, the DJB said. The action was taken after receiving complaints of faulty water meter readings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/djb-suspends-10-employees-directs-to-file-fir/article37936939.ece
12 December 2021||Panaji,||TMC promises Rs. 5,000 per month for Goa women||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Saturday promised to roll out a direct cash transfer scheme for women in Goa if voted to power in the State after the Assembly polls due in February next year. Under the scheme titled Griha Laxmi, Rs. 5,000 would be transferred to a woman of every household per month as guaranteed income support to counter inflation once the party comes to power, TMC leader Mahua Moitra said. The party would soon start distributing cards for the scheme, she said, adding that these cards carrying unique identification numbers would become operational once the TMC forms a government in Goa. The Mamata Banerjee-led party has announced that it would be contesting all 40 seats in State. “The women from 3.5 lakh households in the State would be covered under the Griha Laxmi scheme as it will also do away with the maximum income ceiling, which is mandated in the current Griha Aadhar scheme of the BJP government in the State,” Ms. Moitra, who is TMC's Goa in-charge, said. She said that the current scheme of the BJP government in Goa provides only Rs. 1,500 per month to women and it covers only 1.5 lakh households due to the income ceiling. “The actual implementation of Griha Aadhar scheme requires Rs. 270 crore annually, but the Goa government has earmarked only Rs. 140 crore annually because of which many people are not able to get the benefit,” the TMC parliamentarian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tmc-promises-rs-5000-per-month-for-goa-women/article37936960.ece
12 December 2021||Panaji,||4 ship crew test negative for Omicron after returing from South Africa||Four crew members of a merchant navy ship, who had tested positive for COVID-19 after they arrived in Goa from South Africa, have tested negative for the Omicron variant while another sample has been sent for re-testing to Pune in Maharashtra, Goa health department officials said on Saturday. The five crew members, including two from Russia, had arrived from Cape Town. They had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this month, following which their samples were sent for genomic sequencing to a laboratory in Pune as they had travelled from a high-risk country. “4 out of 5 initial samples sent for genomic sequencing are negative for #OmicronVariant. 1 sample has been put for retesting,” Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane tweeted on Saturday.  ‘Technical snag’ Goa state epidemiologist Dr. Utkarsh Betodkar said that one of the five samples had to be retested again due to some technical snag in the machine. “This does not mean that it has been sent for reconfirmation. On the other hand, since all the four samples are negative (for Omicron strain), it is more likely that the fifth one also will be negative,” he added. Goa has not reported any Omicron variant case so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/4-ship-crew-test-negative-for-omicron-after-returing-from-south-africa/article37937117.ece
12 December 2021||TIRUCHI,||Dancer alleges abuse at Srirangam temple||Bharatanatyam dancer Zakir Hussain has alleged that he was abused and forced to exit the Sri Ranganathaswamy temple in Srirangam by an activist on Friday. The incident took place around 1.30 p.m. on Friday, after a darshan of Lord Ranganathar at the moolavar sannadhi, Mr. Hussain said. In an online complaint, addressed to the Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi, G. Karthikeyan, Mr. Hussain, a recipient of the Kalaimamani Award, said Rangarajan Narasimhan of Srirangam rushed towards him at the kili mandapam , abused him citing his religion, and made derogatory remarks against him for visiting the temple. Mr. Hussain said he was insulted and threatened for visiting the temple, which he revered and held in high esteem. Several devotees and staff at the temple were witness to the incident, he said. ‘Causing mental agony’ “I felt humiliated and insulted by Rangarajan Narasimhan. He has no right to prevent me or any individual from visiting the temple. It has caused severe mental agony to me,” Mr. Hussain said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dancer-alleges-abuse-at-srirangam-temple/article37936961.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Soup for the soul||I was mesmerised by the sight – on television – of a Chinese chef putting together a bowl of soup. A cauldron of chicken broth was bubbling on the stove. Noodles bobbed in boiling water elsewhere. He put some broth in the bowl, topped it with noodles and thinly sliced pork, and then garnished it with chopped green scallions. He handed the steaming bowl of soup to the salivating diner, and I reached for the phone. I looked for Chinese eateries in east Delhi, and found a promising one. Called Hudson Chopsticks, it had (apart from mains and appetisers) various kinds of soups on the menu and included the one that I was yearning for: noodle-filled thukpa. It was not just the food show, the weather too had set the mood for some bone-warming soup. We asked for three kinds – chicken thukpa momo soup (Rs. 189), chicken hot and sour (Rs. 179) and clear chicken soup (Rs. 179). With that, we asked for steamed chicken momos (Rs. 239) and chicken drums of heaven (Rs. 329). The food arrived in well-packed containers and I had quite a fulfilling dinner. Keep it spicy  I started with the momos. Large in size and six to a plate, the momos were soft and had been stuffed well with minced chicken. The chicken was just mildly spiced, which was good, for the drums of heaven had been coated with a hot chilli sauce and were deliciously spicy. I then moved to what I had been dreaming of – the thukpa. This is a Tibetan soup dish that I grew immensely fond of back in those days when we used to visit a food hub called Tib Dhabs in north Delhi. Thukpa or thupka — a huge bowl of soup with noodles, shredded chicken and all kinds of greens — used to fill us up and cost just a few rupees those days. Hudson’s thukpa was rather good. It had two juicy momos in it, some greens and a lot of noodles. It was hot and satisfying. I then tried out the clear soup and found it exceptionally good. The soup, light and fragrant, had thick slices of chicken in it, and various kinds of crunchy veggies – from broccoli and Chinese cabbage to carrots, baby corn and mushrooms. I had a spoonful of the hot and sour soup, just to taste it, and found it deliciously hot and peppery. Our food came through Zomato from the Karkardooma branch of Hudson Chopsticks, but the eatery has branches across Delhi NCR, including Delhi University, Greater Kailash, Patel Nagar, Indirapuram and Noida. Their menus include the usual suspects – honey chicken with sesame (Rs. 329), chilli paneer (Rs. 299), crispy corn (Rs. 309) and chilli chicken (Rs. 329) and some surprises such as sriracha prawns (Rs. 379). The soup list includes vegetable clear soup, vegetable or chicken manchow and one-pot meals such as khao sueys. As the temperature dips, I see myself ordering (and perhaps even preparing) soups to warm the body and soul. After all, if winter be here, can the soups be far behind?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/soup-for-the-soul/article37936947.ece
12 December 2021||Mayfield,||At least 70 dead in Kentucky after storms||Kentucky’s Governor said at least 70 people may have died in the State and the toll was climbing after tornadoes and severe weather ripped through at least five States, leaving widespread devastation. Gov. Andy Beshear said the twister touched down for more than 200 miles in Kentucky and the death toll could exceed 100 across 10 or more counties. “This has been the most devastating tornado event in our State’s history,” Mr. Beshear said at a news conference Saturday. The storms hit a candle factory in Kentucky, an Amazon facility in Illinois and a nursing home in Arkansas. Beshear said about 110 people were in the Mayfield factory when the tornado hit. By late morning, officials had confirmed 18 deaths. But Mr. Beshear said the toll was certain to rise, with at least 10 persons feared dead in his State’s Muhlenberg County and an undetermined number in and around the city of Bowling Green. Rescue efforts were complicated because Mayfield’s main fire station and emergency services hub were also hit by the tornado, said Jeremy Creason, the city’s fire chief and EMS director. At least one person died at an Amazon facility in Edwardsville, Illinois, Police Chief Mike Fillback told reporters on Saturday morning. The roof of the building was ripped off and a wall collapsed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/50-feared-dead-in-kentucky-after-tornado/article37936679.ece
12 December 2021||Beijing,||China brands U.S. democracy ‘weapon of mass destruction’||China branded U.S. democracy a “weapon of mass destruction” on Saturday, following the U.S.-organised Summit for Democracy which aimed to shore up like-minded allies in the face of autocratic regimes. China was left out of the two-day virtual summit and responded by angrily accusing U.S. President Joe Biden of stoking Cold War-era ideological divides. “’Democracy’ has long become a ‘weapon of mass destruction’ used by the U.S. to interfere in other countries,” a Foreign Ministry spokesperson said in an online statement, which also accused the U.S. of having “instigated ‘colour revolutions’” overseas. The Ministry also claimed the summit was organised by the U.S. to “draw lines of ideological prejudice, instrumentalise and weaponise democracy... (and) incite division and confrontation.” Instead, Beijing vowed to “resolutely resist and oppose all kinds of pseudo-democracies”. ‘People’s democracy’ Ahead of the summit, China ramped up a propaganda blitz criticising U.S. democracy as corrupt and a failure. Instead, it touted its own version of “whole-process people’s democracy” in a white paper released last week that aimed to shore up legitimacy for the ruling Communist Party, which has become increasingly authoritarian under President Xi Jinping. While the U.S. has repeatedly denied there will be another Cold War with China, tensions between the world’s two largest economies have spiralled in recent years over issues including trade and technological competition, human rights, Xinjiang and Taiwan. Taiwan, a democratic self-ruling island that is claimed by China, was invited to the U.S. summit in a clear snub to its larger neighbour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-brands-us-democracy-weapon-of-mass-destruction/article37936682.ece
12 December 2021||Washington,||U.S. slaps sanctions on North Korean and Chinese entities||The United States unveiled a raft of new rights-abuse sanctions on Friday on senior officials and entities in eight countries, including a Chinese firm specialising in facial recognition technology and a giant cartoon studio in North Korea. Timed for International Human Rights Day and supported in part by Britain and Canada, the sanctions took aim at officials accused of abetting the crackdown on anti-coup protestors in Myanmar, the oppression of Muslim Uighurs in China’s Xinjiang region and political violence in Bangladesh under the guise of a war on drugs. “Our actions today send a message that democracies around the world will act against those who abuse the power of the state to inflict suffering and repression,” the U.S. Treasury Department said. It said China’s artificial intelligence company SenseTime, and two ethnic Uighur political leaders in Xinjiang, Shohrat Zakir and Erken Tuniyaz, took part in the sweeping oppression of Uighurs. The Treasury accused Pyongyang’s government-run animation firm, SEK Studio, and companies and individuals related to it, of exploiting North Korean workers to earn much-needed foreign currency and avoid sanctions on the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-slaps-sanctions-on-north-korean-and-chinese-entities/article37936684.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A feminist retelling of ‘Nineteen Eighty-Four’||When Donald Trump became U.S. President, sales of George Orwell’s dystopian novel against totalitarianism, Nineteen Eighty-Four , and other cautionary tales soared. The more Mr. Trump uttered improbable and alternative facts, comparisons were drawn to Orwell’s depiction of the totalitarian state of Oceania ruled by Big Brother and its Thought Police, which banned all personal ideas with people living on the “assumption that every sound you made was overheard, and, except in darkness, every movement scrutinised”. Now, as reported by The Guardian , the Orwell Estate has approved the publication of a feminist retelling of Nineteen Eighty-Four , told through the perspective of Julia, protagonist Winston Smith’s lover. American writer Sandra Newman’s Julia, 1984: A Novel will be published by Granta in 2023. In the original, Smith works at The Ministry of Truth, rewriting the past as instructed by Big Brother, and he begins an affair with Julia of the Fiction Department. The first time they meet, Julia surprises him by telling him his name. When he wonders how she found out, she quips, “I expect I’m better at finding things out than you are, dear.” As Bill Hamilton, literary executor of the Orwell Estate, is quoted as saying, “Newman gets under the skin of Big Brother’s world in a completely convincing way which is both true to the original but also gives a dramatically different narrative to stand alongside the original. The millions of readers who have been brought up with Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four will find this a provocative and satisfying companion.” In the original, Julia is delighted when Winston tells her he thought she was part of the Thought Police. She is good at disguises, she tells him, “I always look cheerful and I never shirk anything. Always yell with the crowd, that’s what I say. It’s the only way to be safe.” While the original begins with a sentence of foreboding: “It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking thirteen,” Ms. Newman starts her book thus. “It was the man from Records who began it, him all unknowing in his prim, grim way, his above-it-all oldthink way. Comrade Smith was his right name, though ‘Comrade’ never suited him somehow. Of course, if you felt foolish calling someone ‘Comrade’, far better not to speak to them at all.” ‘Ideal citizen’ “She has known no other world and, until she meets Winston, never imagined one. She’s opportunistic, believing in nothing and caring not at all about politics. She routinely breaks the rules but also collaborates with the regime whenever necessary. She’s an ideal citizen of Oceania. But when one day, finding herself walking toward Winston Smith in a long corridor, she impulsively hands him a note – a potentially suicidal gesture – she comes to realise that she’s losing her grip and can no longer safely navigate her world,” Granta told The Guardian . Ms. Newman has written four novels and had been shortlisted for The Guardian First Book Award for The Only Good Thing One Has Ever Done . Orwell’s famous novel has been adapted many times both in print and film; as a recent fictional review of Shakespeare’s works, including Margaret Atwood’s Hag-Seed , a retelling of The Tempest , and Jo Nesbo’s Macbeth .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-feminist-retelling-of-nineteen-eighty-four/article37936686.ece
12 December 2021||Washington,||Canadian pleads guilty to narrating IS videos||A Canadian jihadist who fought for the Islamic State (IS) group and narrated violent propaganda videos pleaded guilty in a U.S. court on Friday, the Justice Department announced. Mohammed Khalifa, 38, admitted to “conspiring to provide material support to a designated foreign terrorist organisation (ISIS), resulting in death,” and will be sentenced on April 15, 2022, the Department said in a statement, using another acronym for the jihadist group. He faces a life sentence. Khalifa, who was born in Saudi Arabia, was captured during a firefight in January 2019 by Kurdish-dominated Syrian forces allied with the United States. He was turned over to U.S. authorities and charged. Khalifa left Canada in 2013 to join the Islamic State group in Syria, and by the next year had become a key member of its propaganda team because of his fluent English and Arabic. The cell was behind videos showing the beheadings of foreigners including the U.S. journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff. The films he narrated included two of the most violent propaganda films IS produced: “Flames of War,” distributed in 2014, and “Flames of War II,” three years later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/canadian-pleads-guilty-to-narrating-is-videos/article37936680.ece
12 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Omicron may be less severe risk: FinMin||India’s economic recovery is expected to gain further strength in the second half of this fiscal year, following the 8.4% GDP growth recorded in Q2, the Finance Ministry said on Saturday, citing preliminary evidence that the Omicron coronavirus variant may be a ‘less severe’ risk. Stressing that India was one of the few countries to record four consecutive quarters of growth amid COVID-19, the ministry said the country would catch up with pre-pandemic levels of economic activity over the full year 2021-22. A revival in services combined with a full recovery in manufacturing and sustained growth in the agriculture sector helped take GDP output in the second quarter to more than 100% of the pre-pandemic levels in 2019-20, the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) said in its monthly economic review for November. “The recovery suggests kick-starting of the investment cycle, supported by surging vaccination coverage and efficient economic management, activating the macro and micro drivers of growth,” the DEA noted. High-frequency data “India’s economic recovery is expected to gain further strength in the remaining quarters of the financial year, as evident from 19 among 22 High-Frequency Indicators (HFIs) in September, October and November crossing their pre-pandemic levels in the corresponding months of 2019,” it averred. While the ministry expects India to be ‘among only a few economies in the world to rebound strongly from the COVID-19 induced economic contraction of 2020-21’, it added a conditional caveat about the Omicron variant posing a risk to the global recovery process. “However, preliminary evidence suggests that the Omicron variant is expected to be less severe and more so with increasing pace of vaccination in India,” it said. While retail inflation stayed stable in October, the ministry expects price pressures to ease in the coming months, thanks to the recent excise duty cuts on fuel. ‘Second-round effects’ “Wholesale inflation climbed up to 12.5% in October driven by fuel and manufacturing segments attributable to rising input cost inflation and global energy prices. Going forward, reduction in fuel excise duty by Central Government, with State Governments following suit, is expected to ease the inflationary pressures through second-round effects in the coming months,” it reckoned. On Monday, the government is scheduled to release the Consumer Price Index (CPI), which measures retail inflation, for November. The Centre had announced duty cuts in petrol and diesel in the first week of last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/omicron-may-be-less-severe-risk-finmin/article37936669.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Samsung to make 1,000 campus offers||Samsung India said it would recruit more than 1,000 fresh engineers this hiring season from the IITs, BITS Pilani, IIITs and NITs across the country. These engineers would work on cutting-edge domains including artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning, IoT, deep learning, networks, image processing, cloud, data analysis, on-device AI as well as camera technologies, Sameer Wadhawan, senior vice-president and head of Human Resources, Samsung India, told The Hindu . About 260 of these new recruits would be from IIT campuses in Delhi, Kanpur, Mumbai, Chennai and other cities, while the rest would come from engineering colleges including BITS Pilani, IIITs and NITs, he said. “We want to hire students from multiple streams including computer science, electronics and communications, electrical engineering, mathematics and computing, instrumentation and information technology to support our efforts to build innovative solutions for India-specific challenges,” Mr Wadhawan said. These engineers will be deployed at Samsung’s R&D centres in Bengaluru, Noida and Delhi from June 2022 onwards. These centres together house about 10,000 engineers currently. ‘1,000 more next season’ Samsung said it made 1,200 campus offers in 2019 and honoured all of them with candidates joining between May 2020 and the beginning of 2021. The company would continue to hire some 1,000 people in 2022 as well, Mr. Wadhawan said. On the competition for talent, rising attrition and climbing salaries, he said it was true that some organisations were paying aggressively to retain talent. However, compensation was not the only thing that made employees stay back. Instead, employees were looking at a holistic experience at workplaces that offered a combination of learning, freedom to innovate and the opportunity to work on cutting edge technologies, he pointed out. “Therefore, enterprises have to find innovative solutions to augment talent demand. They have to create a holistic experience so that employees are learning, growing and having fun, and they also stay with you,” added Mr. Wadhawan. Samsung also has plans to hire experienced professionals to fill sales and manufacturing roles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/samsung-to-make-1000-campus-offers/article37936665.ece
12 December 2021||MUMBAI,||M&M chalks out strategy to grow beyond tractors||Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (M&M) aims to push farm mechanisation in India through its new Farming-as-a-Service (FaaS) business, Krish-e, as part of a strategy to expand its Farm Equipment Sector (FES) division beyond tractors. Krish-e commenced operations in 2020 and had so far established more than 100 Krish-e centres across 16 States. Operating through Mahindra and Swaraj dealers, these centres provide services across a crop cycle. ‘Cost of farming’ Mahindra said it is focused on bringing down the overall cost of farming, improving crop output and consequently, bolstering the farmer’s income. In its first year of operations, Krish-e had set up 60 rental banks where advanced farm equipment was available for rent through physical touchpoints or a farmer’s smartphone. Rice transplanters “We have machines such as rice transplanters and laser levelers, tractor-mounted combine harvesters... and potato planters,” said Ramesh Ramachandran, senior VP, FaaS and head of Farm Sector Strategy. “This is not the kind of equipment that farmers will necessarily buy themselves, nor are they very familiar with. “Krish-e will help popularise this equipment by showing them tangible benefits,” he added. So far, 20 lakh rental hours had been managed on the rental platform, with more than 35,000 precision farming acres managed. Thus, Rs. 40 crore of extra income had been facilitated for rental entrepreneurs. And for Krish-e and M&M, Rs. 150 crore worth of farm equipment and crop inputs had been retailed through this initiative. Ramdas Dhandage (37), a rental entrepreneur from Baramati, Maharashtra, with three Mahindra tractors, said he had seen rapid growth in his farm implements and tractor-rental business. “My gross income has increased from Rs. 1.5 lakh to Rs. 4.5 lakh per month. After deducting EMI, maintenance and additional costs, my net income stands at Rs. 1 lakh per month,” he said. ‘Not mechanised’ “India is tractorised, but not mechanised,” said Mr. Ramachandran. “The total global agri-equipment market is roughly about $160 billion, of which farm machinery makes up $100 billion and tractors $60 billion. But from an Indian context, the tractor market is roughly about $7 billion, and farm machinery is at $1 billion. There is a huge potential for growth in farm machinery segment,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mm-chalks-out-strategy-to-grow-beyond-tractors/article37936667.ece
12 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Edible oil prices eased Rs. 8-10 a kg in 30 days’||Edible oil prices declined by Rs. 8-10 per kg in last one month mainly on the back of lower import duties and may fall by Rs. 3-4 per kg in coming months on higher domestic output of oilseeds and bearish trend in global markets, according to industry body SEA. “The last few months have been harrowing for the Indian edible oil consumer largely on account of very high international prices of all oils viz. palm, soya and sunflower,” Solvent Extractors’ Association of India (SEA) president Atul Chaturvedi said. SEA had advised its members before Diwali to reduce prices to the maximum extent possible, he said, adding that the Centre also reduced import duties on edible oils. “We are happy to confirm all these actions have resulted in edible oil prices coming down by around Rs. 8-10 per kg in the last 30 days,” Mr. Chaturvedi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/edible-oil-prices-eased-rs-8-10-a-kg-in-30-days/article37936671.ece
12 December 2021||Brisbane,||Ruthless Australia decimates England||A ruthless Australia crushed England by nine wickets to win the first Ashes Test just after lunch on day four at the Gabba on Saturday. Needing just 20 runs after bowling England out for 297 in its second innings — with Nathan Lyon taking his 400th Test scalp — Australia cruised to the target in 5.1 overs. The only blemish was the wicket of makeshift opener Alex Carey. Regular opener David Warner was unable to bat due to a rib injury he suffered when he was twice hit by Wood in the first innings. Australia will carry a 1-0 lead in the five-match series into the second Test, which starts in Adelaide on Thursday. Lyon, who had looked ineffectual on Friday as he searched for his milestone 400th wicket, finally broke through when Dawid Malan got an inside edge. Lyon became just the 16th player to achieve the feat. Meanwhile, Cricket Australia chief Nick Hockley said Hobart would host its first-ever Ashes Test after winning the race to replace Perth as venue for the fifth and final clash of the series. England, Head fined Also, England was fined 100% of its match fee and penalised five World Test Championship points for a slow over-rate. And, Head was fined 15% of his match fee and given one demerit point for breaching the Code of Conduct.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ruthless-australia-decimates-england/article37936673.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Vishnu and Sijomon fashion Kerala’s sensational win||At 120 for six, it looked curtains for Kerala. Vishnu Vinod and Sijomon Joseph, however, refused to give in. They came up with an astonishing record seventh-wicket stand to take Kerala to a remarkable four-wicket victory in a Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day match against Maharashtra at Rajkot on Saturday. Vishnu remained not out on 100 (82b, 8x4, 2x6) and Sijomon on 71 (70b, 2x4, 6x4). Their unbroken partnership was worth 174 when Kerala overhauled Maharashtra’s 291 for eight with seven balls to spare. After the defeat to Madhya Pradesh in the last match, this was a win Sanju Samson’s men badly needed. That had looked distant when Kerala slid to 35 for four. A fifth-wicket stand of 72 between Samson (42, 35b, 4x4, 2x6) and Jalaj Saxena (44, 54b, 3x4, 2x6) steadied the ship a bit, but their dismissals gave Maharashtra the upper hand once again. Little could Maharashtra then have imagined it would not get another wicket in the match, as Vishnu and Sijomon staged a magnificent fightback for Kerala. Their stunning show overshadowed Ruturaj Gaikwad’s third hundred on the trot (124, 129b, 9x4, 3x6). The CSK opener had scored 136 against Madhya Pradesh and 154 not out against Chhattisgargh to set up wins for his side. Apart from Ruturaj, only one Maharashtra batter got going in this match – Rahul Tripathi, who made 99 (108b, 11x4). They came together at 22 for two, as the Kerala pacers Basil Thampi and M.D. Nidheesh justified the team management’s decision to field first. But Kerala had to wait for more than 34 overs for another wicket, as Ruturaj and Tripathi added 195. The breakthrough was provided by Nidheesh, who followed the wicket of Tripathi up with three more to finish with figures of five for 49 from 10 overs. What he began was finished off in style by Vishnu and Sijomon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vishnu-and-sijomon-fashion-keralas-sensational-win/article37937062.ece
12 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuarm,||Samarth guides Karnataka home||Karnataka bounced back into contention with a seven-wicket win over defending champion Mumbai in an Elite Group B match of the Vijay Hazare Trophy cricket tournament here on Saturday. Opener R. Samarth (96 not out) showed patience and temperament on a tricky pitch to guide Karnataka to an emphatic win. Samarth and Rohan Kadam (44) added 95 runs for the opening wicket which laid the base for the victory. Defending a modest 208, Mumbai needed to grab the half chances on a pitch which aided the slow bowlers. But, wicketkeeper Hardik Tamore missed a stumping off Tanush Kotian when Samarth was on 21 and Mumbai paid dearly for the lapse. Unhurried The Karnataka openers were unhurried and punished the odd bad delivery to build a match-winning stand. Leg-spinner H. Solanki dismissed K.V. Siddharth (17) and Manish Pandey (5) in quick succession, but Karun Nair (39 not out) counter-attacked and along with Samarth, who played more fluently after reaching his fifty, ensured there were no further hiccups. Earlier, Mumbai didn’t capitalise on the good start given by Yashasvi Jaiswal (61) and Armaan Jaffer (43) who added 95 for the opening wicket. In the middle overs, the Karnataka spinners stifled the run-rate with their nagging line and the little turn on offer forced the batters to be cautious. Suryakumar Yadav flattered to deceive and Mumbai lost wickets regularly to end up with a modest score of 208 for nine. At the Sports Hub, the Tamil Nadu juggernaut rolled on as it demolished Bengal by 146 runs to notch up its third successive win. Tamil Nadu recovered from 55 for three to post a challenging total. Dinesh Karthik led the recovery with a typically busy innings of 87 and he figured in crucial stands with B. Indrajith (64) and J. Koushik (50). Shahrukh Khan’s (33) late flourish saw Tamil Nadu finish at 295 for eight. Bengal was never in the hunt after losing opener Shreevats Goswami early. The spinners picked up wickets at regular intervals in the middle overs and the medium-pacers R. Silambambarasan (four for 28) and Sandeep Warrier (two for 30) returned to polish off the tail and complete a resounding win. At the St. Xavier’s College ground, Baroda scored its first win by defeating Pondicherry by five wickets. In Mumbai, Ram Dayal's brilliant unbeaten 116 (100b, 13x4, 4x6) went in vain as Jammu & Kashmir lost to Andhra by two wickets in Elite Group A on Saturday. Chasing a modest target of 209, Andhra just managed to chase down the total in 49 overs, thanks to Rick Bhui's 56 (77b, 6x4) and Ambati Rayudu's 39 (28b, 3x4, 2x6).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/samarth-guides-karnataka-home/article37936796.ece
12 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Juyal stars in UP’s victory over Delhi||Twenty-year-old Aryan Juyal — after two disappointing outings with scores of nine and 0 — returned to form with an unbeaten 120 to guide Uttar Pradesh to a nine-wicket victory against Delhi in the Vijay Hazare Trophy on Saturday. Chasing 244, the young opener bludgeoned the Delhi bowlers to forge a 184-run opening stand with Madhav Kaushik (89, 101b). Juyal — a former India under-19 wicketkeeper-batter — hit some early boundaries, forcing Delhi captain Pradeep Sangwan to try several bowling options. The two young UP batters, however, were not troubled by any of them. Kaushik perished in the 34th over after hitting consecutive boundaries off Simarjeet Singh. A heartbroken Kaushik received a standing ovation from the coaching staff and teammates. Juyal ensured that there was no slip-up, stitching an unbroken 60-run alliance with captain Karan Sharma (31 n.o., 29b). The pair guided the team home with six overs to spare. After winning the toss, UP made early inroads as pacer Shivam Mavi (four for 48) trapped Dhruv Shorey leg before for one. India international Shikhar Dhawan, too, soon departed for just 14. Delhi rebuilt with a 55-run stand between Himmat Singh and Jonty Sidhu, but Shivan Sharma removed both, putting the pressure back. The team, however, fought back with late half-centuries from Anuj Rawat (50, 45b) and Lalit Yadav (57, 60b), before Mavi destroyed the tail. At Mohali, Saurashtra registered a seven-wicket win over Hyderabad. The latter made 221, T. Ravi Teja top-scoring with 63. In reply, Harvik Desai’s unbeaten 101 guided Saurashtra home with 11 overs to spare. Sheldon Jackson (65) and Prerak Mankad (4/54 & 49) were the other contributors for Saurashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juyal-stars-in-ups-victory-over-delhi/article37936929.ece
12 December 2021||Coimbatore,||MRF 2W Rally of Coimbatore today||After four exciting rounds, riders will test their skills on a mix of dirt and gravel stages in the fifth round of the MRF MOGRIP FMSCI 2W Rally of Coimbatore at the Kethanur windmill farms near Palladam on Sunday. The National championship event, promoted by Godspeed (Pune) and organised by the Coimbatore Auto Sports Club (CASC), has attracted 60 riders from across the country. The final round is scheduled at Nashik next weekend. A Service Park has been established near Kethanur for the competitors to service and refuel their vehicles. The total distance to be covered is approximately 73.10km with the total distance of the Special Stages being 59.20km. This time around, there will be two Special Stages — the Black Thunder Stage (17.30km) and the Thunder World Stage (12.30km) run twice in the same direction. “Our club is pleased to host this rally once again. Event sponsors MRF have contributed tremendously towards the development of motorsport in the country, and the CASC thanks them for their continued support,” said CASC secretary J. Prithiviraj. The rally has always attracted a huge crowd, but this year there won’t be spectators owing to COVID restrictions. The rally will start from the Service Park at 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mrf-2w-rally-of-coimbatore-today/article37936845.ece
12 December 2021||Abu Dhabi,||A sensational win for Jehan||India’s Jehan Daruvala, part of the Red Bull Racing Junior Team, pulled off a sensational victory in the Formula 2 Sprint Race at the Yas Marina Circuit here on Saturday. Starting from pole, the Mumbai-based driver got off to an excellent start and held his lead in the short run down to turn one. Behind him, Dan Tictum slipped to fourth while Felipe Drugovich, who started third, moved into second. Drugovich started piling the pressure on Jehan. Twice in the first lap, the Brazilian managed to pull alongside, but the Indian held him off with some clever positioning. Jehan comfortably won the race with a two-second margin over Drugovich to earn his fifth podium of the season. The top 10 from this race will be reversed for the start of Race 2, which means that Jehan will have to start 10th. “After struggling in the early part of the weekend, it is fantastic to win here. I was under a lot of pressure in the first few laps as well as later on. But I remained confident and really enjoyed the racing,” said Jehan. Tough “Starting 10th in the next race is going to be tough, but I will do my best,” he added after his third win in Formula 2 in two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-sensational-win-for-jehan/article37936801.ece
12 December 2021||Chennai,||Teen brigade rules the F1600 race||Teenagers, spearheaded by Bengaluru schoolboy Chirag Ghorpade, took the honours in the MRF F1600 race in the second round of the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Car Racing Championship at the MMRT on Saturday. Ghorpade held off another 17-year old, Agra’s Shahan Ali Mohsin, for his maiden win in this category while Rishon Rajiv, 16, also from Bengaluru, finished third in the eight-lap race. The trio was in a league of its own in a field that had quite a few experienced drivers. Defending champion Arjun Balu (Race Concepts), at 47, and in his 29th racing season, was in imperious form when easily winning the premier Indian Touring Cars race from pole position, while two Rayo Racing drivers from Hyderabad — Anindith Reddy and Jeet Jhabakh — finished a distant second and third.  The results (provisional, eight laps unless mentioned):   MRF F1600 (Race-1): 1. Chirag Ghorpade (Bengaluru) (13mins, 32.919secs); 2. Shahan Ali Mohsin (Agra) (13:34.252); 3. Rishon Rajiv (Bengaluru) (13:35.164).   Indian Touring Cars (Race-1): 1. Arjun Balu (Race Concepts, Coimbatore) (15:19.312); 2. Anindith Reddy (Rayo Racing, Hyderabad) (15:46.386); 3. Jeet Jhabakh (Rayo Racing, Hyderabad) (15:54.693).   Super Stock (Race-1): 1. Deepak Ravikumar (Performance Racing, Chennai) (16:09.974); 2. Rithvik Thomas (Race Concepts, Bengaluru) (16:12.079); 3. R.P. Raja Rajan (Performance Racing, Chennai) (16:17.578).   Indian Junior Touring Cars (Race-1): 1. Varun Anekar (Race Concepts, Bengaluru) (16:04.162); 2. Charen Chandran (Pvt, Coimbatore) (16:25.674); 3. Hatim Shabbir Jamnagarwala (Performance Racing, Chennai) (15:30.132, 7 laps).   Formula LGB 1300 (Race-1, Five laps): 1. Viswas Vijayaraj (DTS Racing, Nellore) (11:14.406); 2. Arya Singh (DTS Racing, Kolkata) (11:15.966); 3. Deepak Ravikumar (Momentum Motorsport, Chennai) (11:20.775).   MRF Saloon Cars (Toyota Etios – Race 1): 1. Fahad Kutty (Red Line Racing, Mumbai) (17:08.849); 2. Jamie Shaw (Red Line Racing, Mumbai) (17:09.332); 3. Chandresh Tolia (Red Line Racing, Mumbai) (17:11.833).   Race-2 (10 laps): 1. A Balaprasath (Quest Motorsport, Coimbatore) (21:17.190); 2. Justin Singh (Quest Motorsport, Haryana) (21:17.925); 3. Fahad Kutty (Red Line Racing, Mumbai) (21:20.784) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/teen-brigade-rules-the-f1600-race/article37936803.ece
12 December 2021||BENGALURU:,||Priceless Gold claims Kanteerava Cup||Trainer Rajesh Narredu’s Priceless Gold (Yash Narredu Up) claimed the Kanteerava Cup, the main event of the races held here on Saturday (Dec 11). The winner is owned by Poonawalla Racing & Breeding rep. by Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla, Mrs. Michelle Y. Poonawalla, Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole and Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Mukul A. Sonawalla & M/s. DT Racing & Breeding.  1. DARE TO DREAM PLATE (1,600m), rated 00 to 25, 4-y-o & over: Kings Speech (Neeraj) 1, Eco Friendly (P. Sai Kumar) 2, Dream Chaser (P. Surya) and Niche Cannabis (Rayan Ahmed) Not run: Arabian Mist. Shd, 2-1/2 and 3/4. 1m 40.01s. Rs. 36 (w), 16, 16 and 20 (p). Shp: 41, Thp: 53. Fc: 217, Q; 130. Trinella: 1,318 and 654. Exacta: 6,694 and 2,391. Favourite: Cinco De Mayo. Owners: Byramjee Jeejeebhoy rep. by Mr. Jamshed B. Jeejeebhoy & Mr. S. Padmanabhan. Trainer: Padmanabhan.  2. TOROLOCO PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Recall Of You (Suraj Narredu) 1, Ocean Dunes (Antony) 2, Ravan Rock (P. Sai Kumar) 3 and Mega Success (Vivek) 4. 3-3/4, 1 and 4 1/2. 1m 14.74s. Rs. 13 (w), 12, 14 and 14 (p). Shp: 23. Thp: 28. Fc: 27. Q; 17. Trinella: 40 and 24. Exacta: 82 and 48. Favourite: Recall Of You. Owners: Villoo Poonawalla Racing & Breeding rep by Dr. Cyrus. S. Poonawalla, Mr. Adar C. Poonawalla & Mrs. Natasha A. Poonawalla. Trainer: R. Narredu.  3. SUN ABSOLUTE PLATE (1,600m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): Wonder Wench (Rayan) 1, Limited Edition (Anjar Alam), 3. Devils Magic (Neeraj) 3 and Mark One (P.P. Dhebe) 4. 4-3/4, 1 and 1-3/4. 1m 39.53s. Rs. 238 (w), 34, 13 and 13 (p). Shp: 40. Thp: 49. Fc: 1,874. Q: 619. Trinella: 2,522 and 1,201. Exacta: 51,187 (carried over), Favourite: Alexis Zorba. Owner: S. Pathy. Trainer: S. Narredu.  4. TOROLOCO PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m) rated 20 to 45: Knight In Hooves (Suraj Narredu) 1, Baltimore (S. John) 2, Flamingo Road (Antony) 3 and Pastiche (Kiran Rai) 4. 4-3/4, 1-1/2 and Hd. 1m 13.59s. Rs. 11 (w), 10, 13 and 14 (p), Shp: 21. Thp: 32. Fc: 27, Q; 28. Trinella; 27 and 18, Excata: 135 and 109. Favourite: Knight In Hooves. Owner: Mr. Daulat Chhabria. Trainer: R. Narredu.  5. KANTEERAVA CUP (1,400m), rated 60 to 85: Priceless Gold (Yash), Bellator (Akshay K), Psychis Warrior (S. John) 3 and Velocidad (Darshan) 4. 3-1/4, 3 and 3. 1m 26.10s. Rs. 16 (w), 10 and 13 (p). Shp: 22. Thp: 31. Fc: 33, Q; 12. Trinella: 67 and 79. Exacta: 103 and 39. Favourite: Priceless Gold. Owners: Poonawalla Racing & Breeding rep. by Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla, Mrs. Michelle Y. Poonawalla, Mrs. Simone Poonawalla Pandole and Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Mukul A. Sonawalla & M/s. DT Racing & Breeding. Trainer: R. Narredu.  6. CIELO REY PLATE (1,200m), rated 40 to 65: Griffin (Salman Khan) , Regal Music (Vishal Bunde) 2, Donna Bella (S. Shareef) 3 and Hokkaido (Shreyas Singh) 4. 1-3/4. 6-1/4 and 1-1/4. 1m 13.80s. Rs. 34 (w), 15, 16 and 20 (p); Shp: 38, Thp: 51. Fc: 224, Q; 108. Trinella: 1,147 and 751. Exacta: 2, 529 and 529. Favourite: Griffin. Owner: Mr. Mohd Javeed Ghatala. Trainer: I. Ghatala.  7. AGOSTINI PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o & over: Caracas (Akshay K) 1, Tenali (Dhanu Singh) 2, See My Heels (Yash) 3 and Ultimate Striker (Darshan) 4. 1-3/4, 1/2 and 4-1/4. 1m 27.12s. Rs. 22 (w), 11, 16 and 21 (p), Shp: 46. Thp: 47. Fc: 99. Q; 59. Trinella: 185 and 53, Exacta: 591 and 459. Favourite: Caracas. Owner: Mr. Aditya P. Thackersay. Trainer: Dominic. Jackpot: Rs. 5,076 (nine tkts); Runner-up: 890 (22 tkts); Treble: 520 (14 tkts); (ii); 240 (52 tkts).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/priceless-gold-claims-kanteerava-cup/article37936808.ece
12 December 2021||Pune,||A day of lop-sided matches||Karnataka, Puducherry, Chandigarh and Punjab registered comprehensive wins in their respective pool matches of the 11th Hockey India senior men’s National championship here on Saturday. Kicking off proceedings in the tournament opener, Karnataka thrashed Jammu and Kashmir 14-0, while in the second Pool C game of the day, Puducherry trounced Arunachal Pradesh by the same margin. In Pool D, Punjab, led by Olympic bronze medallist Rupinder Pal Singh, defeated Uttarakhand 11-0, while in Pool E, Chandigarh beat Rajasthan 14-0. In the final game of the day from Pool E, Manipur beat Tripura 21-0 to kickstart its campaign on a rousing note. Andaman and Nicobar forfeited their Pool D game against Andhra Pradesh.  The results: Pool C: Karnataka 14 bt J&K 0; Puducherry 14 bt Arunachal Pradesh 0.   Pool D: Punjab 11 bt Uttarakhand 0, AP vs A&N (later forfeited match).   Pool E: Chandigarh 14 bt Rajasthan 0; Manipur 21 bt Tripura 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/day-of-big-wins/article37936809.ece
12 December 2021||Hyderabad:,||Menilly should make amends||Trainer S.K. Sunderji’s ward Menilly, who ran third in her last start, should make amends in the Telangana And Andhra Sub Area Cup, the main event of Sunday’s (Dec. 12) races.  ZOOM ZOOM PLATE (1,100m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III) — 1.45 p.m.: 1. Battle Ready (5) A.A. Vikrant 62, 2. Classy Dame ( 7) Gaurav Singh 62, 3. Flamingo Fame (1) Santosh Raj 62, 4. Smart Money (10) P. Ajeeth Kumar 61.5, 5. Starwalker (6) B.R. Kumar 59.5, 6. Elmira (11) Abhay Singh 58.5, 7. Air Salute (9) Md. Ismail 58, 8. That’s My Speed (8) B. Nikhil 58, 9. Silver Set (3) R. Ajinkya 57.5, 10. Acadian Angel (2) Rafique Sk. 53.5 and 11. Turf Monarch (4) Surya Prakash 50.  1. FLAMINGO FAME, 2. CLASSY DAME, 3. ACADIAN ANGEL   TRIBUTE PLATE (DIV. I) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 2.15: 1. Bedford (10) Kiran Naidu 60, 2. N R I Sun (5) B.R. Kumar 59, 3. The Pianist (2) S.J. Sunil 58.5, 4. Fly Tothe Stars (9) Md. Ismail 53.5, 5. Ok Boss (1) Gaurav Singh 53.5, 6. Princeton (11) B. Nikhil 53.5, 7. Royal Support (4) R. Ajinkya 53.5, 8. Asturias (8) Santosh Raj 52, 9. My Master (6) P. Gaddam 51.5, 10. Isra (3) Rafique Sk. 51 and 11. Garnet (7) G. Naresh 50.5.  1. THE PIANIST, 2. N R I SUN, 3. PRINCETON   MEGATOP PLATE (DIV. I) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 — 2.45: 1. King Maker (10) Surya Prakash 60, 2. Once More (2) Nakhat Singh 60, 3. Shaquille (9) Gaurav Singh 59, 4. Star Racer (4) R. Ajinkya 57.5, 5. Curcumin (5) B.R. Kumar 56.5, 6. Sun Dancer (6) Kiran Naidu 55, 7. Aibak (7) Afroz Khan 53.5, 8. Loch Stella (1) C.P. Bopanna 53, 9. Sheldon (8) Rafique Sk. 52 and 10. Sugar An Spice (3) G. Naresh 51.  1. KING MAKER, 2. ONCE MORE, 3. SUN DANCER   ARDENT KNIGHT PLATE (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 — 3.15: 1. Strategist (9) Nakhat Singh 60, 2. British Empress (10) Rohit Kumar 59, 3. Balius (3) Santosh Raj 58.5, 4. City Of Wisdom (11) Mukesh Kumar 58, 5. Makhtoob (7) P. Ajeeth Kumar 58, 6. N R I Elegance (8) Rafique Sk. 58, 7. Francis Bacon (4) Khurshad Alam 56.5, 8. Four One Four (1) Abhay Singh 53.5, 9. Max (6) Md. Ismail 52.5, 10. Sublime (5) S.S. Tanwar 52.5 and 11. Red Snaper (2) Afroz Khan 52.  1. MAKHTOOB, 2. N R I ELEGANCE, 3. RED SNAPER   MEGATOP PLATE (DIV.II) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 3.45: 1. N R I Vision (8) Mukesh Kumar 60, 2. The Special One (3) Rohit Kumar 60, 3. City Of Blossom (7) R. Ajinkya 57.5, 4. Nearest (6) B.R. Kumar 57, 5. Gusty Note (5) A.A. Vikrant 56, 6. Hashtag (10) Gaurav Singh 54, 7. Story Teller (2) R.S. Jodha 53, 8. Dunkirk (1) Surya Prakash 52.5, 9. Blazing Jupiter (9) B. Nikhil 51 and 10. Sputnic (4) G. Naresh 50.5.  1. N R I VISION, 2. THE SPECIAL ONE, 3. GUSTY ONE   TELANGANA AND ANDHRA SUB AREA CUP (1,100m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 4.15: 1. Menilly (9) Santosh Raj 60, 2. Beauty On Parade (10) A.A. Vikrant 56, 3. Trump Star (7) G. Naresh 55.5, 4. Watch My Stride (8) Abhay Singh 55, 5. City Of Bliss (1) B.R. Kumar 54.5, 6. Kingston (6) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 7. Sporting Smile (3) C.P. Bopanna 54, 8. Siyavash (4) Ashad Asbar 53.5, 9. DRD (2) P. Ajeeth Kumar 52.5 and 10. Jean Lafette (5) S.S. Tanwar 52.5.  1. MENILLY, 2. WATCH MY STRIDE, 3. BEAUTY ON PARADE   NIRMAL PLATE (DIV. I) (1,400m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III) — 4.45: 1. Ashwa Pushkin (2) Santosh Raj 62, 2. Over Joy (7) Ashad Asbar 62, 3. Arrowtown (9) Md. Ismail 61.5, 4. Salisbury (8) Abhay Singh 61.5, 5. Tales Of A Legend (4) A.A. Vikrant 61, 6. Amalfitana (10) Surya Prakash 60.5, 7. Wot’s Up Jay (6) Koushik 60, 8. Challenger (1) Nakhat Singh 59, 9. That’s My Way (13) Aneel 59, 10. Royal Girl (5) Gaurav Singh 58.5, 11. Astronaut (12) Khurshad Alam 56.5, 12. Good Tidings (11) Kiran Naidu 54 and 13. Royal Avenger (3) Afroz Khan 50.  1. ASHWA PUSHKIN, 2. AMALFITANA, 3. CHALLENGER  Day’s Best: MAKHTOOB  Jackpot : 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. Mini Jackpot: (i) 1, 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 4, 5, 6 & 7. Treble: (i) 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 5, 6 & 7. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/menilly-should-make-amends/article37936794.ece
12 December 2021||Manchester,||Man City stays on top||Mohamed Salah’s penalty ensured Steven Gerrard’s return to Liverpool as Aston Villa manager ended in a 1-0 defeat while Manchester City and Chelsea also needed spot-kicks to avoid slipping up in the Premier League title race on Saturday. City edged 10-man Wolves 1-0 thanks to Raheem Sterling’s controversial winner to stay on top, while Chelsea required two Jorginho spot-kicks to see off Leeds 3-2. Pep Guardiola saluted Sterling’s “massive contribution” to Manchester City after the forward scored his 100th Premier League goal.  Important results: Premier League: Manchester City 1 (Sterling 66-pen) bt Wolves 0; Arsenal 3 (Lacazette 21, Odegaard 27, Gabriel 62) bt Southampton 0; Chelsea 3 (Mount 42, Jorginho 58-pen, 90-pen) bt Leeds 2 (Raphinha 28-pen, Gelhardt 83); Liverpool 1 (Salah 67-pen) bt Aston Villa 0.   Bundesliga: Bayern Munich 2 (Coman 53, Musiala 74) bt Mainz 1 (Onisiwo 21); VfL Bochum 1 (Polter 40-pen) drew with Borussia Dortmund 1 (Brandt 85).   Serie A: Fiorentina 4 (Bonaventura 31, Vlahovic 51, 84, Maleh 90) bt Salernitana 0.   On Friday: Premier League: Brentford 2 (Jansson 84, Mbuemo 90+5-pen) bt Watford 1 (Dennis 24).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/man-city-stays-on-top/article37936677.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A battling win for FC Goa||A 10-man FC Goa battled past Bengaluru FC 2-1 to notch up its second win of the season and climb up to seventh, at the Bambolim stadium on Saturday. With a contest locked at 1-1, BFC had almost half-an-hour — until Suresh Wangjam was sent off for a second yellow card in the 84th minute — to make the one-man advantage count and stem the run of four winless games to move up from 10th position, but it didn’t. In the 55th minute, Jorge Ortiz was sent off for a violent reaction towards Wangjam after being fouled. But in the 70th minute FC Goa took what proved a decisive lead, when a wonderfully worked set-piece ended with an unmarked Devendra Murgaonkar calmly slotting the ball home. At the start of the match though, it was all FC Goa, pressing with vigour and launching multiple waves of attack. The pressure finally told in the 16th minute with Ashique Kuruniyan scoring an own goal — his second of the season. Murgaonkar drove down the left and fired in a low shot, which Gurpreet Singh Sandhu parried away weakly. The lurking Ortiz tried to get a touch but it went in off Kuruniyan. A minute later, a flowing team move from BFC ended with Sunil Chhetri, in a miss emblematic of his wretched season thus far, blazing his shot over the bar from five yards out. But at the stroke of half-time BFC equalised when Cleiton Silva’s free kick from the left flank swerved wickedly, beat the flapping hands of a hapless, out-of-position Dheeraj Singh and went in off the far post. Prince Ibara’s introduction after the break made BFC dangerous. But after taking the lead, Juan Ferrando’s men managed the game superbly to see out the win.  The results: FC Goa 2 (Kuruniyan 16-og, Murgaonkar 70) bt Bengaluru FC 1 (Silva 45); ATK Mohun Bagan 1 (Liston Colaco 18) drew with Chennaiyin FC 1 (Vladimir Koman 45).   Today’s match: SC EB vs Kerala Blasters, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-battling-win-for-fc-goa/article37936811.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Koman saves Chennaiyin’s blushes||Vladimir Koman’s brilliant equaliser just before half-time ensured Chennaiyin FC remained unbeaten in Season 8 of the Indian Super League as it played out a 1-1 draw with ATK Mohun Bagan at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Saturday. Koman, who scored CFC’s first goal of the season against Hyderabad FC, netted the crucial goal in the 45th minute, cashing in on ATK MB’s defensive lapse. Anirudh Thapa’s quick throw-in to Lukasz Gikiewicz deflected off him and fell in no man’s land. Koman quickly seized the ball and fired home to the far right corner from the edge of the box as the ATK MB players were caught napping. CFC, the two-time champion, could have gone ahead in the 29th minute when Lallianzuala Chhangte dodged past two defenders on the left to set up Thapa, but the CFC skipper’s shot deflected off a defender and went wide. Earlier, ATK MB had gone ahead in the 18th minute when Roy Krishna released a beautiful ball from the centre to Liston Colaco, who produced a brilliant run on the left flank and shot to the roof of the net. In the second half, ATK MB had an opportunity when Krishna produced a piece of magic near the edge of the box, threading a ball to Hugo Boumous, but the latter’s shot was off-target. Later, FC Goa posted a battling 2-1 win over Bengaluru FC.  The results: FC Goa 2 (Kuruniyan 16-og, Murgaonkar 70) bt Bengaluru FC 1 (Silva 45); ATK Mohun Bagan 1 (Liston Colaco 18) drew with Chennaiyin FC 1 (Vladimir Koman 45).   Today’s match: SC EB vs Kerala Blasters, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/koman-saves-chennaiyins-blushes/article37936676.ece
12 December 2021||SOLAPUR,||Rutuja made to sweat||Top seed Rutuja Bhosale battled her way past Sowjanya Bavisetti 6-7(5), 6-3, 6-2 in the semifinals of the Jamshri $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament at the MSLTA Solapur District Complex on Saturday. It was the second win in four meetings for Rutuja over Sowjanya; the contest lasted two hours and 48 minutes. In the other match, Vaidehi Chaudhari beat second seed Zeel Desai 7-6(2), 6-4 in an hour and 47 minutes. In the doubles final, Ramya Natarajan and Sathwika Sama saved a match point and converted their sixth for a 6-3, 1-6, [13-11] victory over No.1 seeds, Sharmada Balu and Sowjanya Bavisetti.  The results:   Singles (semifinals): Rutuja Bhosale bt Sowjanya Bavisetti 6-7(5), 6-3, 6-2; Vaidehi Chaudhari bt Zeel Desai 7-6(2), 6-4.   Doubles (final): Ramya Natarajan & Sathwika Sama bt Sharmada Balu & Sowjanya Bavisetti 6-3, 1-6, [13-11] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rutuja-made-to-sweat/article37937179.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Yong Sung Yoo appointed PPBA foreign head coach||Two time Olympic medallist Yong Sung Yoo has been appointed as the foreign head coach of the Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy (PPBA) here. Yoo’s appointment was finalised after a search conducted under a joint initiative by PPBA and Olympic Gold Quest (OGQ), with the goal of grooming promising players to achieve podium success at the 2024 Paris Olympics. Yoo’s distinction South Korean Yoo, 47, won the men’s doubles silver medals in Sydney 2000 and Athens 2004 Olympics. Yoo has previously coached national teams in South Korea, Malaysia and Singapore. He was one of the first foreign coaches to train the Chinese national badminton team. Prakash Padukone, co-founder of PPBA said, “I am delighted that PPBA will soon have the services of an experienced foreign coach, thanks to the active support of OGQ and Infosys Foundation. “I am hopeful that with this new appointment, PPBA can provide added impetus to our efforts to groom more youngsters to win medals for the country, working in close cooperation with Sports Authority of India (SAI) and Badminton Association of India.” MD & CEO of OGQ, Viren Rasquinha, said, “PPBA & OGQ have a very long relationship. I am confident that Yoo’s appointment will provide a massive boost to all the players at PPBA, and especially Lakshya Sen, who is targeting a medal at Paris 2024.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yong-sung-yoo-appointed-ppba-foreign-head-coach/article37936804.ece
12 December 2021||PUNE,||Batyutenko, Saito win||Max Batyutenko of Kazakhstan and Sara Saito of Japan won the boys’ and girls’ titles in the Aryan Pumps ITF Asian junior tennis championship at the Deccan Gymkhana on Saturday. Fifth seed Batyutenko outplayed Saheb Sodhi 6-2, 6-1 for the boys’ crown. The 300 points from the tournament would help the Kazakh get into the top-100 and gain entry into the Australian Open junior event. Saheb revealed that he could not bear with the pain on his right shoulder as he had been playing for four weeks on the trot. Shruti Ahlawat got off to a solid start and won the first set, but Saito lost just one game in the next two for a 5-7, 6-1, 6-0 victory.  The results (finals): Boys: Max Batyutenko (Kaz) bt Saheb Sodhi 6-2, 6-1. Girls: Sara Saito (Jpn) bt Shruti Ahlawat 5-7, 6-1, 6-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/batyutenko-saito-win/article37936806.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Vukomanovic keen to make Blasters an ‘every time team’||Victory tastes very sweet. And after tasting his first victory of the season, against Odisha FC in the last game, Kerala Blasters head coach Ivan Vukomanovic wants the lovely taste to linger. “It’s a nice feeling when you win and as a team we want to continue that. In football, you have ‘sometimes team’ or ‘sometimes players’, you know they are good some times. “The great teams and players, they are good every time. We want to become an ‘every time team’,” said the Serbian ahead of Saturday’s Indian Super League match against SC East Bengal at the Tilak Maidan, Mormugao. “So, whatever happens on the pitch, we want to show energy. In the last game, everyone was fighting for points till the end, this is what we would like to do,” he said. The Blasters have five points from a win, a loss and two draws while East Bengal is at the bottom of the league table with just two points and without a win. But Vukomanovic will not take Jose Manuel Diaz’s boys, who lost 3-4 against FC Goa in their last game, lightly. “We want to change things and explore styles depending on our opponent,” said Vukomanovic. The Blasters will be without main goalkeeper Albino Gomes who picked up a knee injury in the last match. “But there other good young goalkeepers like (Prabhsukhan) Gill,” said the coach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vukumanovic-keen-to-make-blasters-an-every-time-team/article37937060.ece
12 December 2021||Bangkok,||Indians do well in Asian rowing||Indian rowers Arjun Lal Jat and Ravi won the men’s double sculls gold while Parminder Singh bagged the men’s single sculls silver at the Asian Rowing Championships, here on Saturday. Arjun and Ravi edged past Chinese duo of Qing Li and Lutong Zhang and Uzbekistan’s Davrjon Davronov and Abdullo Mukhammadiev for the gold. Arjun and Ravi completed the race in 6:57.883s while the Chinese duo clocked 7:02.374s. The Uzbeks finished with 7:07.734s. Parminder later won a silver medal when he clocked 8:07.323s, while the gold winner from Uzbekistan Kholmurzaev Shakhboz was 11 seconds faster at 7:56.307s. Indonesia’s Memo finished third with 8:10.055s.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indians-do-well-in-asian-rowing/article37936847.ece
12 December 2021||THRISSUR:,||Saritha scores seven||M. Saritha fired in seven goals while Vembarasi and Minnoliya scored four each as Travancore Royals FC blanked Luca Soccer Club 22-0 in the opening match of the Kerala Women’s League football at the Corporation Stadium here on Saturday.  The result: Travancore Royals FC 22 (Vembarasi 4 goals, M. Saritha 7, P. Santhiya 3, Minnoliya 4, S. Iswarya 2, Poorani 2) bt Luca Soccer Club 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saritha-scores-seven/article37937059.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Abhilasha to take on Shreya in final||Top-seed A. Abhilasha and third-seed Shreya Lele, both from Jwala Gutta Academy of Excellence (JGAE), entered the women’s singles final of the Jwala Gutta Open badminton tournament at the JGAE here on Saturday. Abhilasha defeated M. Tejaswini (SSBA) 21-18, 18-21, 24-22 while Shreya downed Ira Moteria (JGAE) 21-5, 21-4 in the semifinals.  The results: Semifinals: Men: Anant Shivam Jindal (JGAE) bt P. Lauhit (KBA) 21-9, 21-10; Aditya Gupta (JGAE) bt Chirag Seth (JGAE) 22-20, 22-17.   Doubles: Akshan Shetty & Kush Chugh (Suchitra) bt K. Nanda Gopal & P. Arjun Reddy (A. Zone) 22-24, 21-17, 21-12; Devvart Mann & Sourabh Nain (JGAE) bt Abhinay Sairam & Prudhviraj Rayudu (Kayans) 17-21, 22-18, 21-10.   Women: A. Abhilasha (JGAE) bt M. Tejaswini (SSBA) 21-18, 18-21, 24-22; Shreya Lele (JGAE) bt Ira Moteria (JGAE) 21-5, 21-4.   Doubles: Rehana Zabeen & Sonali Mirkhelkar (JGAE) bt Saunny Goyal & Tarika (JGAE) 21-17, 21-12; Kavya Gandhi & Shreya bt Heera & M. Sowmya (JGAE) 21-12, 21-17 .    Santosh Malik defeated Sunil Harry 6-7 (3), 7-6 (5), [10-5] in the 35 years & above category semifinal of the GVK-AISTA senior National tennis tournament (veterans) at LB Stadium tennis complex here on Saturday. In the other semifinal, G. Raja put it across Dastagiri 6-2, 6-2.  The results: 35 years & above: Semifinals: Santosh Malik bt Sunil Harry 6-7(3), 7-6(5), [10-5]; G. Raja bt Dastagiri 6-2, 6-2.   Doubles: Quarterfinals: Vijay Anand & Afroz bt Madhusudhan & G. Raja 6-3, 5-7, [11-9]; Sunil Harry & Vijay Kumar bt Sankar Naidu & Kabeer Nunavath 3-6, 6-3, [12-10]; Ataullah & Dastagiri bt Goverdhan & Sashikanth 3-6, 6-4, [10-5]; Kaiser Das & Narsimhulu bt Sampath Kumar & Rajendra Prasad 4-6, 7-5, [10-8].   45 years & above: Semifinals: R. Manikandan bt Waheed 1-6, 7-5, 11-9; Armugam bt K.V.N. Murthy 6-3, 6-2.   Doubles: Quarterfinals: S. Subramaniam & D. Manish bt K.V.N. Murthy & Armugam 6-3, 3-6, [10-7]; R. Manikandan & S. Ramesh bt B. Mahesh & G. Ramesh 2-6, 6-1, [10-6]; J.V. Ramana & Venkateshwarlu bt M.S. Kiran & Kannan 6-2, 6-4.   55 years & above: Semifinals: V. Srinivas Reddy bt Basappa 6-2, 6-2; R.N. Ramesh bt Meghanadan 6-0, 6-1.   Doubles: Quarterfinals: V. Srinivas Reddy & R.N. Ramesh bt S. Nagendra Babu & Lohit Kumar 6-0, 6-0; R.S. Rawat & Keshava Prasad bt Riyaz & Mansoor Mirza 6-2, 6-7 (3), 10-7; Anand & T. Srinivas bt Paul Manohar & S. Manmadha Rao 6-3, 7-6(10).   65 years & above: Semifinals: S. Settu bt Sanyasi Raju 6-4, 6-4.   Doubles: Semifinals: S. Settu & Sanyasi Raju bt V. Gajapathi & V. Parthasarathy 3-6, 6-4, [10-4]; B.S. Tulasi Ram & Dhananjeyulu bt B.G. Reddy & V. Rarjagopalan 6-2, 6-1.   70 years & above: Final: Ghate bt K.S.R. Mohan Rao 6-2, 6-1.   Doubles: Final: P.V. Rao & Sai Ram Babu bt Adisesha Reddy & Y.V. Rama Krishna 9-4 .    Hyderabad settled for third place with a six-wicket win over Uttar Pradesh in the 24th Sardar Vallabhai Patel junior National invitation T20 cricket championship at Sanvordem (Goa). Gujarat won the trophy while Delhi finished runner-up. Special prizes were given to G. Varshik (most valuable player), G. Sravan (player of the tournament), Nitesh Pawar (best batsman), Asad Hussain (best bowler), Bharat Kumar (best fielder), Preetham Singh (best all-rounder) and S. Akash (best wicketkeeper), Ahmed Hussain (gamechanger), Ameer and Abraaz (emerging players), Adarsh Deshmukh (promising player), Doawin Sai (best disciplined player) and Rraam Gupttaa (spirit of cricket).  The scores: Third place: UP 158/9 in 20 overs (Sami 62, Asad Hussain 3/27, G. Sravan 3/8) lost to SSGF Hyderabad 161/4 in 18.2 overs (Preetham Singh 48 n.o., Nitesh Pawar 31, Arbaaz 37) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhilasha-to-take-on-shreya-in-final/article37937014.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Ethiraj College wins volleyball title||Ethiraj College won the Madras University inter-zone women's volleyball tournament.  The results: Ethiraj bt A-Zone 25-9, 25-9; Ethiraj bt B-Zone 25-4, 25-14; Ethiraj bt MOP 25-10, 25-17 .    In the Madras University basketball tournament, M.O.P. Vaishnav College won the title defeating Ethiraj College 48-31 in the final.  Other results: MOP Vaishnav bt B-Zone Combined 31-18; MOP Vaishnav bt A-Zone Combined 24-8 .    SRM IST won the silver in the South Zone inter-university badminton men's tournament, organised by K.L. University, AP. In the final, SRM IST lost to Jain University, Karnataka 3-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ethiraj-college-wins-volleyball-title/article37936842.ece
12 December 2021||Mysuru,||Navodaya gains first innings points||Navodaya CC secured the first innings lead and gained the vital points against Jo Jo CC in the drawn two-day KSCA Mysore zone first division league match here.  The scores: I div.: Jo Jo 275/9 in 57.4 overs (K. Arun 79, K.S. Lankesh 52, Tanmay Valmik 30, G. Harshavardhan 26, S. Ishaan 3/31, Jairam Srinivas 3/39) & 72/3 in 20 overs (Tanmay Valmik 26 n.o.) drew with Navodaya 277 in 76.1 overs (R.G. Anshuman 61, Prajwal Pavan 52, Karthik Sundar 40, Jairam Srinivas 39, Paras 4/85, Shantaraj 3/64). Navodaya 3 points, Jo Jo 1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/navodaya-gains-first-innings-points/article37937150.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 07:19 IST,||Sudoku — December 12, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-12-2021/article37937304.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Sounds of silence||Bengaluru, infamous for its traffic congestion, is an ironic venue for If We Vanish , a work of dance, visual, and audio about… silence. For the audience, used to the city’s incessant bluster and clamour, the sounds recorded from some of the world’s quietest places might be disconcerting. Man-made noises have become inescapable — and silence, almost alien. This near-extinction of silence is what spurred sound artists Nikhil Nagaraj (from Bengaluru) and Felix Deufel (Germany) two years ago to a unique expedition: of collecting soundscapes from secluded spots. They went to Uganda, Iceland, Thailand, Indonesia, and a lot of places in India and Germany. Sometimes, they had to trek for several days to reach the spot. “The audience will be hearing natural sounds in its purest form,” says Nikhil, “This is something that we do not actually experience. Wherever we go, there is always some noise. Even in a forest, in the middle of the night, you hear a distant truck on the highway.” Even in a national park, which is supposed to be all-silent, you would hear a distant plane flying occasionally. “There is not a single national park in the world where a flight does not go over,” he adds. Nikhil and Felix were not just embarking on an artistic project. They have been interacting with ecologists and conservationists about silence. The data and the information they have collected so far will be archived by the National Centre for Biological Sciences in Bengaluru.  If We Vanish is an artistic expression of their findings. With visual artist Tobias Feldmeier and movement artist Ronita Mookerji, Felix and Nikhil explore the theme of silence. “We can interpret silence in different ways. Political silencing, for instance, is a type of silence. The silence on the streets during the pandemic was Nature’s example of what happens when humans are not on the streets,” explains Nikhil. For Ronita, it was challenging yet equally exciting to crack the choreography for this project. How does one dance to silence? “I decided to improvise,” she says. Each time she performs, she reacts to the sounds and visuals. The mood of the venue and audience shape her movements. “In my head, there is a narrative. And there is a particular flow. Every chapter has something to do with political silencing, gender voices, or sound pollution.” These topics, however, will not be explicit. The performance is more experiential. To play a soundscape of silence in a city like Bengaluru was challenging. But the artists have employed a 32-speaker 3D ambisonic setup to create the right atmosphere. The artists promise If We Vanish will be a unique experience. The show premiered in Germany and received positive feedback. Nikhil and Ronita hope the same from the home audience.  If We Vanish, supported by the International Coproduction Fund of the Goethe-Institut and Max Mueller Bhavan Bangalore, is on December 12 at 7 pm at Shoonya - Center For Art & Somatic Practices. Tickets on myinstamojo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sounds-of-silence/article37936607.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Bold, beautiful and brave||From characters in childhood adventure stories to glamorous stars on the silver screen as adults — most people have aspired to be a figment of their own imagination. Truth Dream is an exhibition that captured the fantasies of a few members of the transgender community and immortalised them in photographs. The project was conceptualised by Chandni, co-founder of Payana, a Bengaluru-based NGO that works towards protecting sexual minorities. “About two months ago, Chandni approached us with this idea of working on a project with 12 of her friends who identified as transwomen, transmen, and other gender non-conforming individuals. They were all around 50 years old — a rarity within the community considering the hardships they undergo. Chandni wanted to give them a chance to step into their dream personas and she was very clear it had to be a photoshoot,” says the curator of Truth Dream, Angarika G from Maara, a media and arts organisation in Bengaluru. “When we met them we realised most of their dream personas stemmed from mythology as well as Kannada and Tamil cinema. All of these were connected to childhood desires and fantasies, their experiences of sexual transition, love, betrayal and rejection.” Angarika says when her team realised the potential of this platform, they set the wheels in motion. “We got a costume designer to customise outfits since some of them had undergone operations and we just could not just hire costumes off a shelf. We also called in a makeup artist and two photographers.” The ladies wanted to be modelled after the Maharani of Mysore as well as movie stars Sridevi and Jayamalini, and from classics of yore. The photographs were shot both in colour and in black and white. “The colour images were shot digitally and the black-and-white ones were shot on film to explore two different processes. The black-and-white images capture their slow transformation. The colour images are in front of hand-painted 8x10 backdrops that depicted scenes from their dreams.” In the process of making Truth Dream a reality, Maara put together a small book on the life stories of the 12 women. “They had shared their life experiences with us and we presented them in a docu-fiction format as the narrative around the transgender community tends to be either celebratory or patronising.” Titled Kannadi, which means mirror both in Kannada and Tamil, the book brings to light the complexity of identities and experiences of the community instead of portraying them as victims or icons. “The premise of the exhibition is looking at experiences of beauty, aging and friendships as well as challenging notions of caste discrimination, gender binaries, beauty and more.” Maara hopes they can travel with the exhibition, showcasing it in different cities around the country and hopefully abroad too. Those interested in hosting the exhibition can mail angarika@maara.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bold-beautiful-and-brave/article37936601.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The comedy of separation||Both R Madhavan and Surveen Chawla are not new to streaming. Madhavan, 51, made his debut with Breathe in 2018 when streaming was considered, at best, peripheral. Chawla, 37, struck gold with the second season of Sacred Games in 2019 . Having begun their respective journeys on television — Zee TV’s Banegi Apni Baat and Ghar Jamai for Madhavan or Ekta Kapoor’s Kahin To Hoga for Chawla — their careers touched films, both Hindi and Tamil, before it landed on streaming, first separately, and now together, with their Netflix show Decoupled.  Created and written by author Manu Joseph ( Serious Men ), directed by Hardik Mehta ( Kamyaab, Roohi ), Decoupled uses the frame of comedy to look at a couple in Gurgaon navigating divorce. “I haven’t played a character like this before,” says Madhavan, who plays a writer in the show. He is known for having a good hold on screenplays and contributing to scripts, be it with his earlier hits Minnale (2001), 3 Idiots (2009), or the more recent Irudhi Suttru (2016). In an interview with the two actors, edited for length and clarity, they speak of how the pandemic and streaming has shaped their craft, and Decoupled .  What drew you to these parts in Decoupled ?     Madhavan:  The show is in English, and we are not English-ising a Tamil or Hindi show. The character says things as he sees it, and sometimes he says the most obnoxious, offending lines. My challenge as an actor was to see that he doesn’t become a negative character. That he can say anything and still get away with it because of his innocent intent. Especially after the pandemic, being in front of the camera was a great relief. There was also a great synergy of people, and a fair amount of partying since we were all in the same hotel. I had more than one reason to accept the story.   Surveen:  This is a Gurgaon-based couple with a young daughter. My character is that one person in the show who brings sanity back and normalises things in the midst of the sarcasm and the ego. But Hardik was very clear that we didn’t want to have a hate relationship between the people. [He wanted] to bring in animosity and yet have the audience feel that they have pieces of love left.  How involved are you now with the creation of your characters?     Madhavan:  When I approve a script, I know what about it has touched me. Sometimes, I see that we are not touching those markers which excited me in the first place. That is when I step in and guide [the team] as to what we originally conceived, which happens often. Sometimes, with the lack of experience with young directors — they have passion, and they want to tell a story, but there is a method to it — I have to say that maybe we don’t want to indulge in something we didn’t explore in the pre-production. That apart, Surveen and I were open to improvisation. Ideally, we don’t want to do more than the actor’s job because that is what we are paid to do. I would love to go on a Mani Ratnam or a Rajkumar Hirani movie set and completely surrender as an actor and not worry about anything else. But these are luxuries that are few and far between.   Surveen:  I’ve experienced collaboration at a far more detailed level on OTT, because it is a longer format and you are spending more time with your director.  Do you prepare differently for a performance on streaming?     Surveen:  With Decoupled ,  and Sacred Games, the process of filming was months at a stretch. It is far easier to shoot every single day as opposed to shooting with breaks, but it is also difficult because you have to keep that rhythm going for the longest time. Decoupled ,  though,  has been the quickest shoot, because due to the pandemic we were in a bio-bubble in Delhi for two months. We filmed continuously, and then went straight to Goa. So, to hang onto the character was easier.   Madhavan:  The intensity, involvement, and commitment is the same. It is easier to be in character in films because there are fewer shooting days. It is easier to pick up from the last scene we shot. In films, however, you might have to be more careful with your looks, since the larger screen will capture all nuances of your preparation.  How do you gauge the success of a show on OTT?     Surveen:  Decoupled is a modern story, and it will resonate with an urban elite, English speaking audience. Masses can’t be targeted with it. Social media, then, would be that marker of success for me, where people give us their reviews.   Madhavan:   Tangible proof is the remuneration that is offered to me for the next series (laughs).  Madhavan, you have spoken about how the pandemic has made you reconsider the kinds of stories you want to pursue…     Madhavan:  Post-pandemic, we have to cater to the emotional situation of the viewers, which has changed. I am looking for age-appropriate romantic stories to open up the screen, and show them the greenery, the snow, and make them feel that life isn’t as futile as it seemed during the pandemic.   Surveen:  I am also done with those dark and heavy roles. After a point, it gets to you. I was just not feeling the excitement of going on a set, doing something I hadn’t done before.    Decoupledpremieres on Netflix on December 17||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-comedy-of-separation/article37936604.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Dinner slows down||“Oh, come all ye faithful”, a trio tomato rasam made with lentils, will be one of the dishes at a 10-course sit down festival menu at Farmlore in Bengaluru this Christmas. Curated by Chef Johnson Ebenezer, the festive menu is part a concept of immersive dining experiences that he started in mid-2019 when he co-founded Lore, an outfit that tells stories with food. He was unaware then that he would be doing mainly sit-down dining and silver service the next couple of years, once the pandemic altered dinner parties and gatherings through 2020 and 2021. Last year when travel came to a standstill, Lore offered a communal dining based on the theme ‘Around the world in 80 days’. Menus were printed as boarding passes of each aerodrome. The format limits itself to a range of 16 to 24 diners, says Johnson, who organised the event along with his business partners Chef Mythrayie Iyer and Chef Avinash Vishaal. “The sit-down layout gives people ample time and closeness to have long and slow conversations,” says Johnson. With small groups, it is possible to create multi-course degustation menus that immerse guests in a dining experience for two to three hours. In Hyderabad, Lore hosted Omnisense, offering a menu that was crafted around the five senses. In Bengaluru, their seven-course dinner based on ‘birth to rebirth’ was customised for individual groups and held at different locations. Earlier in September, Mumbai -based experimental chef Prateek Sadhu celebrated his fine dining, ingredient driven restaurant, Masque turning five with a five-city tour. This included pop-up dinners in Delhi, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Chennai and Ladakh. Set in the middle of an idyllic apricot orchard the Ladakh dinner was particularly unique because the menu was almost entirely planned around foraged and local ingredients. Noticing a definite uptick in private dining requests, since pandemic restrictions eased, Sadhu says, “A meal like this means someone is setting aside the time to invest in an experience. They’re committing themselves to you for two to three hours, and leaving themselves at your mercy and that is a responsibility we do not take lightly. We discuss every aspect of the tableware and service style before launching a new menu, because everything surrounding the food is what also builds the experience.” Chef Vikramjit Roy, who set up Hello Panda, a gourmet pan-Asian delivery service in June 2020 has been organising sit down dinners during the pandemic for couples, and even bigger groups of 50 to 60 people. He believes that the pandemic brought the sophisticated sit down dining experience from the outside to people’s homes. “These clients are well-travelled and know their food. During the pandemic they missed the fine dining experience and hence wished to bring it home,” he says. Vikram adds that the challenge of setting up the experience at home is “immense.” “We operate in professional kitchens, as chefs, with precise equipments. The menu at sit downs is not a bowl meal, but one where every element stands out. All this requires sophisticated equipment and most home kitchens have basic cooking appliances,” says Vikram whose team carries a full range of cookware such as dehydrators, sous-vide machines and blenders to the location. According to Vikram, food is only 30 % of the experience. The rest lies in service, tableware and styling. “The server, who originated from the butler of yore, is knowledgable about the food that is served. He should have the ability to interact with guests in an easy way, explaining the nuances of the meal,” says Vikram, who has done elaborate multi-course events across India, from the metros to tier-II cities such as Ludhiana and Lonavala. One of the most exotic ones, he has done was on a small beach island off Mayabunder in the Andaman, where he catered a 10-course menu for a small group. “The island is secluded and has no electricity. The dinner was in the glow of candlelight and we created a dreamy environment,” he says. He does not divulge the cost of the experience, except for saying, “it is not cheap for sure.” In Kochi, Sareeka John and Payal Bafna who founded Guestronomy, a bespoke dining venture, in 2019. In 2022, they are set to take it forward with The Grape Escapade, which will have 30 dinners over a four-day event at six wineries in Nashik, from January 26. “The health crisis slowed us down and reconnected us to our old modes of functioning,” says Sareeka, adding, “Earlier meal times were elaborate. We are now looking for such intimate experiences that infuse closeness and a bonding that had gone missing. I believe there is a market opening for this slow and stylish meal time after the pandemic.” As Sareeka works with hotels to curate bespoke dinners, she says that guests are just discovering this aspect, “that something interesting, thoughtful and fun can be done away from the fixed dining formats that hotels offer.” Such experiences can costs between Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 10,000. Mayank Kulshreshtha, Executive Chef ITC Grand Chola, says chefs have introduced innovations in plating, platter-to-plate silver service, and thali service. Seating arrangements like the round, V, block table and the E shape too are back in vogue. He talks of techniques such as the slow infusion of ghee from a lit ghee candle placed on a dish or active charcoal smoking a dish as dramatic interventions. Though big hotel groups like ITC have not done many at-home sit down dos, during the pandemic they did send teams of a chef and steward to unravel and explain the menu to guests at home. Mayank sees a clear shift towards sit-down dining and believes that the trend is here to stay. “It is going to catch on more. People have got used to the pampering that the format offers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/dinner-slows-down/article37936615.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||On the road again||Out with the old and in with the new! Lucky Ali will be signing off 2021 with an all-India tour that will spill over into the new year. The Lucky Ali India Tour which commences on December 12 will see the singer perform in Delhi, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Goa, after a hiatus. “Amongst my first releases for this tour will be my compilations with Michael McCleary who produced most of my early work. This album is a continuation of the work that we have done. The music has been in the making for a while now and we were just waiting for the right time to release it,” says Lucky Ali, talking about the upcoming event and the unnamed album. “Although it is fun to release a whole album, we now have the luxury of being able to release a single track, work on it, film it and later on compile it into an album. If you’ve noticed, all our music follows a similar line of thought and these songs are no different.” Though only four cities are currently part of the tour, the organisers will be adding other cities to the event that will conclude by the end of February. According to the singer, fans can follow updates of his recent releases on social media and says his team is working on releasing their latest compilation as a vinyl. “My songs reflect a constant sense of self searching, and a love for travelling, they are about communication and relationships. Inspiration is something that happens when it does. When you are compiling an album, the songs stem from that perspective. You make it, break it, remake it. Basically, it is a work in progress. Even after a song is released, it is a work in progress because it has another life on stage.” Ali says the India Tour is so called not due to geographical confines alone — it caters specifically to an Indian audience. “The set up is unique to this particular tour and promises to be an audio-visual experience,” he says, adding that none of the current material will be heard at concerts abroad, at least for the time being. “The tour will be an audio-visual journey that will take the audience through the journey of music and the way each song is performed. Each section has a mood and accompanying visuals, promising to make it an immersive experience.” “Apart from being an extraordinary challenge, we also get to enjoy the audience being a part of the experience. India may have seen plenty of audio-visual events, but for our set it is going to be different affair,” he says adding, “Normally, we would just get together and jam, but this time round there would be a little more discipline.”   Tickets to the Lucky Ali India Tour are available on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/on-the-road-again/article37936617.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Make your Christmas merrier||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/make-your-christmas-merrier/article37936594.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Bringing childhood stories to life||Through Anytime Stories with Granny Ru, Rebecca Spurgeon of Bengaluru’s Jagriti Theatre hopes to bring alive the art of storytelling on stage. Designed for children, this show is a dramatic storytelling of three stories —Henny Penny, Old Woman and the Pig, and Jack and the Beanstalk, using colourful props and puppets. Rebecca, 34, who has been in theatre for over 15 years now feels that the medium is important to create a space so that art can be accessible to children. This storytelling event hopes to provide a platform for people to escape into an exciting world of children’s stories. “Even though the technique used is storytelling, the performers are not stationary. That is one of the primary differences between just a narration of a story, and the performance of it,” says Rebecca, adding, “It is a dramatised, solo-actor play, which will be narrated using colours, props and puppets to foster a sense of imagination in children.” Arundhati Raja, who has been in theatre for over 45 years, and who is also the founder-trustee of Jagriti Theatre, is the solo actor who will be narrating the stories. Through Arundhati’s performance, Rebecca wants to create a stage for children to imagine, experiment and learn. “The genesis of the play, initially was an audio recording of the narration, but as we started developing it, we realised we could do so much more. We tried imagining a performance of these stories, and we developed it into one,” Rebecca adds. Rebecca believes that Anytime Stories with Granny Ru will take children through the landscape of storytelling and expand the purview of their imagination. “You open up children’s eyes to see things differently through these performances. There is a strong impulse for creativity and a penchant for theatrical techniques. There are many characters, and these stories fit the idea of our performance perfectly. I grew up listening to stories, and there were a lot of platforms back then for us to read, listen and talk about it. I think the problem now is we are not creating enough spaces for children to embrace art. Stories cannot be told the way they once were. What we can do is incorporate contemporary ideas of art and update ourselves so that we can bring more children into the theatre.” Anytime Stories with Granny Ru will be staged at Jagriti Theatre, Whitefield, Bengaluru on December 12 at 3 pm and 6.30 pm. Tickets are available on BookMyShow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bringing-childhood-stories-to-life/article37936598.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Ruhaniyat resumes live concerts||After going digital in the previous edition due to the pandemic, Ruhaniyat, the flagship music festival of Banyan Tree Events, will resume its in-person concerts in its 21st edition. Parvathy Baul, Madan Gopal Singh and Chaar Yaar, Kachra Khan, Darre Khan, and Warsi Brothers are part of the line-up for Ruhaniyat's Bengaluru leg on December 12. Ruhaniyat began as a one-day programme at the Horniman Circle Gardens in Mumbai in 2001. From the following year, it was a two-day event. Now, it takes place in eight cities across India. The festival features practitioners of musical traditions such as fakirs, bauls, monks, folk singers, jikir-jari singers, warkaris, shabad singers, and qawwals from India and abroad. This year, the series of concerts kicked off in Mumbai on November 27.  Ruhaniyat in Bengaluru is scheduled at Hotel Jayamahal Palace Lawn on December 12. Tickets on bookmyshow.com. For more details, visit ruhaniyat.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ruhaniyat-resumes-live-concerts/article37936609.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Film screening||Just Another Day , that premiered at the New York Asian Film Festival, will be screened at Suchitra Film Society on December 12. Directed by Prataya Shah, it talks about depression, abuse and the perception of separated/divorced women. The story traces a day in the life of a 40-something newly separated woman, Anjali Katekar (played by Anshulika Kapoor), amidst the bustle of Mumbai. Actors Radhika Narayan, Rishi, director Mahesh Gowda, and fashion designer Sounak Sen Barat will join the screening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/film-screening/article37936610.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A ‘howdunnit’ murder mystery||Susanto Banerjee, a corporate guy-turned-playwright, views his art and life through the prism of human behaviour. We play different roles every day, he says, reminiscent of the famous ‘All the world’s a stage’ monologue in William Shakespeare’s As You Like It . We behave differently with different people on different occasions, depending on the role we play. This is what, Susanto says, an actor tries to do on stage. “Theatre is so powerful concerning behaviours. Why can't we use theatre and make it an experiential tool to learn about behaviour?” His latest play, The Note , too, is a part of this study on human behaviour. It is, on the surface, a murder mystery. Susanto he does not just want to thrill but also make the audience think. That is why The Note will not be a whodunit; it will be a howdunit. A murder ravages the tranquillity of a family comprising Ramni, Pralay, and their little girl, Munni. The audience will get to know the murderer early. The rest of the play, with eight characters, will elaborate on the circumstance of the murder, trying to answer an important question: is the murderer guilty? Susanto wrote The Note a year and a half ago, inspired by a Somerset Maugham play. He liked the beginning of the Maugham play. So, he took that, added a few characters, tweaked their storylines, and changed their trajectories and locations. The Note will be the fourth play by Ventures Theatre, which Susanto founded in 2014, after Khub Kachher , The Flame and A Judgement Error??   ‘The Note’ will be staged at the Bangalore International Centre in Domlur Dec 12 (3pm and 7pm). Tickets on bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-howdunnit-murder-mystery/article37936596.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Abhishek Kapoor: ‘Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui’ is a progressive story||Director Abhishek Kapoor remembers the time when he set out to film Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui soon after the first lockdown in 2020. Conversations during the lockdown pertained to safety precautions during the pandemic, the need to be planet-friendly and whether the content in mainstream cinema will change for the better as homebound audiences lap up movies and series from across the globe on OTT platforms.  Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui , starring Ayushmann Khurrana as a fitness trainer and Vaani Kapoor as a Zumba instructor, which released in theatres on Friday, is not a regular love story, says Abhishek. “Vaani plays a trans woman called Maanvi who has made the gender transition a few years ago and is now living life on her terms. This is a progressive story. We went to the sets with the excitement of making a film that calls for a change in our mindset and is more accepting of people.” A different role The promos describe Ayushmann’s character, Manu, as an alpha male who has a sensitive side to him and Vaani as an actor taking up a role that is unlike a mainstream heroine. Abhishek says, “It is a film with a lot of colour and music. We want people to come in, be entertained and watch a story that is relevant today.” The idea was pitched by Simran Sahni, who works with Abhishek’s writing team. “The original idea was a serious story; I thought it needed to be dealt with differently.” Abhishek set to work with his co-writers Supratik Sen and Tushar Paranjpe. Research preceded the writing process. “We met several trans people and a psychologist. I also learnt that Simran, who pitched the story, has two trans daughters. I observed them closely and found them to be fascinating individuals with evolved thought processes.” The more trans people Abhishek met, he realised how little the world understands them. “We take gender for granted. It is not easy for someone to transition. After psychological counselling for a year or more, the doctors decide if a person is ready for change. The surgery is a complicated one, involving hormonal changes. A process of spiritual awakening happens after the trial by fire. Many who have made the transition are proud of how beautiful they are today and how their mind and body are in sync. Yet, they are hurt when society does not accept them,” he says. Talking of trans people who are widely known, Abhishek cites the example of The Wachowski siblings, creators of The Matrix .  Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui explores how Ayushmann’s character grapples with the past of Vaani’s character. “Manu (Ayushmann) is a layered character as well — what he projects to the outside world, following family and societal expectations, is different from who he actually is. Fitness gives him the freedom to be himself. I found it fascinating to bring in a strong female character into the world of a Punjabi munda who is expected to be a certain way.” ‘Casting was not easy’ Abhishek says casting the female lead was not easy. The team deliberated on casting a trans person before deciding to go for a mainstream heroine. “I thought popular actors might have image issues and would hesitate. However, Vaani was enthusiastic after reading the script.” He adds that her character is not projected as a victim, but as an empowered woman. “Only when people accept a trans woman the way she is, will there be normalcy.”  Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui is a departure from Abhishek’s earlier films Kai Po Che, Rock On, Fitoor and Kedarnath . He likes to unlearn and start fresh with each project, rather than maintain a signature style. He says, “It is humbling to get into a new world and explore the best possible way to narrate a story. If you see all my films, you might not be able to link them to me. With time, people have begun to recognise that I do something new each time.”  Zero waste film set Abhishek Kapoor’s wife and the film’s co-producer Pragya Kapoor stepped up the sustainability quotient by ensuring zero waste on the film set. Pragya is the founder of Ek Saath Foundation, which takes up beach clean-ups and other eco-friendly activities from time to time. Partnering with the waste management organisation Scrap, Pragya ensured stringent waste management on sets. Leftover food was donated to those who needed it, plastic waste was sent for recycling and used PPE kits were recycled to make fly-ash bricks. An estimated 17,000 tonnes of waste was prevented from going into landfills. Abhishek terms the process an eye opener. “It did not throw the budget or schedule out of the norm. We had the intent, put our minds to it and realised zero waste is possible on a film set. We all know what is happening to our planet. Our generation and the two before us have ended up damaging the planet. We need to do what best we can to leave it safer for our children.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/abhishek-kapoor-chandigarh-kare-aashiqui-is-a-progressive-story/article37937110.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A||Christmas trees made of teak, crochet snowmen and Kondapalli reindeer — Christmas decor has a focus on sustainability this year. A host of start-ups are bringing in festive cheer with handcrafted decorations, while supporting local artisans across the country. At Sankalp Art Village in Pedagadi, about 46 kilometres from Visakhapatnam, a team of artisans is busy chiselling wood for tiny Christmas trees. In another corner, a team of women apply lacquer to the trees. This production centre, which makes sustainable wooden toys, supports a dozen artisan families who are reviving traditional handicrafts of Andhra Pradesh. “Orders are pouring in from various cities like Mumbai, Bengaluru and Visakhapatnam for wooden Christmas décor. This year we have received a lot more queries for sustainable Christmas décor, especially for children’s toys like detachable trees,” says Jameelya Akula, creative design head of Sankalp Art Village. The design and dimensions, in most cases, are given by clients. They are then executed by the artisans of Sankalp. “There is a lot more emphasis on open-ended wooden toys and activities around the Christmas theme,” she adds. Visakhapatnam-based Coos and Woos has designed a Christmas box for children, which includes seven crochet décor items and two wooden products. “A lot of thought has gone into designing the products to ensure that that there is enough scope for a child to engage with the things. We believe that the material you offer have to be more passive in order to stimulate the child’s senses actively,” says Sindhu Dosapati, co-founder of Coos and Woos. An ankudu tree The Christmas tree design, Sindhu says, is particularly unique. “We had static trees earlier. But when I saw my three-year-old daughter not engaging much with it, I realised we had to do it differently,” she adds. With research and permutations and combinations on the sizes as well as colours, she came up with lacquer-painted detachable trees made of ankudu wood (Wrightia tictoria). These come in different sizes and can be played in many ways. “The ankudu wood was used to ensure that the product is light for a child to use effectively and at the same time, durable,” she adds. Coos and Woos was founded by Sindhu and Rochashmathi Baisetty about four months ago with the objective of offering handcrafted and open-ended toys for children. The Christmas box contains a crochet tree, Santa Claus, bells, décor balls and a crochet snowman made by women-led self-help groups in a village near Vijayawada and in Hyderabad. Bengaluru-based Lattooland’s Christmas kit is a combination of S.T.E.M, sensory and art activities. The kit has been designed to include multiple elements of Christmas. It comes with 3D puzzles of Santa Claus, Christmas trees, reindeer and sleigh, with varying levels of difficulty. “The emphasis is on enhancing the visual recognition for children and helping them learn how to create complex 3D objects using simple 2D pieces,” says Khushboo Saraf, founder of Lattooland. The kit includes paints to add a dash of colour to the 3D objects. “The highlight of the kit is the taste-safe and chemical-free ‘snow’ made with flour and other food grade materials to give kids a multi-sensorial experience. The kit also includes DIY material to create a bunting of stars, to help kids develop threading skills. And of course, there is a bonus Santa stocking and a letter to Santa! “With children sitting at home and exposed to gadgets, parents are turning towards the idea of ‘less is more’ and shifting toward sustainable and eco-friendly toys,” says Nishant Verma of Yellohippo, a Faridabad-based enterprise dealing with Montessori-aligned toys. Yellohippo’s Christmas box brings together many stories that families can sit together and share. Toys in it include a wooden Christmas tree and felt hangings for décor. “The box contains flash cards with which you can create your own story of Santa and adventures of Christmas,” adds Nishant. The wooden toys and crafts are from Channapatna, Murabadabad and Bihar. Montessori toys  Toyroom’s Wobbly Santa, launched this year for Christmas, is a fun take on the Montessori concept of the balancing moon toy. “This is guaranteed to bring squeals of laughter. Santa comes carrying so many gifts that he finds it hard to balance them! It is a popular Montessori toy to develop cognitive and motor skills in a child,” says Ruchi Shaikh, founder of Toyroom. The brand supports 30 artisans across India and uses recycled cardboard boxes and paper cushions for packaging its products. Go DIY “This year, apart from handcrafted décor and activities, there is a demand for eco-friendly DIY Christmas ornaments. We have a kit that comes with 50 tree slices, with smoothened surfaces to draw on. It also comes with a ball of yarn and felt pens with which kids can draw, colour and customise their Christmas ornaments,” says Ruchi. Toyroom’s Santa Comes Home initiative makes gifting fun. “We have gotten together with 10 other women-led small, sustainable brands that have Christmas offerings for kids and have curated a fun Christmas shop at its website. If you are based in Bengaluru, we will get Santa to hand deliver the gift to the kids,” says Ruchi. Kochi-based Ahavah’s Christmas kit includes a collection of Channapatna toys — a snowman, Christmas tree, bell, angel and ball, hand-stitched star and candy cane, and a wood slice hanging. “We work with 30 artisan communities and NGOs across India,” says Roshini John, co-founder of Ahavah, adding, “during the pandemic, we have seen a lot more people inclining towards sustainable décor for Christmas and supporting small businesses.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a/article37937177.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||No melting glaciers in Chennai, but climate change is at the door||Discussing the presence of climate change is fraught with the same risk as walking on eggs. Challenging weather patterns that are part of natural processes may sometimes get tacked on to the climate crisis. More often though, climate change would be present incognito, particularly where it cannot manifest itself dramatically. There may be no rapidly melting glaciers in Chennai, but there are other straws in the wind betraying global warming — notably the erratic weather patterns witnessed in recent times, particularly rainfall-related. The quick succession with which weather systems occurred in November in Chennai could just be the elephant in the room — one we are trying to make sense of, unfortunately with the perspective of those blind men. While forcing birds into adaptations, climate change may be flying alongside unnoticed for want of an attention-grabbing garb. There are avian studies from the west suggesting that some bird species are developing longer wing spans but shrinking in their overall size — in response to a rise in temperature and also the necessity of having to fly further for food. In our parts, there may be a paucity of studies about such avian phenomena, but the impact of erratic weather on birds cannot be denied. Here, V Santharam, ornithologist and director, Institute of Bird Studies & Natural History, Rishi Valley, fields questions from The Hindu Downtown on the subject.  Q: How deeply can erratic weather patterns impact resident bird populations? In Chennai, the breeding season of many significant bird species — including the spot-billed pelicans, the glossy and black-headed ibises — happen around the north-east monsoon and what do these patterns mean for them?  Santharam: There can be failure in nesting. It is not easy for the birds to change the breeding season overnight, because they depend on factors like light for the hormones to get activated. They might breed but by then, the insects might have finished their cycle and they might not get enough food for the young ones. Most of the insectivorous and also frugivorous birds time their breeding season in such a way that it coincides with the fruiting or the season when the insects are found in abundance. If they miss that window — when caterpillars are emerging — they may not have sufficient food to feed the young ones. Due to the differences in climactic conditions, there may be a lack of synchronicity — the insects might have finished their cycle early and the fruits might have come up early, and the birds could still be lagging behind. When they have young ones, they may not be able to feed them. Instead of fledging six or seven or even eight young ones, they may fledge only one or two. It may mean that the population is going to crash. They may lay fewer eggs; or may not go for a second brood — some species do that. Reduced clutch size in response to climactic changes may however be more noticeable in temperate than in tropical regions — because birds species from temperate regions have bigger clutch size compared to those in tropical regions.  Q: Have you seen anything like that happening in our parts — in terms of reduced clutch size?  Santharam: It may not be apparent in tropical regions — because we have stable climactic conditions. Of course, we are experiencing unseasonal rains, but in terms of temperature and food availability, there may not be much of an impact as of now. I am not sure our universities are thinking about studying these problems. Studies about rainfall patterns have been done but these have not have been correlated with bird populations.  Q: There have been studies showing that birds are shrinking in size but their wing spans are growing longer. Has it been noticed in any of the birds in our parts?  Santharam: I do not think we have done much work in this area. When trapped at bird stations, birds would have been measured and the data would be present, but I wonder if any analysis has been done. They are only doing measurements for waders — which already have fairly long wings for them to take long migratory journeys. It would be interesting to find out if birds that normally do not migrate, are now slowly developing more pointed wings that could be useful in long-distance migration. Birds with rounded wings cannot fly much. Only when they have narrow, elongated and pointed wings are they able to fly long distances. This adaptation could be in response to global warming with resultant changes that impact food availability. This is likely to happen to birds that are in extreme climatic conditions — those species that are in the northern hemisphere where winters can be harsh. It pertains mostly to birds found in the Arctic and sub-Arctic regions. Probably, species that that do altitudinal migration can also be studied — there has been one research article that has suggested changes in their wing patterns.  It would be interesting to find out if birds that normally do not migrate, are now slowly developing more pointed wings that could be useful in long-distance migration||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/no-melting-glaciers-in-chennai-but-climate-change-is-at-the-door/article37936511.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Baby Boomers being upskilled by Gen Z||A few minutes into the dance session, Kushboo Shahzade Khan’s students interrupt her about the audio quality. “Can you please be a little louder?” says a student. Another person in the group makes a similar request. Kushboo adjusts her laptop and offers to repeat the instructions. The class breaks into a dance. This reporter was recently in the audience for this dance class on Zoom where baby boomers were learning from a dance instructor from the Gen Z. It was being done for Silver Talkies, a social impact organisation working with older adults from seven cities, including Chennai, and promoting intergenerational bonds. For Kushboo, this is the very first stint in teaching seniors and the fact that it is being done online, makes it challenging. “A train of thoughts were running through my mind before I signed up to teach senior citizens. I was nervous in the first class, but what I learnt over the last few sessions is that you have to read a generation’s behaviour code and adapt to their mindset and language when possible,” says Kushboo, who works for Motley Dance Company. More than 20 youngsters in the age group of 18 to 26 have signed up to volunteer as ‘Young Changemakers of Silver Talkies’, where they enrich the lives of older adults with their skill or an idea. Between academics, Richelle Adarsh, pursuing her bachelors in psychology and media analytics at a university in Singapore, took French classes for members of the Silver Talkies Club. She also plans to engage with the group through a video series. Similarly, 18-year-old Kedar Kamath takes tech classes for seniors. Besides, there are other young volunteers like Aryamaan who helped conduct interviews for a research study. Through virtual classes, workshops and sessions with young changemakers, this initiative seeks to build an army of volunteers who will use their skills to bond with the silver generation. Some of the recent sessions included a musical evening featuring music therapist, Rajam Shanker, and her teenage students playing the violin and a medley of Carnatic songs; a quiz programme facilitated by 14-year Aswatha Biju, one of the youngest paleontologists; and the literary corner saw an interaction with a 10-year-old author, Kavya Kompella. Nidhi Chawla, co-founder, Silver Talkies, which is based out of Bengaluru, feels these sessions will go a long way in bridging the gap between generations and make the seniors feel more connected. For youngsters, it serves as an opportunity to be sensitive to the needs of the older generation. “Changemaker Richelle Adarsh’s parent recently shared with us that they have noticed a change in their daughter. She has become more empathetic and caring towards elders: so much so that she donated the entire stipend she received for the classes she conducted to a charitable organisation for seniors,” says Nidhi. A few young changemakers have also written articles for digital magazine, ranging from “best apps for seniors” to “how to put Alexa to use”. They have also shared stories about their grandparents and their experience working with seniors, she says. “We had many young volunteers pitching in to help run errands for seniors during the Covid lockdowns and this engagement continues,” says Nidhi. The platform is seeking to rope in more young volunteers. “What we want them to do is volunteer for two to three hours a month; location does not matter as all classes are online,” she says. Nidhi says tech classes in particular are much sought-after, followed by language learning which stimulates cognitive abilities; writing, art and storytelling workshops. They are also coming up with new-age career ideas to carry into a second innings of a career. She says a majority of the events are kept free for seniors above 55. Pandemic has also widened Silver Talkies’ membership base. They currently have members from seven cities. Nidhi adds: “Our plan is to organise offline meet-ups in each of these cities every quarter — that is, if the pandemic allows us to do that.”  A digital initiative, it is being run for the benefit of older adults from seven cities, including Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/baby-boomers-being-upskilled-by-gen-z/article37936526.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||After false starts, winter season is slowly getting back on track||After false starts, the winter season seems to be getting back on the rails for the Perumbakkam wetland. The process of seasonal tenancy by long-distance and local migrants is being inked in afresh, after the details of the earlier agreements were washed away by a succession of harsh weather systems in November. What occupants of nosebleeds are to a sporting event, migratory ducks are to a wintering ground. They bring the numbers and the noise to a wetland. And this week, on the northern side of the wetland, which clasps the Sholinganallur-Medavakkam road in a tight embrace, there is finally something to quack about — signs of migratory ducks, largely northern pintail from whatever can be viewed from the road. Towards the end of October, northern shovelers seemed to be leading the influx, but back-to-back weather systems saw the wetland swell with water and the early birds recede from the scene. Except for the blue-tailed bee-eater and a handful of resident bird species, the wetland looked as stark as Thomas Moore’s “banquet-hall deserted”. There are points to ponder. How filled with bird choruses would this banquet-hall be this season, after it picks up momentum? Would similar back-to-back late starts in the future disturb bird migration patterns, getting chunks of migrant populations to be acclimatised to other winter hangouts? When the wintering season arrived, the wetlands had surplus water harvested from unexpectedly good rains in June, July and August. The more water-filled a wetland is, the more of an anathema it would be to a vast majority of waterbirds — particularly the waders and ducks — which prefer the shallows. So, the first arrivals in Perumbakkam would have already been scattered. This November in Chennai, which made it to record books for being one of the wettest Novembers in 100 years, further scattered the other batches of migrants headed this way. “With the excess rain, and water being found everywhere, you may not find them in such concentration in one place as you would in a drought year. The same number of birds — or even more — would be present but spread out to various wetlands. Of course, the sudden increase in water levels due to the weather systems may have also forced them to go to other places,” notes ornithologist V Santharam. Two “scatterings” is not good news for the nosebleeds. Through the water levels have subsided this week, one may expect a considerably diminished birdsong this season. There is strong scaffolding for this belief. Ducks and waders are what make the Perumbakkam wetland a hugely occupied space in winter. Unfortunately both are hardly pin-ups for site loyalty. “Flycatchers and raptors such as the peregrine falcon feel impelled to return to the same spot, migratory season after season, going over much of the covered ground, including habitual perches. Ducks and waders do not have the same commitment, their choice of place being hugely dictated by circumstances. As long as the circumstances are favourable, the will return to the same wintering grounds. When the situation shifts, they would also easily shift their loyalty to another place,” says eBird reviewer eBird reviewer Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi. He adds: “There is a high probability that between February and March, the wintering season at Perumbakkam wetland would pick up. The ducks and waders would have settled down in and around the region. Probably a little later, when the water levels drop, they may come back. On the return migration, during February and March, there is a fair chance of bird numbers going up at this habitat. But if rain extends upto January, one cannot be sure.” Risk factors The two scenarios mirror elective and emergency surgeries. Birds that arrived early to the sight of filled wetlands would have had sufficient response time to choose what are possibly the best alternative locations. The ones that were buffeted around by the inclement weather systems would have been in a less enviable position. Would some of these have settled for sub-optimal locations? Santharam says: “With increased rainfall, I am sure there is enough food wherever they go — because we are not talking in terms of Chennai area alone — they are capable of flying over long distances to find alternative places. They may even go as far as Tirunelveli — the possibility is there. They could spread and scout for places that are profitable. Due to the rains, there should be food in more places than there were earlier. So, the tendency is to scatter and feed in certain places so that they do not have to compete with other individuals. Once the water level drops at a particular habitat and the food depletes, they will move to another place — they will not settle in sub-optimal places unless there is no other option. ” However, being “buffeted around” can take a toll on the birds. “Every time, they have to travel from one place to another, they have to expend energy. And if the unpredictability persists, besides the birds expending energy on movement, there is also the possibility of some of them getting killed. These are however part of the natural cycle — our coast is known for cyclones, and they may have to be prepared for it.” To answering the other unanswered question — whether there would be any long-term impact on winter turnouts if a geography keeps throwing up challenging circumstances for a disturbingly long succession of seasons — circle back to the Gnanaskandan’s observation about the lack of site fidelity among ducks and waders.  The more water-filled a wetland is, the more of an anathema it would be to a vast majority of waterbirds, particularly the waders and ducks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/after-false-starts-winter-season-is-slowly-getting-back-on-track/article37936514.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Healing through art||With well-planned visuals, a calendar can be a vehicle of education and change. It can send across a positive message. Gayathri has etched 12 unique art pieces in Warli for a desktop calendar project being promoted by Parivarthan for Parkinson, a Chennai-based non-profit working towards improving the quality of life of people affected by Parkinson’s Disease (PD). As primary caregiver for her husband Raj, diagonised with Parkinson’s, the two have been finding solace from wielding pencils and sketch pens and receiving some appreciation for that. “Every weekend, Raj engages with this community online to draw and the exercise helps him beat the blues. I would invariably be with him in these sessions,” says Gayathri. People with PD tend to lose their fine motor skills and making them pick up the pencil or brush to write or draw is a big step in the journey towards coping with the illness. Parivarthan for Parkinson often encourages caregivers to engage in art; and a work submitted by Gayathri caught its founder Sudha Meiyappan’s attention. “My first work showed how this community was making a difference in each other’s lives through dance therapy, mental health counselling and yoga, each of which I portrayed through basic stick figures of Warli,” says Gayathri, who was encouraged to come up with a design for a desktop calendar for 2022. She choose a new concept every month. With the harvest festival and the sun glowing bright, the New Year instils positivity on the first page. The Valentine’s month has two senior couple expressing the care and concern for each other. April 11 is Parkinson’s Day and it is symbolised by a tulip. “I have the letter PD with tulip on it. I used the inside space to resemble a brain as PD is degenerative disorder of the central nervous system. It is best dealt with love and care given by people around them,” says Gayathri, a software professional who dabbles in art. March is dedicated to the many women caregivers who multitask in the process of extending help to the sufferer — this idea is represented by the depiction of many hands. Labour Day is a theme for May, and the sketch sends out a message that those with PD can work. “Raj works from home and hopes to continue working as when his mind is occupied he is happy,” she says. November’s Children’s Day theme is inspired by Raj and the child-like nature in him. “Art helps to keep the child in you alive, which I am seeing in my husband. This therapy has added colour to his days and that is the best way to take life ahead and move on,” she says. Each of the months has a message in bold. One reads: “Caregivers need art therapy as much as people with PD”. Gayathri cannot agree more with that. “Art and meditation is the only way to calm the mind of those with PD. And for me it feels so good to sit and watch him draw. I have also asked him to sign his works with date as memories.”  My first work showed how this community was making a difference in each other’s lives through dance therapy, mental health counselling and yoga||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/healing-through-art/article37936523.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Composters at gated community get ‘assistants’||A few months ago, three composters at a gated community on the IT Corridor were harshly overshadowed by a dark side of human nature: faulting others for one’s own failing. There were murmurs about an occasional icky smell, felt by flats within whiffing range of the composters. Studying the issue, the waste management team at the community identified the door the blame had to be laid at. It was in fact not just one door, but all doors, theirs included. The entire community was declared at fault in the matter — for thoughtlessly handing over organic waste. And together, they have invested in a solution. “In your house, there is a cauliflower, half of which has gone bad and that part goes unthinkingly into the green bin. Chunky pieces of organic waste take time to compost,” says Rakesh Ohri, president, The Central Park South (TPCS) residents’ association. Realising that awareness exercises in this matter would be unreliable ground, the TCPS team rejected that option. Figuring out what to do with that “chunky cauliflower” led them to Appaswamy Springs, a gated community in Thiruvanmiyur, which had cut theirs down to size, without rapping its residents on the knuckles for it. They had installed two shredders as “assistants” to the composters — one would mash any chunky cauliflower and their allies to the consistency of a paste; and the other would chew dry leaves to the granularity of powder. TCPS did what the Springs community had done three years ago: source two shredders from a dealer in Bengaluru. The shredders were joined by a cost-effective “segregator” fabricated locally. Rakesh discloses that these two shredders are essentially farm implements, but lend themselves handsomely to meeting composting challenges in an urban environment. “The wet waste that comes here has some things that need to be dealt with specially — wisps of paper, pieces of plastics, heavy big bones and so on,” says Rakesh, gesturing to the ludicrously uncomplicated segregator. Imagine a long concave-shaped GI sheet, and you have it right in front of your eyes. It is designed to be in a sloping position. “The wet waste is spread out on the metal sheet. Doing so drains out excess water and also helps pick out the small unwanted things. More importantly, the chunks of waste are removed and deposited in the wet-waste shredder, which chops them and makes a fine paste of them,” explains Rakesh. Sumitha Iyer, committee lead for FOMRRA Swatch Bharat and a TCPS resident, notes: “There are many factors to composting. One is weather, which includes adequate sunlight. And then whether you are putting the wet waste in properly. The size of the organic discard also makes a difference. We thought a shredder would help, and it has helped.” She observes how shredding chunky pieces of wet waste has addressed a related issue. “We noticed that the composters were also getting filled soon, leaving us with little space to add more organic waste. If you fill the composters to the brim with wet waste, composting in the lower layers will take place slowly,” she says. By reducing chunky pieces to paste, the wet-waste shredder contributes to creating more space in the composters. Sumitha remarks that keeping the layers free of chunks of wet waste ensures that microbial activity happens uniformly across these layers, thereby preventing odours. In addition to the accelerator (TCPS uses inoculum) that speeds up the composting process, sawdust is applied to the wet waste bedded in the composter to drain out excess liquid, which also checks odours. With the advent of the leaf shredder — sawdust is replaced with leaf powder, most of the time. “Dry leaves is usually available on our premises. When it is not available, we have sawdust to fall back on. We get raw sawdust, which is not of treated wood. Treated wood would again have chemicals and its presence would not help the composing process,” observes Sumitha. On the rationale behind investing in a leaf shredder, Rakesh says: “People may say leaves mulch on their own. They do, but they take time to do so.” Sumitha weighs in: “There are communities that compost only with raw stuff. Here, we use everything — cooked food and uncooked food. When cooked food comes into the picture, with its oil and everything else, there are problems for microbial action. So, sawdust helps deal with the moisture. Leaf powder is good enough. Besides making the process easier, leaf powder spares us the trouble of having to figure out what to do with the leaves that have accumulated on our premises.”  Dry leaves is usually available on our premises. When it is not available, we have sawdust to fall back on||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/composters-at-gated-community-get-assistants/article37936490.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Operational notes||Sumitha Iyer, a key member of the solid waste management team at The Cental Park South (TPCS), points out the the wet-waste shredder cannot be understood in terms of holding capacity. “It is not something that will hold anything. It just grinds the material and pushes it. So, we keep putting inside the chunks of wet waste that need to be grounded. Unless we find that the grinding is taking time — sometimes, things do get stuck, if you have a garland of flowers, the thread may get stuck and that would necessitate stopping the shredder and removing the offending material — we just continue putting as much wet waste there is to be shredded.” Rakesh Ohri, presidents of TCPS, discloses that the shredders at the community in Thiruvanmiyur were noisy. “To check the noise made by the shredders, we put vibration bushes and other things to make sure they do not rattle.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/operational-notes/article37936487.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||MSS Awards is back||The Hindu and Saregama M S Subbulakshmi Awards presented by Parry’s Amrit Brown Sugar for aspiring Carnatic musicians is back and in a hybrid format this year. The grand finale of the much-awaited competition will take place at The Music Academy in Chennai on 7th January 2022. As in the previous editions, the ninth edition of The Hindu and Saregama Classical M.S. Subbulakshmi Awards presented by Parry’s Amrit Brown Sugar aims to provide a platform for the next generation to showcase their talent. MS Subbulakshmi awards is a tribute to the memory of the queen of Carnatic music, who is admired and adored across the world not only for her divine voice but also for her generosity and simplicity. Interested participants, aged between 18 and 26 years of age, can send in their audio recording showcasing their aptitude and expertise in kritis with raga alapana, neraval and swara prasthara. The winner of this grand finale stands to win an opportunity to bring out their own album by Saregama, along with many other laurels. Participants are required to upload the audio or video of their performance onto a google drive and share the link to the audio/video on our registration page. Registrations would be accepted till December 15, 2021. Participants can submit only one entry each. To participate visit:https://bit.ly/MSSTHor Scan the QR Code. The sponsors for the event are — title sponsor: Parry’s Amrit Brown Sugar; powered by: Gopuram Turmeric Powder Kumkum, in Association with Ruchi Magic (Pickle), Happy Senior Homes Partner:Ashiana Shubham Maraimalai Nagar Chennai; Wellness Partner:Kauvery Hospital, Banking Partner:State Bank of India; Eye Care Partner:Dr. Agarwals Eye Hospital; Tv Partner:Sankara Tv. For more information contact 9841011949.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mss-awards-is-back/article37936479.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Velachery RWAs pay homage||A few residents welfare associations in Velachery paid homage to the 13 victims of IAF helicopter crash including the Chief of the Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. The associations included AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association, Tansi Nagar Residents Welfare Association, and Annai Indira Nagar Residents Welfare Association. Residents lit lamps and offered flowers. “A retired IAF sergeant, Mr. Anand P, a resident of our locality, highlighted the features of an aircraft. He has worked in Sulur Air Force Station from 1989 to 1994,” says Geetha Ganesh, secretary, AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/velachery-rwas-pay-homage/article37936500.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Kalakshetra Road needs mending||A section of Kalakshetra Road in Thiruvanmiyur is battered and therefore residents have demanded that it be relaid. The stretch is from intersection of Dr. Radhakrishnan Nagar Main Road and Kalakshetra Road to the intersection of Valmiki Street, Kalakshetra Road, and Kalakshetra Avenue First Street. “For years, the stretch is damaged. Despite taking up the issue with the Greater Chennai Corporation, the road has not been attended to,” says R. Moorthy, a resident. It is unsafe especially for motorcyclists, as the section is found protruding with stones. To make things worse, sewage is being discharged from manholes. Potholes are stagnant with sewage. To avoid these potholes, motorists tend to drive on the wrong side of the road. During rush hour, motorists from Lattice Bridge Road take Kalakshetra Road to avoid congestion. In this regard, a Greater Chennai Corporation official said that necessary steps would be taken at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/kalakshetra-road-needs-mending/article37936502.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Valmiki Nagar residents seek pumping station with better capacity||Residents of Valmiki Nagar in Thiruvanmiyur want the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) to increase the pumping capacity of the sewage pumping station at the end of Valmiki Nagar Second Seaward Road. Further, they have requested the CMWSSB to correct flaws in the sewage pipes along Balakrishna Road. Manholes on Balakrishna Road could be found overflowing as sewage is unable to drain into the pumping station. The sewage seeps into the rainwater harvesting wells on the road and contaminates the groundwater. This has forced a section of the residents to buy water in cans from private suppliers. “It is annoying to use this road as sewage is stagnant,” says S. Saravanan, a resident. Further, sewage from Balakrishna Road enters a playground in Thiruvalluvar Nagar 16th Cross Street. Residents say that they have been enduring this problem for the past many years and their several complaints to the CMWSSB evoked no response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/valmiki-nagar-residents-seek-pumping-station-with-better-capacity/article37936505.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Incomplete SWD work irks Kazura Garden residents||The incomplete stormwater drain work has worsened the condition of the roads at Kazura Garden in Neelankarai on East Coast Road. In August 2020, the Office of Zone 15 Sholinganallur of the Greater Chennai Corporation assigned a contractor for constructing stormwater drains in Kazura Garden. But the work is only half-complete. The dug-up roads got worse following the recent spells of rains. For months, we requested the contractor to complete the work before the onset of the monsoon, but in vain. Luckily, there was not much water stagnation this year as the Greater Chennai Corporation replaced the old pipes with huge ones near the inlet channel of Buckingham Canal. That prevented inundation in Kazura Garden. However, I request the Greater Chennai Corporation to complete the stormwater drain work at the earliest once the rainy season gets over. Sri Lakshmi Mohan Rao is the vice-president of Kazura Garden Residents’ Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/incomplete-swd-work-irks-kazura-garden-residents/article37936506.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Skill training programme in hand embroidery||The Department of Adult Independent Living of National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD) has launched an exclusive skill training programme on hand embroidery for young women with disabilities. This initiative is aimed at promoting vocational skills, which would empower them with economic independence and social inclusion. This training will enable the candidates to avail the 4% job reservations notified in the Gazette, says a release. Experts from the apparel industry will be imparting technical knowledge to the enrolled students. This course comes under the scheme for Implementation of Persons with Disabilities Act and the curriculum was approved by the Skill Council for Persons with Disabilities. Around 10 women with disabilities have enrolled for this course. After successful completion of the programme, the beneficiaries will get Government of India Certificate and will be connected with placement agencies or National Handicapped Finance and Development Corporation (NHFDC) Loan or Muthra Loan. D Gunasekar, rehabilitation officer, says there are certain pre-requisites, which include knowledge of pre-vocational skills. Special educator cum vocational instructor C Mala will lead the training for the next three months. For more details on the skill training and employment opportunities for persons with disabilities, contact Department of Adult Independent Living (DAIL), NIEPMD at 944 481 2938, 877 842 5556, email niepmd.dail@gmail.com.  Around 10 women with disabilities have enrolled for this course||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/skill-training-programme-in-hand-embroidery/article37936517.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Demand for terrace gardening kits||The subsidised kitchen garden kits sold by the Department of Horticulture, Government of Tamil Nadu is seeing a renewed interest among many Chennai residents. Officials of the Department attribute it to various reasons including the slashed price of the kit, soaring price of vegetables especially tomatoes in the last few weeks and increased awareness about going organic. After last year’s lockdown, the sale of these “do it yourself” kits, aimed to promote urban dwellers to grow vegetables, started on December 8 at the depots in Chennai and most of them have already run out of stock. “In two days we sold more than 470 kits and we are waiting for our next stock to arrive,” said Rajeevan CH, horticulture officer, Anna Nagar. He says the price of the kit has been slashed from Rs. 900 to Rs. 225. These come with varieties of vegetable seeds, grow bags, bio-pesticides and cocopeat block. Rajeevan says that all the depots have started selling these terrace garden kits after more than one-and-a-half years since the pandemic began. Their is also subsidy being offered for drip irrigation, he says. The depot at Madhavaram and SemmozhiPoonga have also run out of stock. “The awareness on eating healthy has grown over the years, so much of our enquiries from customers are on questions like how fast will the seeds grow to what care must be given,” says a officer from the Madhavaram depot. The kits can be bought from the following places: Thiruvanmiyur, near Old RTO Office; contact 8220056056 Anna Nagar Horticulture Depot, Arignar Anna Government Hospital of Indian Medicine. contact: 98402 55347 lMadhavaram, Milk colony road. Contact 8870562306 lSemmozhiPoonga, Cathedral Road, Near Gemini Flyover.  Ph: 9677140624 / 95432 48798||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/demand-for-terrace-gardening-kits/article37936484.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A hangout for dabbling ducks||The Perumbakkam wetland is traditionally known as a favoured hangout for dabbling ducks —which include the Northern shoveler, northern pintail, garganey, common teal, the Eurasian wigeon and the whistling ducks — which prefer shallow waters. In contrast, diving ducks need a depth of at least one to two metres for them to dive in. “Perumbakkam wetland is not suitable for the diving ducks, but dabbling ducks find themselves at home there,” observes eBird reviewer Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi. “Diving ducks such as the common pochard and the tufted duck are drawn to the deeper lakes, including the ones in Manimangalam and Siruthavur and Chemarambakkam. Even the Okkiyam Maduvu channel with its depth is known to have drawn common pochards.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-hangout-for-dabbling-ducks/article37936512.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Lab inaugurated in Adyar||Prayaan Scan & Labs Pvt Ltd has opened its another centre at Fourth Avenue in Indira Nagar in Adyar. According to a press release, the lab was inaugurated by Dr. R Kannan, president, IMPCOPS, in the presence of Dr. Khader Moideen and Dr. Karu Karthikeyan, secretary and assistant secretary, IMPCOPS respectively. The 24 x 7 centre has facilities such as CT scan, ultrasound, colour doppler, echocardiogram, EEG, NCS, and digital X-ray, adds the press release. It also provides free home collection of blood and urine samples. Customised packages are available for senior citizens and expectant mothers. Prayaan Scan & Labs Pvt Ltd was founded by R Viswaprasad and Arundas P R in September 2020 at Sultan Ahamed Street in Neelankarai on East Coast Road, says the release. For details, call 044 - 4854 8666 / 90477 57000 / 81245 10612.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/lab-inaugurated-in-adyar/article37936495.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Besant Nagar road riddled with potholes’||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has announced that it would identify the streets in the city that are badly damaged due to the recent rain and therefore would take immediate steps to have them relaid. At this juncture, I request the GCC to consider Fourth Cross Street in Besant Nagar near Kakkan Colony. It has a number of potholes. A slight rain makes it inundated. Senior citizens find it unsafe to walk. The street is unfit for vehicles also. Hence, I appeal to the GCC to relay this street at the earliest. GCC should also ensure that while relaying roads, it should remove the existing surface. N.S. Venkataraman is a resident of Besant Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/besant-nagar-road-riddled-with-potholes/article37936496.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Teen makes new Aikido record||Sixteen-year-old Tarush Ramdas won the Aikido black belt in India at an internationally supervised grading event held at Aikido of Chennai, off ECR. The class XI student at KC High has been training in the Japanese martial art since he was eight years old and was part of the Chennai team at the World Aikido seminar held in Varanasi in 2020, said a release. Juggling school and COVID restrictions to practice Tarush has achieved this creditable feat that is normally done by young adults in college or older. Aikido is a devastating martial art that was used by unarmed masters against samurai with armour and swords.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/teen-makes-new-aikido-record/article37936507.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Unpredictability is the operative word||Unpredictability is the operative word, says K A Subramanian, Officer-in-Charge, Zoological Survey of India, Southern Regional Centre, while describing the key manifestations of climate change. He explains: “What climate change brings with it is unpredictaility. It is not about more rains or less rains — the predictaility of the system becomes elusive. That makes it difficult for the birds, particularly when it come to timing their breeding. Because, availability of food cannot be predicted. There are organisims that can manage this unpredctability, and they will thrive. We however need long-term data to nail the connection. It is difficult to connect the dots at this point.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/unpredictability-is-the-operative-word/article37936515.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||For a cause||Sudha Meiyappan says this is the second year of the calendar project. “We are also bringing out a 2022 diary and cloth tote bags, the former has 12 Warli art pieces drawn by members and caregivers along with information on PD,” says Sudha. Designed by the Tambrind Chutney, Sudha says the proceeds from the sale of all the three products will go towards conducting workshops, offering medical support and speech therapy. “Art is therapeutic at so many levels, it works on your mental and physical well being. We started with Warli and now we are also trying Madhubani,” says Sudha. Over 250 persons are members of the community, a majority being from Chennai. To place an order, WhatsApp Sudha Meiyappan at 9381035979||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/for-a-cause/article37936524.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Inviting nominations||The Senior Citizens Group of Besant Nagar (scgobn) is inviting nominations for the ‘Most Admired Gandhian award’. The title is given to recognise the efforts of those Gandhians who go beyond the call of duty to help the poor and the downtrodden, says a release. Nominations should include brief details about the nominee. Email the details to scgobn@gmail.com before December 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/inviting-nominations/article37936528.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Two-day session on organic farming||Tamil Nadu Agricultural Univeristy Information & Training Centre in Guindy is conducting a session on organic farming on December 15 and 16. The programme will focus on soil health, bio-fertilizers, organic methods to manage pest and diseases. There will be demonstration on preparation of vermicomposting and panchagavya solution, says a press release. For registration and further details, call 044 - 2953 0048.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/two-day-session-on-organic-farming/article37936482.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer -writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article37936508.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||After false starts, winter season is slowly getting back on track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/after-false-starts-winter-season-is-slowly-getting-back-on-track/article37936486.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Demand for terrace gardening kits||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/demand-for-terrace-gardening-kits/article37936491.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Baby Boomers being upskilled by Gen Z||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/baby-boomers-being-upskilled-by-gen-z/article37936493.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A new facility||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-new-facility/article37936481.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||No melting glaciers in Chennai, but climate change is at the door||Discussing the presence of climate change is fraught with the same risk as walking on eggs. Challenging weather patterns that are part of natural processes may sometimes get tacked on to the climate crisis. More often though, climate change would be present incognito, particularly where it cannot manifest itself dramatically. There may be no rapidly melting glaciers in Chennai, but there are other straws in the wind betraying global warming — notably the erratic weather patterns witnessed in recent times, particularly rainfall-related. The quick succession with which weather systems occurred in November in Chennai could just be the elephant in the room — one we are trying to make sense of, unfortunately with the perspective of those blind men. While forcing birds into adaptations, climate change may be flying alongside unnoticed for want of an attention-grabbing garb. There are avian studies from the west suggesting that some bird species are developing longer wing spans but shrinking in their overall size — in response to a rise in temperature and also the necessity of having to fly further for food. In our parts, there may be a paucity of studies about such avian phenomena, but the impact of erratic weather on birds cannot be denied. Here, V Santharam, ornithologist and director, Institute of Bird Studies & Natural History, Rishi Valley, fields questions from The Hindu Downtown on the subject.  Q: How deeply can erratic weather patterns impact resident bird populations? In Chennai, the breeding season of many significant bird species — including the spot-billed pelicans, the glossy and black-headed ibises — happen around the north-east monsoon and what do these patterns mean for them?  Santharam: There can be failure in nesting. It is not easy for the birds to change the breeding season overnight, because they depend on factors like light for the hormones to get activated. They might breed but by then, the insects might have finished their cycle and they might not get enough food for the young ones. Most of the insectivorous and also frugivorous birds time their breeding season in such a way that it coincides with the fruiting or the season when the insects are found in abundance. If they miss that window — when caterpillars are emerging — they may not have sufficient food to feed the young ones. Due to the differences in climactic conditions, there may be a lack of synchronicity — the insects might have finished their cycle early and the fruits might have come up early, and the birds could still be lagging behind. When they have young ones, they may not be able to feed them. Instead of fledging six or seven or even eight young ones, they may fledge only one or two. It may mean that the population is going to crash. They may lay fewer eggs; or may not go for a second brood — some species do that. Reduced clutch size in response to climactic changes may however be more noticeable in temperate than in tropical regions — because birds species from temperate regions have bigger clutch size compared to those in tropical regions.  Q: Have you seen anything like that happening in our parts — in terms of reduced clutch size?  Santharam: It may not be apparent in tropical regions — because we have stable climactic conditions. Of course, we are experiencing unseasonal rains, but in terms of temperature and food availability, there may not be much of an impact as of now. I am not sure our universities are thinking about studying these problems. Studies about rainfall patterns have been done but these have not have been correlated with bird populations.  Q: There have been studies showing that birds are shrinking in size but their wing spans are growing longer. Has it been noticed in any of the birds in our parts?  Santharam: I do not think we have done much work in this area. When trapped at bird stations, birds would have been measured and the data would be present, but I wonder if any analysis has been done. They are only doing measurements for waders — which already have fairly long wings for them to take long migratory journeys. It would be interesting to find out if birds that normally do not migrate, are now slowly developing more pointed wings that could be useful in long-distance migration. Birds with rounded wings cannot fly much. Only when they have narrow, elongated and pointed wings are they able to fly long distances. This adaptation could be in response to global warming with resultant changes that impact food availability. This is likely to happen to birds that are in extreme climatic conditions — those species that are in the northern hemisphere where winters can be harsh. It pertains mostly to birds found in the Arctic and sub-Arctic regions. Probably, species that that do altitudinal migration can also be studied — there has been one research article that has suggested changes in their wing patterns.  It would be interesting to find out if birds that normally do not migrate, are now slowly developing more pointed wings that could be useful in long-distance migration||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/no-melting-glaciers-in-chennai-but-climate-change-is-at-the-door/article37936555.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Baby Boomers being upskilled by Gen Z||A few minutes into the dance session, Kushboo Shahzade Khan’s students interrupt her about the audio quality. “Can you please be a little louder?” says a student. Another person in the group makes a similar request. Kushboo adjusts her laptop and offers to repeat the instructions. The class breaks into a dance. This reporter was recently in the audience for this dance class on Zoom where baby boomers were learning from a dance instructor from the Gen Z. It was being done for Silver Talkies, a social impact organisation working with older adults from seven cities, including Chennai, and promoting intergenerational bonds. For Kushboo, this is the very first stint in teaching seniors and the fact that it is being done online, makes it challenging. “A train of thoughts were running through my mind before I signed up to teach senior citizens. I was nervous in the first class, but what I learnt over the last few sessions is that you have to read a generation’s behaviour code and adapt to their mindset and language when possible,” says Kushboo, who works for Motley Dance Company. More than 20 youngsters in the age group of 18 to 26 have signed up to volunteer as ‘Young Changemakers of Silver Talkies’, where they enrich the lives of older adults with their skill or an idea. Between academics, Richelle Adarsh, pursuing her bachelors in psychology and media analytics at a university in Singapore, took French classes for members of the Silver Talkies Club. She also plans to engage with the group through a video series. Similarly, 18-year-old Kedar Kamath takes tech classes for seniors. Besides, there are other young volunteers like Aryamaan who helped conduct interviews for a research study. Through virtual classes, workshops and sessions with young changemakers, this initiative seeks to build an army of volunteers who will use their skills to bond with the silver generation. Some of the recent sessions included a musical evening featuring music therapist, Rajam Shanker, and her teenage students playing the violin and a medley of Carnatic songs; a quiz programme facilitated by 14-year Aswatha Biju, one of the youngest paleontologists; and the literary corner saw an interaction with a 10-year-old author, Kavya Kompella. Nidhi Chawla, co-founder, Silver Talkies, which is based out of Bengaluru, feels these sessions will go a long way in bridging the gap between generations and make the seniors feel more connected. For youngsters, it serves as an opportunity to be sensitive to the needs of the older generation. “Changemaker Richelle Adarsh’s parent recently shared with us that they have noticed a change in their daughter. She has become more empathetic and caring towards elders: so much so that she donated the entire stipend she received for the classes she conducted to a charitable organisation for seniors,” says Nidhi. A few young changemakers have also written articles for digital magazine, ranging from “best apps for seniors” to “how to put Alexa to use”. They have also shared stories about their grandparents and their experience working with seniors, she says. “We had many young volunteers pitching in to help run errands for seniors during the Covid lockdowns and this engagement continues,” says Nidhi. The platform is seeking to rope in more young volunteers. “What we want them to do is volunteer for two to three hours a month; location does not matter as all classes are online,” she says. Nidhi says tech classes in particular are much sought-after, followed by language learning which stimulates cognitive abilities; writing, art and storytelling workshops. They are also coming up with new-age career ideas to carry into a second innings of a career. She says a majority of the events are kept free for seniors above 55. Pandemic has also widened Silver Talkies’ membership base. They currently have members from seven cities. Nidhi adds: “Our plan is to organise offline meet-ups in each of these cities every quarter — that is, if the pandemic allows us to do that.”  A digital initiative, it is being run for the benefit of older adults from seven cities, including Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/baby-boomers-being-upskilled-by-gen-z/article37936562.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||From the classroom to the canteen||The management of Chevalier T Thomas Elizabeth College for Women in Perambur has invited an alumna to run the Korner Kafé on its premises. One would ask what is so special about it. College canteens can play an important role in influencing healthy food habits, not only through what is on offer but also how they are promoted, and having a young alumna on board should help promote this cause immensely. There is one more objective to asking a former student to run the space: encouraging students to learn the ropes of entrepreneurship. G. Vasantha Priya, who graduated from the commerce department in 2020, was chosen from the five alumnae that expressed interest in running the space after a round of interview. When a discussion came up on how to make use of an existing space that functioned as a canteen for some time, various suggestions were offered. “We have an Aavin booth and a stationery outlet run by students as part of the entrepreneurial development cell of the college, but operating a canteen requires much more time and we proposed inviting an alumna,” says Malarvizhi P, faculty of the department of commerce and director of the Centre for Student Development. Five alumnae submitted their proposal when the idea was mooted in May 2021. The college had laid down certain criteria in selecting the person. “We already have a canteen functioning on the campus premises but we wanted this to be run differently, right from the food it served to the way it interacted with customers, so the candidate had to convince us with their plan,” says Malarvizhi. Stress was on how eco-friendly the takeaway was. “We wanted to promote organic food among students, which at the same time had to be affordable, tasty and hygienic,” says Malarvizhi. A panel of three members interviewed the candidates who had to prepare a dish. “I prepared sprouted dal dosa for the health benefits in it,” says Vasantha Priya, who started managing the space since September. There are many other little innovations that make the college canteen green. No packed juices are served, items wrapped in plastic covers are not sold and eco-friendly cutlery and crockery are used. Vasantha Priya, who manages the canteen with her mother, says it’s too early to give a verdict for her venture as each day has been different. “We had surplus food the first day and with rain playing spoilsport it is a challenge to guess how much quantity we need each day but we are learning,” says Vasantha Priya, who is pursuing MBA through distance mode. Being her own boss has been a dream for quite some time. “My dad is into business and my mother sells saris to supplement the family income, so I knew I wanted to do something on my own and I have always enjoyed trying out new dishes,” says the 21-year-old. In college, she took up a course offered by the MSME department of the State Government, and has been regular at events by the Centre for Student Development to tap entrepreneurial skills among students. “In one of the bazaars in the college, I sold my work that I did on fabric painting and it fetched me Rs. 300. Those nudges in colleges were a spark for me to think about taking the entrepreneurial route,” she says, adding that she has a diploma in tailoring. Vasantha Priya says she is taking baby steps in running the canteen but is confident about creating an impact. “Students address me as akka and as I was in their shoes until last year, I know their expectations,” she adds that they have an open feedback system.  Those nudges in college helped me take the entrepreneurial route||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-the-classroom-to-the-canteen/article37936548.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Healing through art||With well-planned visuals, a calendar can be a vehicle of education and change. It can send across a positive message. Gayathri has etched 12 unique art pieces in Warli for a desktop calendar project being promoted by Parivarthan for Parkinson, a Chennai-based non-profit working towards improving the quality of life of people affected by Parkinson’s Disease (PD). As primary caregiver for her husband Raj, diagonised with Parkinson’s, the two have been finding solace from wielding pencils and sketch pens and receiving some appreciation for that. “Every weekend, Raj engages with this community online to draw and the exercise helps him beat the blues. I would invariably be with him in these sessions,” says Gayathri. People with PD tend to lose their fine motor skills and making them pick up the pencil or brush to write or draw is a big step in the journey towards coping with the illness. Parivarthan for Parkinson often encourages caregivers to engage in art; and a work submitted by Gayathri caught its founder Sudha Meiyappan’s attention. “My first work showed how this community was making a difference in each other’s lives through dance therapy, mental health counselling and yoga, each of which I portrayed through basic stick figures of Warli,” says Gayathri, who was encouraged to come up with a design for a desktop calendar for 2022. She choose a new concept every month. With the harvest festival and the sun glowing bright, the New Year instils positivity on the first page. The Valentine’s month has two senior couple expressing the care and concern for each other. April 11 is Parkinson’s Day and it is symbolised by a tulip. “I have the letter PD with tulip on it. I used the inside space to resemble a brain as PD is degenerative disorder of the central nervous system. It is best dealt with love and care given by people around them,” says Gayathri, a software professional who dabbles in art. March is dedicated to the many women caregivers who multitask in the process of extending help to the sufferer — this idea is represented by the depiction of many hands. Labour Day is a theme for May, and the sketch sends out a message that those with PD can work. “Raj works from home and hopes to continue working as when his mind is occupied he is happy,” she says. November’s Children’s Day theme is inspired by Raj and the child-like nature in him. “Art helps to keep the child in you alive, which I am seeing in my husband. This therapy has added colour to his days and that is the best way to take life ahead and move on,” she says. Each of the months has a message in bold. One reads: “Caregivers need art therapy as much as people with PD”. Gayathri cannot agree more with that. “Art and meditation is the only way to calm the mind of those with PD. And for me it feels so good to sit and watch him draw. I have also asked him to sign his works with date as memories.”  My first work showed how this community was making a difference in each other’s lives through dance therapy, mental health counselling and yoga||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/healing-through-art/article37936553.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||After false starts, winter season is slowly getting back on track||After false starts, the winter season seems to be getting back on the rails for the Perumbakkam wetland. The process of seasonal tenancy by long-distance and local migrants is being inked in afresh, after the details of the earlier agreements were washed away by a succession of harsh weather systems in November. What occupants of nosebleeds are to a sporting event, migratory ducks are to a wintering ground. They bring the numbers and the noise to a wetland. And this week, on the northern side of the wetland, which clasps the Sholinganallur-Medavakkam road in a tight embrace, there is finally something to quack about — signs of migratory ducks, largely northern pintail from whatever can be viewed from the road. Towards the end of October, northern shovelers seemed to be leading the influx, but back-to-back weather systems saw the wetland swell with water and the early birds recede from the scene. Except for the blue-tailed bee-eater and a handful of resident bird species, the wetland looked as stark as Thomas Moore’s “banquet-hall deserted”. There are points to ponder. How filled with bird choruses would this banquet-hall be this season, after it picks up momentum? Would similar back-to-back late starts in the future disturb bird migration patterns, getting chunks of migrant populations to be acclimatised to other winter hangouts? When the wintering season arrived, the wetlands had surplus water harvested from unexpectedly good rains in June, July and August. The more water-filled a wetland is, the more of an anathema it would be to a vast majority of waterbirds — particularly the waders and ducks — which prefer the shallows. So, the first arrivals in Perumbakkam would have already been scattered. This November in Chennai, which made it to record books for being one of the wettest Novembers in 100 years, further scattered the other batches of migrants headed this way. “With the excess rain, and water being found everywhere, you may not find them in such concentration in one place as you would in a drought year. The same number of birds — or even more — would be present but spread out to various wetlands. Of course, the sudden increase in water levels due to the weather systems may have also forced them to go to other places,” notes ornithologist V Santharam. Two “scatterings” is not good news for the nosebleeds. Through the water levels have subsided this week, one may expect a considerably diminished birdsong this season. There is strong scaffolding for this belief. Ducks and waders are what make the Perumbakkam wetland a hugely occupied space in winter. Unfortunately both are hardly pin-ups for site loyalty. “Flycatchers and raptors such as the peregrine falcon feel impelled to return to the same spot, migratory season after season, going over much of the covered ground, including habitual perches. Ducks and waders do not have the same commitment, their choice of place being hugely dictated by circumstances. As long as the circumstances are favourable, the will return to the same wintering grounds. When the situation shifts, they would also easily shift their loyalty to another place,” says eBird reviewer eBird reviewer Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi. He adds: “There is a high probability that between February and March, the wintering season at Perumbakkam wetland would pick up. The ducks and waders would have settled down in and around the region. Probably a little later, when the water levels drop, they may come back. On the return migration, during February and March, there is a fair chance of bird numbers going up at this habitat. But if rain extends upto January, one cannot be sure.” Risk factors The two scenarios mirror elective and emergency surgeries. Birds that arrived early to the sight of filled wetlands would have had sufficient response time to choose what are possibly the best alternative locations. The ones that were buffeted around by the inclement weather systems would have been in a less enviable position. Would some of these have settled for sub-optimal locations? Santharam says: “With increased rainfall, I am sure there is enough food wherever they go — because we are not talking in terms of Chennai area alone — they are capable of flying over long distances to find alternative places. They may even go as far as Tirunelveli — the possibility is there. They could spread and scout for places that are profitable. Due to the rains, there should be food in more places than there were earlier. So, the tendency is to scatter and feed in certain places so that they do not have to compete with other individuals. Once the water level drops at a particular habitat and the food depletes, they will move to another place — they will not settle in sub-optimal places unless there is no other option. ” However, being “buffeted around” can take a toll on the birds. “Every time, they have to travel from one place to another, they have to expend energy. And if the unpredictability persists, besides the birds expending energy on movement, there is also the possibility of some of them getting killed. These are however part of the natural cycle — our coast is known for cyclones, and they may have to be prepared for it.” To answering the other unanswered question — whether there would be any long-term impact on winter turnouts if a geography keeps throwing up challenging circumstances for a disturbingly long succession of seasons — circle back to the Gnanaskandan’s observation about the lack of site fidelity among ducks and waders.  The more water-filled a wetland is, the more of an anathema it would be to a vast majority of waterbirds, particularly the waders and ducks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/after-false-starts-winter-season-is-slowly-getting-back-on-track/article37936557.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Following performance review, composters at gated community get ‘assistants’||A few months ago, three composters at a gated community on the IT Corridor were harshly overshadowed by a dark side of human nature: faulting others for one’s own failing. There were murmurs about an occasional icky smell, felt by flats within whiffing range of the composters. Studying the issue, the waste management team at the community identified the door the blame had to be laid at. It was in fact not just one door, but all doors, theirs included. The entire community was declared at fault in the matter — for thoughtlessly handing over organic waste. And together, they have invested in a solution. “In your house, there is a cauliflower, half of which has gone bad and that part goes unthinkingly into the green bin. Chunky pieces of organic waste take time to compost,” says Rakesh Ohri, president, The Central Park South (TPCS) residents’ association. Realising that awareness exercises in this matter would be unreliable ground, the TCPS team rejected that option. Figuring out what to do with that “chunky cauliflower” led them to Appaswamy Springs, a gated community in Thiruvanmiyur, which had cut theirs down to size, without rapping its residents on the knuckles for it. They had installed two shredders as “assistants” to the composters — one would mash any chunky cauliflower and their allies to the consistency of a paste; and the other would chew dry leaves to the granularity of powder. TCPS did what the Springs community had done three years ago: source two shredders from a dealer in Bengaluru. The shredders were joined by a cost-effective “segregator” fabricated locally. Rakesh discloses that these two shredders are essentially farm implements, but lend themselves handsomely to meeting composting challenges in an urban environment. “The wet waste that comes here has some things that need to be dealt with specially — wisps of paper, pieces of plastics, heavy big bones and so on,” says Rakesh, gesturing to the ludicrously uncomplicated segregator. Imagine a long concave-shaped GI sheet, and you have it right in front of your eyes. It is designed to be in a sloping position. “The wet waste is spread out on the metal sheet. Doing so drains out excess water and also helps pick out the small unwanted things. More importantly, the chunks of waste are removed and deposited in the wet-waste shredder, which chops them and makes a fine paste of them,” explains Rakesh. Sumitha Iyer, committee lead for FOMRRA Swatch Bharat and a TCPS resident, notes: “There are many factors to composting. One is weather, which includes adequate sunlight. And then whether you are putting the wet waste in properly. The size of the organic discard also makes a difference. We thought a shredder would help, and it has helped.” She observes how shredding chunky pieces of wet waste has addressed a related issue. “We noticed that the composters were also getting filled soon, leaving us with little space to add more organic waste. If you fill the composters to the brim with wet waste, composting in the lower layers will take place slowly,” she says. By reducing chunky pieces to paste, the wet-waste shredder contributes to creating more space in the composters. Sumitha remarks that keeping the layers free of chunks of wet waste ensures that microbial activity happens uniformly across these layers, thereby preventing odours. In addition to the accelerator (TCPS uses inoculum) that speeds up the composting process, sawdust is applied to the wet waste bedded in the composter to drain out excess liquid, which also checks odours. With the advent of the leaf shredder — sawdust is replaced with leaf powder, most of the time. “Dry leaves is usually available on our premises. When it is not available, we have sawdust to fall back on. We get raw sawdust, which is not of treated wood. Treated wood would again have chemicals and its presence would not help the composing process,” observes Sumitha. On the rationale behind investing in a leaf shredder, Rakesh says: “People may say leaves mulch on their own. They do, but they take time to do so.” Sumitha weighs in: “There are communities that compost only with raw stuff. Here, we use everything — cooked food and uncooked food. When cooked food comes into the picture, with its oil and everything else, there are problems for microbial action. So, sawdust helps deal with the moisture. Leaf powder is good enough. Besides making the process easier, leaf powder spares us the trouble of having to figure out what to do with the leaves that have accumulated on our premises.”  Dry leaves is usually available on our premises. When it is not available, we have sawdust to fall back on||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/following-performance-review-composters-at-gated-community-get-assistants/article37936561.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Operational notes||Sumitha Iyer, a key member of the solid waste management team at The Cental Park South (TPCS), points out the the wet-waste shredder cannot be understood in terms of holding capacity. “It is not something that will hold anything. It just grinds the material and pushes it. So, we keep putting inside the chunks of wet waste that need to be grounded. Unless we find that the grinding is taking time — sometimes, things do get stuck, if you have a garland of flowers, the thread may get stuck and that would necessitate stopping the shredder and removing the offending material — we just continue putting as much wet waste there is to be shredded.” Rakesh Ohri, presidents of TCPS, discloses that the shredders at the community in Thiruvanmiyur were noisy. “To check the noise made by the shredders, we put vibration bushes and other things to make sure they do not rattle.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/operational-notes/article37936559.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Six-year-old creates a new record||Six-year-old R.K.P. Kothai has sped past an existing Guinness World Record. On December 9, Kothai Vahruni solved a rotating puzzle tetrahedron while hula-hooping, in 6.88 seconds. The earlier record stands at 13.86, says a press release. The grade one student has been showing keen interest in solving puzzles and other mathematics-related games from a young age. At 5, she solved a 9x9 Sudoku puzzles, which even adults find challenging. Witnessing her skills, her parents introduced her to other mathematical games. Without any coaching she was able to hula-hoop for a long stretch of time. Later, Tamil Nadu Cube Association suggested that Kothai combine her two talents to create a new world record. With two months of training under her belt, Kothai has broken the world record set by an eighteen year old, added the release. On the same day, she became one of the youngest to solve two very difficult cubes Mastermorphix (shape shifting) and Megaminx (12 sided) with or without hula hooping in 1 minute 59 seconds and 3 minutes 32 seconds respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/six-year-old-creates-a-new-record/article37936533.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Demand for terrace gardening kits||The subsidised kitchen garden kits sold by the Department of Horticulture, Government of Tamil Nadu is seeing a renewed interest among many Chennai residents. Officials of the Department attribute it to various reasons, the prominent ones being the slashed price of the kit, soaring price of vegetables especially tomatoes in the last few weeks and increased awareness about going organic. After last year’s lockdown, the sale of these “do it yourself” kits, aimed at encouraging urban dwellers to grow vegetables, started on December 8 at the depots in Chennai. And in most of the depots, they have run out of stock. “In two days we sold more than 470 kits and we are waiting for our next stock to arrive,” said Rajeevan CH, horticulture officer, Anna Nagar. He says the price of the kit has been slashed from Rs. 900 to Rs. 225. The kits come with varieties of vegetable seeds, grow bags, bio-pesticides and cocopeat block. A kit of eight medicinal plants is another new addition. Rajeevan says that all the depots have started selling these terrace garden kits, subsidy is being offered for drip irrigation. The depot at Madhavaram have also run out of stock. “The awareness on eating healthy has grown over the years, so much of our enquiries from customers are about how fast the seeds will grow to what care must be given,” says a officer from the Madhavaram depot. R. Nathiya, assistant horticulture officer, Thiruvanmiyur says that for the first time bookings for the purchase of the kits can be made online. “Or, if you plan to come in person, make sure to carry a photocopy of the Aadhar card and a passport size photograph,” says Nathiya. The kits can be bought from the following places: Thiruvanmiyur, near RTO office; Anna Nagar Horticulture Depot, Arignar Anna Government Hospital of Indian Medicine - Contact 98402 55347; Madhavaram, Milk Colony road. Contact 8870562306; and SemmozhiPoonga, Cathedral Road  contact 9677140624||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/demand-for-terrace-gardening-kits/article37936546.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||MSS Awards is back||The Hindu and Saregama M S Subbulakshmi Awards presented by Parry’s Amrit Brown Sugar for aspiring Carnatic musicians is back and in a hybrid format this year. The grand finale of the much-awaited competition will take place at The Music Academy in Chennai on 7th January 2022. As in the previous editions, the ninth edition of The Hindu and Saregama Classical M.S. Subbulakshmi Awards presented by Parry’s Amrit Brown Sugar aims to provide a platform for the next generation to showcase their talent. MS Subbulakshmi awards is a tribute to the memory of the queen of Carnatic music, who is admired and adored across the world not only for her divine voice but also for her generosity and simplicity. Interested participants, aged between 18 and 26 years of age, can send in their audio recording showcasing their aptitude and expertise in kritis with raga alapana, neraval and swara prasthara.  The winner of this grand finale stands to win an opportunity to bring out their own album by Saregama, along with many other laurels. Participants are required to upload the audio or video of their performance onto a google drive and share the link to the audio/video on our registration page. Registrations would be accepted till December 15, 2021. Participants can submit only one entry each. To participate visit:https://bit.ly/MSSTHor Scan the QR Code. The sponsors for the event are — title sponsor: Parry’s Amrit Brown Sugar; powered by: Gopuram Turmeric Powder Kumkum, in Association with Ruchi Magic (Pickle), Happy Senior Homes Partner:Ashiana Shubham Maraimalai Nagar Chennai;Wellness Partner:Kauvery Hospital, Banking Partner:State Bank of India; Eye Care Partner:Dr. Agarwals Eye Hospital; Tv Partner:Sankara Tv. For more information contact 9841011949.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mss-awards-is-back/article37936549.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Remembering the Mahakavi||In commemoration of the centennial remembrance of the Tamil poet, “Mahakavi” Subramanya Bharathi, Vanavil Cultural Centre conducted a series of musical events since September. According to a press release, children performed a programme called “Bharathi Aindhu” at Bharathiyar Illam in Triplicane. The programme was presided over by the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, MK Stalin, and the Minister of State for Culture and Parliamentary Affairs, Arjun Ram Meghwal. The students of Ganamrutham School of Music and Mahathy Academy gave a presentation at Balayogi auditorium on the premises of Parliament in New Delhi. There, the programme was presided over by the Vice-President, Venkaiah Naidu, says a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/remembering-the-mahakavi/article37936551.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Skill training programme in hand embroidery||The Department of Adult Independent Living of National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD) has launched an exclusive skill training programme on hand embroidery for young women with disabilities. This initiative is aimed at promoting vocational skills, which would empower them with economic independence and social inclusion. This training will enable the candidates to avail the 4% job reservations notified in the Gazette, says a release. Experts from the apparel industry will be imparting technical knowledge to the enrolled students. This course comes under the scheme for Implementation of Persons with Disabilities Act and the curriculum was approved by the Skill Council for Persons with Disabilities. Around 10 women with disabilities have enrolled for this course. After successful completion of the programme, the beneficiaries will get Government of India Certificate and will be connected with placement agencies or National Handicapped Finance and Development Corporation (NHFDC) Loan or Muthra Loan. D Gunasekar, rehabilitation officer, says there are certain pre-requisites, which include knowledge of pre-vocational skills. Special educator cum vocational instructor C Mala will lead the training for the next three months. For more details on the skill training and employment opportunities for persons with disabilities, contact Department of Adult Independent Living (DAIL), NIEPMD at 944 481 2938, 877 842 5556, email niepmd.dail@gmail.com.  Around 10 women with disabilities have enrolled for this course||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/skill-training-programme-in-hand-embroidery/article37936552.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Recharge wells come to the rescue||Last month, when many localities in Chennai witnessed water stagnation due to heavy rains, our recharge wells came to our rescue. Our plot at East Shenoy Nagar stands on clayey soil that runs up to a depth of eight metres. Last year, we dug six 3x20 feet rainwater harvesting wells in our one-and-a-half ground plot. These were protected with prefabricated concrete cement rings and packed with blue metal jelly, river sand, brick jelly and pebbles in each layer with plastic mesh net placed on top. Utmost care was taken to ensure there was sufficient internal space for proper filtration, and the building’s structural stability is not affected. We harvested rainwater effectively and this includes run-offs from the terrace and open spaces. As per our calculation, over two lakh litres of water have been collected in these recharge wells improving the water table. My research and experience say that investing in RWH wells will certainly bear fruit and one can be assured of the quality of water. I spent Rs. 40,000 in constructing each well but this is a one-time investment and we would not require any periodic maintenance as every layer carries a different kind of sand that filters it.  (C Ravindran is a resident of Shenoy Nagar and a rain water harvesting expert)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/recharge-wells-come-to-the-rescue/article37936544.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A hangout for dabbling ducks||The Perumbakkam wetland is traditionally known as a favoured hangout for dabbling ducks —which include the Northern shoveler, northern pintail, garganey, common teal, the Eurasian wigeon and the whistling ducks — which prefer shallow waters. In contrast, diving ducks need a depth of at least one to two metres for them to dive in. “Perumbakkam wetland is not suitable for the diving ducks, but dabbling ducks find themselves at home there,” observes eBird reviewer Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi. “Diving ducks such as the common pochard and the tufted duck are drawn to the deeper lakes, including the ones in Manimangalam and Siruthavur and Chemarambakkam. Even the Okkiyam Maduvu channel with its depth is known to have drawn common pochards.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-hangout-for-dabbling-ducks/article37936556.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Special educator gets best teacher award||Jayanthi Narayanan, a special educator with the Clarke’s School for the Deaf, was awarded the best state teacher award in the field of disability from Chief Minister MK Stalin on December 3. During the pandemic when in-person classes were suspended, Jayanthi created more than 30 educational videos for parents and special educators featuring techniques to teach different topics to the deaf blind students. “Covid was a challenging time for caregivers of children with deaf blindness and the videos touched of various aspects including how to help children carry their daily activities to basic learning skills,” says Jayanthi, who has been a teacher for deaf blind students for more than 20 years. The special educator is qualified in deafblind, intellectual disability and hearing impairment, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/special-educator-gets-best-teacher-award/article37936531.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||For a cause||Sudha Meiyappan says this is the second year of the calendar project. “We are also bringing out a 2022 diary and cloth tote bags, the former has 12 Warli art pieces drawn by members and caregivers along with information on PD,” says Sudha. Designed by the Tambrind Chutney, Sudha says the proceeds from the sale of all the three products will go towards conducting workshops, offering medical support and speech therapy. “Art is therapeutic at so many levels, it works on your mental and physical well being. We started with Warli and now we are also trying Madhubani,” says Sudha. Over 250 persons are members of the community, a majority being from Chennai. To place an order, WhatsApp Sudha Meiyappan at 9381035979||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/for-a-cause/article37936554.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Unpredictability is the operative word||Unpredictability is the operative word, says K A Subramanian, Officer-in-Charge, Zoological Survey of India, Southern Regional Centre, while describing the key manifestations of climate change. He explains: “What climate change brings with it is unpredictaility. It is not about more rains or less rains — the predictaility of the system becomes elusive. That makes it difficult for the birds, particularly when it come to timing their breeding. Because, availability of food cannot be predicted. There are organisims that can manage this unpredctability, and they will thrive. We however need long-term data to nail the connection. It is difficult to connect the dots at this point.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/unpredictability-is-the-operative-word/article37936558.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Inviting nominations||The Senior Citizens Group of Besant Nagar (scgobn) is inviting nominations for the ‘Most Admired Gandhian award’. The title is given to recognise the efforts of those Gandhians who go beyond the call of duty to help the poor and the downtrodden, says a release. Nominations should include brief details about the nominee. Email the details to scgobn@gmail.com before December 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/inviting-nominations/article37936563.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Humour Club meets today||Members of Anna Nagar Humour Club will meet virtually on December 12 at 4 p.m. Dr A Anantharamakrishnan and Kamala Eswaran are some of the speakers. All are welcome to be part of this online meet. For meeting id and other details, call 94449 21625/ 89392 98790.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/humour-club-meets-today/article37936529.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Teen makes new Aikido record||Sixteen-year-old Tarush Ramdas won the Aikido black belt in India at an internationally supervised grading event held at Aikido of Chennai, off ECR. The class XI student at KC High has been training in the Japanese martial art since he was eight years old and was part of the Chennai team at the World Aikido seminar held in Varanasi in 2020, said a release. Juggling school and COVID restrictions to practice Tarush has achieved this creditable feat that is normally done by young adults in college or older. Aikido is a devastating martial art that was used by unarmed masters against samurai with armour and swords.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/teen-makes-new-aikido-record/article37936534.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Free art workshop for children||GRS Bridge2Learn at Anna Nagar will be conducting a winter art workshop for children aged 6 to 13 years. The creative workshop scheduled to be held on December 29; 3 to 5 p.m. at the Anna Nagar Tower Club will cover acrylic, warli and doodle art. Admission is only by prior registration. For registration, send the name of the child and the age to 9841007663 or visitwww.grsbridge2learn.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/free-art-workshop-for-children/article37936536.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Exhibition to help youngsters understand Defence||The Directorate General Quality Assurance is conducting an exhibition from December 13 to 19 at Avadi to celebrate 75 years of Independence. The aim of the exhibition is to motivate and inspire students from schools and colleges towards Defence and create awareness on military technology and equipment. Armoured equipment like tanks Arjun Mk-I, Arjun Mk-1A, ARRV, Tank T-72, T-90 and Bridge Laying Tank will be on display and demonstrations will also be conducted. Stalls showcasing Atma Nirbhar Bharat and Quality Assurance activities will also be exhibited, added the release. The event is being held at Proof Range Complex (PRC), CRPF Road, New Vellanur, Avadi; 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. For details, contact 9423823542.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/exhibition-to-help-youngsters-understand-defence/article37936537.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||HR management fest at college||Tarang 21, the annual HR conclave of the School of Management of DDGD Vaishnav College was held recently in association with NHRD Network, Chennai Chapter. U Amaleshwari, director, DDGD SOM welcomed the gathering. Captain Santhosh Baboo, principal, DDGD Vaishnav college highlighted how they are making the students prepare for placements. Pradeep Cholayil, CMD, Cholayil Private Limited spoke about the HR practices adopted in his organisation and narrated how Mahabaratha and HR practices were interlinked. Vijayakumar, CHRO, Chemfab Alkalis Ltd spoke about the challenges a HR person has while working on site and how students should be agile. Madhu Ragunath, senior president and COO, TVS Division asked students to gain experience in other cities. Five sessions comprising 21 HR Influencers from IT, manufacturing, healthcare and automobile companies like Ford, Vestas, Renault Nissan, Infostretch, Olam information services and Impiger technologies participated, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/hr-management-fest-at-college/article37936535.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Baby Boomers being upskilled by Gen Z||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/baby-boomers-being-upskilled-by-gen-z/article37936547.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||From the classroom to canteen||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/from-the-classroom-to-canteen/article37936541.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Healing through art||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/healing-through-art/article37936542.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Down the dusty road||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/down-the-dusty-road/article37936539.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||No melting glaciers, but climate change is at the door||Discussing the presence of climate change is fraught with the same risk as walking on eggs. Challenging weather patterns that are part of natural processes may sometimes get tacked on to the climate crisis. More often though, climate change would be present incognito, particularly where it cannot manifest itself dramatically. There may be no rapidly melting glaciers in Chennai, but there are other straws in the wind betraying global warming — notably the erratic weather patterns witnessed in recent times, particularly rainfall-related. The quick succession with which weather systems occurred in November in Chennai could just be the elephant in the room — one we are trying to make sense of, unfortunately with the perspective of those blind men. While forcing birds into adaptations, climate change may be flying alongside unnoticed for want of an attention-grabbing garb. There are avian studies from the west suggesting that some bird species are developing longer wing spans but shrinking in their overall size — in response to a rise in temperature and also the necessity of having to fly further for food. In our parts, there may be a paucity of studies about such avian phenomena, but the impact of erratic weather on birds cannot be denied. Here, V Santharam, ornithologist and director, Institute of Bird Studies & Natural History, Rishi Valley, fields questions from The Hindu Downtown on the subject.  Q: How deeply can erratic weather patterns impact resident bird populations? In Chennai, the breeding season of many significant bird species — including the spot-billed pelicans, the glossy and black-headed ibises — happen around the north-east monsoon and what do these patterns mean for them?  Santharam: There can be failure in nesting. It is not easy for the birds to change the breeding season overnight, because they depend on factors like light for the hormones to get activated. They might breed but by then, the insects might have finished their cycle and they might not get enough food for the young ones. Most of the insectivorous and also frugivorous birds time their breeding season in such a way that it coincides with the fruiting or the season when the insects are found in abundance. If they miss that window — when caterpillars are emerging — they may not have sufficient food to feed the young ones. Due to the differences in climactic conditions, there may be a lack of synchronicity — the insects might have finished their cycle early and the fruits might have come up early, and the birds could still be lagging behind. When they have young ones, they may not be able to feed them. Instead of fledging six or seven or even eight young ones, they may fledge only one or two. It may mean that the population is going to crash. They may lay fewer eggs; or may not go for a second brood — some species do that. Reduced clutch size in response to climactic changes may however be more noticeable in temperate than in tropical regions — because birds species from temperate regions have bigger clutch size compared to those in tropical regions.  Q: Have you seen anything like that happening in our parts — in terms of reduced clutch size?  Santharam: It may not be apparent in tropical regions — because we have stable climactic conditions. Of course, we are experiencing unseasonal rains, but in terms of temperature and food availability, there may not be much of an impact as of now. I am not sure our universities are thinking about studying these problems. Studies about rainfall patterns have been done but these have not have been correlated with bird populations.  Q: There have been studies showing that birds are shrinking in size but their wing spans are growing longer. Has it been noticed in any of the birds in our parts?  Santharam: I do not think we have done much work in this area. When trapped at bird stations, birds would have been measured and the data would be present, but I wonder if any analysis has been done. They are only doing measurements for waders — which already have fairly long wings for them to take long migratory journeys. It would be interesting to find out if birds that normally do not migrate, are now slowly developing more pointed wings that could be useful in long-distance migration. Birds with rounded wings cannot fly much. Only when they have narrow, elongated and pointed wings are they able to fly long distances. This adaptation could be in response to global warming with resultant changes that impact food availability. This is likely to happen to birds that are in extreme climatic conditions — those species that are in the northern hemisphere where winters can be harsh. It pertains mostly to birds found in the Arctic and sub-Arctic regions. Probably, species that that do altitudinal migration can also be studied — there has been one research article that has suggested changes in their wing patterns.  It would be interesting to find out if birds that normally do not migrate, are now slowly developing more pointed wings that could be useful in long-distance migration||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/no-melting-glaciers-but-climate-change-is-at-the-door/article37936571.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||After false starts, winter season is slowly getting back on track||After false starts, the winter season seems to be getting back on the rails for the Perumbakkam wetland. The process of seasonal tenancy by long-distance and local migrants is being inked in afresh, after the details of the earlier agreements were washed away by a succession of harsh weather systems in November. What occupants of nosebleeds are to a sporting event, migratory ducks are to a wintering ground. They bring the numbers and the noise to a wetland. And this week, on the northern side of the wetland, which clasps the Sholinganallur-Medavakkam road in a tight embrace, there is finally something to quack about — signs of migratory ducks, largely northern pintail from whatever can be viewed from the road. Towards the end of October, northern shovelers seemed to be leading the influx, but back-to-back weather systems saw the wetland swell with water and the early birds recede from the scene. Except for the blue-tailed bee-eater and a handful of resident bird species, the wetland looked as stark as Thomas Moore’s “banquet-hall deserted”. There are points to ponder. How filled with bird choruses would this banquet-hall be this season, after it picks up momentum? Would similar back-to-back late starts in the future disturb bird migration patterns, getting chunks of migrant populations to be acclimatised to other winter hangouts? When the wintering season arrived, the wetlands had surplus water harvested from unexpectedly good rains in June, July and August. The more water-filled a wetland is, the more of an anathema it would be to a vast majority of waterbirds — particularly the waders and ducks — which prefer the shallows. So, the first arrivals in Perumbakkam would have already been scattered. This November in Chennai, which made it to record books for being one of the wettest Novembers in 100 years, further scattered the other batches of migrants headed this way. “With the excess rain, and water being found everywhere, you may not find them in such concentration in one place as you would in a drought year. The same number of birds — or even more — would be present but spread out to various wetlands. Of course, the sudden increase in water levels due to the weather systems may have also forced them to go to other places,” notes ornithologist V Santharam. Two “scatterings” is not good news for the nosebleeds. Through the water levels have subsided this week, one may expect a considerably diminished birdsong this season. There is strong scaffolding for this belief. Ducks and waders are what make the Perumbakkam wetland a hugely occupied space in winter. Unfortunately both are hardly pin-ups for site loyalty. “Flycatchers and raptors such as the peregrine falcon feel impelled to return to the same spot, migratory season after season, going over much of the covered ground, including habitual perches. Ducks and waders do not have the same commitment, their choice of place being hugely dictated by circumstances. As long as the circumstances are favourable, the will return to the same wintering grounds. When the situation shifts, they would also easily shift their loyalty to another place,” says eBird reviewer eBird reviewer Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi. He adds: “There is a high probability that between February and March, the wintering season at Perumbakkam wetland would pick up. The ducks and waders would have settled down in and around the region. Probably a little later, when the water levels drop, they may come back. On the return migration, during February and March, there is a fair chance of bird numbers going up at this habitat. But if rain extends upto January, one cannot be sure.” Risk factors The two scenarios mirror elective and emergency surgeries. Birds that arrived early to the sight of filled wetlands would have had sufficient response time to choose what are possibly the best alternative locations. The ones that were buffeted around by the inclement weather systems would have been in a less enviable position. Would some of these have settled for sub-optimal locations? Santharam says: “With increased rainfall, I am sure there is enough food wherever they go — because we are not talking in terms of Chennai area alone — they are capable of flying over long distances to find alternative places. They may even go as far as Tirunelveli — the possibility is there. They could spread and scout for places that are profitable. Due to the rains, there should be food in more places than there were earlier. So, the tendency is to scatter and feed in certain places so that they do not have to compete with other individuals. Once the water level drops at a particular habitat and the food depletes, they will move to another place — they will not settle in sub-optimal places unless there is no other option. ” However, being “buffeted around” can take a toll on the birds. “Every time, they have to travel from one place to another, they have to expend energy. And if the unpredictability persists, besides the birds expending energy on movement, there is also the possibility of some of them getting killed. These are however part of the natural cycle — our coast is known for cyclones, and they may have to be prepared for it.” To answering the other unanswered question — whether there would be any long-term impact on winter turnouts if a geography keeps throwing up challenging circumstances for a disturbingly long succession of seasons — circle back to the Gnanaskandan’s observation about the lack of site fidelity among ducks and waders.  The more water-filled a wetland is, the more of an anathema it would be to a vast majority of waterbirds, particularly the waders and ducks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/after-false-starts-winter-season-is-slowly-getting-back-on-track/article37936573.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Healing through art||With well-planned visuals, a calendar can be a vehicle of education and change. It can send across a positive message. Gayathri has etched 12 unique art pieces in Warli for a desktop calendar project being promoted by Parivarthan for Parkinson, a Chennai-based non-profit working towards improving the quality of life of people affected by Parkinson’s Disease (PD). As primary caregiver for her husband Raj, diagonised with Parkinson’s, the two have been finding solace from wielding pencils and sketch pens and receiving some appreciation for that. “Every weekend, Raj engages with this community online to draw and the exercise helps him beat the blues. I would invariably be with him in these sessions,” says Gayathri. People with PD tend to lose their fine motor skills and making them pick up the pencil or brush to write or draw is a big step in the journey towards coping with the illness. Parivarthan for Parkinson often encourages caregivers to engage in art; and a work submitted by Gayathri caught its founder Sudha Meiyappan’s attention. “My first work showed how this community was making a difference in each other’s lives through dance therapy, mental health counselling and yoga, each of which I portrayed through basic stick figures of Warli,” says Gayathri, who was encouraged to come up with a design for a desktop calendar for 2022. She choose a new concept every month. With the harvest festival and the sun glowing bright, the New Year instils positivity on the first page. The Valentine’s month has two senior couple expressing the care and concern for each other. April 11 is Parkinson’s Day and it is symbolised by a tulip. “I have the letter PD with tulip on it. I used the inside space to resemble a brain as PD is degenerative disorder of the central nervous system. It is best dealt with love and care given by people around them,” says Gayathri, a software professional who dabbles in art. March is dedicated to the many women caregivers who multitask in the process of extending help to the sufferer — this idea is represented by the depiction of many hands. Labour Day is a theme for May, and the sketch sends out a message that those with PD can work. “Raj works from home and hopes to continue working as when his mind is occupied he is happy,” she says. November’s Children’s Day theme is inspired by Raj and the child-like nature in him. “Art helps to keep the child in you alive, which I am seeing in my husband. This therapy has added colour to his days and that is the best way to take life ahead and move on,” she says. Each of the months has a message in bold. One reads: “Caregivers need art therapy as much as people with PD”. Gayathri cannot agree more with that. “Art and meditation is the only way to calm the mind of those with PD. And for me it feels so good to sit and watch him draw. I have also asked him to sign his works with date as memories.”  My first work showed how this community was making a difference in each other’s lives through dance therapy, mental health counselling and yoga||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/healing-through-art/article37936588.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Three composters at gated community get two ‘assistants’||A few months ago, three composters at a gated community on the IT Corridor were harshly overshadowed by a dark side of human nature: faulting others for one’s own failing. There were murmurs about an occasional icky smell, felt by flats within whiffing range of the composters. Studying the issue, the waste management team at the community identified the door the blame had to be laid at. It was in fact not just one door, but all doors, theirs included. The entire community was declared at fault in the matter — for thoughtlessly handing over organic waste. And together, they have invested in a solution. “In your house, there is a cauliflower, half of which has gone bad and that part goes unthinkingly into the green bin. Chunky pieces of organic waste take time to compost,” says Rakesh Ohri, president, The Central Park South (TPCS) residents’ association. Realising that awareness exercises in this matter would be unreliable ground, the TCPS team rejected that option. Figuring out what to do with that “chunky cauliflower” led them to Appaswamy Springs, a gated community in Thiruvanmiyur, which had cut theirs down to size, without rapping its residents on the knuckles for it. They had installed two shredders as “assistants” to the composters — one would mash any chunky cauliflower and their allies to the consistency of a paste; and the other would chew dry leaves to the granularity of powder. TCPS did what the Springs community had done three years ago: source two shredders from a dealer in Bengaluru. The shredders were joined by a cost-effective “segregator” fabricated locally. Rakesh discloses that these two shredders are essentially farm implements, but lend themselves handsomely to meeting composting challenges in an urban environment. “The wet waste that comes here has some things that need to be dealt with specially — wisps of paper, pieces of plastics, heavy big bones and so on,” says Rakesh, gesturing to the ludicrously uncomplicated segregator. Imagine a long concave-shaped GI sheet, and you have it right in front of your eyes. It is designed to be in a sloping position. “The wet waste is spread out on the metal sheet. Doing so drains out excess water and also helps pick out the small unwanted things. More importantly, the chunks of waste are removed and deposited in the wet-waste shredder, which chops them and makes a fine paste of them,” explains Rakesh. Sumitha Iyer, committee lead for FOMRRA Swatch Bharat and a TCPS resident, notes: “There are many factors to composting. One is weather, which includes adequate sunlight. And then whether you are putting the wet waste in properly. The size of the organic discard also makes a difference. We thought a shredder would help, and it has helped.” She observes how shredding chunky pieces of wet waste has addressed a related issue. “We noticed that the composters were also getting filled soon, leaving us with little space to add more organic waste. If you fill the composters to the brim with wet waste, composting in the lower layers will take place slowly,” she says. By reducing chunky pieces to paste, the wet-waste shredder contributes to creating more space in the composters. Sumitha remarks that keeping the layers free of chunks of wet waste ensures that microbial activity happens uniformly across these layers, thereby preventing odours. In addition to the accelerator (TCPS uses inoculum) that speeds up the composting process, sawdust is applied to the wet waste bedded in the composter to drain out excess liquid, which also checks odours. With the advent of the leaf shredder — sawdust is replaced with leaf powder, most of the time. “Dry leaves is usually available on our premises. When it is not available, we have sawdust to fall back on. We get raw sawdust, which is not of treated wood. Treated wood would again have chemicals and its presence would not help the composing process,” observes Sumitha. On the rationale behind investing in a leaf shredder, Rakesh says: “People may say leaves mulch on their own. They do, but they take time to do so.” Sumitha weighs in: “There are communities that compost only with raw stuff. Here, we use everything — cooked food and uncooked food. When cooked food comes into the picture, with its oil and everything else, there are problems for microbial action. So, sawdust helps deal with the moisture. Leaf powder is good enough. Besides making the process easier, leaf powder spares us the trouble of having to figure out what to do with the leaves that have accumulated on our premises.”  Dry leaves is usually available on our premises. When it is not available, we have sawdust to fall back on||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/three-composters-at-gated-community-get-two-assistants/article37936564.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Residents of an apartment in Motilal Street seek compensation||Shreebagh Flat Owners’ Association in Motilal Street in T. Nagar have demanded that either the State government or the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) pay them a compensation for the expenses they had incurred on account of the recent floods. Their argument is that Motilal Street was inundated and the waters had invaded their houses due to the failure of the Greater Chennai Corporation to maintain the stormwater drains as well as lay roads with after proper milling. The residents’ association demands Rs. 11.55 lakh as compensation. “Residents of the ground-floor of the apartment went through an ordeal. On November 7, at 5 a.m., water started entering the houses. Therefore, my 96-year-old mother who was staying in my brother’s house on the ground floor had to be moved to my house on the first floor. As there is no lift, my aged mother had to be carried,” says VS Jayaram, a resident of Motilal Street. Jayaram informed the Tamil Nadu Generation & Distribution Corporation (TANGEDCO) to suspend the power supply as a precautionary measure. “Rainwater surrounded the electricity meter boxes. Hence, we wanted TANGEDCO to suspend power. From November 7, there was no power supply. It was restored on November 12. We have to spend around Rs. 5 lakh to relocate the meter box to an elevated level,” says Jayaram. With water entering the houses and no power, residents moved to their relatives’ houses and some checked into hotels. To cite an example, S Ravichandran and his wife had to stay in a hotel for four to five days, incurring an expenditure of Rs. 20,000. “Decades ago, the level of the road was four feet down from the apartment. Over the years, due to non-scrapping of existing surface while laying roads, the height of the road steadily increased. Further, the stormwater drains failed to deliver as they have not been desilted. At the intersection of Usman Road Service Lane and Motilal Street, water is unable to enter the stormwater drain as it is above the road level. This causes stagnation.” Residents complain of damage to doors, repairing which will entail an additional expenditure. “Months ago, I gave a fresh coat of paint to my home. The rains have marred the painting and damaged the walls. Further, my laptop table too has been damaged,” says VS Narayanaswami. Residents pooled in money to pump out the water. “From November 7 to 30, the association spent Rs. 1,75,000,” says Jayaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/residents-of-an-apartment-in-motilal-street-seek-compensation/article37936568.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||MSS Awards is back||The Hindu and Saregama M S Subbulakshmi Awards presented by Parry’s Amrit Brown Sugar for aspiring Carnatic musicians is back and in a hybrid format this year. The grand finale of the much-awaited competition will take place at The Music Academy in Chennai on 7th January 2022. As in the previous editions, the ninth edition of The Hindu and Saregama Classical M.S. Subbulakshmi Awards presented by Parry’s Amrit Brown Sugar aims to provide a platform for the next generation to showcase their talent. MS Subbulakshmi awards is a tribute to the memory of the queen of Carnatic music, who is admired and adored across the world not only for her divine voice but also for her generosity and simplicity. Interested participants, aged between 18 and 26 years of age, can send in their audio recording showcasing their aptitude and expertise in kritis with raga alapana, neraval and swara prasthara. The winner of this grand finale stands to win an opportunity to bring out their own album by Saregama, along with many other laurels. Participants are required to upload the audio or video of their performance onto a google drive and share the link to the audio/video on our registration page. Registrations would be accepted till December 15, 2021. Participants can submit only one entry each. To participate visit:https://bit.ly/MSSTHor Scan the QR Code. The sponsors for the event are — title sponsor: Parry’s Amrit Brown Sugar; powered by: Gopuram Turmeric Powder Kumkum, in Association with Ruchi Magic (Pickle), Happy Senior Homes Partner:Ashiana Shubham Maraimalai Nagar Chennai;Wellness Partner:Kauvery Hospital, Banking Partner:State Bank of India; Eye Care Partner: Dr. Agarwals Eye Hospital; Tv Partner: Sankara Tv. For moreinformation contact 9841011949.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/mss-awards-is-back/article37936579.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Saligramam residents seek corrections in stormwater drains||Following the recent rains, streets of Kaveri Rangan Nagar in Saligramam were submerged under three feet of water. Water mixed with sewage entered some houses. It took three consecutive days to pump out the water. The stock at rations shops in K K Salai including sugar, rice, wheat and pulses got drenched and became unfit for use. Likewise, the TANGEDCO (Tamil Nadu Generation & Distribution Corporation Ltd) office at Navaneethammal Street was inundated and the Greater Chennai Corporation took swift action to drain out the water. The BSNL exchange office had to suspend its services temporarily. All of these things only show that the major stormwater drains on K. K. Salai and Arunchachalam Road had failed to deliver. Unless the flaws in their structure are corrected, the issue of inundation will persist. S Sundaresan is the president of Kaveri Rangan Nagar Narpani Mandram, a residents welfare association in Saligramam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/saligramam-residents-seek-corrections-in-stormwater-drains/article37936586.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Skill training programme in hand embroidery||The Department of Adult Independent Living of National Institute for Empowerment of Persons with Multiple Disabilities (NIEPMD) has launched an exclusive skill training programme on hand embroidery for young women with disabilities. This initiative is aimed at promoting vocational skills, which would empower them with economic independence and social inclusion. This training will enable the candidates to avail the 4% job reservations notified in the Gazette, says a release. Experts from the apparel industry will be imparting technical knowledge to the enrolled students. This course comes under the scheme for Implementation of Persons with Disabilities Act and the curriculum was approved by the Skill Council for Persons with Disabilities. Around 10 women with disabilities have enrolled for this course. After successful completion of the programme, the beneficiaries will get Government of India Certificate and will be connected with placement agencies or National Handicapped Finance and Development Corporation (NHFDC) Loan or Muthra Loan. D Gunasekar, rehabilitation officer, says there are certain pre-requisites, which include knowledge of pre-vocational skills. Special educator cum vocational instructor C Mala will lead the training for the next three months. For more details on the skill training and employment opportunities for persons with disabilities, contact Department of Adult Independent Living (DAIL), NIEPMD at 944 481 2938, 877 842 5556, email niepmd.dail@gmail.com.  Around 10 women with disabilities have enrolled for this course||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/skill-training-programme-in-hand-embroidery/article37936587.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A hangout for dabbling ducks||The Perumbakkam wetland is traditionally known as a favoured hangout for dabbling ducks —which include the Northern shoveler, northern pintail, garganey, common teal, the Eurasian wigeon and the whistling ducks — which prefer shallow waters. In contrast, diving ducks need a depth of at least one to two metres for them to dive in. “Perumbakkam wetland is not suitable for the diving ducks, but dabbling ducks find themselves at home there,” observes eBird reviewer Gnanaskandan Keshavabharathi. “Diving ducks such as the common pochard and the tufted duck are drawn to the deeper lakes, including the ones in Manimangalam and Siruthavur and Chemarambakkam. Even the Okkiyam Maduvu channel with its depth is known to have drawn common pochards.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-hangout-for-dabbling-ducks/article37936572.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Approach road to school is in a bad shape’||Senthur Kuppam Road in Katturpakkam — which is an approach road to a school — is in a bad shape for the past two years. Minor accidents occur on this road frequently. Following the recent rains, the road has gone from bad to worse. We request the Kattupakkam Village Panchayat to do the needful at the earliest. K. Mohana Rangam is a resident of Iyyapanthangal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/approach-road-to-school-is-in-a-bad-shape/article37936576.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||‘One-year-old road cries for attention’||School Road in Nungambakkam opposite Independence Day park was laid last year. But a few months ago, the road was dug up. It is said that the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board dug up the road. It has not been closed properly and is in a bad shape. The Greater Chennai Corporation also did not bother to attend to the battered road. Following the recent rains, the public, especially motorcyclists, suffered considerably on account of this situation. The dug-up sections are not visible. Two-wheelers get stuck in the muddy road. Last year, a stormwater drain was constructed on this road but it was ineffective. N. Ravikkumaar is a resident of Nungambakam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/one-year-old-road-cries-for-attention/article37936578.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Ramapuram federation meeting held||Flaws in stormwater drains and bad roads in Ramapuram were among the issues that were discussed at the recent meeting of Ramapuram Social Welfare Federation. Around 40 residents welfare associations took part in the meeting. “Roads need to be relaid in Kurinji Nagar, Rayala Nagar, Bhakthi Vedhantha Nagar and Tamil Nagar. Besides, we want the Greater Chennai Corporation to complete the restoration of the Ramapuram lake at the earliest. Another long-pending demand is resumption of 18E service of the Metropolitan Transport Corporation. This bus was connecting Ramapuram and Broadway. It is more than a year since this service was withdrawn. Many of our residents depend on this bus, hence the federation wants it restored,” says S. Raja, secretary of the federation. The federation also has plans to install recharge wells on roads to conserve rainwater. “We will most probably carry out this exercise during summer so that in the ensuing monsoon, roads will be free of inundation and the groundwater level will increase,” adds Raja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/ramapuram-federation-meeting-held/article37936582.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Demand for terrace gardening kits||The subsidised kitchen garden kits sold by the Department of Horticulture, Government of Tamil Nadu is seeing a renewed interest among many Chennai residents. Officials of the Department attribute it to various reasons, the prominent ones being the slashed price of the kit, soaring price of vegetables especially tomatoes in the last few weeks and increased awareness about going organic. After last year’s lockdown, the sale of these “do it yourself” kits, aimed at encouraging urban dwellers to grow vegetables, started on December 8 at the depots in Chennai. And in most of the depots, they have run out of stock. “In two days we sold more than 470 kits and we are waiting for our next stock to arrive,” said Rajeevan CH, horticulture officer, Anna Nagar. He says the price of the kit has been slashed from Rs. 900 to Rs. 225. The kits come with varieties of vegetable seeds, grow bags, bio-pesticides and cocopeat block. A kit of eight medicinal plants is another new addition. Rajeevan says that all the depots have started selling these terrace garden kits, subsidy is being offered for drip irrigation. The depot at Madhavaram have also run out of stock. “The awareness on eating healthy has grown over the years, so much of our enquiries from customers are about how fast the seeds will grow to what care must be given,” says a officer from the Madhavaram depot. R. Nathiya, assistant horticulture officer, Thiruvanmiyur says that for the first time bookings for the purchase of the kits can be made online. “Or, if you plan to come in person, make sure to carry a photocopy of the Aadhar card and a passport size photograph,” says Nathiya. The kits can be bought from the following places: Thiruvanmiyur, near RTO office; Anna Nagar Horticulture Depot, Arignar Anna Government Hospital of Indian Medicine - Contact 98402 55347; Madhavaram, Milk Colony road. Contact 8870562306; and SemmozhiPoonga, Cathedral Road  contact 9677140624||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/demand-for-terrace-gardening-kits/article37936581.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Two-day session on organic farming||Tamil Nadu Agricultural Univeristy Information & Training Centre in Guindy is conducting a session on organic farming on December 15 and 16. The programme will focus on soil health, bio-fertilizers, organic methods to manage pest and diseases. There will be demonstration on preparation of vermicomposting and panchagavya solution, says a press release. For registration and further details, call 044 - 2953 0048.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/two-day-session-on-organic-farming/article37936565.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Free art workshop for children||GRS Bridge2Learn at Anna Nagar will be conducting a winter art workshop for children aged 6 to 13 years. The creative workshop scheduled to be held on December 29; 3 to 5 p.m. at the Anna Nagar Tower Club will cover acrylic, warli and doodle art. Admission is only by prior registration. For registration, send the name of the child and the age to 9841007663 or visitwww.grsbridge2learn.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/free-art-workshop-for-children/article37936566.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Unpredictability is the operative word||Unpredictability is the operative word, says K A Subramanian, Officer-in-Charge, Zoological Survey of India, Southern Regional Centre, while describing the key manifestations of climate change. He explains: “What climate change brings with it is unpredictaility. It is not about more rains or less rains — the predictaility of the system becomes elusive. That makes it difficult for the birds, particularly when it come to timing their breeding. Because, availability of food cannot be predicted. There are organisims that can manage this unpredctability, and they will thrive. We however need long-term data to nail the connection. It is difficult to connect the dots at this point.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/unpredictability-is-the-operative-word/article37936574.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||For a cause||Sudha Meiyappan says this is the second year of the calendar project. “We are also bringing out a 2022 diary and cloth tote bags, the former has 12 Warli art pieces drawn by members and caregivers along with information on PD,” says Sudha. Designed by the Tambrind Chutney, Sudha says the proceeds from the sale of all the three products will go towards conducting workshops, offering medical support and speech therapy. “Art is therapeutic at so many levels, it works on your mental and physical well being. We started with Warli and now we are also trying Madhubani,” says Sudha. Over 250 persons are members of the community, a majority being from Chennai. To place an order, WhatsApp Sudha Meiyappan at 9381035979||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/for-a-cause/article37936589.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Healing through art||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/healing-through-art/article37936569.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||After false starts, winter season is slowly getting back on track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/after-false-starts-winter-season-is-slowly-getting-back-on-track/article37936570.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||remembering the warriors||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/remembering-the-warriors/article37936584.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Dense with desire||It has been a long journey for C.V. Balakrishnan’s Malayalam novel Ayussinte Pusthakam (The Book of Life). Serialised in Mathrubhumi weekly in 1983 and published in book form the next year, it became an instant hit, especially among the younger generations. It is still widely read and admired, as is evident from the fact that it has had 26 editions so far. And now, it is evocatively translated into English by T.M. Yesudasan. This is a coming-of-age story of Yohannan, an adolescent boy from a Christian community in a remote Kerala village. What envelops him is a world inundated with carnal desire, not just of humans, but of everything in there — the elements of nature, man-made structures, flowers, insects and trees — which come alive through the ebb and flow of the characters’ longings. The novel begins with Rahel, an adolescent girl, running away weeping from the prying hands of Paolo, an aged, grandfatherly neighbour. The novel ends with yet another act of violence — Paolo’s son and Yohannan’s father Thoma strangling to death Sara, the young widow Yohannan loves. Framed between these two crimes of desire is a story of yearnings of different kinds — carnal and spiritual, violent and tragic, lyrical and melancholic. Love and lust seep into everything — nature, people, objects, thoughts, feelings, dreams and actions. Though obsessively fantasised, love is rarely consummated in rapturous union like that between Yohannan and Sara; more often it is denied. Yakob dies yearning for Sara, the only love of his life; Annie and Mathew pay a heavy price for choosing love over family. But still love haunts everyone, asking them to transgress. All sinners Different shades of sexual desire defying religious canons, conventions of age and social dictums form the warp and woof of this novel. At the centre of the village is the church and its saintly vicar, who tries to dissuade his flock from the path of sin. But the force of life gushes forth, heeding no bars. As Paolo ruminates after his shameful act, “Is there anyone who is not a sinner? We all are sinners. Sometimes, it may be a sinful act that makes life meaningful.” Translating the novel must have been a challenge because of the “invented character” of the language in the original, which is “region-blind, highly allusive and fascinating with constant allusions to characters, events and passages in the Bible” (Translator’s Note). Yesudasan says, “[It] bears no resemblance either to the language the migrants left behind or to the language of north Malabar where they had settled down. The harmonious blend of language and theme, feeling and thought, adds to the magic of the text.” Only a scholar of literature and of the history of Christianity in Kerala like Yesudasan could have captured the the reverie-like tempo and tone of the narrative without losing the intense sensual feel that suffuses it. The Kerala-based reviewer is an award-winning critic, curator, director and translator.  The Book of Passing Shadows C.V. Balakrishnan, trs T.M. Yesudasan Thornbird  Rs. 350     Love and lust seep into everything — nature, people, objects, thoughts, feelings, dreams and actions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dense-with-desire/article37936630.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The collapse of democracy||From the early 1990s, French political scientist Christophe Jaffrelot has written about Indian politics in the present, catching every wave as it crests. Over the past three decades he has produced some 30 books, monographs and edited volumes, in French and English, on all the salient political phenomena in India. These are: the rise of Hindu nationalism; the explosion of caste politics (including Dalit and OBC mobilisation, a growing interest in B.R. Ambedkar, and post-Mandal reservations policy); the deteriorating state of the minorities, particularly Muslims; the trajectories of the Pakistani state and the entrenchment of Indo-Pak conflict; the expansion of the Indian middle class thanks to economic liberalisation and globalisation; the boom in Indian business after market reforms; and most significantly, the emboldening of the Sangh Parivar and its ideology to the point where Hindutva has metastasized from its home grounds in U.P., Maharashtra and Gujarat to infect the entire country. From Ayodhya to Ahmedabad and Bombay to Banaras; from Nagpur to Delhi and Lucknow to Bangalore; from Naga highlands to Naxal forests and from Lahore to Karachi — whenever something of note has occurred on the subcontinent, be it in the realm of politics, religion or caste (or a potent mix of these elements), Jaffrelot has been sure to chronicle and analyse it. It was inevitable then, that his new book would take a comprehensive look at the sea change in the Indian polity under the influence of Narendra Modi. Even though Modi’s India brings up its account just short of the pandemic, the message is loud and clear: India has changed, perhaps irreversibly, from a liberal secular democracy less than a decade ago to a majoritarian “ethnic democracy” today. Blows to ideals Jaffrelot tracks the continually expanding catalogue of body blows that have assailed the founding ideals of the Indian republic from the time Modi announced his candidature in the fall of 2013. Those of us who have lived through the lynching of Muslims and Dalits, the assassination of rationalist intellectuals, the trolling of scholars, the detention of activists, the harassment of movie stars, the evisceration of the media, universities and courts, the decimation of the opposition, the destruction of the economy, the persecution of the minorities, the erosion of fundamental rights, the gutting of the public sector, the targeting of NGOs, the silencing of civil society, the distortion of history, the usurpation of social media by hate speech, fake news and propaganda, the defiance and denigration of Parliamentary procedure by the ruling party, the demonisation of dissent, the encouragement of vigilantism, the garrisoning of the Kashmir Valley, the battering of the Constitution, and the forsaking of truth — having borne witness, we understand why compiling this gruesome list requires nearly 700 pages. But the book is not just an act of meticulous, unsparing documentation, though it is that too. It will prove an invaluable record of our time when future generations struggle to explain the swift collapse of Indian democracy. Once the world’s largest, liveliest and most interesting experiment in equal citizenship, universal adult franchise, regular elections, representative government, minority protection, a free press, and popular self-rule, India always had problematic enclaves of exception like Kashmir and the Northeast. But before Modi, its basic commitment to diversity and pluralism seemed genuine. Jaffrelot doesn’t just remind us of what has been happening to unravel the liberal consensus in the past 7-8 years. He also brings to bear on these data an enormous scholarly literature and theoretical toolkit about ethnic democracy, populist strongmen, rightwing nationalism, charismatic leadership, the deinstitutionalisation of the state, creeping authoritarianism that appears electorally mandated, the relentless reduction of minorities to second-class citizenship, and the mobilisation of identities in new patterns of conflict, domination and exclusion, jettisoning tolerance, equality and inclusion. Ideological capture The author is careful to marshal the evidence of majoritarian takeover, riot politics, court packing and crony capitalism from Gujarat, not just the primary theatre for the crafting of Modi’s persona, but also the cultural seedbed of his lieutenant Amit Shah, and of India’s two most powerful business families, the Ambanis and Adanis. In another recent book, Jaffrelot has studied the Emergency of 1975-77, to compare the leadership styles of Indira Gandhi and Modi. He also examines in detail the political mainstreaming of the RSS and its wholesale infiltration and ideological capture of the public imagination, journalism, academia, the police and the bureaucracy, apart from the legislature and the judiciary (and perhaps the armed forces too). He examines how Yogi Adityanath communalises governance, runs a militia State, and makes Islamophobia an item of official policy. Campaigns of “gauraksha”, “love jihad” and “gharwapsi” make for a deadly cocktail of privileged caste orthopraxy and social conservatism, reinforce patriarchy, and continually bully, shame and terrorise Muslims and Christians. The cow belt and Hindi heartland, including Rajasthan, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh along with Uttar Pradesh, spilling south into Karnataka and east into Assam, are now thoroughly saffronised. Punjab, Delhi, Bihar, Maharashtra, Goa and West Bengal have thus far proven somewhat recalcitrant and occasionally rebellious, for a variety of reasons that are regionally specific, and because of local parties, caste alliances and grassroots leaders who challenge the BJP. But even in these States, the presence of an opposition no longer proves that public opinion is against Modi or that the default political common sense is secular. Nor should the south be taken for granted any more. As Jaffrelot shows in his oeuvre, studying Hindutva ideology over the past century, from Savarkar and Golwalkar, to Advani and Vajpayee, before arriving at Modi and Shah, allows us to retrospectively register the early tremors of the political earthquake we are now experiencing. Abroad, countries like Israel, Turkey, Hungary and Brazil provide a global context for the rise of ethnic democracy. It appears that the Second Republic and the Hindu Rashtra are already upon us, here to stay for the foreseeable future. Modi’s India is at once reminder, record, warning bell and, if we heed the lessons of history, a call to arms.  The reviewer is an intellectual historian and author ofRighteous Republic: The Political Foundations of Modern India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-collapse-of-democracy/article37936645.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The world is too much with them||It is frustrating, isn’t it, to believe, to have staunch principles, and yet to act like they do not exist? It is what some would call the contemporary condition, because social media has turned our thoughts into manifestos, our ambiguities into certainty. (Try drafting a 240 character tweet that is tonally ambivalent.) And yet, real life can never be lived with theoretical clarity. Sally Rooney always pitches her characters in that hazy, contested zone between principle and practice — between what we believe to be true and what we end up doing anyway. This is most clear in her third novel, Beautiful World, Where Are You. Notice that the title is a question, but there is no interrogation mark. It doesn’t demand an answer, merely expresses a rhetorical exhaustion with our world as it is. Life and e-life In this book, we get absolute access to the principles of two of the four main characters — Alice, the celebrity novelist who suffered a mental breakdown in the aftermath of fame, and her best friend Eileen, who works for a literary magazine in Dublin. They exchange page-long emails explaining their world views, the Wikipedia articles they read, and their unbaked, pretentious theories of aesthetics (“human beings lost the instinct for beauty in 1976, when plastics became the most widespread material in existence” or “Human beings lost [the instinct for beauty] when the Berlin Wall came down”). Every other chapter in this novel is an e-mail, written and responded to alternately. In between the emails, their lives unfold. Alice, who has retreated to the Irish countryside to recuperate and is living in a palatial rectory with a view of the ocean, has taken to Felix, whom she met on Tinder. He works in a warehouse and has an abrasive, almost confrontational energy that Alice finds irresistible. Eileen has her heart set on the church-going Simon, five years older to her but a constant in her life since childhood. The tensile quality of the Eileen-Simon, Alice-Felix interactions, buoyed up by luminous, step-wise-consensual sex — Simon asks Eileen, “Can I put you lying on your back, would that be okay? I think I could get a little deeper inside you that way, if you want that” — builds up through the novel till all four of them are physically united and the languor of the emails recedes. The chapters between the emails seem to be told at times by a clueless third-person narrator — “On the platform of a train station, late morning, early June: two women embracing...” — who, at other times, has an intense, invasive access to their past. The whole of Eileen’s childhood and growing-up years is vomited out in one hurl of a chapter. The first-person emails, coming after the chapters in the voice of the unnamed narrator, serve to clarify what the character was actually thinking in the preceding chapters. It is an exciting set-up — the events in one chapter and the interiority of the events a chapter later — but the need for the characters to posture as intellectual beings throughout completely undoes the format. Barren patches Rooney notes in the acknowledgements that a London Review of Books article on the collapse of the Bronze Age helped her write Eileen’s emails, where she pontificates on civilisational catastrophe. It is a section that feels utterly barren because it is insincere — it’s like writing what you think you should be writing. Eileen, Alice, and Rooney herself seem to be reacting to issues such as class, climate change and collapse at an intellectual level, which has no effect whatsoever on how they lead their lives. Does Rooney’s unparalleled ability to craft tense conversations have something to do with this uneasy coexistence? While her dialogues are precise, at times they are too measured, almost rehearsed. “Oh Simon, you’re so important-looking, I’m afraid you’re going to be assassinated” sounds both crackling and dubious. The dialogues of Eileen and Alice are also tonally indistinguishable from their emails. They say that all of Sally Rooney’s women are the same — witty and cutting, with strong ideological spines, but in the face of desire, resigned to the men in their lives. Willing to be “laid on the ground and… [walked] over,” like Marianne in Normal People, or allowing the lover to do “whatever [he] wants with [her]” in Conversations With Friends . In Beautiful World , when Felix asks Alice, “But what do you think about when you come?” she replies, “I think about you coming.” The men are at various stages of being emotionally neutered — in ideology or in practice. This makes me question if desire is intensely gendered or if that is a sexist notion. Alice is said to be bisexual, as is Felix. How would they behave with same-sex lovers, I wonder. The writer is a critic with a weekly online newsletter titledprathyush.substack.com  Beautiful World, Where Are You Sally Rooney Faber & Faber   Rs. 699    They say that all of Sally Rooney’s women are the same — witty and cutting, with strong ideological spines, but in the face of desire, resigned to the men in their lives||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-world-is-too-much-with-them/article37936628.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Living in the shadows||In the wake of the revolt of 1857, a slew of tough measures followed, and those who did not “conform to acceptable patterns of behaviour” were tagged “criminal”. The Criminal Tribes Act of 1871 defined some 200 ethnic communities as “addicted to systematic commission of non-bailable offences.” The Act, as Dakxin Bajrange and Henry Schwarz, editors of Vimukta: Freedom Stories , write in the introduction, intended to “civilise” large populations of mostly nomadic tribes by counting, containing, and eventually settling them in fixed abodes. From the margins Bajrange and Schwarz have gathered accounts of people labelled “criminals” and their reaction to such historical depictions. Independence may have led to their de-criminalisation, but it was “more in name than in deed.” Denotified as criminals in 1952, they were quickly rebranded as the Denotified and Nomadic Tribes, and their lack of political representation has meant that it has been left to civil rights activists to fight their battle for a better life and access to education, housing and health care. There’s a moving excerpt from Bajrange’s autobiography, Budhan Speaks ( Budhan Bolta Hai ). He writes about growing up in Chharanagar in Ahmedabad, outside the shadow of mainstream society, where, caught in a vicious cycle of poverty and unemployment, most members are engaged in “theft or brewing liquor.” But just like Bajrange got out of it by becoming a theatre artist, filmmaker and writer, he provides a glimmer of hope when he says that now all children go to school. Violence, however, is always lurking, and prison stints too, often on false charges. Once when he goes with two friends to a fair to click pictures of a temple, Bajrange gets beaten up on suspicion of being a thief — “we will break your limbs,” a common refrain. Literary critic G.N. Devy, writer and activist Mahasweta Devi, and novelist and politician Laxman Gaikwad set up an Action Group after the murder of Budhan Sabar in 1998. Devy once asked Bajrange to make a film on the Madaris who were being harassed by the Forest department and an animal rights NGO. Fight for Survival was based on a real-life incident — an NGO had members of the snake-charming Madari community arrested and locked up in dog cages. The big struggle Kushal Butange, all of 18, asks ‘who am I?, recalling how his mother and uncle were worried when he wanted to become a filmmaker, as it is a “career for big people”. His mother began selling liquor when money was tight after his father, an advocate, fell ill. He organises a weekly film screening at the Chharanagar library, promising to “keep fighting for the constitutional rights that have been guaranteed to the denotified tribes” and trying to “rectify” lives of the community. Activist Subba Rao Mali Rao writes the harrowing story of a couple, one belonging to the Mondi Bada tribe, traditional gatherers of honey with great climbing skills, and the other to the Dasari, collectors of hair, and how the move from the forest to the city meant living in terrible poverty and the “scourge of criminality”. Bhimrao Jadhav of Solapur cannot forget the moment ‘criminal’ tribes were denotified and set free, and yet the struggle continues because society is yet to shed its prejudices, making it imperative for such stories to be recounted.  Vimukta: Freedom Stories Edited by Dakxin Bajrange, Henry Schwarz Navanaya  Rs. 350||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/living-in-the-shadows/article37936640.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A home called prison||Manoranjan Byapari’s novel, Imaan , translated by Arunava Sinha from the Bengali original, Chhera Chhera Jibon , is an unsentimental look at poverty, hunger, death, displacement, the human will to live, the desire for company, and the meaninglessness of existence. But, written with Byapari’s characteristic candour, Imaan did not make me sad at all. On the contrary, its black humour made me smile, even laugh out loud at some places. Sixteen-year-old Imaan Ali had entered jail at the age of six months with his mother, Zahura Bibi, who had been convicted of murdering her husband, Imaan’s father. Imaan’s mother was sentenced to 10 years in prison but she died of tuberculosis within three years. Imaan — innocent, but with no one to litigate for him — grew up in jail among other convicts, spending 16 years there before being finally released. This novel tells us how this teenager, who had “always dunked a plate in a tank of water and poured it on himself” and “had never seen anyone actually dipping themselves in water for a bath”, learns to survive outside the safe confines of the prison. Teeming world The safety of the prison for certain people is the central irony: “The jail is much better for a poor man. Outside the jail, you can die on the pavement. No one will care. Here…[three] meals a day [are] assured. Plus a roof, no rain, a blanket in winter.”  This inverted view makes perfect sense when we see the world through the eyes of the protagonist and those around him — all of them migrants from poverty-stricken villages or ecologically sensitive areas, who have turned into illegal squatters in bustling Kolkata. There are ragpickers, scrap-dealers, prostitutes, men who deal in corpses. The novel at times seems more about these colourful peripheral characters than about Imaan, who appears to be just a means of taking us to the world Byapari wants us to see. We are introduced to them in Chapter 2, which is entirely woven around a death in the squatters’ colony. The characters converge at the dead man’s shack: his widow’s efforts at crying “for fear of being shamed by everyone else if she did not” are as hilarious as painful. Moments of tenderness Caste, as is inevitable, plays an important role. Byapari demonstrates how law enforcement agents and public perception are biased when it comes to the caste of an offender. The police would not believe that a “Braahmon” could be a thief, working along with “Kaora Bagdis... Muslims, [and] Namashudras.” Elsewhere, a pickpocket brandishes a Brahmin surname and wears a poita (sacred thread) because the ruse often saves him from thrashings. Within this makeshift world, there are moments of tenderness too, especially in scenes featuring the three ragpickers, Polashi, Kamini and Brojo. Polashi intrigued me, for whenever she appears she is ready to bathe or clean her body. Is the act of bathing symbolic? Early in the novel, we see Imaan perspiring profusely, the sweat “streaming across the government seal on his arm [marking him as a former jailbird], all but obliterating it.” The “government seal” stands for a person’s reputation, which is supposedly tarnished forever once they are sentenced to jail. No amount of bathing can clean that stigma. So, what about Imaan? Does he survive? Is he accepted? Byapari answers these questions in this entertaining novel, which inspires me enough to make me want to read the Bengali original too. The reviewer wrote this piece in Chandil, where he is currently posted.  Imaan Manoranjan Byapari, trs Arunava Sinha Eka   Rs. 499    Caste, as is inevitable, plays an important role. Byapari demonstrates how law enforcement agents and public perception are biased when it comes to the caste of an offender||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-home-called-prison/article37936626.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The many versions of Maharashtra, past and present||Maha-Rashtra, literally ‘giant nation’, thrives on the romanticisation of history and a  past reconstructed by the audacious present. There are many versions of Maharashtra to be told. One school of history argues that the name is derived from the Mahars, an important tribe turned caste. What and who qualifies to be a Maharashtrian is a question as much for the discipline of political science as it is for cultural studies. Is language a decider, or is it a passage in the history books of the grand Indian nation? Maharashtrians think of themselves as a core element of the abstract nation state controlled from Delhi. Shivaji’s role The central figure of Maharashtra is the benevolent yet shrewd tactician and strict king — the Bahujan Pratipaalak — Shivaji Bhonsale, a 7th century ruler with ambitions way ahead of his times. Shivaji was probably the only person in the  India of his time who unfurled the flag of Hindavi Swarajya: rule of the natives. Shivaji became Chhatrapati and thus  began the upward rise of the Marathi Manoos — the Marathi man — taking on invaders from Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Turks, Mongols, and Europeans. Shivaji’s reign was the first indigenous rule that tried to establish an ideal society. That meant not sparing Brahmins and Marathas of his time who were happy to serve the Mughals but not Shivaji. The Battle of Panipat started a new story for Marathas. The Maratha here is not a parochial casteist identity, but a secular name for those who followed Shivaji to reclaim native pride. Thus, the story of Maharashtra is not a  mono-caste one  and certainly not only about  one person.  Renaissance State departs from this premise. Girish Kuber, the author, is a seasoned journalist with stints in various news organisations. As editor of a Marathi daily, Loksatta , Kuber, a Deshastha Brahmin from Mumbai, is not only proud of Maharashtra but sees its contradictions without preference. He declares his intentions and limitations early on. Kuber wants to use history as a medium to tell the story of his home State. However, to narrate its complexities and a deeply divided social present, Kuber needed to put on the protective gear of a cricket batsman. Progressive, regressive   Whatever side Kuber would have chosen , he would have received  brickbats. Renaissance State has  limitations but manages to deliver the objective of bringing together vignettes and histories into a narrative form. From Arthashastra ’s mentioning of Ashmak, i.e., Nanded , to the empire of the Satvahanas , various empires ruled the region. Spiritualism too had its roots here. Vitthal Rukmini, Dynaneshwar, Chakradhar Swami, Chokhamela are the dominant spiritual traditions. Although it doesn’t find mention in the book, Buddhism had a strong presence in Maharashtra. The modern story of Maharashtra, it appears from Kuber’s book,  is constructed of Chitpavan Brahmins, whether  good, bad, or ugly. Thus, Shivaji’s downfall was due to the Brahmin Peshwas. Maharashtra is known as much for upholding social justice as for its backwardness. The modernist trio of Phule-Shahu-Ambedkar comes from Maharashtra. So does the Brahminical Tilak-Savarkar-Golwalkar. How do we explain this paradox? It is to the credit of Ambedkarite politics and the Dalit Panthers that Maharashtra finds  honourable mention in national and international discourse. Kuber may be forgiven for merely summing up available records. A curious reader will have to wait for another book that summarises the subaltern, the untold  stories, and come to  grips with  the actualised, non-narrativised version of the past.  Renaissance State is one of many attempts to reinsert Maharashtra’s significance in national politics. If Maharashtra is able to hark back to Shivaji’s  rule , then there’s a lesson for the current political and academic field. The State  has continued to betray  its earlier progressive  politics. From the viewpoint of current politics, it seems that  protective feudalism prolonged by nationalist calls will keep the State  in a stalemate of progress.  The reviewer is author of Caste Matters.  Renaissance State: The Unwritten Story of the Making of Maharashtra Girish Kuber HarperCollins  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-many-versions-of-maharashtra-past-and-present/article37936642.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On December 12, 1911, the then Emperor of India, George V, laid a foundation during the Delhi Durbar and declared that the capital of the country was being shifted to Delhi. This huge change came about because the Viceroy of India, Lord Hardinge, had expressed concern that the country was being ruled from an extremity and it made more sense to have a centrally located capital. The earlier capital, though being the literary and commercial centre, was at a geographical disadvantage. Which city was India’s capital before Delhi? 2This city in Tamil Nadu shares its name with a destructive environmental process, which causes land to slowly wear away. There are two origin stories for its name, one is that it means ‘two streams’, or according to an ancient myth, it means ‘wet skull’ in Tamil. What is the name of this district, which in 2019 had its turmeric awarded the GI tag (to indicate products which are grown specifically in a certain area)? 3One theory behind the name of this place is that it is the anglicisation of the local name ‘Sairandhirivanam’, which means ‘Draupadi’s Forest’ as she was supposed have stayed here during the Pandava’s vanavaas . Another theory is that it is so named because of the apparent absence of cicadas in the area. How better do we know this protected forest area? 4This city in Gujarat is the known as the Milk Capital of India as it houses the Kaira District Co-operative Milk Producers’ Union, also known as Amul. The city is also called ‘Charotar’, which comes from the Sanskrit word for ‘beautiful’, in reference to the fertile soil and abundant greenery. What city is this which was responsible for the White Revolution in India? 5There are many theories as to the origin of this city’s name. The most popular one refers to an old woman cooking boiled beans and offering them to a hungry king. Scholars believe it is more likely that the name comes from the Pterocarpus marsupium tree whose name refers to the fiery colour of its wood. It is believed that the king named the city after a hamlet his wife and mother came from, which had an abundance of these trees. Which city is this that used to be called the ‘Garden City’ but has become known more for its concrete jungles of IT parks? 6This city in Karnataka is known as the ‘Switzerland of India’. It is popular for its pleasant climate and the numerous coffee estates that produce some of the best (and oldest) coffees in India. The name of the city comes from the Kannada word for ‘younger daughter’s town’ as it is said to have been given in dowry to the youngest daughter of a chief. Which city is this? 7 Chail is a hill station in Himachal Pradesh, about 44 kilometres from Shimla at an altitude of 2,444 metres above sea. It’s a very picturesque area known for its mist-covered hills and hiking trails. The Chail palace was the summer retreat of the Maharajah of Patiala and has a polo ground and a cricket ground, which was built in 1893. What interesting record does the ground hold? 8 This city became a State capital when the Union Territory it was head of was elevated to a State in 1987 although it has been the capital of the region since 1843. The original name of the city is derived from two Sanskrit words meaning ‘boat’ and ‘small creek’. These two words together can be found on copper plates from the reign of the Kadamba king Tribhuvanamalla. What city is this, which is located on the banks of the Mandovi? 9 Known as the chilli capital of India, this city is the third largest in its State. In Sanskrit, the city is known as ‘Garthapuri’, which means ‘a place surrounded by ponds’, and its name in Telugu refers to ‘pond village’. In 1868, French astronomer Pierre Janssen observed a solar eclipse from this city and consequently discovered the very first noble gas, Helium. Which is this city, situated on the delta of the Krishna? 10 Neolamarckia cadamba or the burflower-tree is an evergreen tree native to India. It has orange flowers in globe-shaped clusters. It is also known as ‘Parvati’s tree’ or ‘Kadamba Tree’. One particular ancient city in south India was filled with these trees which led to it being known as ‘Kadambavanam’. Over thousands of years, it became known by another name. The theory is that the name is the derivative of the word ‘Marutham’, which refers to the type of landscape of the Sangam age. Which ancient city known for its temples and history of the Tamil language was earlier known as Kadambavanam? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article37936655.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Don’t play dead with a vulture||To Vibhu Prakash, vultures are beautiful birds despite their awful dining habits. “The long-billed vulture, for instance, looks like a swan,” he says. He spent four decades working to protect these avian scavengers, so perhaps his is an acquired appreciation. Prakash studied vultures in Keoladeo National Park, Rajasthan, in the late 1980s, research that turned out to be providential. When cattle died in large numbers at the beginning of summer, hundreds belonging to two species of vultures descended from the sky. “That was an unforgettable sight,” says the researcher. Among mammalian carnivores, the assertive individuals feed first while the meek wait their turn. Vultures, however, let the hungriest take precedence. They work fast to strip the carcasses clean, nature’s own disposal system. Unable to get airborne after these feasts, the engorged scavengers perch on trees, digesting their meals. One such enormous tree favoured by vultures stood outside a building that Prakash and other researchers frequented. When they walked under it, the panicked birds threw up to lighten their weight and take off. Their habits may be revolting, but they clean every feather and bathe daily. On his return to the park in 1996, the researcher found the vulture population had crashed. Dead birds lay everywhere, tangled in trees, on the ground, and in the nest. Those still alive sat listlessly with their snake-like necks hanging down before keeling over, lifeless. “It was a very disturbing sight,” recalls Prakash. What’s the cause? By comparing that year’s population estimate with his earlier study, he showed the decline was a catastrophic 95% within a decade. Vulture numbers went into a free fall not only in the park but across the country as researchers struggled to find the cause. Was it pesticides, heavy metal poisoning, or infectious disease? It wasn’t until 2003 that an international team of scientists nailed the culprit, a new anti-inflammatory drug called diclofenac being used to treat cattle suffering from a range of ailments. When these ailing animals died, vultures stuffed themselves on their tainted flesh and developed gout, a condition caused by an inability to excrete uric acid because of kidney failure. The sick birds slowly lost their strength and succumbed within a fortnight. While campaigning for a ban of the veterinary use of the drug, the Bombay Natural History Society also set up a conservation breeding programme headed by Prakash to boost vulture numbers. The team removed the first eggs of the season from captive vultures and incubated them artificially. The deprived parents laid another egg and took turns sitting on it in seven to eight-hour shifts. “When they get stiff, they stand up and do vigorous wing and leg exercises,” says Prakash. The 10-day-old chicks hatched in the incubator were swapped for the second egg. Typically, the parent birds would help their young hatch by delicately removing the eggshell. The miraculous appearance of the fluff balls startled them, and they cautiously extended their long necks to feel them with their beaks. Once they were satisfied the new occupants were chicks, the adults lost no time in raising them. Fluffy chicks Since vultures raise only one nestling a year, returning the second chick to the parents posed a risk to its survival. Instead, Prakash and his team raised these young ones together at the centre. Within three to four months, the 150-gram youngsters grow to five-kilogram birds. “The chicks are so cute,” says the researcher. “Slender-billed vulture chicks, for example, are fluffy and snow white with a black neck and bald head.” Prakash discovered their fixation on the colour red. “If the keeper wears red, the chicks will go for it,” he says. “When we lay red towels, they get on it and it’s difficult to take it away.” It stands to reason, since red is the colour of blood and meat. Under the programme, 18 adult vultures have taken to the skies to fulfil their destiny as the maintainers of countryside hygiene. Many more will follow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dont-play-dead-with-a-vulture/article37936663.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Star-crossed fortune tellers||I have always looked at fortune tellers with curiosity and fascination. The art of “predicting the future” always left me in awe. Generally, the art is passed down generations, with some families known for it. During our childhood, fortune tellers would travel to villages to predict the future using cowrie shells, which have religious and cultural significance. These practitioners, dressed in a simple dhoti and an overcoat with a long handbag dangling over their shoulders, would throw the shells three times to come up with a number and make the prediction based on the figure. As parents would want to know more about their children’s education, health and so on, the cowries would go up in the air again and again, adding to the charges. When I moved to a city, I found fortune tellers not visiting homes, but wandering on the streets and pavements, not with cowries but with parakeets and a pack of cards. When the fortune teller calls, the parakeet would come out of a small cage and pick a card from the pack. The card contains pictures of gods and demons. He or she would then go on to explain the significance of the card and how it explains the future waiting for us. Some years ago, on one night when I was wandering on the vast shores of the Marina beach, I came across an old woman who came up to me offering to tell me my future for Rs. 50! I said why not! We sat on the sand and with a lantern in hand, she studied my palm for a few minutes. She then went on to say many things among which was that I would soon be able to buy a vehicle which I have been dreaming of! What look like an irony, however, is that most fortune tellers remain poor, while they go on predicting a bright future for others. ashokbbalakrishna@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/star-crossed-fortune-tellers/article37936622.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Takes two to tango||Dear Agony Akka,  I am a 19-year-old boy who has fallen in love with a beautiful girl that I see in the bus-stop every morning on my way to college. It seems like she is also on her way to college, which is one strong common point between us. She likes to wear jeans and kurta and that is my usual outfit also. We both are carrying books always. All this made me realise that she is my soulmate. Then came the peak moment. I am always staring at her. For two days now she has stared back. There is a frown on her face but that might be because of strong sunlight. I know she loves me. I want to propose to her. Should I follow her home? Or send her a letter? Please advise. —Thrilled, Waiting, Impatient, Tingling   Dear TWIT,  I have just now seen one powerful video where a man such as yourself, imagining himself madly in love with a young woman, gatecrashes her wedding and tries to smear her forehead with sindoor even as the bride and groom are exchanging garlands. No doubt he imagines himself to be a romantic and tragic figure but in ordinary, legal language, such people are called ‘stalkers’. Admittedly, Stalker and Victim does not have the same ring as Romeo and Juliet, but legal luminaries are not always great writers, I am sorry to say. They are very good punishers though. Even as Tamil and Hindi cinema goes about glorifying these young men who chase women all around the countryside, the Indian Penal Code language is quite brisk and clear and describes these actions as a ‘sexual harassment crime’. In short, if you follow this girl home, you can be sent to jail for 2-3 years with hefty fine. I have always found that a stint in jail tends to dull the edge of passion. Meanwhile, I must inform you that the neighbourhood cat and I are exhibiting some extraordinarily similar behaviour. For example, we both seem to sleep for 12-14 hours a day. We both like drinking. She keeps demanding milk while I alternate between coffee and certain stronger spirits. We are both obsessed with the balcony. We can sit there for hours. Yet, unlike you, I have not developed any strong yearning to write her a note or follow her home. Also, here is some breaking news for you — if a girl frowns at you, it is not a sign of hidden love. Science has no reason yet to believe that women’s facial expressions are inversely proportionate to their true feelings. If there is any update on this, I will get back to you. As far as I can see, the affection you are describing is about as reciprocal as that between a dog and a lamppost. I realise that the best traditions of our cinema dictate that you now swing around the lamppost while yodelling but in real life this does not play out well. Please stop troubling the lamppost. Go home. —AA agony.akka @gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/takes-two-to-tango/article37936653.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||100 per cent||In the modern COVID era, online bridge is thriving. A new online game starts every hour during the day and each game seems to draw between 350 and 600 entries. Such huge fields make it very unusual for one score to earn 100 percent of the available match points, but today’s deal did just that for NorthSouth. South was an aging player who had been considered quite good in his youth. These days, he contents himself with writing a bridge column — a harmless drudge. North’s sequence was “Garbage Stayman” and his two-heart bid showed both majors within a weak hand. South’s two-spade bid was a preference. This was a poor contract, so South played it hoping for the best. He won the opening club lead and led a spade to dummy’s king, winning the trick. A diamond to the jack held, but the ace of diamonds was ruffed with West’s 10 of spades as dummy shed a club. West cashed the queen of clubs and continued with the jack. East discarded a diamond as South, ruffed with the three of spades. Declarer led the king of diamonds, ruffed by West with the ace as dummy discarded a heart. Another club from West was ruffed in dummy, over-ruffed by East, and ruffed by South with the queen of spades. A low diamond was ruffed in dummy, felling the queen from East. Dummy’s last trump was led to East’s jack as South discarded a diamond winner. South rose with his queen on the forced heart lead from East. This won the trick and provided an entry to the established 10 of diamonds. South took the last two tricks and made an overtrick for 100 percent of the points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/100-per-cent/article37936657.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The bear that raided the bar||In our summer retreat in Upper Coonoor, we used to see bison, wild hare and barking deer, and knew that leopards and hyenas from the reserve forest, a mile above our house, were regular visitors at night. Monkeys arrived in droves by day while we were in residence, and sat menacingly on balconies and window sills, leaving only when they were certain that entry was barred and no instant pick-me-ups could be found. For a while now, black sloth bears have been a source of some concern in the Nilgiris. Coonoor was once dominated by huge acreages of tea plantations, but some of them have been converted to real estate, robbing the bears of their habitat. Many houses, particularly those set in large gardens, are hence the natural targets of these hungry animals. Increasingly venturesome in their hunt for food, these bears are determined and clever in the way they tackle their targets. They raid fruit gardens, pull down clotheslines if they get in the way, lay waste to carefully tended flowering plants, and even climb over gates and turn taps off and on. Last week, our watchman Robert called to say the kitchen window grille was broken. Someone had wrenched it away from its sockets, smashed the glass and entered. Robert’s FIR was that nothing had been stolen. The oven, fridge and TV stood undisturbed, but every kitchen cabinet had been violently explored for snacks. A whole bottle of cooking oil had been drained. A glass table in the living room was cracked as if someone had stood on it as might well have been the case! Worst of all came the news that our intruder (the scratch marks, bits of fur and smell indicated his identity) had discovered our bar. The bottles were emptied or broken. A bear, it appeared, had helped itself to what we enjoyed sipping, and left not a drop behind. minioup@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-bear-that-raided-the-bar/article37936620.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Letters||Our ‘national’ press carries little news about the Northeast, leaving us largely ignorant of the happenings there. (‘The Bru brotherhood’; Dec. 5) Kudos for telling us about the Bru people, their displacement from Mizoram, the plight they have been pushed into, and, most importantly, the rebuilding of their self-respect in these pandemic times. They are true heroes. Samiul Hassan Quadri nIt’s pathetic that even in this 21st century, the Bru people do not have access to a television. Like a blessing in disguise, after leading a successful local COVID-response, these people have realised their self-worth. Sometimes suffering teaches better than joy. M. Vineshragul nIt is heartening to note that the Bru community leaders in Naisingpara, Tripura, have been making relentless efforts to dispel the myths surrounding COVID-19. The government can perhaps rope in local NGOs to help the Brus combat the virus and other social ills. G. Ramasubramanyam nThe cover story opened my eyes to the plight of the displaced. The Bru youngsters’ alacrity in serving and protecting their community during the pandemic, with no help from the government, is commendable and inspiring. P.J. Sam Alexander nA nation of our size and stature should not allow this uncertainty in the lives of the Bru people to continue any longer. The government must take remedial steps urgently and help the community find some peace. Satvik Venkat Madhavaram nThe pictures prominently portray women, but the title omits them, talking of ‘brotherhood’. It is time we shifted to using gender-neutral words like ‘kinship’. Ashwini Petchiappan nThe onus is now on the government to rehabilitate the Bru community permanently in Tripura, as promised earlier, and restore their dignity. Hrishikesh Sharma   Devdutt Pattanaik interestingly says ‘Ram, the king, is great. Ram, the husband, is not.’ (‘ Dharma always comes with dharma-sankat ’; Dec. 5) The epic appears to side with this view. Valmiki tells Ram to his face that “his mind was made corrupt by base gossips when he banished his beloved and righteous wife to the forests.” Ram, in fact, apologises to the sage for this immoral act. Religious scriptures are god-centric whereas literary classics are human-centric. In a culture where literary classics are also considered religious scriptures, the metamorphosis of religious instinct into aesthetic sensibilities, of the egotistic into the universal, gets greatly facilitated. G.L. Krishna   Manu S. Pillai displays extraordinary command on the subject of his latest book. (‘The princely States were an ingredient in building the case for nationalism’; Dec. 5) He has answered the interviewer’s questions elaborately, and in unequivocal terms. Atheerath Naineni   Thanks to the writer, (The tang of the desert; Dec. 5) I spoke to my college mate from Rajasthan and complained that he had not given me an opportunity to taste ker sangri despite studying together for five years in 1965-70. He has now invited me to be his guest in Jaipur and promised various Rajasthani delicacies. M.V. Nagavender Rao||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/letters/article37936618.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||What about Meera||Zainab Priya Dala  Speaking Tiger Rs. 499 Meera flees her toxic marriage in South Africa to Dublin, where she gets a second chance at happiness by working in a school for autistic children. All that is threatened when she gets into a doomed relationship with the father of one of the children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/what-about-meera/article37936624.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Dakhma||K. Hari Kumar  HarperCollins India Rs. 299 Following their engagement, Anahita and Varun move in to an apartment in Malabar Hill, eager to begin their new life together. Then Anahita begins to witness unexpected happenings that might be linked to a tower of silence, or Dakhma, that is deeply affected by environmental changes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dakhma/article37936632.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The Stranger in the Lifeboat||Mitch Albom  Sphere Rs. 599 Adrift in a raft after a shipwreck, 10 strangers try to survive while awaiting rescue. After three days, they spot a man floating on the waves. After they pull him on board, the survivor claims he can save them. But should they put their trust in him?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-stranger-in-the-lifeboat/article37936634.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The Shadow on the Wall||Ruskin Bond  Aleph Book Company Rs. 499 This anthology brings together Ruskin Bond’s horror fiction. Classics such as ‘A Face in the Dark’ and ‘Susanna’s Seven Husbands’ are combined with new tales that have never been published before. The haunted mansions, malignant jinns and prets add to the winter chill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-shadow-on-the-wall/article37936636.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Bangladesh War: Report from Ground Zero||Manash Ghosh  Niyogi Books Rs. 695 This is a first-hand account of the Bangladesh liberation war by a veteran journalist who was sent to cover it as a cub reporter. The upheaval over the inept handling of the November 11, 1970 cyclone, he writes, snowballed into war.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bangladesh-war-report-from-ground-zero/article37936638.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Aiming High||Atsuo Inoue  Hodder & Stoughton Rs. 599 Originally published in Japan, this book charts Masayoshi Son’s rise from a Korean immigrant to becoming one of the most powerful people in Silicon Valley. With access to Son, Inoue writes an account of how SoftBank and its CEO is shaping the future of tech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/aiming-high/article37936647.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The Origin Story of Indian States||Venkataraghavan Subha Srinivasan  Ebury Press/ PRH Rs. 399 An account of the genesis of India’s States and Union Territories, this volume looks into unique aspects and other features that set them apart. A Union Territory, for instance, has beaches on both coasts; another State was not a part of India till 1975.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-origin-story-of-indian-states/article37936649.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Last Among Equals: Power, Caste and Politics in Bihar’s Villages||M.R. Sharan  Westland Books Rs. 599 In a study of Bihar, a development economist shows that through government action, like reservation, transparency measures and decentralisation, and through citizenly engagement, social movements and elections, change is possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/last-among-equals-power-caste-and-politics-in-bihars-villages/article37936651.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3180||Across  1 I call out madly about Greek character in the clouds (10) 6 Money’s in hiding place (as auditor perceives it) (4) 9 Time, between a day and a month, tense on Parisian hill (10) 10 Ban covetousness? Not entirely (4) 11 After short time, bit of a hand for subsidiary performer (6,6) 15 Old girl, condiment left out is repulsive (7) 16 Lie about with Eddy being abandoned (7) 17 Primarily Transcaucasian, besieged inland locale: it’s strategically important! (7) 19 Fluttering eyelids in sordid manner (7) 20 Tech giant, soft at heart? As if, dear! (5,2,2,3) 23 Celebrated wildebeests returning (4) 24 Lowers exchange rate rashly, leaves audit without independence (10) 25 Some Mafioso hoodlums in New York district (4) 26 City once playing for time, halfhearted — terrific (10)  Down  1 Topless, dotty host (4) 2 Hint: it’s a Chinese dynasty (4) 3 Comedy not half seen: Everyman’s suppressing tantrum over IT, getting aggressive (11) 4 Baron (who’s Australian); Dame (who wrote) (7) 5 Graphically clearly, Charlie turning into Romeo (7) 7 Beer (unknown quantity) and Spanish wine (no OJ) in old city (10) 8 As Boyle may be heard to mention pioneers in elastics for back of bra? (4,3,3) 12 Incessantly consumed, extremely sour (2,5,4) 13 Hopeless situations when cassoulet’s prepared (4,6) 14 A bit of fizz in cup Ruth stirred for cocktail (5,5) 18 In 50s, doddering, most uncertain (7) 19 Broadcaster to decline to show spy film (7) 21 Right, it’s flipping porridge (4) 22 American, educated, gets employed (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3180/article37936660.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||How the idea of vaccine protection changed in one year||One year ago, on December 11, 2020, Pfizer’s vaccine for COVID-19 was granted an emergency use authorisation, and exactly a week later Moderna vaccine was granted an EUA. On December 30, 2020. AstraZeneca was given an EUA by the U.K. drug regulatory body. In India, the drug regulator granted a restricted use authorisation to both Covishield and Covaxin on January 3, this year. The discussion for months before and after the vaccines got an EUA was centred around achieving herd immunity — where a large percentage of the population is infected or vaccinated so that virus spread in the population is significantly slowed or stopped. Achieving herd immunity was seen as an end goal of the pandemic. It was made to appear that we could vaccinate our way out of the pandemic and get back to normal times. The over 90% efficacy against symptomatic disease by both the mRNA vaccines made that goal of ending the pandemic look simple and straightforward. Except for AstraZeneca and Covaxin vaccines, which also tested trial participants for asymptomatic COVID-19, the efficacy of the two mRNA vaccines were based on their ability to prevent symptomatic COVID-19. This was despite the fact that about 80% of infections were asymptomatic. That asymptomatically infected people could still spread the virus to others was overlooked. Besides major issues of vaccine availability in most countries, vaccine hesitancy and approvals being limited to adults in the beginning meant that reaching this desired percentage needed for achieving herd immunity even in countries which had easy access to vaccines would take several months. Herd immunity While the mRNA vaccines were very effective at preventing symptomatic disease, their ability to protect people from getting infected remained unclear, which posed a problem for achieving herd immunity. “Herd immunity is only relevant if we have a transmission-blocking vaccine. If we don’t, then the only way to get herd immunity in the population is to give everyone the vaccine,” Shweta Bansal, a mathematical biologist at Georgetown University in Washington DC told Nature.  A vaccine effectiveness study conducted between December 2020 and end-March 2021 in nearly 4,000 health-care and frontline workers in the U.S. showed that full vaccination with mRNA vaccines were 90% effective in preventing infections, regardless of symptom status. So, in mid-May, the CDC director said fully vaccinated people need not wear a mask or maintain physical distance while participating in indoor and outdoor activities. But the emergence of the Delta variant and its ability to cause breakthrough infections even in fully vaccinated people, and such people shedding the virus and infecting others completely changed the calculus. Off the charts It not only forced CDC to revise its masking guidelines in end-July, but both herd immunity and the idea of vaccinating our way out of the pandemic were off the charts. The discussion around herd immunity died slowly. Scientists soon realised that it is necessary to vaccinate almost everyone. “Expecting the benefit to pass on to the unvaccinated does not seem to be possible with this virus,” epidemiologist Dr. Giridhara Babu of PHFI had earlier told The Hindu.  “The narrative of herd immunity and vaccinating one’s way out of the pandemic was flawed from the beginning. Herd immunity does not apply to coronavirus. These viruses cause recurrent infection. Herd immunity applies to viruses such as measles, where immunity is of the sterilising type, and vaccination of a large segment of the population results in suppression of the epidemic,” Dr. Rajeev Jayadevan, Vice Chairman, Research Cell, Kerala State IMA says in an email. And Pfizer began aggressively making a case for providing booster doses. Waning immunity Pfizer began raising concerns about waning immunity despite full vaccination based on vaccine effectiveness studies. But the sharply declining protection that Pfizer was referring to was based on neutralising antibodies which shield the vaccinated people from breakthrough infections. While the Delta variant caused more breakthrough infections even in fully vaccinated people, the vaccines still remained highly effective against severe disease, hospitalisation and death. According to a December 9 paper published in The New England Journal of Medicine, the effectiveness of Pfizer vaccine against “symptomatic infection was higher than effectiveness against asymptomatic infection but waned similarly. Variant-specific effectiveness waned in the same pattern”. Most importantly, the effectiveness against severe disease and death reached over 96% two months after the second dose and persisted at nearly the same level for six months. “The only randomised trial on boosters so far that measured disease outcomes was conducted by Pfizer. There was no difference in severe disease between the two- and three-dose groups,” says Dr. Jayadevan. “In fact, there were no hospitalisations in either group in a study involving over 10,100 people, which suggests that severe disease was not occurring in any significant number even in the two-dose group. As expected, the booster group had fewer infections.” Protection offered by vaccination in previously infected people has been found to be far superior to protection conferred by full vaccination in infection-naïve individuals. A study posted in the preprint server medRxiv, which is yet to be peer-reviewed, found that compared with full vaccination using Pfizer vaccine, immunity gained from infection offered longer lasting and stronger protection against symptomatic disease and hospitalisation caused by the Delta variant. “There is no evidence on the ground so far that severe disease, hospitalisation or death has been increasing among fully vaccinated people in India,” Dr. Jayadevan says. “However, breakthrough infections have been occurring, the vast majority of which are asymptomatic or mild.” Vaccines holding up According to WHO, even in the case of the Omicron variant, early data from South Africa suggest that currently available vaccines are “holding up in protection” against severe disease and death. Though the existing vaccines might prove less effective against Omicron, it is “highly unlikely” the Omicron variant would be able to evade vaccine protections altogether, says Dr. Michael Ryan of the WHO. A December 8 press release from Pfizer said that two doses showed over 25-fold reduction in neutralisation titres against the Omicron variant in people who had received two doses. But importantly, it said it believes that people vaccinated with two doses “may still be protected against severe forms of the disease”. Even as the U.S. has approved booster shots for all adults, the WHO called for a moratorium on booster doses till year-end. On December 9, the WHO said people who are immunocompromised or have received an inactivated COVID-19 vaccine (like Covaxin) should receive a third dose to protect against waning immunity. “A third dose is given to complete a vaccination series in selected subgroups to generate adequate immune responses,” Dr. Jayadevan says. “Immunocompromised individuals require a third dose not because of waning immunity, but because two doses might not evoke a robust response in everyone.” “For the time being we continue to support the need for equity in distribution [of vaccines] and the use of a third dose is only in those who are immunocompromised or people who have received an inactivated vaccine,” Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE) chair, Dr. Alejandro Cravioto, told Reuters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/how-the-idea-of-vaccine-protection-changed-in-one-year/article37936749.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Heat shock and cold sensitivity||DNA is a linear chain of nucleotides, portions of which are faithfully transcribed into linear messenger RNA. The message in this RNA is translated into strings of amino acids - proteins. Proteins need to take a precise three-dimensional shape to become functional entities. This protein folding does not happen all by itself, at least most of the time. A special bunch of proteins called molecular chaperones assist in correctly folding the protein. Chaperones in biology The idea of chaperones may sound quaint and Victorian, but in biological systems they play crucial roles. After the new protein chain has been shaped correctly, chaperones move on. Or else the new chain is eliminated. Without chaperones, newly synthesised proteins would soon become a tangled mess of insoluble aggregates, hindering cellular processes. Many molecular chaperones belong to the class of “heat shock” proteins (or stress-response proteins). This is because whenever an organism is subjected to elevated temperatures – a heat shock – proteins in the system begin to lose their native shapes, and chaperones are produced in large quantities to restore order. Chaperones are needed under physiological conditions too, for normal cellular function. Misfolding of proteins can cause a number of diseases. Alpha-synuclein protein, present in neurons, is wrongly folded in Parkinson's disease. Brains of Alzheimer's patients have plaques formed from aggregates of amyloid beta-peptide. This accumulation of amyloid fibrils is toxic, leading to widespread destruction of neurons – a 'neurodegenerative’ disorder. Aberrant folding of crystallins of the eye lens leads to cataract. In the eye lens, an abundant subset of proteins called alpha-crystallins themselves serve as chaperones – a single R116G mutation in human alpha crystallin is responsible for autosomal dominant congenital cataract. Molecular thermometer Major chaperones in humans include HSP70, HSC70 and HSP90: the numbers express the size of the proteins in kilodaltons. In normal cells 1%–2% of all proteins present are heat shock proteins. This number rises threefold during stressful conditions. HSP70 is induced by heat, whereas HSC70 is always present at high levels in normal cells. HSC70 appears to be more like a molecular thermometer, with an ability to sense cold temperatures. This knowledge comes from the study of an intriguing set of disorders, exemplified by Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS). Symptoms of these disorders include rashes on the skin, pain in joints and fever. Periodic episodes may last from a few hours to a few weeks. These episodes begin early in life, the trigger being exposure to cold, or a stress such as fatigue. The confusing set of symptoms shown in this rare disorder make diagnosis difficult – it often takes ten years from first clinical presentation to a confirmed diagnosis. The first family with confirmed FCAS in India was reported only in August this year. Sagar Bhattad and colleagues, at the Aster CMI Hospital in Bengaluru, traced the genetic underpinnings of FCAS in a four-year old boy who frequently suffered from winter rashes. It turns out that several family members, including his paternal great-grandfather, had similar symptoms. This was published in Indian Journal of Pediatrics, August 2021, 88(8):834. Triggering inflammation Addressing the role of HSC70 in sensing low temperatures, the group of Ghanshyam Swarup at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology has worked out a framework for the triggering of autoinflammatory conditions This was published in The FEBS Journal, 2021; doi:10.1111/febs.16203. Disorders related to cold sensitivity are caused by mutations in proteins that regulate inflammation. At normal body temperatures, HSC70 is able to coax these mutated proteins to fold correctly and thus function normally. In cold conditions, however, the HSC70 molecule is itself slightly altered in its shape and is not able to unerringly interact with the mutated regulators of inflammation. This leads to a pathological state with symptoms such as chills, joint pains and rich red skin rashes setting in within two hours. Cancer cells divide at break-neck pace, and heat shock proteins are very important in maintaining the stressful cancerous state. An overabundance of heat shock proteins in cancer cells is an indicator of a poor prognosis. Cancerous cells accumulate mutations in proteins that would normally suppress tumours. HSP70 and HSP90 play the roles of villains, as they continue to fold the mutated proteins, thus allowing tumour progression. In the laboratory, inhibitors of HSP90 have shown much promise as anti-cancer agents. However, no inhibitor has yet been approved for human use, as the levels required for these to be effective are too toxic for your body.  In normal cells 1%–2% of all proteins present are heat shock proteins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/heat-shock-and-cold-sensitivity/article37936736.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||AI tool to simplify identification of cancerous tissue in tumours||Indian Institute of Technology Madras researchers use a combination of deep learning techniques and traditional machine learning to develop a tool that can diagnose cancer by looking at whole slide images of the tumour. The tool has been tested on datasets of breast, liver and colon cancer tissue images. It is economical in terms of the time required to process the images and analyse them. Digital histopathology Traditionally, histopathologists slice the tumour tissue into approximately 20-micron-thick slices which they put on slides. They look at enlarged images of the slides and go over it cell by cell to manually classify it as cancerous or otherwise. This is highly time-consuming, and it is to alleviate this burden that digital histopathology developed. In this, after preparing the slides, the entire slide is scanned using a high-resolution microscope and digitised. This is then analysed using computerised tools.  This digital process has its own challenges. The first of this is the sheer size of the scanned images which can run into gigabytes. A single image could be 100,000 by 100,000 pixels large – compare this with a shot generated by a smart phone which is about 7,000 by 7,000 pixels in size,” says Ganapathy Krishnamurthy of the Engineering Design Department of IIT Madras in an email, giving an idea of the challenge to computer time posed by this task. The technique posed further challenges, such as insufficient training data and the variation in staining across labs. Also extracting clinically relevant information, that is, directly inferring fine-grained disease classification using deep learning alone was turning out to be prohibitively expensive in terms of computational time. So, the researchers used a combination of deep learning and traditional machine learning. Hybrid approach “We have used deep learning for classifying the tissue regions into normal and cancerous tissues from the Whole Slide Image. After this step, important patterns called features are computed using the output of the deep learning algorithm and used in a conventional machine learning algorithm for fine grained disease classification,” says Prof. Krishnamurthy. The details have been published in a paper in Scientific Reports.  To test the algorithms, the researchers enrolled in three open challenges – the CAMELYON17 challenge, the DIGESTPATH 2019 challenge and the PAIP 2019 challenge. “This paper takes data from three different challenges. In two of these, we were placed in the top 3 performing methods and in one challenge (CAMELYON) we were placed in the top 10 out of several hundred entries,” explains Balaji Srinivasan from the Mechanical Engineering Department of IIT Madras, who is an author of the paper. The technology is ready for deployment, say the authors. “We have a startup that can provide this solution and we are looking for potential healthcare partners,” says Prof. Srinivasan.  To test the algorithm, the researchers enrolled in three open challenges||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/ai-tool-to-simplify-identification-of-cancerous-tissue-in-tumours/article37936739.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Galaxy with no dark matter||Astronomers led by researchers from the Netherlands have found no trace of dark matter in the galaxy AGC 114905. An ultra-diffuse dwarf galaxy, AGC 114905, is about 250 million light-years away. The word dwarf here refers to its luminosity (MNRAS).  The researchers collected data on the rotation of gas in AGC 114905 for 40 hours with the Very Large Array telescope. Subsequently, they plotted the distance of the gas from the centre of the galaxy on the x-axis and the rotation speed of the gas on the y-axis. The graph shows that the motions of the gas in AGC 114905 can be completely explained by normal matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/galaxy-with-no-dark-matter/article37936734.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Mystery in meteorites||What information do beads of glass in meteorites hold? Most meteorites contain tiny beads of glass that date back to the earliest days of the solar system, before planets formed. Now, scientists with Chicago University have published an analysis of how these beads came to be, and what they can tell us about the early solar system. The beads of glass inside these meteorites are called chondrules. But what exactly caused the formation of these chondrules remains unclear. Scientists can find clues about the early days of the solar system by looking at the types of a given element in a rock. Elements can come in several different forms, called isotopes, and the proportion in each rock varies according to what happened when that rock was born, how hot it was, whether it cooled slowly or was flash-frozen. From there, scientists can piece together a history of likely events. Scientists at the University of Chicago measured the concentrations and isotopes of two elements that are depleted in meteorites, potassium and rubidium. The team pieced together what must have been happening as the chondrules formed. The elements would have been part of a clump of dust that got hot enough to melt, and then to vapourize. Then, as the material cooled at a rate of around 500 degrees C per hour, some of that vapour coalesced back into chondrules. They theorise that massive shockwaves passing through the early nebula could have been sudden and violent enough to cause this extreme heating and cooling, says a University of Chicago release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/mystery-in-meteorites/article37936738.ece
12 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Celebrations break out as farmers from Punjab, Haryana reach home||Farmers from Punjab and Haryana were accorded a rousing welcome with sweets and garlands at several points on their return journey on Saturday for the “victory” of their protests after the suspension of the agitation against the repealed farm laws. Families of farmers along with fellow villagers at many places on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala and Delhi-Hisar national highways along with other State highways en route were welcoming and honouring the peasants coming in tractor trolleys with garlands, ladoos, barfi and other sweets. Villagers and others who supported the farmers’ agitation carrying flags of farmers’ organisations showered petals as they assembled along the highways to welcome them. Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal was given a warm welcome at the Shambhu border upon his return and he congratulated the farmers for their “victory.” “I congratulate all the Punjabis and the countrymen. A big battle has been won... Also thanks to those who supported it (agitation),” said Mr. Rajewal while talking to reporters. “We have won the morcha... the Central government was forced to bow down,” he said. A family came all the way from Chandigarh to welcome farmers near Singhu on the Delhi-Haryana border. ‘Result of penance’ “We are elated and our happiness cannot be described in words. It (the victory) was the result of tapasya (penance) of farmers who faced all sorts of hardships, including harsh weather conditions,” said a Chandigarh resident, who actively supported the farmers’ stir.  Slow traffic Because of the large convoy of tractor trolleys and other vehicles, vehicular traffic slowed down at many places on Delhi-Ambala and Delhi-Rohtak national highways. Some elated farmers, especially youth and women, performed ‘bhangra’ to the beats of ‘dhol’ as they were on their way back to their homes in Punjab and Haryana. At Khanauri near Punjab, villagers assembled in large numbers to welcome the agitators and also burst firecrackers amid a celebratory mood. Preparations to welcome farmers were made at different toll plazas too and other places along the national highways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/celebrations-break-out-as-farmers-from-punjab-haryana-reach-home/article37936952.ece
12 December 2021||Panaji,||Trinamool promises Rs. 5,000 per month for women in Goa||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Saturday promised to roll out a direct cash transfer scheme for women in Goa if voted to power in the State after the Assembly polls due in February next year. Under the scheme titled Griha Laxmi, Rs. 5,000 would be transferred to a woman of every household per month as guaranteed income support to counter inflation once the party comes to power, TMC leader Mahua Moitra said. The party would soon start distributing cards for the scheme, she said, adding that these cards carrying unique identification numbers would become operational once the TMC forms a government in Goa. The Mamata Banerjee-led party has announced that it would be contesting all 40 seats in State. “The women from 3.5 lakh households in the State would be covered under the Griha Laxmi scheme as it will also do away with the maximum income ceiling, which is mandated in the current Griha Aadhar scheme of the BJP government in the State,” Ms. Moitra, who is TMC's Goa in-charge, said. She said that the current scheme of the BJP government in Goa provides only Rs. 1,500 per month to women and it covers only 1.5 lakh households due to the income ceiling. “The actual implementation of Griha Aadhar scheme requires Rs. 270 crore annually, but the Goa government has earmarked only Rs. 140 crore annually because of which many people are not able to get the benefit,” the TMC parliamentarian said. ‘6 to 8% of budget’ The projected expenditure for the TMC’s scheme would be six to eight per cent of the total budget of Goa, she said. “Latest studies have revealed that COVID-19 has shrunk the country’s economy, which needs to be revived,” Ms. Moitra added. Earlier, the Aam Aadmi Party, which will also contest the Goa polls, has also promised that it would increase the remuneration provided to women in the coastal State under the State-sponsored scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/trinamool-promises-rs-5000-per-month-for-women-in-goa/article37937120.ece
12 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Not enough discussion yet on Karnataka’s anti-conversion Bill||The much-talked about anti-conversion Bill might be delayed as adequate discussions have not taken place on it within the Government. This comes amid opposition to the Bill from the Christian community that has intensified over the past few weeks. Enquiries in the Home and Law and Parliamentary Affairs Ministry revealed that though the BJP Government had announced its keeness to bring in the Bill, adequate discussion had not taken place. The draft Bill was yet to be circulated and properly discussed among the departments concerned, sources said, indicating that it was unlikely that the Bill would be piloted in the ensuing session. “At present, it looks very unlikely that the Bill would be moved in the Winter session,” a senior functionary in the Law and Parlimentary Affairs Ministry said. According to sources in the Home Department, the Bill is still being processed and has to be vetted by some five departments. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra told The Hindu that efforts were being made to place the Bill before the legislature in the Winter session, but indicated that chances of it being introduced were slim. “There will be another Cabinet in Belagavi. Let us see,” he said. He also said that the Bill would be discussed before being piloted and that the Government would consider the points raised by the Christian community. “We are not bringing the Bill against Christianity and Christians need not fear. There will be no problem to practise their religion peacefully. The Bill is against forced conversion,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/not-enough-discussion-yet-on-karnatakas-anti-conversion-bill/article37936755.ece
12 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha Govt. extends free rice scheme for four more months||Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday directed that distribution of free rice under the State Food Security Scheme (SFSS) be extended for four more months. “Each beneficiary of the SFSS will get an additional 5 kg of rice from the allotment month of December 2021 to March 2022, in view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic situation,” said a government statement. As many as 2,88,528 families, comprising 9,15,532 members covered under the SFSS, will benefit, it said. For this purpose, 4,578 tonnes of rice will be supplied per month from the State pool, entailing an additional expenditure of Rs. 68.13 crore. This will help bring beneficiaries enrolled in the SFSS on par with beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act. Last month, the Union Cabinet had approved the extension of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) till March next. All beneficiaries covered by the National Food Security Act (NFSA) are entitled to free grain in the wake of economic disruptions caused by the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-govt-extends-free-rice-scheme-for-four-more-months/article37937122.ece
12 December 2021||December 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Two Omicron variants||The story so far: The World Health Organization designated Omicron (B.1.1.529) as a variant of concern on November 26, three days after the genome sequence was deposited in a public database by South Africa and Botswana. Based on genome sequence data, scientists have identified a sub-lineage —BA.2—of Omicron. As a result, the Omicron variant has been split into two sub-lineages, namely BA.1, “for the original globally-distributed lineage”, and BA.2, “for the new outlier lineage”.  Why is BA.2 called a sub-lineage?  The BA.2 has a “cluster of sequences that share many of the same mutations as the ‘original’ Omicron (BA.1) but is missing some mutations and has some other new ones,” Dr Emma Hodcroft, co-developer of Next Strain,tweeted. The BA is an alias for B.1.1.529, now redefined to encompass both BA.1 and BA.2. While BA.2 is genetically quite different from the sub-lineage BA.1, BA.1 and BA.2 are two divergent clusters with a common ancestor, says a senior scientist. Both BA.1 and BA.2 are equal sub-lineages of B.1.1.529.  Since both have a common ancestor, how many mutations in the spike protein are common and how many are unique to each?  The B.1.1.529 cluster, which includes both BA.1 and BA.2, has 86 mutations , of which 40 mutations are in the spike protein alone. While 12 mutations have been found exclusively in the spike protein of BA.1, the BA.2 sub-lineage has seven exclusive mutations in the spike protein. Twenty-one mutations in the spike protein are common to both BA.1 and BA.2. As on December 9, the genome sequence data from seven samples across the world have been posted on the public database. Of the seven, five sequences have been deposited from Canada, and one each by South Africa and Australia. Compared to the small number of BA.2 genome sequences deposited so far, there are over 1,000 sequences of BA.1 that have been deposited in the database from across the world.  Can the sub-lineage BA.2 be identified by RT-PCR tests?  The new sub-lineage named recently, BA. 2, cannot be identified by the primers used in the RT-PCR (reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction ) test. While the BA.1 sub-lineage carries the characteristic S-gene dropout mutation, the BA.2 does not have this mutation. The currently used primers in RT-PCR tests carry sequences that target three genes, one of which is the S-gene. Since the BA.1 sub-lineage carries the S-gene dropout mutation, only two of the three targets in the primer will turn positive when the BA.1 sample is tested by RT-PCR. The S-gene in the primer does not test positive due to the presence of the S-gene dropout mutation. The test being positive for two genes but not for the S-gene is a convenient way of knowing that the sample tested is a sub-lineage BA.1 of the Omicron variant. In short, the S-gene dropout is a proxy to identify the BA.1 sub-lineage. Since BA.2 does not carry the S-gene dropout mutation, all the three target sequences in the RT-PCR primer will test positive. Hence, it will not be possible to straightaway know if the sample tested is a sub-lineage of the Omicron variant. Only by genome sequencing can one identify if a sample belongs to the BA.2 sub-lineage.  Will BA.2 have higher transmissibility and/or immune escape?  According to a senior scientist, the additional seven mutations in the spike protein do not provide sufficient evidence in terms of increased immune escape and transmissibility. Even individually, these seven mutations have not been implicated with either significant immune escape or enhanced transmission. As of now, the combined effect of the seven mutations is not known either. “The designation aims to aid scientific discussion and does not imply an assessment of the lineages’ transmission properties,” the Pango Network said in atweet.  Do the two sub-lineages change the manner in which patients are treated?  No, the clinical management of patients with any degree of disease severity remains the same immaterial of whether they have been infected with one of the Omicron sub-lineages or the Delta variant.  The new sub-lineage named recently, BA.2, cannot be identified by the primers used in the RT-PCR test. While the BA.1 sub-lineage carries the characteristic S-gene dropout mutation, the BA.2 does not have this mutation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-omicron-variants/article37936678.ece
12 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala CM should make stance on adoption row clear, says Medha||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should take a position on the row over the adoption of the child of Anupama S. Chandran, said activist Medha Patkar. She was speaking after meeting Anupama and her partner B. Ajith Kumar here on Saturday morning. Ms. Patkar said what happened to Anupama was unjust and unjustifiable. All women’s organisations must take a position on the issue. ‘Saddening incident’ The incident, she said, was very saddening. Government agencies should function within the framework of constitutional and legal rights – those of the parents and the rights of the child. It was necessary that agencies do their job of protecting both mother and child. That had not happened. “But she has won the battle... Adoption could not be formalised,” Ms. Patkar said. ‘Move ahead in life’ “Whatever Anupama has faced is criminal in a way. One does not expect this of any parent,” she said. Ms. Patkar who met Anupama at YMCA urged her not to feel troubled, raise her son well, and move ahead with her life. Asked about the Kerala Women’s Commission, Ms. Anupama told Ms. Patkar that apart from taking her statement, the commission had not intervened in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kerala-cm-should-make-stance-on-adoption-row-clear-medha/article37936950.ece
12 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘Stan Swamy was fully committed to human rights’||Father Stan Swamy, arrested for his alleged role in the Elgaar Parishad rally in Pune, and who was in jail for a long time before his death in July this year, was fully committed to human rights. It is therefore unfortunate and ironical that the entire case against him is a violation of his human rights and those of others, said Father Frazer Mascarenhas, former principal of St Xavier's College, Mumbai, and next of kin of Father Stan Swamy. In an interaction with The Hindu on International Human Rights Day, Father Frazer said, “Father Stan, 84, had faced a difficult time due to ill-treatment [in jail], so he knew what others were going through. He was really worried about those [co-accused] in Taloja jail and the ladies in Byculla jail. He would have been very happy to know that Sudha (Bharadwaj) is out on bail.” Reflecting on their last conversations, Father Frazer said, “At a meeting in the COVID ICU, I told him he has COVID and he said, ‘I had expected that, because I was in Taloja jail hospital, which is a misnomer because all they gave there was paracetamol’. And then he laughed. He repeated that and laughed. He said ‘the hospital only has Ayurvedic doctors, no allopathy doctor’.” Activist for tribals, Dalits Father Frazer, who was declared next of kin by the Bombay High Court, said, “Father Stan was a scholar, a social scientist and an activist on behalf of the tribals and the Dalits of the area for whom he had dedicated his life. He told me he found out that there are 5,000 young tribals in jail for no reason. He conducted a study with the team and interviewed the families of undertrials. He was very concerned about them and later filed the public interest litigation (before the Jharkhand High Court). That seemed to work, and he came to be seen as a threat to the government of the day.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/stan-swamy-was-fully-committed-to-human-rights/article37936956.ece
12 December 2021||Jaipur,||Cold intensifies in Rajasthan||The minimum temperature was recorded at 3 degrees Celsius in Churu and Sikar districts of Rajasthan, a Meteorological Department spokesperson said on Saturday. According to the department, the minimum temperature recorded on Friday night was 4.7 degrees Celsius each in Nagaur and Chittorgarh, 5 degrees in Bhilwara, 5.1 degrees in Pilani, 5.5 degrees in Alwar, 5.7 degrees in Sangaria and 8.2 degrees in Sriganganagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cold-intensifies-in-rajasthan/article37937118.ece
12 December 2021||Jammu,||One arrested for duping man in J&K||A case was registered on Saturday against a Punjab resident for duping a man here in Doda district with promise of a job in Kenya, police said. The Jammu and Kashmir Crime Branch registered a case against Amrit Pal Singh, a resident of Nehianwala village of Bathinda, and his associates, for allegedly cheating a local man, police said. The action came on complaint by Darshan Kumar of Doda district, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/one-arrested-for-duping-man-in-jk/article37937115.ece
