13 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||RBI and PM signal reforms in troubled urban co-op banks||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das on Sunday indicated that the banking regulator will ring in sweeping regulatory changes to reform urban cooperative banks that have been plagued by a spate of failures, and warned people against parking their savings in banks offering high returns. While describing the Government’s decision to raise the insured limit for bank deposits to Rs. 5 lakh from Rs. 1 lakh with a 90-day time limit to pay out such deposits as ‘landmark’ developments, Mr. Das stressed that the payment of deposit insurance should be seen as a “measure of last resort”. “I would like to mention in all this is that the depositors themselves must also be very discerning. It is very important to keep in mind that higher returns are usually associated with higher risks. Just because a bank is offering higher interest, the depositors should be very careful in putting their money in chasing such high returns,” the RBI Governor noted. “I am not generalising. There are institutions that are offering higher interest rates which are viable, but depositors should always be very careful,” he reiterated at an event to mark the payment of nearly Rs. 1,300 crore to over 1 lakh depositors whose funds were stuck in distressed banks for years. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who personally handed over deposit insurance cheques to a few bank customers whose savings with distressed banks had been out of reach for years, said that an additional three lakh depositors would get their hard-earned savings, stuck in other banks, soon. “When the RBI will oversee cooperative banks’ functioning, this will also raise depositors’ confidence further. We have created a new Cooperatives Ministry (referring to the Co-operation Ministry). The idea is to strengthen the cooperative system and will empower cooperative banks further,” Mr. Modi said, noting that these problems afflicted co-operative banks more. Mr. Das said the central bank keeps depositors’ interests on top while dealing with policy challenges. “Just to give an example, we have come out with new governance guidelines for commercial banks and we have constituted a committee for bringing about reforms in the urban cooperative sector. That report has been received and we will be taking action based on it,” he said, Recalling his time as Chief Minister of Gujarat, Mr. Modi said he had urged the Central Government then to raise the deposit insurance for bank account holders from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh, but his call for protecting poor and middle-class depositors’ funds in failed banks went unheeded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rbi-and-pm-signal-reforms-in-troubled-urban-co-op-banks/article37941903.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Third case of Omicron detected in State||A third case of Omicron was detected in Karnataka on Sunday. Health Minister K. Sudhakar confirmed that a 34-year-old male who returned from South Africa has tested positive for the new variant. The Health Minister tweeted on Sunday to say that the man has been isolated and being treated in a government hospital. He is a resident of the city (Bommanahalli) and was fully vaccinated. Five primary and 15 secondary contacts have been traced and they have tested negative. Speaking to The Hindu , Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Special Commissioner (Health) K.V. Trilokchandra said the man had returned to the city on December 1 from South Africa and tested negative at the airport. “The next day, he developed symptoms. When he got tested again, the results were positive. They immediately shifted him to Bowring hospital. All the primary and secondary contacts have been traced and all have tested negative,” he said. The Health Department had identified Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute and Wenlock hospital in Mangaluru as designated Omicron treatment facilities, but has permitted isolation and treatment in private hospitals too. Doctors at Bowring hospital said the man was asymptomatic. “We will do an RT-PCR test after 10 days as per the guidelines. If he tests negative for both samples, he will be discharged,” a doctor said. According to guidelines issued by the Health Department of Karnataka, Omicron-infected hospitalised patients can be discharged if symptom-free 10 days after onset only if they test RT-PCR negative twice 24 hours apart. The first two cases of Omicron in the country were detected in Karnataka on December 2. One was a 66-year-old South African national and the second a 46-year-old Indian doctor from Bengaluru with no travel history. Later, the city police registered a case against the South African national who left the country three days later based on a negative COVID-19 test report that came under suspicion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/third-case-of-omicron-detected-in-state/article37941936.ece
13 December 2021||Mangaluru,||Minister: Govt. planning to increase daily incentive for cows at private goshalas||Minister for Animal Husbandry Prabhu Chavan said on Sunday that the Government will increase the daily incentive being paid to each cow at private goshalas (shelter for cattle) in the State. But he did not specify the amount of increase. Speaking after inaugurating a State-level conference of cow product manufacturers at Rajangana of Sri Krishna Mutt in Udupi, the Minister said that the incentive now was at Rs. 17 per cow a day. The Gujarat Government paid Rs. 30 per cow a day. “We will also increase the incentive,” he said. The Minister said that the Government has plans to open a goshala in every district. He said that after the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020 came into force, 10,000 cows have been rescued. Otherwise they would have ended up in slaughterhouses he said adding that 500 cases have been booked under the new amended law. Those who have opposed this law have approached the Karnataka High Court by filing a public interest litigation, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-govt-planning-to-increase-daily-incentive-for-cows-at-private-goshalas/article37942285.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||IAS, IPS officers transfer after counting||A major reshuffle of IAS and IPS officers is on the cards after the model code for elections to the Legislative Council from local bodies constituency ceased with the counting of votes on Tuesday. The transfer of IAS officers was doing the rounds for many days after only a handful of them were promoted and given fresh postings in August. It was then speculated that a shake up of rest of the bureaucracy could take place subsequently. Same posts Though some of the IAS and IPS officers were promoted on that occasion, they continued to work in the same posts. This was more visible in IPS ranks where the officers were promoted but retained in same places. In the case of IAS officers, many of them were holding dual posts. Some of them also held three to four posts. In some other departments, junior officers were posted as in-charges while some other key posts like the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration did not have a full time officer which created a void in administration. Some Collectors were appointed in-charges for other districts while Additional Collectors also headed the administration in the absence of collectors. In the latest instance, Siddipet Collector Venkatrami Reddy had resigned to join politics and this had necessitated appointing an officer to the post in a district which was home to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s constituency. Also, some IAS officers were waiting for postings. It was emphasised that the transfer of IAS and IPS officers was overdue because of a series of elections and code coming into effect. Therefore, it was expected that the government will go ahead with transfer of the officials after the latest code ceased because some preparatory work was already over. Sources said it was not only Collectors but senior officers will be transferred in the reshuffle. All the additional charges will be withdrawn and full time officers appointed to such posts. It was also expected that Superintendents and Commissioners of Police will be transferred as part of revamping IPS setup. On the whole, the government will take up the reshuffle seriously as the new faces will most likely last in the posts till the next elections due in two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ias-ips-transfer-after-counting/article37942169.ece
13 December 2021||BENGALURU,||Will there be serious debate on issues concerning N. Karnataka in Belagavi?||Belagavi is all set to host the legislature session for the 10th time, from Monday. Last-minute efforts were still on to deck up the city on Sunday even as contingents of legislators, bureaucrats, and secretariat staff have started arriving to take part in the session. The practice of holding the legislature session in Belagavi was started by the then Chief Minister H. D. Kumaraswamy in 2006 to send a message to this border area in particular and the backward northern Karnataka region in general that they are an integral part of Karnataka not just geographically, but also emotionally. The main intention was to dispel the notion that they are being neglected. But ahead of holding such a session for the 10th time, there are concerns on whether the session would seriously deliberate on the issues concerning North Karnataka such as implementation of phase 2 and 3 of the Upper Krishna Project, including the efforts to get national project status and getting clearances for the Mahadayi project besides the evaluation of implementation of D. M. Nanjundappa committee report on removing regional imbalances. Such concerns have arisen as the Belagavi session has started becoming a platform for the ruling and the Opposition parties to settle political scores instead of being a place to hold constructive discussions on development of NK by keeping political differences aside. Without such constructive debate which would not only help serve as a guiding light for the development of North Karnataka, but also put pressure on the Government to commit itself for such a development, the purpose of holding the legislature session in Belagavi does not appear to be fulfilled. In this context, the expectation of serious debate on issues concerning North Karnataka have increased, particularly owing to the fact that the session is being held after a gap of three years. A clear indication that pressure is building on politicians to hold such serious debates was evident with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who too hails from North Karnataka, saying on the eve of the commencement of the legislature session that meaningful debates on development works and public grievances are expected at the Belagavi session. Speaking to presspersons in Hubballi he said: “the legislature session is being held in Belagavi after two years. The Government has completed preparations for a smooth session. I wish to have fruitful debates on issues related to development and redressal of grievances of the people of the State.” “People of North Karnataka are keen to witness serious debates, especially on issues related to comprehensive development of their region. We want to make decisions on many important issues,” Mr. Bommai told reporters in Hubballi. With such a statement from the Chief Minister, it remains to be seen if the session would take up a serious debate that would pave the way for preparation of a blueprint for the development of a modern North Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-there-be-serious-debate-on-issues-concerning-n-karnataka-in-belagavi/article37942124.ece
13 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Cong. calls for ouster of BJP Govt. at massive Jaipur rally||The Congress staged a massive rally against inflation in Jaipur on Sunday, urging people to throw the BJP out of power at the Centre and bring the issues of price rise, unemployment, agricultural distress and crony capitalism to the centre-stage for their resolution. The Congress leaders alleged that the BJP was taking the country on the path of destruction. Party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra, accompanied by senior leaders from several States, slammed the Modi-led BJP government, which they said was out to sell whatever the Congress had built in 70 years. Ms. Vadra said the government was working for the benefit of Mr. Modi’s select industrialist friends rather than the welfare of people and farmers. The “Mehangai Hatao Maha Rally” was shifted to Jaipur after the L-G of Delhi cancelled permission. The Delhi Police had also refused the permission for the march at Dwarka in the national capital, citing the COVID-19 guidelines. AICC general secretary Ajay Maken had camped in Jaipur to look after the preparations, while the party formed 11 committees headed by Ministers to make arrangements related to the rally. Congress president Sonia Gandhi was also present at the rally, but she did not address the gathering. She waved to the crowd from the dais when the participants in the rally at Vidyadhar Nagar Stadium raised slogans in her support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-calls-for-ouster-of-bjp-govt-at-massive-jaipur-rally/article37941901.ece
13 December 2021||GUNTUR,||YSRCP went back on promise to fight against VSP sale: Pawan||Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan on Sunday slammed the “indifferent attitude” of the YSRCP towards the proposal to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and reiterated his demand that the YSRCP Government and the 22 party MPs take the fight against the privatisation to the Centre. Mr. Kalyan, who staged a sit-in at Mangalagiri near here against the VSP stake sale, said his party would fight for the people, whether it was in power or not. “People remember our party when they are in difficulties, and I hope they will remember the Jana Sena Party during the next elections. I draw inspiration from those who worked for people without seeking any favour... The YSRCP has promised to the people of Visakhapatnam that they will oppose privatisation of VSP during the local body elections and now, they have backtracked,” said Mr. Kalyan. He said he was protesting in Mangalagiri to convey the message that the fight against the privatisation of the VSP was being held across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ysrcp-went-back-on-its-promise-says-pawan/article37941727.ece
13 December 2021||VARANASI (U.P.),||PM to open Kashi Vishwanath Corridor today||The 400-metre-long Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi connecting the ancient temple dedicated to Lord Shiva to the banks of the Ganges would be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. In a statement on Sunday, the Prime Minister’s Office said: “It was the vision of the Prime Minister for a long time, to facilitate the pilgrims and devotees of Baba Vishwanath, who had to encounter congested streets and surroundings with poor upkeep, when they practised the age-old custom of taking dip in the holy river, collecting Gangajal and offering it at the temple.” The Rs. 800-crore project started with Mr. Modi laying the foundation stone on March 8, 2019 and has neared completion ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly poll in 2022. While the first phase would be opened on Monday, the gateway to the Ganges, the steps going down and the ghat would take another two months to complete, according to the project’s architect, Bimal Patel.  Town abuzz The holy site, which is in Mr. Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency, was abuzz with activity on Sunday evening, not only with preparations for Monday’s event but pending construction works. Buildings along the narrow streets leading up to the temple had a fresh coat of paint. The temple premises had been decorated to greet the 3,000 guests invited for the inauguration, according to Varanasi Divisional Commissioner Deepak Agrawal. Around 500 religious leaders and families whose houses — around 300 in total — were demolished to make way for the corridor had been invited for the event, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-to-open-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-today/article37942052.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Chief Minister for Tamil Nadu today||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will make a brief visit to Tamil Nadu on Monday to offer prayers at the Ranganathaswamy temple in Srirangam. Mr. Chandasekhar Rao will leave from Begumpet airport by a special aircraft at 11 a.m. and arrive at Tiruchirapalli airport at 12.30 p.m. After lunch at a local hotel, he will visit the temple and return to the hotel for a brief stay. He will leave Tiruchirapalli airport for Chennai in the evening and night halt, according to a press release issued here on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chief-minister-for-tamil-nadu-today/article37942140.ece
13 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||First Omicron case reported in State||A 34-year-old foreign traveller, who came from Ireland to Visakhapatnam, was found positive for the Omicron variant of COVID-19. He did not have any symptoms. The patient was again tested on Saturday, and the RT-PCR result was found to be negative, said the officials of the Directorate of Public Health in a statement on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-omicron-case-reported-in-state/article37941897.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Seats not taken||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seats-not-taken/article37941899.ece
13 December 2021||New Delhi,||PM’s Twitter account briefly hacked||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Twitter handle was briefly hacked early on Sunday, and a post claiming that India had officially adopted bitcoin as legal tender was tweeted from the handle. While Twitter said it took steps to secure the account as soon as it became aware of the issue, it added that as per the company’s investigation, this was not due to a compromise of its systems or service. Immediately secured “The Twitter handle of PM @narendramodi was very briefly compromised. The matter was escalated to Twitter and the account has been immediately secured,” the Prime Minister’s Office said in a tweet. In the brief time that the Twitter handle was compromised, the tweet sent out from the Prime Minister’s handle read: ‘India has officially adopted bitcoin as legal tender. The government has officially bought 500 BTC and is distributing them to all the residents of the country.’ The tweet also shared a link, asking people to hurry up as the ‘future has come today!’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pms-twitter-account-briefly-hacked/article37941904.ece
13 December 2021||New Delhi,||Manipur and Assam wanted to retain AFSPA||Four years ago, the Union Home Ministry’s decision to remove areas under the AFSPA was resisted by at least two States — Assam and Manipur — both ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/manipur-and-assam-wanted-to-retain-afspa/article37942053.ece
13 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||Change ideology or you will be voted out: Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Sunday if the incumbent Government didn’t change its ideology, it would be voted out of power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/change-ideology-or-you-will-be-voted-out-tikait/article37942054.ece
13 December 2021||Gurugram,||Gurugram Muslims sought land for mosques in vain||Much before the controversy over offering of namaz in the open erupted in Gurugram, the Muslim community had applied for five sites on offer by the Haryana Government in five years, but failed to get any.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gurugram-muslims-sought-land-for-mosques-in-vain/article37942056.ece
13 December 2021||Panaji,||No alliance with TMC for Goa Assembly poll: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday said it will not have an alliance with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress for the forthcoming Goa Assembly election. The AAP is determined to provide a fresh alternative to the State, the party’s Goa desk in-charge Atishi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-alliance-with-tmc-for-goa-assembly-poll-aap/article37942235.ece
13 December 2021||Pune,||3 held for trying to leak MHADA papers||The Pune cyber police have arrested three persons for trying to leak questions papers of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority’s recruitment exams, which were scheduled for Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-held-for-trying-to-leak-mhada-papers/article37942236.ece
13 December 2021||New Delhi,||Rohtak Road at Tikri border opens for traffic||A day after rejoicing farmers left for their homes, the Tikri border stretch of Rohtak Road was opened for traffic on Sunday after the Delhi Police cleared barricades. Work is in progress to clear protest sites at Ghazipur and Singhu borders of the Capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rohtak-road-at-tikri-border-opens-for-traffic/article37942238.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Teachers and school managements to protest||Teachers and management members of private schools following the State board syllabus have decided to stage a protest on Tuesday outside the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi demanding that the Government make the affiliation renewal process simpler.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/teachers-and-school-managements-to-protest/article37942125.ece
13 December 2021||BENGALURU,||Speaker wants two days for debate on NK issues||Karnataka Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Sunday said he would explore the possibility of earmarking two days in the legislature session commencing from Monday in Belagavi for exclusive discussion on issues specifically pertaining to north Karnataka region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/speaker-wants-two-days-for-debate-on-nk-issues/article37942126.ece
13 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||S-400 is symbol of Indian sovereignty: Russian diplomat||The S-400 missile system deal is a symbol of the strength of India’s “sovereignty”, said a Russian official, denying that the deal or other major agreements that were due to be signed last Monday during the visit of Russian President Vladimir Putin, had been put on the back burner due to concerns over U.S. sanctions. During the one-day summit, which included a meeting between Mr. Putin and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and Ministerial meetings, the two sides announced 28 agreements and issued a 99-point joint statement. However, key agreements that had been lined up for signing during the meetings, including the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS) and a Navy-to-Navy cooperation Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) by diplomats ahead of Mr. Putin’s visit were not inked. This led to speculation that New Delhi had chosen to hold off on these as well as other expected deals for fighter jets and short-range missiles until there was more clarity on whether the U.S. would impose sanctions over the delivery of the S-400 Triumf missile systems. “The summit came at very short notice and that is one of the main reasons some particular agreements were not completed,” said Roman Babushkin, Deputy Russian Ambassador to India, denying that there was any delay in negotiations. “All these deals, including the naval cooperation MoU, [and] RELOS will be completed at the earliest convenience when the two sides will be meeting for some occasions during the course of the next year,” he added, during an interview to The Hindu . Apart from bilateral ties, Mr. Babushkin said that India-Russia cooperation on multilateral issues had grown, especially with India supporting Russia’s bid to become an observer state at the Non-Aligned Meet (NAM) this year, and Russian support to India at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). Moscow is now speaking to the Modi Government about holding a “to donor conference” amongst other initiatives that are part of a new road map for interaction on Afghanistan finalised during the Putin visit, and has also pitched for India and Iran to be included in the “Troika plus” mechanism of Russia-U.S.-China and Pakistan which New Delhi has long felt cut out of. As The Hindu had reported, the Modi Government has not yet decided on whether to send any Indian officials to Kabul, but was considering its options given that about 10 countries, including Russia, have missions open there. “Our presence in Kabul is very important for the safety of Russians there…We know that more countries are quite keen to come back, including the European Union, Germany, Indonesia, and others, according to media reports. So in case the Indian side would be interested in a serious discussion about the Indian presence in Afghanistan, the Russian side would be very open for any dialogue on supporting India,” Mr. Babushkin said in the interview, where he described the outcomes of the 21st India-Russia summit held last week. On India-Russia nuclear cooperation, he said that the Kudankulam nuclear power project involving six reactors is either operational, under construction, or about to be started, and the government is awaiting New Delhi’s response on the second site for a project for six VVER-1200 reactors. The U.S. administration has not yet made it clear how it hopes to proceed on the Indian S-400 deal, and whether U.S. President Biden will use his power to waive the sanctions for India in particular, as many American Congressman have advocated. No blanket waiver: U.S. However, the U.S. State Department spokesperson has said that there will be no “blanket” waiver for India, indicating that even if the S-400 deal is not sanctioned, other “significant” military and nuclear transactions could still trigger sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). “The S-400 decision is a very strong example of how advanced our defence and strategic partnership is, and how strong Indian sovereignty is, to choose its international partners, especially when it comes to issues of national interest and national security,” the Russian diplomat said, calling the U.S. CAATSA sanctions law an “illegal tool for unlawful competition”, adding that the S-400 project does not target the U.S. in any way. Confirming that the delivery of the first division of S-400 systems from Russia is underway and will be completed on schedule by the end of the month, he said that India and Russia were discussing how to use the alternate Rupee-Rouble system for payments that would not be impinged by any sanctions. In 2018 the U.S. sanctioned China, and in 2020 it sanctioned Turkey, for buying the S-400, and placed defence entities and officials under financial and visa bans. ( With inputs from   Dinakar Peri )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/s-400-is-symbol-of-indian-sovereignty-russian-diplomat/article37941718.ece
13 December 2021||New Delhi,||Manipur and Assam wanted to retain AFSPA||After the recent civilian killings in Nagaland, there is a clamour in the northeastern States to revoke the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, or the AFSPA. However, four years ago, the Union Home Ministry’s decision to remove areas under the AFSPA was resisted by at least two States — Assam and Manipur — both ruled by the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP). The AFSPA, which has been in force in the northeast since 1958, gives unbridled power to the armed forces and the Central Armed Police Forces deployed in “disturbed areas” to kill or arrest anyone acting in contravention of law and search any premises without a warrant. It offers them protection from prosecution and legal suits without the Union Government’s sanction. Concurrent powers Both the Centre and the State Governments have got concurrent powers to issue notification under Section 3 of AFSPA. For instance, the notification extending it in Manipur, right from the 1980s, has been issued by the Government of Manipur. In the past 40 years, the Ministry has not issued any notification under the AFSPA for Manipur. On December 9, Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren Singh said in Imphal, “We have been demanding its repeal in Manipur. We shall continue to do so.” The latest AFSPA notification in the State in December 2020 was issued by the State Government. It is up for renewal on December 17. Myanmar groups A top official in Manipur told The Hindu , “Such decisions cannot be taken without the Home Ministry. There is a deliberation going on to reduce AFSPA in certain areas, like earlier seven Assembly constituencies straddling Imphal were excluded. But Manipur faces immense threat from Myanmar-based groups and this has to be factored in.” Among the northeast States, Manipur recorded the highest number of insurgency related incidents — 97 — in 2020 and 72 till August this year, though this is the lowest since 1999. Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio and his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad K. Sangma have already demanded its repeal. The demand comes after the killing of 14 civilians in Nagaland on December 4. The Ministry issues “disturbed area” only for Nagaland and in Arunachal Pradesh the districts of Tirap, Changlang, Longding and areas falling under Namsai and Mahadevpur police stations bordering Assam. In the case of Assam, the Ministry was issuing the “disturbed area” order till 2017. Since then, Assam has been renewing the notification every six months, the latest one issued on September 10. In a series of meetings with the Army and the State Government, the Ministry asked to either remove or reduce the areas under the AFSPA. The Assam Government did not concur. This was recorded in the 213th report of the department-related parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs tabled in the Rajya Sabha in July 2019. “The Committee was also apprised that with regard to the areas to be declared as disturbed areas, in the State of Assam, there was some difference of opinion between the Government of India and the State Government. The Government of Assam through their notification declared the whole State of Assam as disturbed area under the AFSPA because they have got concurrent power. The State Government of Assam had explained that it was slightly early to reduce the area under the AFSPA notification,” the report said. It said when the Chairman enquired about the reasons declaring the whole State a disturbed area against the advice of the Government of India, “the Home Secretary explained that the discussion between the Centre and the State Government was on the possibility of reduction of area under AFSPA.” Insurgency incidents Assam reported only 15 insurgency-related incidents in 2020 and 17 till August, one of the lowest since 1999. However, its September 10 notification mentions “evil design hatched by foreign intelligence agencies” and that the State shares a boundary with Bangladesh “and is surrounded by other countries such as the People’s Republic of China, Myanmar and Bhutan” among eight reasons to extend the AFSPA. Besides noting threat from the United Liberation Front of Asom (I), the notification says “the emergence of Islamic terrorists groups like HUM, JMB and HM [Hizbul Mujahideen] in Assam also pose threats to the security scenario.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-and-assam-wanted-to-retain-afspa/article37941688.ece
13 December 2021||New Delhi,||Easy shift to Trinamool for Cong. rebels||Once identified as part of Rahul Gandhi’s team, former Haryana Congress chief Ashok Tanwar has returned to active electoral politics after a gap of two years, in a new avatar. After joining the Trinamool Congress in the presence of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee during her visit to Delhi in November, Mr. Tanwar set up a party office in Gurugram, one of Haryana’s most developed cities adjoining Delhi, earlier this week. Like Mr. Tanwar, several Congress leaders, who don’t have much faith in their party’s ability to fight the BJP or don’t see a role for themselves within the Congress fold, are looking towards an ambitious Trinamool that is seeking to expand its national footprint. While some former members of Team Rahul such as Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jitin Prasada made the switch to the BJP and were made Ministers (Mr. Scindia is a Union Cabinet Minister and Mr. Prasada is a Minister in Uttar Pradesh), there are some who find the “ideological switch” more difficult. For others, electoral arithmetic of their State doesn’t allow for such a shift. “Starting out from Jawaharlal Nehru University to becoming a Member of Parliament, our political training has always been against the BJP,” says Mr. Tanwar, whose differences with former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda led to his exit from the Congress. “I had offers from several parties but I had chosen to raise issues through Apna Bharat Morcha [the outfit he launched in February]. But now Trinamool has emerged as the main challenger to the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. And that’s why it was important to strengthen by joining it,” he added. Prashant Kishor’s role While the Trinamool has already changed its party constitution to allow senior members outside Bengal to be key office-bearers, election strategist Prashant Kishor — advocating a Congress bereft of the leadership of the Gandhis — is reported to be in touch with several Congress leaders who are engaged in factional fights in the State units and are weighing their options. In a Christian-majority State such as Meghalaya, former Chief Minister Mukul Sangma had limited political options after the Congress appointed his rival and Lok Sabha member from Shillong Vincent H. Pala as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief. But a meeting with Mr. Kishor, who is advising Ms. Banerjee, didn’t just change the course for him but also his former party, as 12 of the 17 Congress MLAs joined the Trinamool. Earlier, the Trinamool had succeeded in attracting Sushmita Dev, who was not only heading the Mahila Congress but was known to be a close aide of the Gandhis, by offering her a Rajya Sabha berth. “I thought it through and my conscience is clear: I think I have made no ideological compromise. And I believe that as a very junior politician, what was emerging nationally was also a factor behind my decision [to join the Trinamool],” Ms. Dev told The Hindu in an interview in August. Former Goa Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro, who too was made a Rajya Sabha member and the face of Trinamool for the upcoming Goa Assembly election, talked about the Trinamool being from the “larger Congress family”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/easy-shift-to-trinamool-for-cong-rebels/article37941704.ece
13 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Kumaraswamy turned down Modi’s offer’||Last week, pictures of former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda calling on Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the latter’s office in Parliament set off speculation that the BJP and the Janata Dal(S) headed by Mr. Gowda were exploring a tie-up for the elections to 25 seats in the Karnataka Legislative Council that were later held on December 10. While no formal tie-ups were announced by either the JD(S) or the BJP after that very public meeting, a new biography of Mr. Gowda — Furrows in a Field: The Unexplored Life of H.D. Deve Gowda — by journalist Sugata Srinivasaraju claims that a bigger offer of a coalition Government between the two parties was made by Mr. Modi to Mr. Gowda’s son, former Karnataka Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, at a pull-aside chat during a meeting at the NITI Aayog in New Delhi in early 2019. Mr. Raju quotes Mr. Gowda extensively to claim that Mr. Modi told Mr. Kumaraswamy that tying up with the BJP would ensure that he would be Chief Minister for five years, instead of the rather unsteady arrangement with the Congress. Mr. Gowda is then quoted in the book on what his son’s response to the offer was: “My son said I don’t want to hurt my father at this age. He is suffering. My Government may stay or go, at his advanced age, I can’t hurt the feelings of my father.” The book however also says both Mr. Modi and Mr. Gowda share and appreciate each other’s feelings of being at odds with the elite establishment in Delhi. A revealing anecdote in the book is about Mr. Gowda’s first of four visits to Jammu and Kashmir as Prime Minister. When then chief of the Special Protection Group (SPG) at touchdown at Srinagar airport urges Mr. Gowda to put on a bulletproof vest, the former Prime Minister points to his forehead and responds: “Whatever is written here will take place. In case something happens, send my body to Holenarsipur (Mr. Gowda’s hometown). In Delhi’s dirty politics, they’ll not even cremate me properly.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kumaraswamy-turned-down-modis-offer/article37941720.ece
13 December 2021||Srinagar,||NC seeks agenda of delimitation panel meet||The National Conference (NC) on Sunday, in a letter to the J&K Delimitation Commission, sought details of the agenda of the upcoming meeting with parties from the Union Territory scheduled for December 20 in New Delhi. “We have asked the commission to provide us the agenda of the meeting scheduled to be held on December 20 and the material pertaining to the agenda,” NC leader and MP Hasnain Masoodi told The Hindu . The commission, headed by Justice Ranjana Prakash Desai (retd.), has extended a formal invite to all five associate members of the commission, which include three MPs of the NC and two of the BJP. It’s for the second time that a formal invite was sent to the NC since the commission was constituted two years ago. So far, the NC has not attended any meeting of the commission. “We have also reminded the commission that our last communication dated December 17, 2020 has gone without any response,” Mr. Masoodi said. The NC had shown interest in being part of the commission after Prime Minister Narendra Modi called an all-party meeting in New Delhi in June. It was seen as a major concession by the NC to the Centre in a bid to push a political process in J&K in the wake of the August 5, 2019 decisions. However, there has been no follow-up to the all-party meeting so far. The J&K commission is mandated to carve out seven additional seats for the 83-member Assembly of the Union Territory (UT). It is also likely to announce reservation for the Schedule Tribes (ST) and Schedule Castes (SC) in its report.  We have reminded the panel that our last communication has gone without any response Hasnain MasoodiNC leader and MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nc-seeks-agenda-of-delimitation-panel-meet/article37941685.ece
13 December 2021||VARANASI,||‘Worked to link Ganga and Vishwanath mandir— the symbols of Varanasi’||Architect Bimal Patel , who is also the Centre’s consultant for the Central Vista project, likens the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project, the first phase of which will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, as the gradual unfolding of vistas, an architectural expression of a journey to self-discovery. Excerpts:  What were some of the major changes introduced by the project, and what were some of the challenges you faced? The Kashi Vishwanath mandir was in a very congested part of the city and if you approached from the Ganga, you had to come up two very narrow gullies (alleys) and it was difficult for pilgrims to negotiate. The street approach was also very congested. A large number of pilgrims come here. The brief, in a sense, was to create space around the temple, improve facilities for pilgrims, places where they might leave their shoes and queue, improve safety and security, provide toilets and all sorts of functional arrangements necessary for the pilgrims. In addition to this, there was a desire to connect the two great symbols of Varanasi, which is the Ganga and the temple. One of the most difficult parts, which we were not directly involved with, was to purchase properties and create space. As an architectural challenge, what we wanted to do was to add things into the neighbourhood that, while they would be different from the neighbourhood, would nonetheless not stick out like a sore thumb. Whatever we did would blend in or mesh in with the urban fabric of the city. What we wanted to create was a pathway from the Ganga to the temple that was like a spiritual unfolding. So if you come from the Ganga, you are confronted by a daunting set of steps, rising up to a gateway, and the gateway overlooks the Ganga and announces the temple. Then, the buildings are arranged in a way that directs you to the gateway of the Mandir Chowk. Then you see framed in the gateway, the shikhar (spire) of the temple. You then come to a Mandir Chowk that is a civic space outside the temple. Then, is the rectangular area, or parisar, of the temple. It is the gradual unfolding of vistas, an architectural expression of a journey to self-discovery or a temple or your god. When will the ghat be complete? Another two or three months. Has there been anything done for the residents or to improve the area in general? There are two or three ways you could see this. One is, of course, that originally the temple attracted a large number of people and created a huge security risk. Just tackling all that problem improves the neighbourhood. Also by making this temple precinct and making it easier for pilgrims to come here will increase the number of pilgrims and the improve the local economy, for instance the shops that sell flowers. We have also added some infrastructure. Earlier, there was no sewage line in the area. We have added a sewage line that keeps the area clean. How much did the project cost and how much of it was for the construction and how much was to purchase land? The construction cost is approximately Rs. 400 crore and I believe, though the right person to ask is the District Magistrate, is Rs. 390 crore. Half of it was spent to compensate people who had to move out and whose properties were taken over, about 300 houses. The other half was for construction. How do you justify half the cost of the project going towards compensation? Right from the beginning, the instruction given to the district administration was that this is to be done in a non-conflictual manner and we don’t want to improve a temple by resorting to conflict with people. So they tried to be as generous as they could, within the policies they had to operate within. During the construction, 40 old temples were discovered, as the U.P. Government has said. What happened to them? When the houses in the area were demolished, they found that many of the houses had been built atop temples and many of them, rather callously, were using the temples as a structural support. So for some of these temples, we had to change our plans to accommodate them in our plan and they add to the richness of our plan. Some of them are going to be re-established in some new temples. All of it was done in a way that makes sense from a religious point of view. Now, moving to the Central Vista project. Will the Central Vista Avenue be complete in time for Republic Day and the new Parliament building by the winter session next year? Yes, the Central Vista Avenue will be complete in time for Republic Day. There will be some additional work that will come online after, like amenities and toilets. Yes, Parliament will be done by winter session 2022. There was criticism of the Central Vista project from the beginning, and legal challenges as well. Do you think you have addressed the issues raised and why do you think you faced that criticism? People are always apprehensive when there is some change contemplated. Partly because of lack of information in the public realm, the apprehensions were more. Some of the people went to court questioning many of the things the Government had done and the court went through it with a fine-tooth comb. The Supreme Court said all the rules and procedures have been followed and nothing that is being done is unlawful. Yes, everything that was done was challenged, but the Supreme Court eventually did not agree with the petitioners. With hindsight, would you have done anything differently? I think that if the project had been explained a bit better to the public, there would have been less apprehension. However, I am not naive and I know that many of these oppositional moves have nothing to do with facts, it’s political sometimes and sometimes it is plain ideological. You have been associated with some of the most prominent projects of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as well as when he was Gujarat Chief Minister. What do you say to those who say you are the PM’s favoured person for important jobs? I think the Prime Minister is very focused on what he wants to get done. He works with anybody who he believes can successfully work towards the objectives that are laid out. I don’t think it’s because of any special relationship. I think the Prime Minister is very professional in that matter and it’s perhaps the fact that many of the projects we have worked on have actually been successful that we work with him. Having said that, let me also say that the Prime Minister does not dole out projects. We apply through due process and there are many cherished projects of the Prime Minister that we have nothing to do with. Some of the high-profile ones we do have to do with but many others, we have nothing to do with, for example the Statue of Unity or the Prime Ministers’ Museum, Mahatma Mandir in Gujarat, these were all very close to his heart. So it’s by no means that we work on every project that he wants to be done, it’s just an impression that is sought to be created. But, yes the Central Vista is an important project. I can see why people might think so.  All redevelopment was done in a way that makes sense from a religious point of view||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/worked-to-link-ganga-and-vishwanath-mandir-the-symbols-of-varanasi/article37941696.ece
13 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||’71 war reflects folly of Partition: Rajnath||The 1971 war tells us that the Partition of India on the basis of religion was a “historic mistake” and Pakistan was born in the name of one religion but it could not remain one, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday. The Minister was speaking at the inauguration of the ‘Swarnim Vijay Parv’, commemorating 50 years of the Liberation War of Bangladesh, at India Gate lawns in the national capital. “After the defeat of 1971, it is continuously fighting a proxy war. Pakistan wants to disrupt peace in India by promoting terrorism and other anti-India activities. The Indian forces had foiled their plans in 1971 and work to eliminate terrorism from its root is in under way,” he said. “We have won in a direct war and the victory will be ours in the indirect war as well.” Mr. Singh also paid tributes to the country’s first Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, who was killed in a helicopter crash last week. The Parv marks the culmination of year-long celebrations commemorating the 1971 war. Terming the 1971 war as among the most decisive in the world after the two World Wars in the 20th century, Mr. Singh said it was a classic example of the morals and democratic traditions of India. “It will be rarely seen in history that after defeating another country in a war, a country does not impose its dominance, but hands over power to its political representative. India did this, because it is a part of our culture. India has never invaded any country, nor has it ever captured an inch of land of any other country,” he said. Mr. Singh described the 1971 war as a shining example of jointness and integration among the three services, underlining the importance of planning, training and fighting together. Stating that from procurement to production, all efforts are being made to make the forces more capable, efficient and self-reliant, Mr. Singh said, “Our aim is to keep our armed forces ready for any eventuality.” The Minister recalled the determination, coordination and valour of the Indian armed forces during the war. The Indian armed forces supported the Mukti Bahini, helped lakhs of refugees and prevented any kind of aggression from the western and northern sectors, he said. “They ensured that the credibility of India’s commitment towards peace, justice and humanity in the world community is maintained.” A series of cultural events and performances have been planned over the next two days. War movies and a grand battle exhibition will also be displayed, the Defence Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/71-war-reflects-folly-of-partition-rajnath/article37941698.ece
13 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Booster dose can wait, says top ICMR scientist||The need for a booster or additional COVID-19 vaccine dose or reduction in time gap between two doses of the available vaccines are being examined, Samiran Panda, Head, Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said on Sunday adding that an alarmist intervention does not help. “Vaccines are not known to prevent COVID-19 but reduces the severity. We have to understand this. Currently, the focus is to ensure at least 80% coverage in eligible adult population which is vital,” he said. To a question on boosters for frontline workers who were among the first section of the population to be vaccinated, Dr. Panda said: “There is currently no strong evidence that those who have been vaccinated will not get the virus. Also many have been vaccinated and have got the infection later. The protection that this combination [getting infected and getting vaccinated] offers is also a matter of study.’’ There is no immediate recommendation to introduce booster or additional dose or to reduce the gap between vaccine dose, Dr. Panda said. He said from a public health point of view also more coverage is what India is looking at. “Vaccination, use of masks and avoiding mass gathering is key. Now with Omicron also in the country, we still don’t know how the virus is going to shape up. We don’t know its effect on the elderly,” he said. Ramped-up inoculation India’s vaccination started on January 16 with the new phase of universalisation of vaccination commencing from June 21. “The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to States for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the supply chain,’’ noted the Health Ministry. It said as part of the nationwide drive, the Central Government has been supporting the States by providing them vaccines free of cost. In the new phase of the universalisation, the Government will procure and supply (free of cost) 75% of the vaccines being produced by the manufacturers in the country to States. More than 140 crore (1,40,20,73,270) vaccine doses have been provided to States so far through the Government’s (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/booster-dose-can-wait-says-top-icmr-scientist/article37941711.ece
13 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Effects of ‘long COVID’ mapped||With the medical community now having had the time to map ‘long COVID’, doctors confirm that they are seeing patients whose symptoms have persisted for more than 12 months. They say that older people, and those who had five or more symptoms in the first week of becoming ill with COVID-19 are more prone to develop ‘long COVID’. ‘Long COVID’ symptoms gradually improve over a period of time, but can last for more than 12 months. “It is also found that ‘long COVID’ was higher among people who are overweight or obese, who smoke, live in deprived areas or had severe COVID illness and needed to be admitted to hospital,” says Manoj Goel, director, Pulmonology, Fortis Memorial Research Institute. ‘Long COVID’ is a term to describe the effects of COVID-19 that continue for weeks or months beyond the initial illness, usually three months from the onset of the symptoms. The common symptoms include fatigue, shortness of breath, anxiety and depression, palpitations, chest tightness or pain, joint or muscle pain and persistent cough. Dr. Goel adds that most of the ‘long COVID’ symptoms are self-limiting over a period of time leading to complete recovery. People should continue treatment of other pre-existing comorbidities such as diabetes, asthma and cardiac diseases as per their doctor’s instructions. Doctors warn that people should remember that the reinfection with COVID is possible in some individuals. Mahendra Dadke, Head of Department, Internal Medicine, Jupiter Hospital, Pune, says that the worst-hit age group is between 40 and 60. Archana Dhawan Bajaj, gynaecologist, obstretician and IVF expert, Nurture IVF, says that so far, children have been relatively well-protected from the most severe symptoms of the disease, however, it is becoming more apparent that a large number of children with symptomatic and asymptomatic COVID-19 face long-term effects, even many months after the initial infection. A study of ‘long COVID’ in children suggests that at least one symptom lasts more than 120 days in more than half of children aged between six and 16, who contract the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/effects-of-long-covid-mapped/article37941713.ece
13 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC has taken note of Section 124A misuse||Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju’s reply in Parliament that there is no proposal to scrap sedition charge from the Indian Penal Code comes almost five months after Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana made scathing remarks in open court to the Government about the chilling effect of the “colonial law”, which suppresses the freedoms of ordinary people. In a hearing on July 15, the CJI compared the use of sedition charge (Section 124A of the IPC) to a tool given to a carpenter “to cut a piece of wood and he uses it to cut the entire forest itself”. The CJI wondered why a democracy needed such a law which was used by the British to imprison Mahatma Gandhi and Bal Gangadhar Tilak. “The Ministry of Home Affairs has informed that there is no proposal under consideration to scrap Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. Further, the question of law regarding Section 124A is pending for adjudication before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India,” Mr. Rijiju said in a written reply in the Lok Sabha. Colonial law He said the observation that sedition was a “colonial law” misused by the Government was not part of any judgment or order of the court. However, the Government, on July 15, through its topmost law officer, Attorney General K.K. Venugopal, had responded to the CJI’s oral observations in court, saying there was no need to strike down Section 124A. “It is enough to see if there were any excesses in its use and limit the Section to its real purpose… That would be enough,” Mr. Venugopal said. The CJI’s observations in court make it apparent that the highest court has taken judicial notice of the misuse of the sedition provision by the State. The observations were made by the CJI during court proceedings of the court. Oral observations made during a court hearing, though not part of a formal order or judgment, reflect the constitutional court’s line of thinking. It shows application of the judicial mind, and in this case, of the topmost judge of the country. Besides, the 2015 judgment of the Supreme Court in the Shreya Singhal case had called for the striking down of vague laws which choke free speech and shackle personal liberty. Media reports Former Union Minister P. Chidambaram, in his tweets, has pointed out that the court’s comments were reported in the media. Mr. Rijiju had retorted that media reports do not form part of official records. However, the court has already sought a formal response from the Government by issuing notice on a petition filed by Major General S.G. Vombatkere (retd.) to quash Section 124A. It has also issued notice to the Government on a writ petition filed jointly by the Editors Guild of India and cartoonist Aseem Trivedi. Two other petitions filed by Kishore Chandra Wangkemcha and Aamoda Broadcasting Company Private Ltd., the latter against the Andhra Pradesh Government, are pending before the court. Both cases concern sedition charges. A Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit had issued notice in the Wangkemcha case. The Aamoda petition is before a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud. A petition by senior journalist Arun Shourie and NGO Common Cause, both represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, has argued that Section 124A does not even possess a “presumption of constitutionality”. The CJI’s Bench said all these petitions posed “similar questions of law”. The very fact that the court wants an answer from the Government shows that it senses a problem worthy of judicial intervention. The CJI’s oral remarks in July have also opened the floor for debate and introspection on the court’s own judgment in 1962, in the Kedar Nath case, which upheld Section 124A. Stale laws The CJI had asked the Government why it did not throw out sedition law along with the hundreds of “stale laws” it had expunged from the statute books. “If you look at the history of use of this Section 124A of IPC, you will find that the conviction rate is very low. There is misuse of power by executive agencies… Your Government is taking out a lot of stale laws from the law books, why have they not looked into this,” the Chief Justice asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-has-taken-note-of-section-124a-misuse/article37941692.ece
13 December 2021||Srinagar,||J&K authorities bar meetings by PDP, PC||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday disallowed conventions of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Peoples Conference (PC), citing the pandemic and security. “In view of the report received by the office of Senior Superintendent of Police, Srinagar and COVID-19 restrictions in place, it is hereby ordered that the scheduled youth conference by the PDP at Gupkar is hereby not allowed,” an order read. The administration’s decision sparked protests by the PDP in parts of Srinagar. “The decision to disallow a youth convention is aimed at pushing youth outside the democratic space and to the wall. I fear they do not want youth to be part of a democratic process and discuss issues like booking of youth under the UAPA, PSA etc. and handing over of jobs to outsiders. They want them to resort to violence. making it easy to kill them,” PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti told the media. “Initially, the administration said COVID is the reason and later the police cited security as a reason. Even our area is not safe now?” she said. The police said Ms. Mufti’s convention was expected to be attended by 1,000 people. “It was not advisable to allow such a large flow of people and unchecked vehicles, given the prevalent COVID situation and the area being a high security zone. There are credible inputs of vehicle-bound IEDs being used to target civilians and high security installations,” the police said. Sajad Lone’s Peoples Conference was denied permission to organise a convention in Kupwara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-authorities-bar-meetings-by-pdp-pc/article37941694.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Cong. calls for ouster of BJP Govt. at massive rally||Congress president Sonia Gandhi was also present at the rally, but she did not address the gathering. In his address, Mr. Gandhi sought to differentiate between Hindus and Hindutvawadis (proponents of Hindutva) and blamed the latter for the spiralling prices of essential commodities, as they wanted to “cling to power” at any cost. He said the demonetisation, imposition of a flawed Goods and Services Tax, and inflation had shattered the economy and brought suffering to people across the country. The Wayanad MP said the country was witnessing a clash between two ideologies, which had different orientations towards the nation’s development. “Hindu and Hindutva cannot have the same meaning. A Hindu is never afraid of anyone... He strives in search of truth. But a Hindutvawadi is always in pursuit of power, for which he would stoop to any level,” Mr. Gandhi said. Mr. Gandhi said the rule of Hindus should be brought back by uprooting Hindutvawadis , who were ruling India since 2014. The difference between the two was belief in s atyagraha (holding onto truth) and s attagraha (pursuit of power), he said, while citing the example of Mahatma Gandhi, a true Hindu and a secular, who fell victim to bullets fired by Nathuram Godse. “A Hindu swallows his fear like Lord Shiva. On the other hand, fear dominates a Hindutvawadi and leads to hatred in him for others. Nowhere do the Hindu scriptures preach hatred or violence against anyone... Hinduism exhorts its followers to struggle for truth. In Bhagavad Gita, Lord Krishna tells Arjuna to fight for truth, even against his brothers,” Mr. Gandhi said, explaining his vision of the Hindu religion. The Congress leader pointed out that just 1% of India’s population was controlling 33% of wealth and 10% was controlling 65% of resources. Half of the country’s population had only 6% of wealth with it as a result of the Centre’s “flawed policies”, Mr. Gandhi said. He pointed out that the unorganised sector’s share of 52% in the national economy had been reduced to 20% during the BJP’s rule. Mr. Gandhi alleged that Mr. Modi had “stabbed the farmers in the back” through the controversial farm laws and later apologised by repealing them. “Our 700 farmers were martyred, but there was no condolence in Parliament. The Congress Government in Punjab gave financial assistance to the families of 400 farmers and jobs to 152 dependents, but the Centre said it could not give any compensation as it did know the identity of any farmer,” he said. Mr. Gandhi said all countries had given benefits to common people during the pandemic, but the big companies in India were allowed to earn profit and ordinary people had died walking on roads to their native places. He said all sectors were being handed over gradually to the corporates, while the farmers and small shopkeepers who generated employment were being finished. Earlier, Ms. Vadra said that it was the people’s responsibility to make the Government accountable. “Whenever the elections come, BJP leaders mislead people by talking about China or other countries and raise communal and casteist issues. What has the Modi Government done in seven years of its rule?” she asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-calls-for-ouster-of-bjp-govt-at-massive-rally/article37941683.ece
13 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Row over ‘regressive question’ in CBSE paper||Students, parents and politicians have expressed outrage at the content of a reading comprehension passage in the CBSE Class 10 English examination held on Friday. “What people were slow to observe was that the emancipation of the wife destroyed the parents authority over the children … In bringing the man down from his pedestal the wife and mother deprived herself, in fact, of the means of discipline,” read the conclusion of the passage, which appeared to blame indiscipline among teenagers on a “feminist revolt”. In contrast, it described a past era when a husband was “master in his own house”, his wife “gave him formal obedience” and “children and servants were in this way taught to know their place”. A multiple choice question following the passage asked students to characterise the writer. While many said they selected “a male chauvinist pig” as the most appropriate response, the correct answer according to the CBSE’s answer key is that the writer “takes a light-hearted approach to life”. Other options included that the writer was “a disgruntled husband” or “has his family’s welfare at heart”. A CBSE spokesperson said the passage had received “mixed reactions” and added that the “matter will be referred to subject experts for considered views as per the pre set procedures of the board”. Regarding the answer key, the spokesperson only said that “if the experts opine that the passage elicits multiple interpretations, appropriate action will be taken to protect the interest of the students”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/row-over-regressive-question-in-cbse-paper/article37941686.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||RBI, PM signal reforms in troubled co-op banks||“Just to give an example, we have come out with new governance guidelines for commercial banks and we have constituted a committee for bringing about reforms in the urban cooperative sector. That report has been received and we will be taking action based on it,” he said, Recalling his time as Chief Minister of Gujarat, Mr. Modi said he had urged the Central Government then to raise the deposit insurance for bank account holders from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh, but his call for protecting poor and middle-class depositors' funds in failed banks went unheeded. Mr. Modi had assumed office as Gujarat CM in October 2001, months after the Madhavpura Mercantile Co-operative Bank got into trouble. “I remember clearly when I was CM and a bank faced problems, people used to catch our necks only. The decision either had to be taken by the Government of India or the banks, but the Chief Ministers used to face the heat,” he said. “Their pain was natural and at that time, I had repeatedly requested the GoI to raise the Rs. 1 lakh deposit insurance amount to Rs. 5 lakh so that maximum households are satisfied. But my suggestion went unheeded. They didn’t do it. So then, the people did what they had to and sent me here,” he said, ascribing his electoral victory in the Lok Sabha to the angst of the poor, lower middle-class and middle-class sections of society who ‘suffered from and tolerated’ this for decades. “When banks sank due to some people’s wrong policies, they not only lost their savings, but in a way their whole life would feel stuck and seemed like darkness to them. People ended up taking years to get their own money out and the problems were even more in co-operative banks,” the PM said. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who spoke after the RBI Governor and before the Prime Minister, also sought to stress that the approach of the Government has been sensitive to the needs of the middle class. While laws are generally applied prospectively from the date they are passed and notified, Ms. Sitharaman said the Government made an exception while amending the relevant Deposit Insurance laws. “Here, we saw that some of the banks were waiting for resolution for years and depositors in those banks were also not getting relief. So exceptionally, this time, we have made it applicable retrospectively, so that people waiting for five-six years also get some relief. The customer was kept in mind, the middle class’ hard-earned money has been kept in mind,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rbi-pm-signal-reforms-in-troubled-co-op-banks/article37941689.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||PM’s Twitter account briefly hacked||The tweet also shared a link, asking people to hurry up as the ‘future has come today!’ “We have 24X7 open lines of communication with the PM’s Office and our teams took necessary steps to secure the compromised account as soon as we became aware of this activity. Our investigation has revealed that there are no signs of any other impacted accounts at this time,” a Twitter spokesperson said in an emailed statement. The U.S.-headquartered microblogging site added that as per its investigation to date, it appears that the account was not compromised due to any breach of Twitter’s systems. In March 2020, Mr. Modi’s Twitter account was hacked, with hackers attempting to solicit cryptocurrency from his followers. Mr. Modi’s Twitter account has over 73.4 million followers, and he follows 2,367 accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pms-twitter-account-briefly-hacked/article37941690.ece
13 December 2021||New Delhi,||Fresh rift in Chhattisgarh over medicos’ rural stint||A proposed reduction in the mandatory rural service for medical students passing out of medical colleges in Chattisgarh could again create friction between Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo and Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel. On December 9, the Health Minister tweeted that his department is considering reducing the mandatory rural service period for undergraduate (MBBS) and postgraduate medical students from the present two years to one year. The move is contemplated because of the strong opposition from the Doctors’ Association to strict conditions, including signing a bond amount of Rs. 25 lakh (Rs. 20 lakh for students under reserved category) for MBBS students and Rs. 50 lakhs (Rs. 40 lakhs for reserved category) for PG students if they opt out of the mandatory rural posting. As the Government now examines a proposal to reduce the bond amount as well the service duration, MLAs from the Naxal-affected region are planning to meet Mr. Singh Deo and the Chief Minister and request a re-think. Some MLAs loyal to the Chief Minister argue that a shortage of rural doctors may affect the functioning of the Haat Bazar Clinic scheme, a flagship scheme of the Baghel Government for rural healthcare. The Chief Minister, too, is said to be apprehensive about the proposal even though he has not made any public comments. For several weeks now, both the leaders, who have been locked in a leadership tussle, have maintained a careful silence after Mr. Singh Deo met Congress chief Sonia Gandhi last month. But the latest State Health Ministry proposal of reducing the duration of the rural posting may renew the fissures. Right now, 786 undergraduate students and 216 postgraduate students are providing their services in rural areas under contract. “This is the reason that during the corona period, health facilities were restored in rural areas and the burden on city-based hospitals did not go up,” said an official who didn’t wish to be identified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fresh-rift-in-chhattisgarh-over-medicos-rural-stint/article37941701.ece
13 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||More of Maradona’s items surface||The Assam police have recovered several items that apparently belonged to Diego Armando Maradona within 36 hours of locating a stolen heritage Hublot wristwatch the late football legend used to wear. The items were recovered during a raid at the house of the in-laws of Wazid Hussein, who was arrested on December 11 on charges of having stolen the wristwatch from the place where Maradona stayed in Dubai. The items included two iPads, two squash rackets, six lighters, two pairs of shoes, a jacket, a T-shirt, a cap and a toy doll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-of-maradonas-items-surface/article37941715.ece
13 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Varun Gandhi comes up with Bill for MSP||Echoing the demand of farm unions, Bharatiya Janata Party MP Varun Gandhi has submitted a private member’s Bill in Parliament to guarantee minimum support prices for 22 crops, projecting a financial outlay of Rs. 1 lakh crore. It would ensure that farmers get a 50% profit margin above the cost of production, using the Swaminathan Commission’s formula, by mandating that the Government must pay the farmer the difference between the sale price and the set MSP rate. Only 14 private members’ Bills have actually become law, with the last instance occurring in 1970. Mr. Gandhi’s proposed legislation ensures that farmers get paid MSP rates for crops within two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/varun-gandhi-comes-up-with-bill-for-msp/article37941716.ece
13 December 2021||Srinagar,||Militant killed in Pulwama encounter||A militant linked to the Jaish-e-Mohammed was killed in an encounter in Pulwama, the police said on Sunday. A police spokesman said the militant was killed in an encounter in the Baragam area of Awantipora hamlet. Preliminary reports suggested that he could have joined militancy very recently. The operation was carried out jointly by the police, the Army and the CRPF following a tip-off about the presence of militants in the area. A police spokesman said the slain militant was identified as Sameer Ahmad Tantray from the Bargam area. “Tantray was a categorised terrorist linked with the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and was part of groups involved in several terror crime cases,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/militant-killed-in-pulwama-encounter/article37941693.ece
13 December 2021||Guwahati,||Coal mining: HC notice to Meghalaya||The High Court of Meghalaya has asked the State Government to file a report on the measures taken to stop illegal coal mining. The National Green Tribunal had in April 2014 banned the hazardous rat-hole coal mining in Meghalaya. But mine owners have been extracting and transporting coal illegally, with some operations leading to major accidents killing at least 30 people in the past five years. Hearing a public interest litigation plea on December 10, a Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice W. Diengdoh underscored the need for the political will to “curb and altogether stop” illegal mining. “In this cash-strapped State, mining licenses may be a source of revenue and the State should file a report through the Chief Secretary as to the measures which have been adopted to stop illegal mining,” the order read. The amicus curiae submitted that little action had been taken by the Government to stop the rampant illegal mining.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coal-mining-hc-notice-to-meghalaya/article37941699.ece
13 December 2021||New Delhi,||Trinamool, Congress spar over Goa dole||A day after the Trinamool Congress promised a direct cash transfer scheme for women in Goa if it is voted to power, senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram on Sunday questioned its feasibility. “Here is a math that deserves the Nobel Prize in Economics. A monthly grant of Rs. 5,000 to a woman in 3.5 lakh households in Goa will cost Rs. 175 crore a month. That is Rs. 2,100 crore a year,” Mr. Chidambaram said on Twitter. “It is a “small” sum for the State of Goa that had an outstanding debt of Rs. 23,473 crore at the end of March 2020. God bless Goa! Or should it be God save Goa?” asked the former Union Finance Minister with a tinge of sarcasm. Responding to him, Trinamool leader Mahua Moitra said, “Yes sir @PChidambaram_IN Rs. 5,000 to 3.5 lakh Goan households = Rs. 2,100 crores is 6-8% of total budget which is perfectly doable. Good economics in depressed post covid scenario requires putting cash in hand & liquidity into system”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-congress-spar-over-goa-dole/article37941702.ece
13 December 2021||Pune,||‘Misperception being created about Rahul’||A misperception is being created that the Opposition is unwilling to unite under the leadership of Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Sunday. “There is the greatest misperception being created and doubt being sown regarding Rahul Gandhi’s leadership… A picture is being painted that the Opposition is unwilling to unite under his leadership, thus leaving the political field wide open to [Prime Minister] Narendra Modi and the BJP. This is not true,” the Sena leader said in his column ‘Rokhthok’ in the Sena mouthpiece Saamna . He added that Mr. Gandhi told him during a recent meeting that he would refrain from criticising West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, despite her persistent jibes at the Congress and himself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/misperception-being-created-about-rahul/article37941705.ece
13 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Students to be taught Gita in Haryana||Students across Haryana will recite “ shlok s” (sacred verses) from the Bhagavad Gita from the next academic session and study it in schools, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal said, speaking at the ongoing ‘International Gita Mahotsav’ in Kurukshetra on Saturday. Speaking at the ongoing two-week festival, Mr. Khattar said books related to the Bhagavad Gita would be taught in Classes 5 and 6. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla was also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/students-to-be-taught-gita-in-haryana/article37941709.ece
13 December 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Drive to create awareness of child rights among schoolchildren||In order to create awareness among the school children of child rights and offences against children, the district administration has launched a special drive to imprint the helpline numbers in textbooks by involving girl students. As per the initiative, stamps bearing 1098, the number of Childline, and 1441, the number of education assistance guidance centre, have been made and sent to all the government girl high schools and higher secondary schools in the district. The headmasters of the respective schools will involve at least 10 girl students in each school to stamp the information in the textbooks so as to spread the awareness in an effective manner. Launching the drive in a government school in Ariyalur, Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi said that 11 schools had been chosen in the first phase to implement the task. Under the supervision of the school heads, the girl students of the respective schools would carry out the task. Ms. Saraswathi said that the chosen students would collect the textbooks of all students and stamp the information in the first page of text and notebooks. The task would be completed in all higher and higher secondary schools one after another within January. The officials of the School Education Department would monitor the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-to-create-awareness-of-child-rights-among-schoolchildren/article37942088.ece
13 December 2021||Belagavi,TAMIL NADU||‘No need to panic over anti-conversion Bill’||The State Government will strive to introduce the anti-conversion Bill in the Winter session of the legislature, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Hubballi on Sunday. “Religious conversions is not good for society. It leads to problems in the family. It would trap the poor and vulnerable sections of society who could fall for the conspiracies of some vested interests. Hence the Bill,” he said. He said the debate on various facets of conversion and its impact was not new. “It has been going on since the Independence. Several States have introduced laws against religious conversion. Officers of the Department of Law and Parliamentary Affairs are studying similar laws in various States. Then, they will prepare a draft and submit it before the State Cabinet. If the Cabinet approves it, we will introduce the Bill in the winter session,” he said. He said, however, that there was no need to panic over this Bill. “Some groups have expressed apprehension that the proposed Bill will target some groups or be misused by the police or other authorities for witch hunting. That will not happen,” Mr. Bommai said. “The Bill will not affect anyone’s right to pray or follow rituals. Hinduism, Christianity, Islam, and Sikhism are all constitutionally recognised religions,” the Chief Minister said. “The Bill is only aimed at preventing religious conversions by inducements, force or fraud,” he clarified.  The Bill is only aimed at preventing religious conversions by inducements, force or fraud Basavaraj Bommai,Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-need-to-panic-over-anti-conversion-bill/article37941735.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. sees 674 COVID infections; 13 deaths||Tamil Nadu recorded 674 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases reported to date to 27,35,389. The State also recorded 13 deaths, which took the overall toll to 36,612. A total of 708 persons recovered from the infection on Sunday. With the total number of persons recovered at 26,91,054, the number of active cases in the State stood at 7,723 on Sunday. Chennai and Coimbatore continued to be the only two districts to report more than 100 cases. Chennai reported 116 cases and Coimbatore 102 on Sunday. Erode reported the third highest of 51 cases. Nil cases Tenkasi and Ramanathapuram districts did not report any new cases. Among the remaining 33 districts, 20 districts reported less than ten cases each. While 16 districts reported a marginal increase in the number of new infections compared to Saturday, the remaining 22 districts reported marginally fewer or same number of cases. Deaths were reported in nine districts. Namakkal, Salem, Thanjavur and Tiruchi reported two deaths each while Chennai, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Tiruvallur and Cuddalore reported one death each. All the 13 people reported dead had comorbidities, according to the medical bulletin released by the Health and Family Welfare department. While three were aged below 60, the remaining ten were aged 60 years or above. The youngest among the deceased was a 40-year-old man from Tiruvallur, who had coronary artery disease, chronic kidney disease, diabetes and hypertension. He was admitted to Kilpauk Medical College Hospital last Monday after testing positive for COVID-19. He died four days later on Friday. The State tested a total of 1,00,929 persons in the 24-hour period ending on Sunday. The test positivity rate was at 0.67 %.  A total of 708 persons recovered  from COVID-19. With the total number of persons recovered at 26,91,054. The number of active cases in the State stood at 7,723||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-sees-674-covid-infections-13-deaths/article37941989.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Underground work gains pace for phase II of Chennai Metro||If the contractors stick to deadlines, residents of localities in the city all the way from Madhavaram to Taramani via Ayanavaram can escape road traffic and travel through the underground Metro Rail in five years. The Chennai Metro Rail had begun construction work a few months ago for the phase II project which has now gained ground as the contractors have started building the diaphragm walls in many locations across the stretch for creating the underground network between Madhavaram and Taramani (falling under the Madhavaram to SIPCOT line of the phase II). These walls are an important component and have to be raised before the tunnelling work begins. Diaphragm walls, which look like a box-type structure, are one-metre thick and serve to avert any settlement of soil. According to CMRL officials, it takes nearly 6-8 months to finish building the diaphragm walls and it was quite a complex job. “In many locations, including Madhavaram, Murari Hospital, Ayanavaram, Purasawalkam, Chetpet, Royapettah Government Hospital, Greenway’s Road, the construction of the diaphragm wall has started. The trench cutters to dig deep into the soil have come from Germany and have been deployed in many places. We are in the process of identifying the tunnel boring machines now,” an official said. The tunnelling work, which is the most challenging in creating the underground stretch, will start by mid next year after the diaphragm wall construction gets over. “This will be a time consuming process taking about 2-3 years. But we have learnt from the mistakes in the phase I project and trying to be cautious in the underground work and will ensure the neighbourhood buildings or roads do not get affected,” he added.  The tunnelling work, which is the most challenging in creating the underground stretch, will start by mid next year after the diaphragm wall construction gets over. This will be a time consuming process taking about 2-3 years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/underground-work-gains-pace-for-phase-ii-of-chennai-metro/article37941977.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Archaeology experts appointed for upkeep of ancient shrines||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) department has appointed archaeological consultants for temples that are over a 100 years old. There are around 8,000 temples that are over a century old under the purview of the department, which controls 44,000 temples in the State. “We need expert opinion to conduct the Kumbhabishekam of such temples and these persons have retired from the Archaeology department. Hundreds of temples are awaiting permission from the committee appointed for the purpose. From May, 541 temples have been granted clearance for conducting Kumbhabishekam, a 1,000 more are in wait due to lack of expert guidance and approval,” said P.K. Sekarbabu, HR and CE Minister. Temple consecrations or any changes or additions to temples have to be carried out only after due inspection by experts, including sthapathis and archaeologists. This varies according to the age of the temple. The consultants, who are appointed for a period of one year on a consolidated salary, would travel to various temples under the jurisdiction of the various regional joint commissioners, study the condition of the temples and submit reports. “They will look at restoration of artefacts, paintings, wood work, stone idols, inscriptions and the temple structure itself. Any alteration or construction will have to be carried out only on the basis of their recommendations and under their supervision after taking due permission. This would help in constant upkeep of the temples. These 12 appointments are being done following the orders of the Madras High Court,” Mr. Sekarbabu added. The consultants would also have to visit the temples on a regular basis and ensure proper maintenance. A former official, who welcomed the move, said that the department must maintain a stock of necessary materials meant for repairs of the structures. Jaggery, lime and plant-based pigments are amongst the materials that are required for the work and they are difficult to procure, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/archaeology-experts-appointed-for-upkeep-of-ancient-shrines/article37942002.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Questioning DGP’s professionalism is my right’||The recent arrest of YouTuber Maridhas, known for his rightist views, has incensed the BJP, which has also alleged that 22 party cadre have been jailed at the behest of the ruling DMK. The party’s State president K. Annamalai on Sunday took up the issue with Governor R.N. Ravi. In an interview with The Hindu , he alleged that the police were not acting against those spreading seditious views. Edited excerpts:  Why is Maridhas’s arrest becoming a big issue for the BJP? For Maridhas and others who are “nationalist voices” in Tamil Nadu, there is a selective application of law. You (the police) are applying the law to favour or disfavour somebody. The local police slap all sorts of cases and inapplicable sections every time. There is someone from Tamil Nadu who tweeted that the Prime Minister was responsible for General Bipin Rawat’s death in a chopper crash, and a thousand people liked it. Why can’t the police take action against them? A woman said they will overthrow Modi ji ’s government by force. Sedition is applicable only to these posts, not to Maridhas. The complainants against BJP cadre are DMK IT wing functionaries. The Goondas Act was invoked against Kalyanraman (BJP functionary). People have abused the Prime Minister... the Chief Minister is taking photographs with 7-8 YouTubers who “spew such venom on Constitutional functionaries”. You are a former IPS officer, and yet, you mocked the DGP, saying he was busy cycling... When you are the DGP of a State, you are the DGP for all 8 crore people. You have a responsibility to uphold law and order. There is a selective application of law under your command. When you are busy cycling and taking selfies, when your local police is busy catching each BJP guy and throwing him in jail, then I have every right as a political leader to question your sense of professionalism. In fact, I will use the word ‘incompetent’. He should have immediately constituted a SIT and looked into all social media posts. Now, the police force is acting like a stooge of the DMK Government. Have you given a complaint? We filed it online. Why haven’t you given a complaint directly? Till now, we have given complaints at the police stations in the last five years [when the AIADMK was in power]. Every single complaint is converted into a petition and thrown out. Wasn’t a young woman, Lois Sofia, arrested for anti-BJP sloganeering before then State president Tamilisai Soundararajan?   Sofia shouted inside an aircraft, which is an offence. Recently, you said the BJP was in power in 17 States and, under CrPC, action could be taken by the police against those in Tamil Nadu if a complaint is lodged in those States. Are you implying that your party cadre would give complaints there to arrest people here? A lot of Tamils in other States are reaching out to me and seeking advice on what to do. They are offended by the DMK’s tweets and actions. If an offence is made out, they can 100% be arrested. There is an allegation that you are using the Maridhas issue to try and destabilise the State Government... We have no such intention. We are taking the issue to all appropriate forums so that the public understands that this is what is happening — highest level of corruption, one-family-centric [rule]. In the last six months, this government has become anti-people and anti-State.  Someone tweeted that the PM was responsible for General Bipin Rawat’s death, and a thousand people liked it. Why can’t the police take action against them?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/questioning-dgps-professionalism-is-my-right/article37941986.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||300 kg gutka seized, 57 held||In its drive against banned tobacco products, the city police have arrested 57 persons and seized nearly 300 kilograms of banned tobacco, gutka and mava , in the last week. The police also recovered a two-wheeler and Rs. 25,000 from the accused persons. Police said the one-week raid was conducted as part of the drive against banned tobacco products. The Perumbakkam police stopped a two-wheeler during vehicle inspection and seized more than 150 kg of tobacco products from S. Sunil Kumar and H. Sachin Das of Bihar. Both the accused had taken a house on rent in Thazambur and were running a tobacco manufacturing unit. The police also seized two grinders used for making the banned products, a two-wheeler and cash. During the special campaign, the Neelankarai and Kannagi Nagar police stations arrested a few persons and seized banned tobacco products.  The one-week raid was conducted as part of the drive against banned tobacco products||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/300-kg-gutka-seized-57-held/article37941982.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vadapalani Andavar temple to get 44 new wedding halls||The Vadapalani Andavar temple in the city will get 44 new small-sized wedding halls, each with a capacity to accommodate 50 persons. “The temple gets applications for conduct of 30-40 weddings during one m uhurtham , which is why we are planning such small-sized halls for the convenience of these families. Apart from the halls, dress changing rooms for the bride and groom and toilets too would be constructed,” P.K. Sekarbabu, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments, who recently visited the temple, said. Encroachments in front of the temple have been removed. CM’s advice Thirteen shops that obstructed the view of the gopuram have been moved to the other side and on the basis of Chief Minister M. K. Stalin’s advice, the traffic flow in the busy area will be streamlined. “Roads get choked easily. We will study the movement of traffic and bring about a solution,” he added.  The kumbhabishekam of the temple will be held on January 23, 2022. The flag hoisting for the conduct of the pujas in this connection will be held on January 13, 2022. Mr. Sekarbabu said that it was in 2007 that the previous kumbhabishekam was held. Consecrations of temples are to be conducted once in 12 years. The madapalli where prasadams (offerings to the deities) are prepared, has been renovated. The dwajasthambam has been replaced, the temple cars, both golden and wooden, are being renovated and a new nandavanam (garden from which flowers would be used for pujas). In addition, devotees will get a new meditation hall near the samadhi of the savant, who constructed the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vadapalani-andavar-temple-to-get-44-new-wedding-halls/article37942010.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Leave app to be launched for police||A new mobile-based app is going to be rolled out for police personnel in the city for applying leave and getting the sanction quickly without any hassle. At the initiative of the Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal, the new system has been planned to eradicate delays, summary rejection or favouritism by sanctioning authority and to ensure more transparency. Mr. Jiwal told The Hindu , “Once the system is in place, personnel need not physically wait for any paperwork. By clicking on the application, the personnel can get their leave sanctioned in three hours without any hassle. In case of rejection, the sanctioning authority should cite the reason. If there is delay for more than three hours, it will be escalated to the superior officer above the sanctioning officer.” Called “TN Police CLAPP”, the app will be introduced from December 31 for processing casual leave for the police personnel from the rank of constables to the rank of special sub-inspectors working in Armed Reserve force in the city police. It will be extended to other wings later. The government sanctioned Rs. 10 lakh for the project. Mr. Jiwal said the app can be downloaded in smartphones from Google Play Store. It ensures transparency with regard to leave application, affording the facility for the applicant to view the status of his/her leave application even at his/ her place of work and can be accessed in offline and online mode. The officer will have a clear idea on how many personnel were on leave through a dashboard. “The new system is expected to address the complaints of delay in sanctioning, harassment and summary rejection without citing any reason,” he said. Among other welfare initiatives taken, Mr. Jiwal has been giving surprise gifts to policemen on their birthday besides granting a day off. He invites the personnel celebrating their birthdays to his office and personally wishes them. Mr. Jiwal has been awarding a “star of the month” recognition for city police personnel for exceptional work beyond call of duty. The reward is a cash prize of Rs. 6,000, a special certificate and a prestigious spot on the cover of the city police magazine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leave-app-to-be-launched-for-police/article37942045.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Proposed power line threatens core habitat of new tiger reserve||Noticing defects and shortcomings in the Tangedco’s proposal for laying a new underground electric cable to the Arulmigu Sundara Mahalingam Swami temple, on top of the Sathuragiri Hills, the Forest Department has sought clarifications from the power utility. Activists said the move to electrify the temple with a new 11 KV high tension line would disturb the core habitat of the newly formed Srivilliputhur Megamalai Tiger Reserve. The tiger reserve’s deputy director had several issues with the proposal, put forth by Tangedco’s Saptur section assistant engineer. He raised concerns over the number of trees that would be felled and sought details like the species, height, girth and volume of each tree. Pathways to the temple He also wanted to know the area required to build concrete rooms where the transformers would be placed, and even sought a map. The proposal had also stated that there were three approach paths to the temple, the forest officer said, asking Tangedco officials to examine and provide details about the pathway on which the diversion of forest land would be minimal. However, activists said the proposal through Vazhaithoppu itself should have been objected to by the Forest Department. “The present route is through Thaniparai, and a case is already pending before the court. The tiger reserve’s administration should reject the proposal,” a Madurai-based activist said. The proposal also says that there is an elephant path for 250 m. Activists said the Shola forest en route was a prime habitat and a major elephant and Nilgiri tahr migration corridor. It also houses grizzled squirrels, slender loris, Nilgiri marten and hornbills, among others. The present day unfragmented Shola is the only such patch in the Sathuragiri Hills, and this could be destroyed, said activists. At present, the hill temple is open to the public only for six days a month, and that too only during the day. The temple is powered by a generator. A new power line may put pressure on the administration to open it up further. Activists said the crowd could endanger the core habitat of the tiger reserve. Activists added that a local Minister was pushing for the project. In his counter, the tiger reserve’s deputy director said the project may need the recommendation of the Standing Committee of National Board of Wildlife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/proposed-power-line-threatens-core-habitat-of-new-tiger-reserve/article37941999.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ulluram encourages discussions on child sexual abuse, bodily dignity, rights||Theatre group Marappachi in collaboration with the Students Federation of India (SFI), Chennai Central, staged ‘Ulluram,’ in the city on Sunday, a play stressing on the importance of creating safe spaces, encouraging discussions on the prevention of child sexual abuse, bodily dignity and rights, and healing. Several discussions with social activists, artists and teachers, as well as incidents of child sexual abuse being reported through the media formed the foundation for the monologue, said renowned playwright and scholar Mangai. “Every word we have in the monologue is a testimonial — it has a name and place behind it. While we need structural changes to create safe spaces for children, we also want a more complex and deeper understanding which is why the monologue attempts to shed light on bodily dignity, healing and surviving,” she said. ‘Ulluram,’ staged thrice on Sunday, had three different actors — Anbarasi, Satakshi, and Mridula taking the stage for each show. Through the monologue, the actors highlighted the importance of why even small whispers could lead to larger discussions, and a better understanding among the members of the society. The monologue also alluded to the need for parents, as well as schools to create a safe environment for children to come forward. “We want ‘Ulluram’ to reach as many places as possible and want it to be staged in schools to encourage a discussion. We hope to work with empathetic teachers who will be keen on taking this message forward,” Ms. Mangai said. She also stressed on the responsibility of student groups such as SFI to take the message forward. Members of SFI, Chennai Central, too said that they were working on creating awareness about the prevention of Child Sexual Abuse, and hoped to facilitate more discussions regarding the same which in turn would lead to solutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ulluram-encourages-discussions-on-child-sexual-abuse-bodily-dignity-rights/article37941975.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Victory War memorial to be open between Dec. 16 and 19||The Victory War Memorial on Kamarajar Salai in the city would be open to the members of the public between 10 a.m. on December 16 to 5 p.m. on December 19 to provide the citizens of Chennai an opportunity to pay homage to the heroes of the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war. “Desirous citizens may visit the war memorial during this period and pay homage or tribute by lighting a candle or offering flowers at the war memorial,” an official release said. ‘Vijay Diwas’ is celebrated on December 16 every year to commemorate the anniversary of the victory of the Indian armed forces in the 1971 India-Pakistan war. Golden jubilee This year marks the golden jubilee of the historic victory and is being celebrated year-long all over the country as ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ culminating on December 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/victory-war-memorial-to-be-open-between-dec-16-and-19/article37941984.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Army thanks Stalin for extending support||The Army on Sunday wrote to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin thanking him for all the support extended by the Tamil Nadu government soon after the Coonoor helicopter crash which killed Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, wife and 11 defence personnel. In a letter to Mr. Stalin, Lt. Gen. A. Arun, General Officer Commanding Dakshin Bharat Area, said the Chief Minister had “found a place deep in the hearts of thousands of Army personnel, senior officials and their family members” as he not only rushed to pay tributes to the deceased but also extended his condolences to the bereaved families, according to an official release from the State Government. “The entire administrative set up of the Tamil Nadu Government provided all possible support. Assistance like these alone would encourage more youth to come forward to join the defence forces and don the uniform,” the senior Army officer said. “Your act has not only made Army personnel and senior officers realise that the Tamil Nadu Government is by their side but has given the assurance that it would be supportive whenever there is a need,” he added. Lt. Gen. Arun reiterated his heartfelt thanks to Mr. Stalin, all government officials and Tamil Nadu for having been supportive to the Armed forces. The Indian Air Force had earlier thanked the Chief Minister and the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/army-thanks-stalin-for-extending-support/article37942022.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||College student killed in Kancheepuram||A college student was killed after he fell off the bus while travelling on its footboard in Kancheepuram on Saturday evening. The 18-year-old victim, Dinesh Kumar, was proceeding to his house in Pudhukandigai of Ranipet district in a private bus from Kancheepuram when the accident occurred. Police said the victim who was travelling on the footboard of the bus suddenly fell and suffered severe injuries. The public immediately rushed him to the Kancheepuram Government Hospital, from where he was referred to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital for specialised treatment. However he died on the way. His body was taken to Government Kancheepuram Hospital for a post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-student-killed-in-kancheepuram/article37941983.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Playing nagaswaram like a bird in flight||A genius can be born anywhere. It is explained by the emergence of nagaswaram maestro Karukurichi P. Arunachalam in the world of carnatic music even though was born in a community, family and region which were not even remotely connected with classical music. Paravaikkalam , a documentary film on Arunachalam whose birth centenary is being celebrated, has sought to drive home the point. “I have played with him and many an occasion refused to play after he rendered a raga or song. The reason was I did not want to kill the finest feeling he had evoked in the audience. His lips are made to play nagaswaram. You can only envy him,” recalled clarinet player A.K.C. Natarajan and a contemporary of Arunachalam. The documentary made by R.R. Srinivasan does not stop with extolling the greatness of Arunachalam’s music, but explains the evolution of nagaswaram music in the composite Thanjavur district which also produced great exponents of the instrument. The producers are Madurai-based advocate D. Gurusamy and Nagercoil-based Ayurvedic physician L. Mahadevan and the film will be screened on December 17 at Kovilpatti where the centenary is celebrated. The documentary makers titled the film Parvaikkalam , because Arunachalam would play the instrument effortlessly like a bird in flight. “The effect of his music is explained by the fact that it will convert the audience into individuals. They may be part of a group, but would be experiencing it only as individuals, who were transported separately to another world,” late writer Ki. Rajanarayanan, a close friend of Arunachalam, had once recalled. Arunachalam’s father Palavesan was in the occupation of measuring paddy. He learnt nagaswaram after seeing the respect accorded to Koranadu Natesa Pillai, a nagaswaram player, who had performed at his village. Arunachalam fulfilled the aspirations of his father. He started his career as a nagaswaram player performing naiyandi melam. The unique sound of his nagaswaram attracted nagaswaram wizard Thiruvavaduthurai T.N. Rajarathinam Pillai, who had come to his village for a concert. He invited Arunachalam to become his student and the tutelage shaped his career. “There was no dearth of nagaswaram players in Thanjavur district. Still he had chosen to take a person from another region under his wings. This proves Rajarathinam Pillai’s judgement about Karukurichiyar’s talent. After his guru, I do not find any other artist who can match him,” said nagaswaram player Enjikudi E.M. Subramanian. He scaled great heights and made friends in every walks of life. “Apart from the owners of TVS and Chokkalal beedi companies in Tirunelveli district, he was the only one owned a Plymouth car. He also constructed a bungalow in Bungalow Street in Kovilpatti, unthinkable for a person from his community. I have seen actors such as Sivaji Ganesan and Gemini Ganesan visiting him,” recalled Mr. Gurusamy. His rendering of ‘Singaravele Deva’ from the film Konjum Salangai continues to remain an all-time great film song. He was also close to former Chief Minister Kamaraj. “We played in the streets of Tirunelveli and collected money for flood relief. It could be Rs. 40,000. When we handed over it to Kamaraj, he said it would amount to many crores of rupees,” recalled Mr. Natarajan.  The effect of his music is explained by the fact that it will convert the audience into individuals Ki. Rajanarayanan Late writer, friend of Arunachalam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/playing-nagaswaram-like-a-bird-in-flight/article37942014.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||India Ratings places Tangedco’s bank loans rating on negative watch||India Ratings and Research has placed Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation’s (Tangedco)’ bank loans’ BBB rating on Rating Watch Negative (RWN), citing that the creditors have moved the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) against the State power utility over the issue of non-payment of dues. The RWN indicates that the rating may be affirmed or downgraded based upon the resolution of the issue, it said. A downgrade may make it difficult for Tangedco to avail the loans. The ratings agency said the NCLT development could lead to excessive financial stress on the Tangedco. India Ratings said it will resolve the RWN, once it receives clarity on the NCLT issue. The BBB rating denotes a moderate degree of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Now the rating is placed under the RWN outlook, revised from an earlier negative outlook. The loans include long-term loans, cash credit working capital limits and non-fund based working capital limits, and totals to about Rs. 31,308 crore. India Ratings expects the Tangedco to continue to witness high leverage and a stressed liquidity position due to the absence of tariff revisions and its sustained inability to pass on the high operating cost to the consumer. Tangedco’s net loss widened to Rs. 24,125 crore in FY20 from Rs. 12,623 crore in FY 2019, it added. The ratings firm said it expects Tangedco’s net loss to remain high during FY22-FY25. The Tangedco would continue to witness sharp losses until the gap in the cost of supply and revenue realisation reduces either through operational efficiency or tariff revision. It noted that the last tariff revision took place in December 2014. Tariff revisions would be essential to enable Tangedco to start reporting profits, it added. The power utility’s total debt increased to about Rs. 1.32 lakh crore in FY21, from about Rs. 1.31 lakh crore in FY20, it said. Agricultural consumer subsidy accounts for the largest share of the total subsidy, constituting about 42% of the overall subsidy in FY20 and FY21. This trend is likely to continue, it said. After considering the subsidy, the loss per unit was Rs. 1.26 in FY20 when compared to Rs. 1.13 per unit in FY19 and it is likely to have remained high around Rs. 1.39 in FY 21, the ratings agency said. India Ratings said as per guidelines of Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), it has also consequently placed its unsupported rating on RWN. The unsupported rating is based on its stand-alone credit assessment of Tangedco, without factoring in the explicit credit enhancement provided by its parent (in this case, the State Government).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-loans-of-tangedco-placed-under-negative-watch-category/article37942012.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||9 arrested, drugs seized during 2-day operation||The Washermenpet police have arrested nine persons, including a history-sheeter, who was absconding, and the kingpin of the gang smuggling drugs. During the two-day operation conducted till Sunday, a special team headed by Inspector Franvin Dani arrested the accused for possessing the banned drugs and planning to sell them in the black market. The police team also seized over 1,000 packets of various pills, mobile phones and vehicles. The police said they received a tip-off about a gang involved in smuggling banned drugs from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka to be sold in the local market. The special team on Saturday arrested six persons — Sai Sathish, Ganesh, Ayappan, Gowtham, from Korukkupet, and Balaji of Old Washermanpet and Jeganathan of Ranipet. Based on an inquiry, three more — Prabhu of Vellore, and Arsha and Vijay of Nellore from Andhra Pradesh — were arrested on Sunday. All the nine persons were produced before a judicial magistrate and sent to prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/9-arrested-drugs-seized-during-2-day-operation/article37942008.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Competition on poet Bharathiyar’s contribution to independence||Governor R.N. Ravi has announced a State-level essay writing competition on “the contribution of Bharathiyar to India’s independence”, to mark the 139th birth anniversary of poet Subramania Bharati and 75 years of the country’s independence ( Azadi ka amrut mahotsav ). The competition will be held in Tamil and English for high school and college/university students. “The aim is to create awareness among the youth about the contributions of Bharati to the freedom movement and kindle their curiosity to learn more about Indian legends from Tamil Nadu,” an official release from the Raj Bhavan said. The topic for high school students is “Contribution of Mahakavi Bharathiyar to India’s Independence”. The essay’s length should be 2,000 to 2,500 words. Participants can send in their essays to mahakavibharatisch2021tamil@gmail.com (for Tamil) and mahakavibharatisch2021eng@gmail.com (for English). The topic for college/university students is “India in the imagination of Mahakavi Bharathiyar”. The length of the essay should be in 3,500 to 4,000 words. Essays must be sent to mahakavibharaticol2021tamil@gmail.com (for Tamil) and mahakavibharaticol2021eng@gmail.com (for English). Essays must be sent on or before 5 p.m. on January 8, 2022. Students should mention their name, residential address, address of the educational institution and mobile number. Two committees — one for Tamil and another for English — will evaluate the essays. R. Chandrasekaran, director, Central Institute of Classical Tamil, and Sudha Seshayyan, Vice-Chancellor, Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, will chair the committees for evaluating essays in Tamil and English, respectively. The panels will recommend four winners — one in each category. Winners will be felicitated with Rs. 1 lakh and a certificate each in the school category and Rs. 2 lakh and a certificate in college category, on Republic Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contest-on-contribution-of-bharathi-to-independence/article37941980.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai to host World Tamils economic meet||The eighth World Tamils conference and Chennai Global Economic Summit will be held in city from December 27 to 29. The conference will be held both in physical and virtual mode and is organised by Madras Development Society and World Tamils Economic Foundation.. Former Prime Minister of Guyana Moses Veerasamy Nagamootoo, former Acting President of Mauritius Dr. Paramasivam Pillai Vyapoory, and former Minister of South Africa Ravi Pillay will address the conference virtually. We will confer “Crown Jewel of World Tamils” award on 10 prominent Tamils from all over the world on the final day, Madras Development Society President and World Tamils Economic Conference convener V.R.S. Sampath said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-to-host-world-tamils-economic-meet/article37942113.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP chief meets Governor||BJP State president K. Annamalai on Sunday met Governor R.N. Ravi and submitted a memorandum which stated that the DMK Government had filed illegal police cases against 22 of the party’s IT wing members and arrested “nationalist social media voices” in the State on flimsy grounds. Mr. Annamalai was accompanied by party State general secretary Karu. Nagarajan, BJP MLA C.K. Saraswathi, State secretary ‘Dolphin’  Sridhar, and other leaders like ‘Karate’ R. Thiagarajan and Ku. Ka. Selvam. ‘Anti-national’ posts They also submitted a list of more than 300 social media posts by supporters of the DMK and likes made by DMK leaders on ‘anti-national’ posts. Mr. Nagarajan later told reporters that they had requested the Governor to protect democratic principles and the freedom of expression in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-chief-meets-governor/article37941987.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM greets Rajini on his birthday||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday extended his greetings to actor Rajinikanth on the occasion of his birthday. Mr. Stalin greeted the actor, who he described as his friend, over the phone. He wished the actor good health, “so he can bring joy to Tamil people for many more years, with his unparalleled cinema persona”, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-greets-rajini-on-his-birthday/article37941997.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MoU signed for palliative care unit||The Crescent Hospital and the All India Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre, Tamil Nadu State Committee, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for starting a palliative care unit, ‘Quaide Milleth Centre for Humanity’, on Sunday. While speaking at the valedictory function of platinum jubilee celebrations of the hospital, Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali Azimjah said that at a time when the medical field has become a business and people end up paying lakhs when they walk out of a hospital, this place continues to help the poor with affordable healthcare. Service to the poor “They have been consistently doing yeomen service for the needy. If there are more such hospitals, it will greatly benefit the poor,” he said. The President of The Crescent Hospital, Syed Khaleefathullah, said what had started as a small unit here decades ago, has grown into a recognised hospital that offers service to the poor. M. Razzack, chairman, celebration committee of the hospital, said dialysis and cataract surgeries were done free of cost for 75 persons as part of the celebrations. Also, every Tuesday, outpatient services too are rendered for free, Mr. Razzack added. Kunhimon Haji, Tamil Nadu State President, All India Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre, spoke during the occasion. A platinum jubilee souvenir was released as part of the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agreement-signed-for-new-palliative-care-unit/article37941979.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. must walk the talk on minority welfare’||Naam Tamilar Katchi chief coordinator Seeman on Sunday attacked the DMK Government in Tamil Nadu for its alleged inaction regarding the release of seven life convicts in former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination case. Speaking to reporters after organising a protest demanding the release of Muslims and Rajiv Gandhi case convicts in Chennai, Mr. Seeman said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who was vociferous as the Opposition leader on the issue, was largely silent now. Governor’s consent “When it comes to the release of seven Tamil convicts, Mr. Stalin and former DMK president M. Karunanidhi said there was no need for the Governor’s consent, and they can be released using the powers vested in the State Government under Article 161 of the Constitution. The Supreme Court has said the State had powers to do it. Why are you not doing it,” he asked. Mr. Seeman said the DMK should walk the talk on being the saviours of minorities in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-must-walk-the-talk-on-minority-welfare/article37942003.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Welfare aid distributed||Welfare measures to benefit people from the disadvantaged sections of the society were distributed by Rt.Rev.J. George Stephen, the Bishop of the CSI Diocese of Madras, at a function in Ammanur near Arakkonam in Ranipet district on Sunday. A release by the diocese said that the measures were meant to help the poor, widows, destitute people and differently-abled. According to the release, Ministers R. Gandhi, Gingee K.S.Masthan, and Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi attended the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/welfare-aid-distributed/article37942004.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Act against harassment of poor: Sasikala||V.K. Sasikala, aide of late AIADMK leader Jayalalithaa, on Sunday condemned the recurring incidents of the poor and the downtrodden being forcibly alighted from Government buses by transport staff. She urged the Tamil Nadu Government to take strict action against such staff. She recalled instances of members of the Narikurava community and a fisherwoman being forced to disembark from buses in Kanniyakumari and Colachel, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/act-against-harassment-of-poor-sasikala/article37942016.ece
13 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tiger estimation concludes in Anamalai Tiger Reserve||The post-monsoon tiger estimation concluded in the Pollachi division of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) on Saturday. The exercise, Phase-I estimation of tigers which follows the eight-day protocol of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), began on December 4. According to ATR officials, the estimation was done in 32 beats coming under four forest ranges of the Pollachi division - Pollachi, Ulandi, Valparai and Manombolly. The Department created 62 transect lines in the 32 forest beats for the estimation. More than 200 staff conducted carnivore sign survey, beat level sampling, assessment of prey base, vegetation and human disturbances. Tiger scat samples were collected during the survey for DNA analysis. ATR Field Director S. Ramasubramanian, Deputy Director of Pollachi division M.G. Ganesan and Assistant Conservator of Forests V. Selvam oversaw the exercise. Mr. Selvam said that the data collected by the field staff during the survey were entered in a mobile application ‘Ecological app’ on the spot and also in data sheets. The data will be submitted to the NTCA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiger-estimation-concludes-in-anamalai-tiger-reserve/article37942028.ece
13 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Prison inmate bags third prize in national level drawing competition||An inmate of the Coimbatore Central Prison has bagged third prize in a drawing competition that was held for prisoners across the country. The prison authorities said P. Prabhu (42), a native of Karur who is undergoing life imprisonment, won the prize in the national-level drawing competition organised by Tinka Tinka India, an organisation involved in the reformation and welfare of prisoners. According to the prison administration, the organisation conducted the competition in three categories - painting, special talent, and awards for jail administrators - in November this year. Prabhu’s drawing based on the theme ‘telephone in prisons’ won the third prize. Inmates from various prisons in Tamil Nadu had submitted entries for the drawing competition. The jail authorities said an online award ceremony was held on December 9 which had Arvind Kumar, Director General, Jail, Madhya Pradesh, as chief guest. The prize won by Prabhu was expected to reach Coimbatore Central Prison soon. G. Shanmuga Sundaram, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Prisons (Coimbatore range); M. Urmila, Superintendent of Coimbatore Central Prison; and M. Satheesh Kumar, Additional Superintendent of the prison, congratulated Prabhu for his achievement. A few inmates of the central prison had voluntarily beautified the walls of inside the jail compound with paintings earlier this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prison-inmate-bags-third-prize-in-national-level-drawing-competition/article37942040.ece
13 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery manufacturers seek improvement of infrastructure||Jewellery manufacturers here have appealed to the district administration and the government departments concerned to improve infrastructure in the main business hubs in Coimbatore city. This was one of the resolutions passed at the annual meeting of the Coimbatore Jewellery Manufacturers Association held recently. The Association said Raja Street, Big Bazaar Street, Oppanakara Street, Cross Cut Road, 100 Feet Road, Saibaba Colony, and Ganapathy area dominate business activities of the city. These attract thousands of customers every day from different parts of Coimbatore and other districts too. Meetings The officials should hold meetings with businesses in these areas and find out the infrastructure demands. With better infrastructure, business would improve here, it said. Further, Raja Street and Big Bazaar Street were prominent business areas in Coimbatore in the earlier days. Now, with inadequate infrastructure, businesses were on the verge of closing down. The Thygai Kumaran market was spread over 5.25 acre. The district administration and the Coimbatore Corporation should look at developing this area into a world-class business centre with adequate parking facility. It would benefit the entire business ecosystem in these areas. On the hallmarking, the Association said the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) mandatory Hallmarking Act stated that any jewellery above two grams displayed for sale should be hallmarked. Before melting the unsold hallmarked gold jewellery or repairing the jewellery, the registered HUID number on the Manak online platform should be removed. This was not practical for the jewellers. ‘Amend the Act’ Hence, the Act should be amended, it said. Jewellery manufacturers should be permitted to carry the goods without hallmarking when they took it to exhibit the products to the buyers. When a buyer selected a product, it could be hallmarked either by the manufacturer or the trader. After confirmation of the hallmark, the suppliers could raise the tax invoice, it said.   Raja Street and Big Bazaar Street were prominent business areas in Coimbatore in the earlier days. With inadequate infrastructure, businesses are on the verge of closing down now||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-manufacturers-seek-improvement-of-infrastructure/article37942036.ece
13 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||College seeks action against portal for misrepresenting party||Nehru Group of Institutions has appealed to the Coimbatore City Police to take action against a Malayalam news portal for portraying a video of fresher’s day celebration, which was held on its campus as purported visuals of DJ parties organised by “anti-national elements” to celebrate the deaths of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, wife and 11 defence personnel in a helicopter crash near Coonoor on December 8. A. Muralidharan, director of the Coimbatore-based Nehru Group of Institutions, said the video, which the portal showed as visuals of DJ party, was that of the freshers’ day programme organised by hostel students on December 7, a day before the tragic crash. Institution defamed “The video of the freshers' day programme held on our campus has been misused. The portal has defamed our institution and other colleges in Coimbatore by spreading false news that DJ parties were organised in men’s hostels to celebrate the crash. We have already conveyed the matter to the Coimbatore City Police and sought action against the portal, Karma News. A formal complaint will be lodged on Monday,” he added. According to him, the college management, students and NCC cadets paid homage to the deceased defence personnel on the campus on December 9. “Our founder chairman P.K. Das was in the Indian Air Force and he founded the institution after his retirement. Many staff of our Aeronautics College are also retired defence personnel,” he said.  The video of the freshers' day programme has been misused. The portal has defamed our institution and other colleges in Coimbatore by spreading false news A. Muralidharan Director, Nehru Group of Institutions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-seeks-action-against-portal-for-misrepresenting-video/article37942017.ece
13 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Fire in warehouse in Coimbatore||A 30-year-old man was killed after a speeding car hit him after ramming a few two-wheelers that were parked on the side of Avinashi Road at Chinniyampalayam on Sunday. The Traffic Investigation Wing (East) said K. Veeramanikandan (30), a native of Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district, was killed in the accident. He was standing near a hotel at Chinniyampalayam when the car driven by S. Varadharajulu of Teachers Colony hit him. According to the police, Varadharajulu lost control of the car and it rammed five two-wheelers that were parked on the side of the road before hitting Veeramanikandan. The car came to a halt on a narrow lane between a hotel and a banana leaf stall. While Veeramanikandan, who worked in a lathe at Vellanapatti, died on the spot, Varadharajulu escaped with minor injuries. Fire in warehouse A warehouse stored with jute bags at Athupalam in Coimbatore was damaged in a fire on Sunday. The Fire and Rescue Services said Coimbatore south fire station received a call at 5.35 p.m. and firefighters rushed the spot. The fire was brought under control after nearly two hours. An official said the warehouse was not open on Sunday and no person was injured in the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-killed-as-speeding-car-hits-him/article37942041.ece
13 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kovai Courtallam open from Tuesday||Kovai Courtallam waterfall, which remained closed for over two months, will be open to visitors from Tuesday, said the Forest Department on Sunday. The Department said that the tourism spot was closed to visitors on October 4 following increase in the inflow of water due to regular rain. With the inflow reduced, the Department announced that the waterfall will be open to visitors from Tuesday. Visitors should follow COVID-19 safety norms during their visit to the waterfall, the Department said. For online booking, visit:www.coimbatorewilderness .com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kovai-courtallam-open-from-tuesday/article37942029.ece
13 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||900 children found to be out of school||The Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) has identified 900 children outside the school system in Coimbatore district in its annual out-of-school children (OSC) survey, which is the lowest count in four academic years. The number of OSC for the academic year 2021-22 remains the lowest when compared to the past three academic years as 967 children were identified in the 2020-21 survey, 1,005 children were found to be out of school for 2019-20 and 1,172 children were identified for the 2018-19 academic year. According to officials from SSA, the survey for the academic year 2021-22 was carried out in August following delay due to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. As of Friday, only 79 out of the 900 children continue to remain out of school in the district as the rest of the 821 children have been enrolled in Non-Residential Special Training Centres, Residential Special Training Centres and in government and aided schools. Around 400 personnel, comprising over 100 block resource teacher educators (BRTE), around 75 special educators and local volunteers, carried out the OSC survey in all the blocks of Coimbatore district. Nearly 32,000 children were surveyed across the district during this exercise, officials said. Among the identified 900 children, the highest were in S.S. Kulam (110 children), Valparai (109), Perur (95), Anamalai (89) and Coimbatore city (78) blocks. N. Geetha, Chief Educational Officer for Coimbatore district, told The Hindu all headmasters, teachers and BRTEs had been instructed to monitor whether the out-of-school children enrolled in their schools were continuing their education to prevent any further dropouts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/900-children-found-to-be-out-of-school-says-ssa-survey/article37942026.ece
13 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Teenager held for impregnating minor||The All Women Police Station, Thudiyalur, on Saturday arrested a 16-year-old boy on charges of sexually assaulting and impregnating a 16-year-old girl. The police said the boy and the girl were friends. The boy sexually assaulted the girl at his house in July this year when she had gone there to collect books. The girl recently complained to her mother of stomach pain, following which she was taken to a government hospital. Five months pregnant The doctors found that the girl was five months pregnant. The police were informed about the incident and the boy was arrested on Saturday based on a complaint lodged by the girl. The police said the boy was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board and later shifted to the Juvenile Observation Home at Lakshmi Mills junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teenager-held-for-impregnating-minor/article37942112.ece
13 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sodomising minor boy||The Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Saturday arrested a 40-year-old man for allegedly sodomising a minor boy. K. Vellaisamy of Thekkupalayam near Periyanaickenpalayam was arrested based on a complaint lodged by a 16-year-old boy. The police said the boy’s parents worked in a brick kiln near Thudiyalur. The boy and his brother usually walk to their school from their hostel. The accused approached him when he was on the way to the school around 9.15 a.m. on Friday. The man allegedly promised the boy of buying him a watch and sexually assaulted him at a deserted place. The boy managed to escape from the man and informed the incident to his teacher. The school authorities alerted the All Women Police Station, Thudiyalur. Vellaisamy was arrested nd remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sodomising-minor-boy/article37942037.ece
13 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Meeting held||Young Indians (Yi), Coimbatore Chapter, hosted the fifth edition of X-Factor- a leadership conclave - here recently. The theme of the event was ‘Innovate, Lead, Succeed’. It provided an opportunity for thought leaders and achievers across all sectors of the industry to discuss issues of importance for development and growth, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-held/article37942030.ece
13 December 2021||COIMBATORE/SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Flower prices shoot up||Wholesale flower prices have shot up in Coimbatore and Salem markets mainly because of drop in arrivals. Coimbatore flower market merchants association treasurer Ayyappan said the price of Jasmine was more than Rs. 2,500 a kg (wholesale) on Sunday. A strand of Jasmine flowers was nearly Rs. 200. The wholesale price of Arabian jasmine (Mullai) was Rs. 2,000 a kg and Oleander (Arali) was Rs. 300 a kg. However, wholesale price of some varieties such as Chrysanthemum (Sevanthi) was Rs. 200 a kg as against the normal price range of Rs. 100 to Rs. 120 a kg. Coimbatore got flowers from different growing centres, including some places in the district. Heavy rain for the last couple of months resulted in crop damages and hence arrivals had reduced, Mr. Ayyappan said. With prices shooting up, the sales was also not high. “Customers will buy for their requirements. But, if the prices are very high, they will reduce the purchases,” he said. Selvakumar, president of the association, said the prices usually shoot up after Pongal in January because production would fall during that period and demand would be high because of weddings. This year, the prices had shot up in December, he said. In Salem too, which is a cultivation centre for some of the Jasmine varieties, the wholesale prices are ruling high. According to the traders, rain has affected production and hence, the volume of flowers that comes to the market every day has reduced. Further, demand is up because of weddings. These have led to high prices. The wholesale price of Spanish jasmine is Rs. 720 a kg, Nerium Rs. 260 a kg and Jasmine Rs. 2000 a kg.  Customers will buy for their requirements. But, if the prices are very high, they will reduce the purchase||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flower-prices-shoot-up/article37942034.ece
13 December 2021||Cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||93 held for gutkha, ganja possession||The Cuddalore district police arrested 70 people and recovered 24.6 kg of gutkha and other banned tobacco products from their possession during a special drive against gutkha. According to a press release, the raids were conducted from December 6 to 11, on the instructions of Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan. A total of 70 cases were registered and as many people arrested. The police also arrested 23 ganja peddlers and seized 3.63 kg of the contraband from them. The accused were produced before a local court and remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/93-held-for-gutkha-ganja-possession/article37942334.ece
13 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Medha Patkar inaugurates Jeevanandam Foundation||Social activist and national convener of National Alliance of People’s Movement Medha Patkar inaugurated the Dr.Jeevanandam Foundation here on Sunday and said that he was a rare kind of revolutionary activist. Ms.Patkar said the Communist leader was committed to various social causes and had full faith in Periyar and Mahatma Gandhi. Jeevanandam linked them both, she said. Jeevanandam had deep interest in environmental issues and spoke in favour of indigenous people and Adivasis. Ms.Patkar said that she hoped the Foundation would work towards the social-political-economical transformation that this country really needed to move forward. She said that Jeevanandam would have been really happy with the victory of farmers’ protest (against the contentious farm laws) and he would have reached Delhi to congratulate them. Former High Court Justice K.Chandru and various other social workers took part in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medha-patkar-inaugurates-jeevanandam-foundation/article37942121.ece
13 December 2021||Hyderabad,TAMIL NADU||Drunk driving claims another three lives||Within a week of the two ghastly accidents due to drunk driving of cars at Banjara Hills and Narsingi which claimed four lives, three inebriated youngsters died and their friend suffered severe injuries, after the SUV they were travelling in crashed into a stationary trailer truck near Bowrampet under Cyberabad’s Dundigal police station limits in the wee hours of Sunday. Recent incidents Two migrant workers were fatally knocked down by a speeding car near Rainbow Hospital at Banjara Hills and a couple were killed when they were hit by another car at Narsingi on Monday last. In both cases, the car drivers were under the influence of alcohol. In Sunday’s accident, death was instant for Gajula Venkata Sai Charan (25), who was behind the steering wheel, his friends Puppala Ganesh (25) and Naraharisetti Sanjay (25), while Saladi Ashok (26) suffered injuries and was rushed to Narayana Malla Reddy Hospital for immediate medical assistance. They all hailed from Krishna district in Andhra Pradesh and were in the city looking for jobs. While the intoxicated owner of the ill-fated car, Charan and Sanjay were currently residing at Nizampet, Ganesh was a resident of Pragathi Nagar, and Ashok was staying at Sanjay Gandhi Nagar in Shahpur. The accident took place around 2.30 a.m. near Coca Cola Factory in the area when the victims were going on a joyride after consuming alcohol, Inspector P Ramana Reddy said. He said that on Saturday night, Charan and two others went to Ganesh’s place at Pragathi Nagar where they partied for hours along with three other friends, Venu, Sai and Durga. Later the victims decided to go on a late-night joyride. All of them were under the influence of alcohol, Mr Reddy said. “When they reached Coca Cola factory, Charan, who was speeding the car at least at 80 kmph failed to negotiate a curve and lost control on the wheels and rammed a roadside parked trailer,” he said. While Ganesh occupied the passenger seat in the front, Sanjay and Ashok were in the rear seats of the vehicle. Though the airbags opened, they couldn’t be saved as the airbags got deflated due to the impact of the accident. The car was so extensively damaged that its front portion was completely mangled and the roof went off, the inspector said and added that more details about the incident can be known only after Ashok gains consciousness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drunk-driving-claims-another-three-lives/article37941723.ece
13 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Price of jasmine hits the roof||For the first time, the price of jasmine touched a new high of Rs. 4,000 a kg at the Flower Market in Madurai on Sunday. The merchants attributed the high prices to poor arrivals on account of incessant rain and logistics issues which discouraged small and marginal farmers from transporting their produce. According to Ramachandran, a leading flower merchant in the market, ever since the pandemic broke, the price of jasmine and other flower varieties, including rose, was volatile. Even during the peak wedding season, the price of jasmine revolved around Rs. 2,500 a kg. However, due to continuous rain in the recent days, the yield from jasmine fields is low. Many jasmine growers have complaints of water inundation for long on their fields and as a result the flowers had withered. Similarly, rose and other varieties also had very poor arrivals due to these factors. The farmers said that normally they would bring in close to 30 tonnes of flowers to the markets and due to the rains, the yield was less thn half the usual arrivals. Because of poor supply, the price of jasmine has touched a new high in the flower market. With wedding season coming to an end and the month of ‘Margazhi’ set to start in a couple of days, the merchants were happy to sell the produce at Rs. 4,000 a kg. Though the number of buyers are limited, the traders were able to sell the produce, Mr. Ramachandran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/price-of-jasmine-hits-the-roof/article37942092.ece
13 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway GM inspection today||Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas will take up the annual inspection of various facilities in Madurai railway division from Madurai junction to Tiruchi junction on Monday. Accompanied by senior officials from Southern Railway, Mr. Thomas will begin with the inspection of Madurai junction. He would also inspect the 140-tonne crane, Railway Hospital and other facilities. He would inspect at Samayanallur, Sholavandan, railway tracks between Vadipatti and Kodai Road, and Ambathurai and Dindigul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-railway-gm-coming/article37942100.ece
13 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Drowns in tank||P. Duraipandi, 19, drowned in the Periyakanmoi in Tiruvathavur on Saturday. The police the deceased, along with his friends, Ahmed, Yusuf and Abbas, went for bathing. Durapandi got stuck in mud. In their attempt to rescue him, his friends also got stuck. Locals rescued them. However, Duraipandi drowned and died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drowns-in-tank/article37942080.ece
13 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||44 out of 325 cases settled in Lok Adalat held in city||A total of 44 cases were settled out of the 325 cases that were taken up for settlement at the Lok Adalat held in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Saturday. A total amount of Rs. 4.76 crore was settled. In the Lok Adalat held at the Madurai District Court, a total of 3,407 cases were settled out of the 5,313 cases taken up for settlement. The total settled amount was Rs. 33.26 crore. At the Lok Adalat held in Dindigul, 4,199 cases were settled and the settled amount was Rs. 9.44 crore. In Theni, 2228 cases were settled and the settled amount was Rs. 6.54 crore. In Sivaganga, 399 cases were settled and the settled amount was Rs. 3.17 crore and in the Lok Adalat held in Ramanathapuram, 875 cases were settled out of the 1,420 cases that were taken up for settlement. The total settled amount was Rs. 5.69 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/44-out-of-325-cases-settled-in-lok-adalat-held-in-city/article37942090.ece
13 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level on Sunday in Periyar dam reached its maximum permissible limit of 142 feet with an inflow of 1,741 cusecs and discharge of 1,867 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 70.14 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 1,527 cusecs and discharge of 1,885 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 11,115 mcft. Rainfall recorded in various places during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday was (in mm): Idayapatti 52, Thaniyamangalam 20, Viraganur 18, Kallandiri 14.2, Chittampatti 8.4, Madurai 8.1, Kuppanampatti 7, Melur 6, Pulipatti 5.4, Kodaikanal and Periyar 4.8, Gudalur 4.7, Thekkadi 4.4, Peranai 4, Shanmuganadhi dam 2.4 and Vaigai dam 0.2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37942095.ece
13 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Youth drowns in tank||A 19-year-old youth, P. Duraipandi, drowned in the Periyakanmoi in Tiruvadavur on Saturday. Policed said the deceased, along with his friends Ahmed, Yusuf and Abbas, went for bathing in the irrigation tank in the forenoon. While taking bath, Duraipandi got stuck in the mud and his friends in their attempt to rescue him also got stuck. When they raised an alarm, local people rescued them. However, Duraipandi by then drowned. Melur police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-drowns-in-tank/article37942281.ece
13 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two-way traffic restored on Nethaji Road||One-way traffic regulation between Jhansi Rani Park and Baladhandayuthapaniswamy Temple stretch of Nethaji Road has been revoked and it has been made two-way. The road was made one-way, allowing traffic from the temple towards the park, to avoid congestion during the peak of Deepavali sales in the shopping area. Based on requests from traders and road users, Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha has ordered for resumption of two-way traffic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-way-traffic-restored-on-nethaji-road/article37942101.ece
13 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Commune panchayats grapple with garbage woes||The controversy over dumping of waste near Uchimedu pond has brought to light the challenges faced by the commune panchayats in disposal of garbage. In the case of dumping of waste near the pond, the Bahour commune panchayat officials said they faced stiff opposition from residents in all the places that were identified for processing it. “We were compelled to shift the yard from several places because of opposition from local residents. In rural areas, finding an accessible location without human inhabitation or agricultural land is a very difficult task,” said a local administration official. Senior Environmental Engineer of the Department of Science, Technology and Environment, N. Ramesh said the five commune panchayats and 120 revenue villages generated around 60 tonnes of waste per day. “Managing the waste in rural areas has become a major challenge. Earlier, waste generated in rural areas mainly comprised 90% organic waste and it was composted in the backyard of houses. Farmers used to collect it for use as manure. But now due to increase in population, lifestyle changes and shrinking of common property resources, waste is being dumped in open places,” he said. Decentralised garbage management through composting would be the best solution, according to civic officials. Vermicompost would be the option because segregated organic waste gets converted to manure very fast. Bahour region could be considered for a pilot project as there is a total ban on plastic items, he said. Tender soon When contacted, Secretary, Local Administration Department, E. Vallavan, said the government had already prepared a detailed project for a comprehensive garbage management in the five commune panchayats. “The tender inviting firms to join the selection process for scientific disposal of waste in the panchayats will be called in a few weeks. The sites for garbage processing have been identified,” Mr. Vallavan said. The State-level screening committee has already approved the plan. The project would be taken up at a cost of Rs. 11 crore in Puducherry and Rs. 8 crore in Karaikal region, he said. “But without public cooperation, the project cannot be taken forward as people raise objections to processing waste in their backyard. Without public support, we will not be able to execute the project. It is for a common cause, and hence, people should have an open approach. From the government side, we can assure them that the machinery installed for the process will be of high standard so that there will be no harm to the environment,” he said.   In rural areas, finding an accessible location without human inhabitation or agricultural land is a very difficult tasklocal administration official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commune-panchayats-grapple-with-garbage-woes/article37942337.ece
13 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Training stakeholders for a robust emergency response||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has launched a familiarisation exercise, ‘FAMEX – 2021’, aimed at equipping the administration for a rapid and efficient response to emergencies. According to a press note, the 13-day exercise is a joint programme of an NDRF Battalion, Arakkonam, in co-ordination with the District Disaster Management Authority. Given the paradigm shift from relief-centric to holistic, proactive approach in managing various disasters, the task of managing disaster risk and building resilience requires the involvement of multiple agencies at different levels from local to State. Apart from focusing on upskilling the community as it provides the first response at a disaster site, the programme will also prepare the ground for different departments/agencies with different levels of expertise, to generate a well coordinated and cohesive action to minimise the effect of disaster, the press note said. FAMEX involves the NDRF team carrying out a survey of the district geography, vulnerable areas, hospitals, Major Accident Hazard units/industries etc and collecting information pertaining to disaster management which will be very useful at the time of response to any disaster. NDRF team consists of 15 personnel led by Chandan Kuman, Sub-Inspector, and Amit Kumar, Sub-Inspector, while the facilitation from the district side involving multiple departments is led by District Collector Purva Garg and N. Tamilselvan, Deputy Collector. The NDRF has deployed divers, swimmers, first-aid, OBM boat operation and a demolition expert, equipped with tree cutting machine, concrete demolisher, OBM (outboard motor) boat, buoys and night flares. Ms. Garg, while appreciating the NDRF’s services during the recent heavy rain, requested them to get acquainted with the vulnerable areas and conduct awareness programmes especially for NCC cadets, Civil Defence and NSS volunteers. The team visited Chunnambar Boat House and interacted with the officials on safety aspects and rescue operations during boat capsize and drowning incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-stakeholders-for-a-robust-emergency-response/article37942332.ece
13 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 15 fresh COVID-19 cases||No COVID-19 death was recorded in the Union Territory even as 15 new cases were reported on Sunday. Puducherry recorded four new cases, which were detected from 2,049 tests, while Karaikal saw 7 cases and Mahe 4. No new case was reported in Yanam. With 37 patients recovering from COVID-19 on Sunday, the active cases stood at 208. While 47 patients were in hospitals, 161 were in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 0.73%, the case fatality rate 1.45% and the recovery rate 98.39%. The cumulative toll remained at 1,877 — Puducherry (1,465), Karaikal (251), Yanam (109) and Mahe (52). The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,29,217 cases and 1,27,132 recoveries. Of an estimated 20.11 lakh tests conducted so far, over 17.06 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 6,155 people took jabs against COVID-19 on Sunday. The Union Territory has administered an aggregate of 13,06,706 vaccine doses so far. Cuddalore district reported one COVID-19 death and five new cases on Sunday, taking the case tally to 64,471. In Villupuram district, five persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 46,054.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-15-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37941991.ece
13 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Vaccinated population should carry certificates’||Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Sunday urged the vaccinated population to carry certificates that are being increasingly sought for various purposes, especially inter-State and international travel. Addressing the media after evaluating the progress at the special COVID-19 vaccination camp at Villianur Primary Health Centre, Ms. Soundararajan said vaccination was the best protection available for mankind at the moment, especially amid the emergence of the Omicron variant. The Union Territory, which recently made COVID-19 vaccination compulsory, has also launched a series of outreach measures to achieve 100% inoculation of the population. These involved facilitating the administering of vaccines at the convenience of beneficiaries, from neighbourhood camps to door-to-door drives. Noting that an estimated 90% of the population served by the Villianur PHC had been vaccinated, the Lieutenant Governor said this was an encouraging sign and called for a complete coverage in the area. The Lieutenant Governor pointed out that at present, only fully vaccinated persons were allowed to travel abroad. Now that Puducherry had made vaccination mandatory, people who are yet to take the jab should do so without delay and carry their certificates as it could be handy while moving out, she said. Vaccination against COVID-19 is important not only as a self-protection measure but also for the larger social good. Any hesitation in this regard does not represent a healthy attitude, the Lieutenant Governor said. Medical facilities According to the Ms. Soundararajan, steps were being initiated to develop state-of-the-art medical facilities at government institutions in Puducherry. In this regard, a conference was held recently with leading nephrologists. Taking a cue from some other States, the Union Territory would also improve the implementation of the Pradhan Mantri National Dialysis Programme once health infrastructure was upgraded, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccinated-population-should-carry-certificates-says-tamilisai/article37942019.ece
13 December 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Bike rams bus, causing blaze; two persons die||Two persons were killed when their motorcycle rammed a bus near Tirumayam in Pudukottai on Saturday night. The motorcycle and the bus caught fire following the collision. Around 20 passengers travelling on a Tamil Nadu State Road Transport Corporation bus heading towards Tiruchi managed to disembark. The vehicle was travelling over a bridge in the town when the motorcycle rammed it from behind. According to initial reports, the petrol tank of the two-wheeler caught fire, which spread to the bus too. The motorcycle riders, identified as K. Manikandan of Karaikudi and S. Muruganandham from Pudukottai, both aged 22, died on the spot. However, the passengers on the bus, including the driver and the conductor, escaped without injuries. Traffic disrupted Fire and Rescue Service personnel rushed to the spot and doused the fire. The bodies of the victims were sent to the government hospital for post-mortem. Traffic on the Tiruchi-Rameswaram Highway was disrupted for some time on Saturday night, till the fire was doused.  Around 20 passengers travelling on a Tamil Nadu State Road Transport Corporation bus heading towards Tiruchi managed to disembark||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bike-rams-bus-causing-blaze-two-persons-die/article37942020.ece
13 December 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Man from Odisha dies while cleaning septic tank||A 24-year-old young man who was working in a private fish oil manufacturing unit near Thondi, reportedly died due to asphyxiation while cleaning a septic tank on the premises here on Sunday. Two other workers, who were also engaged in the cleaning, were said to be critical and were undergoing treatment at the Ramanathapuram Government Medical College Hospital. Police said that the three workers identified as Nabin Oram (24) from Odisha, Jasman Kuthur (20) and Anil Majid (24) were working in a private mill at Machur near Thondi. On Sunday, they were cleaning the tank when they swooned. A few workers on the campus rushed them to the hospital in an ambulance. On admission, the doctors said that Nabin Oram did not respond to treatment and died, while the condition of the other two was critical. Following information, Thondi police visited the mill and registered a case. Meanwhile, RDO (Tiruvadanai) Senthilvel Murugan conducted an inquiry. There was no information about details of arrest. An official said that they were awaiting postmortem report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-from-odisha-dies-while-cleaning-septic-tank-2-others-critical/article37942093.ece
13 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Silver anklet manufacturers see revival in business||Silver anklet manufacturing units that were severely affected due to COVID-19 pandemic are on the revival path, as they have started receiving orders for Makara Sankaranti festival. Silver jewellery manufacturing, a major industry in Salem, saw signs of revival following relaxation of lockdown restrictions and the business improved around Deepavali season. The units employ over one lakh workers, including a large number of migrant workers, and there are over 10,000 units involved in the manufacturing of anklets. The anklets, mainly handmade, are in demand from across the country. The anklets manufactured here are also exported to countries such as Singapore and Malaysia. C. Srianandarajan, secretary of Salem District Kolusu Manufacturers Kaivinai Sangam, said the units here have received orders for silver anklets from Kolhapur, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. He said the price of silver has reduced slightly at the moment and a kg of silver is priced at Rs. 63,300. Mr. Srianandarajan said the sector is slowly reviving after the pandemic-induced lockdown and are hopeful of seeing better orders during the forthcoming wedding season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silver-anklet-manufacturers-see-revival-in-business/article37942116.ece
13 December 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Fact-finding committee seeks inquiry into death of tribals||A People’s Watch fact-finding team, which examined the recent death of two tribals from Sitheri in Dharmapuri, has urged the State government to form an inquiry committee into the issue. Tribals Raman and Balakrishnan died of injuries they suffered when they jumped from a van after being taken into custody by Proddatur Forest Department in Andhra Pradesh on November 25. The team urged the Tamil Nadu government to provide Rs. 10 lakh to their families as relief and a suitable government job to a family member. It also recommended constituting a Committee headed by a member of the State Human Rights’ Commission and comprising professionals, government officials and experts from NGOs for a time-bound inquiry into the events leading to their death. It sought action under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against Andhra police and the Forest Department in connection with the incident. The team recommended a research on socio-economic status of the tribes from Dharmapuri, Salem, Kallakurichi, Tiruvannamalai and Tirupatur and measures be taken to protect tribes based on the report. They sought a Q branch investigation into red sandal smuggling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fact-finding-committee-seeks-inquiry-into-death-of-tribals/article37942048.ece
13 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||PMK pulled down by allies, claims Ramadoss||Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) founder S. Ramadoss on Sunday lamented that a political alliance these days meant “pulling legs” [of allies]. He claimed his party, which should have won in at least 15 seats [in the AIADMK-led alliance] could win in only five seats in the recent Assembly elections as its allies “violated the alliance dharma”. Dr. Ramadoss said at a party meeting in Salem that the PMK won in four seats when it fought elections alone and later joined alliances “after some advice”. He was of the view that it could have formed the government if it had continued to contest elections alone. Quota for Vanniyars The PMK was given only 23 out of 234 seats and it was ready to give away the seats and offered support. Its only demand was that the government should pass a law ensuring 10.5% reservation of Vanniyars, he claimed. Dr. Ramadoss added that the two legislators in Salem district should have won even without an alliance. Dr. Ramadoss urged the party cadre to work for change and work hard for the upcoming urban local body elections.  The two legislators in Salem district should have won even without an alliance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmks-allies-violated-alliance-dharma-in-assembly-poll-ramadoss/article37941993.ece
13 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||4,862 cases settled at Lok Adalat in Salem||As many as 4,862 cases were settled at the National Lok Adalat held in Salem on Saturday. The cases were taken up for hearing in 20 benches. 6,869 cases Principal District Judge S. Kumaraguru launched the functioning of the Adalat and as many as 6,869 cases were taken up for hearing. They include civil cases, cases regarding bank loans, accident cases, labour welfare cases, land encroachment cases and family welfare cases. According to a release from District Legal Services Authority, 4,862 cases were resolved through the Adalat and settlement amount to the tune of Rs. 37,13,04,000 was disbursed. Namakkal In Namakkal, Principal District Judge N. Gunasekaran inaugurated the Adalat. As many as 6,571 were taken up for hearing and a settlement amount of Rs. 18,55,38,133 was issued in 1,985 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4862-cases-settled-at-lok-adalat-in-salem/article37942120.ece
13 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Inquiry sought into death of tribals||A People’s Watch fact-finding team, which examined the recent death of two tribals from Sitheri in Dharmapuri, Tamil Nadu, has urged the State Government to form an inquiry committee into the issue. Two tribals Raman and Balakrishnan had jumped from a van after being taken into custody by Proddatur Forest Department in Andhra Pradesh on November 25. The team urged the Tamil Nadu Government to provide Rs. 10 lakh to their kin and a government job to any family member. It also recommended constituting an inquiry committee headed by a State Human Rights Commission member and comprising government officials and experts from NGOs. It sought action under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against Andhra police and the Forest Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inquiry-sought-into-death-of-tribals/article37942021.ece
13 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 51 fresh COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Sunday reported 51 new cases of COVID-19. The district had 641 active cases as on Sunday. Salem district reported 42 fresh cases and two deaths. According to health officials, 28 cases were indigenous and 17 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported 45 new cases and two deaths. Dharmapuri had 10 new cases and Krishnagiri 14 fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-51-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37942118.ece
13 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||BJP cadre stage protest||Members of Bharatiya Janata Party staged a protest here on Sunday condemning the State government for “suppression of free speech” in Tamil Nadu. The party cadre covered their mouth with black cloth and held placards condemning the DMK government for filing case against Youtuber Maridhas and a few other BJP cadre for expressing opinions against the State government. The protesters also charged that the State government was misusing Goondas Act. The protest was organised by the IT and Social Media cell of the party and saw the participation of over 50 members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-cadre-stage-protest/article37942117.ece
13 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Enter UAN number on ESI portal’||The Employees State Insurance Corporation has advised firms to seed details of employees covered under ESI scheme on their portal, a release said. S.Shankar, Deputy Director, ESIC sub-regional office, has urged the employers registered with ESI Scheme to enter the Universal Account Number (UAN) of all their insured employees in the Insurance Module of ESI Corporation through ESIC employer portal www.esic.in, the release added. For further details, contact 0427 - 2336941l, sro-salem@esic.nic.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/enter-uan-number-on-esi-portal/article37942119.ece
13 December 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||College student injured in attack||A college student, R. Manikandan (18), sustained multiple cut injuries in a murderous attack allegedly by one J. Tharunkumar, at a petrol pump here on Saturday night. The police said that Manikandan had beaten up Tharunkumar, after he had snatched a mobile phone from his friend the day before. Agitated over this issue, Tharunkumar, came to the petrol pump, where Manikandan works as part-time employee, at Pandian Nagar in Tiruthangal, and attacked him with a sword. Even as onlookers tried to prevent him, the accused inflicted multiple cut injuries on the youth, who is pursuing hotel management course at an institute in Sivakasi. After he fled the scene, Manikandan was provided first-aid at Tiruthangal Government Hospital and then admitted to the Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murderous-attack-on-student/article37942096.ece
13 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Rural mediation centre to come up at SASTRA School of Law||A mediation centre to create conflict-less society in and around the SASTRA, a Deemed to be a University, will come up at the SASTRA School of Law, Thirumalaisamudhram near here, according to its Vice-Chancellor, S. Vaidhyasubramaniam. Disclosing this at the valedictory function of the six-day executive training programme on ‘conflict assessment and management,’ organised by the SASTRA School of Law on Sunday, the Vice-Chancellor said the creation of rural mediation cell at Thirumalaisamudhram would endeavour to create a conflict-less society in and around the SASTRA School of Law. It would be scaled up later. Delivering the valedictory address, the Madras High Court Judge, Justice Bharatha Chakravarthy outlined the growing relevance of conflict avoidance and resolution through non-litigation mode and the need to engage professionals in negotiation, mediation and arbitration to address the present litigation burden. Around 60 professionals and law students attended the training programme organised under the aegis of the TATA-Palkhivala Chair on Artificial Intelligence and Alternate Dispute Resolution, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rural-mediation-centre-to-come-up-at-sastra-school-of-law/article37942075.ece
13 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Governor should not have gone public over varsity postings: Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Governor Arif Mohammed Khan should have desisted from making public comments that served the purpose of those seeking to retard the State’s progress. Mr. Vijayan’s comment came at a press conference called in Kannur on Sunday to deflect the delicate political situation that had transpired after Mr. Khan demanded the government divest him of the Chancellor’s post. Mr. Khan appeared frustrated that the government appointed favourites in key university positions against the Chancellor’s cautionary reports. The administration’s extension of service to the Vice Chancellor, Kannur University, against Mr. Khan’s advice appeared to be the tipping point. Earlier, Mr. Khan had expressed concern about the alleged political cronyism dominating university appointments amidst the Opposition’s accusation that the next of kin of CPI(M) leaders had got appointments at the expense of eligible commoners. Mr. Vijayan said some forces were intent on retarding the progress Kerala had achieved in higher education. “It is painful that certain statements of the Chancellor abetted the interests of such elements,” he said. Mr. Vijayan seemed to lay the ground for rapprochement between the government and the Chancellor. He said the clashing with the Governor was not the government’s intent. Ready for talks The administration was willing to discuss any issue raised by Mr. Khan. He requested Mr. Khan not to forsake the Chancellor’s position vested on him by the Legislative Assembly. Mr. Vijayan said the government had at no stage asked the Chancellor to act against his conscience. It did not doubt that the Chancellor’s importance in university matters. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) had promised to transform Kerala into a knowledge-based economy in its election manifesto. The government was committed to hiring talent to revitalise the higher education sector. “The government would not shy away from taking decisions fearing criticism or adverse opinion,” he said. Mr. Vijayan said the reference that Mr. Khan behaved like a “British Resident” was a political remark. It was made during the Citizenship Amendment Act agitation. Mr. Khan had taken the position that the Assembly had no right to pass a resolution against a Central act. “It was a political repartee to a political act at the time. It was no judgement on the Governor with whom the government shared a warm and cordial relationship,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-should-not-have-gone-public-over-varsity-postings-pinarayi/article37941732.ece
13 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Governor rejects CM’s claims||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Sunday appeared to spurn the government’s rapprochement bid as he stood his ground and reiterated his charges on the government impinging upon the autonomy of universities in the State. Contesting the claims made by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan earlier in the day, the Governor, who is the Chancellor of State Universities, told the media in New Delhi that he was browbeaten into doing the government’s bidding during the appointment of Vice Chancellors. Referring to the appointment process of the Vice Chancellor of Kannur University, Mr. Khan said the government had brought the legal opinion of the Advocate-General (AG) in order to re-appoint the incumbent Vice Chancellor, despite him not seeking any. “This was after I had already set in motion the process to select a new Vice Chancellor. I was pressurised to withdraw the process even though universities do not generally allow a person to hold the office for a second consecutive term. They (government) scuttled the process... I admit I erred by succumbing to that pressure, but no more. I was under pressure and accepted it (the recommendation) to avoid a conflict,” he alleged. On Sanskrit University Stopping short of saying that the Chief Minister had lied when he asserted that the Chancellor himself had sought a sole nominee for the post of Vice Chancellor of the Sanskrit University, the Governor said: “He can say whatever he feels like. He is entitled to his opinions, while I am accountable to my conscience. I would have appointed the sole nominee and not have raised an issue with the process. That he (Mr. Vijayan) is aware of such details is clear indication that he always keeps tabs on universities’ affairs, even though it is not his duty legally. It is clear the members of the selection committee were consulting him.” Seven applications The selection committee had received seven applications, of which six were apparently considered “unfit to be even considered for the position”, despite having over 10 years of teaching experience as Professors. “The committee should have recommended to me to re-advertise the post since we did not receive sufficient applications from competent people. Instead, they sought to tie my hands and deny me a choice,” the Governor alleged. He added he stood by his stance to transfer his powers as Chancellor to the Chief Minister through an Ordinance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-rejects-cms-claims/article37941724.ece
13 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 92 cr. allocated for road works||The Tiruchi City Corporation (TCC) has floated two separate tenders to strengthen the road infrastructure in the city. Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman told The Hindu on Saturday that there were 3,200 roads and streets in the city running to a length of 987 km. These included bus plying and prominent roads. The extended spells of rain in October and November had damaged several roads. A survey had been taken up to figure out the exact damage to the road infrastructure due to the rain. In addition to the rain, several roads had been dug up to lay distribution mains as part of the phase-II and phase-III of the underground drainage projects. There had been a need to relay the roads in the areas, where the UGD works were on. Considering the importance of making roads in a motorable condition Mr. Rahuman said that temporary restoration work had been taken up in all four zones in the city. Patchworks had been completed in all bus plying roads. In addition to it, work order had been issued to develop roads in various parts of the city at a cost of Rs. 45 crore. While a portion of the project would cover the bus plying roads, some roads, which were dug up for UGD work, would also be relaid. Since there was no forecast of further rain in the city the contractor had been asked to start the project. A few roads had already been started. The Commissioner said that two separate tenders had been called for rejuvenation of road infrastructure in the city. While a sum of Rs. 20 crore had been sanctioned for the first tender under the Tamil Nadu Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TUFIDCO),Rs. 27 crore had been earmarked under the Smart City Initiative for the second tender. While the first tender would be opened on Tuesday (December 14), the second tender would be opened on Thursday (December 16). The tendering process would be completed within this month. The successful bidders would be asked to start the work in January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-92-cr-allocated-for-road-restoration/article37942086.ece
13 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic diversions today||The city police have notified the following traffic diversions in the city for 24 hours from 8 p.m. on Monday evening in view of the opening of the Paramapadavasal, the highlight of the Vaikunda Ekadasi festival at the Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple, on Tuesday morning: All heavy vehicles headed towards Thanjavur would have to go via Musiri and No.1 Tollgate and all heavy vehicles headed towards Karur from Thanjavur and Pudukottai should go via Tiruchi Chennai Bypass Road/Sanjeevi Nagar, No1.Tollage and Musiri to reach the Karur Highway. All mofussil buses operating from Chathiram Bus Stand to Perambalur, Cuddalore, Thuraiyur and Ariyalur should go via Odathurai Road, Kondayampettai and No 1.Tollgate on both directions. All city buses, except those operating to Thiruvanaikovil and Srirangam, from Chathiram Bus Stand would also have to go via the same route. In return direction, City buses should go via Thiruvanaikovil and Mambazhasalai to reach Chathiram Bus Stand. All city buses headed to Srirangam from Chathiram Bus Stand should go via Mambazhasalai, Thiruvanaikovil, Gandhi Road and JAC Corner to drop passengers and return via Amma Mandapam Road, Mambazhasalai and Cauvery bridge to reach Chathiram Bus Stand. All outstation buses and vans coming to Srirangam should be parked at the parking lot near the Yatri Nivas at Panchakarai on the Kollidam river bank or at the parking area Sankar Thoppu (Singaperumalkoil) on the Nelson Road and go via NH 45 on both directions. All devotees coming on two wheelers via Panchakarai Road should go via Melur Neduntheru Mandhai and Melavasal and parked around the Teppakulam. The vehicles can also go via Nelson Road to be parked at the Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College grounds. The traffic regulations will be in force from 8 p.m. on Monday to 8 p.m. on Tuesday. All vehicles should be parked at the designated areas and those violating the traffic regulations would face severe action, City Police Commissioner G.Karthikeyan said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-diversions-today/article37942367.ece
13 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Peafowl, peahens found dead||A peafowl and three peahens were found dead in an agricultural field at Samuthiram village near Manapparai on Sunday. Acting on information, the forest personnel from Manapparai led by Forest Range Officer Maheswaran removed them for post mortem. A veterinarian from Maravanur performed post mortem. They were subsequently buried in a barren field. The birds were said to be two to three years of age. The cause of their death was being investigated. A forest official said that they could have been poisoned to death for invading agricultural fields and damaging crops. Enquiry was on with a few farmers of Samuthiram village, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/peafowl-peahens-found-dead/article37942087.ece
13 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Five persons killed in two accidents||Five persons were killed in two separate accidents in Thanjavur district on Saturday night. Three persons, who were sitting on the centre median on the Thanjavur-Kumbakonam bypass road that is being built, were fatally run over by a truck laden with sand. Police identified the victims as Prasad (31), Chandrasekar (32) and Sudhakar (27). In another accident, two persons were killed when a goods carrier collided against a tourist van near Sundaraperumalkovil. Ramesh (36), who was driving the goods van, died on the spot. Another person, Manikandan (24), travelling in the goods van, was reported to have died on way to hospital. Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-persons-killed-in-two-accidents/article37942079.ece
13 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||66 new cases of COVID-19||The central region reported 66 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, in line with the declining trend prevalent across the State. Four patients — two each from Thanjavur and Tiruchi districts — died of the viral infection. All nine districts in the central region reported less than 20 COVID-19 cases each. A total of 16 patients each reported positive for the viral infection in Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts. In Karur, 13 cases were reported. Six patients reported positive in Tiruvarur, while five tested positive in Pudukottai and four in Nagapattinam. In Ariyalur, three patients tested positive, while Mayiladuthurai reported two fresh cases and Perambalur one, the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/66-new-cases-of-covid-19-reported/article37942076.ece
13 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at the Mettur dam stood at its full capacity of 120 feet on Sunday. The inflow was 12,643 cusecs and the discharge 11,999 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article37942078.ece
13 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Collector thanks residents for their help during helicopter crash||Nilgiris Collector S.P. Amrith visited the settlement of Nanjappa Sathiram in Kattery near Coonoor on Saturday to thank its residents for their assistance in helping first responders to the helicopter crash that resulted in the death of CDS General Bipin Rawat and 12 others. The Collector honoured them with a shawl and distributed provisions to them. Speaking at the settlement, Mr. Amrith thanked the residents for immediately informing police, ambulance and the fire department about the crash, before attempting to fight the fire with water. The residents had given blankets to help transport the bodies of the deceased army personnel to the hospital. The Collector assured the residents that the government would ensure all eligible schemes and projects reach them, and that the district administration would help with repairing their houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-thanks-residents-for-their-help-during-helicopter-crash/article37941996.ece
13 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Police take possession of mobile phone of person who filmed chopper crash||The Nilgiris district police have taken possession of the mobile phone belonging to a person who is believed to have filmed the army helicopter carrying CDS General Bipin Rawat and 13 others a few seconds before it crashed in Kattery near Coonoor. In a press release, the Nilgiris district police said that they had taken possession of the phone, which will be sent for forensic analysis to Coimbatore. They also said that they were checking with the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco), whether there were any high-voltage transmission lines or electricity poles along the route that the helicopter travelled, which could have caused the crash. Special Task Force personnel were dispatched to the area around the crash site to search for more clues that could shed more light on the causes, as well as the final few moments prior to the crash. The police have also contacted the Regional Meteorological Center in Chennai to inquire about the weather conditions along the Coonoor ghat at the time of the crash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-take-possession-of-mobile-phone-of-person-who-filmed-chopper-crash/article37942031.ece
13 December 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||1,310 cases settled at Lok Adalat in Villupuram||A total of 1,310 cases were settled and Rs. 13.57 crore awarded to litigants as settlements at the National Lok Adalat held at the Combined Court Buildings in Villupuram on Saturday. The event was held under the supervision of the Villupuram Principal District and Sessions judge, R. Poornima. She said the Adalat was aimed at reducing the pendency of cases, and litigants would not be able to approach higher courts for appeal once cases are settled at the Adalat. According to an official of the Villupuram District Legal Services Authority, a total of 4,275 cases, including those pertaining to banks, and pending and pre-litigation cases were taken up. Of these, 1,310 cases, including 113 pre-litigation cases, were settled. Compensation to the tune of Rs. 13.57 crore was finalised. At the Lok Adalat held in Cuddalore, as many as 3,053 cases were settled, and the settled amount was Rs. 20.38 crore. The Adalat was held at eight benches in the district.  Litigants would not be able to approach higher courts for appeal once cases are settled at the AdalatR. PoornimaVillupuram Principal District and Sessions judge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1310-cases-settled-at-lok-adalat-in-villupuram/article37942333.ece
13 December 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. has attracted Rs. 60,000-cr. investments in last 6 months’||The Tamil Nadu Government was taking all efforts to bring a mega textile park sponsored by the Union Government to Virudhunagar district, said Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu. Speaking at the special loan campaign organised by the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC) here on Sunday, Mr. Thennarasu said that Chief Minister M. K. Stalin has already announced setting up of an apparel park at the SIPCOT industrial estate in Pattampudur in the district. “The Centre has announced setting up seven textile parks in the country. Given that textile industry is the core strength of Tamil Nadu, we have proposed to set up the textile parks at Virudhunagar, Sivaganga and Dharmapuri districts,” he said. He added that Sivakasi, which is known for fireworks, textile and printing industry, has a huge opportunity to set up defence manufacturing units as Tamil Nadu has been announced as a defence manufacturing corridor. Stating that Tamil Nadu has attracted 60,000 crore industrial investment in the last six months, Mr. Thennarasu said that the efforts of the Chief Minister was to make Tamil Nadu numero uno in industrial sector and generate more employment opportunities. Revenue Minister K. K. S. S. R. Ramachandran said that Tamil Nadu was providing an entrepreneur-friendly environment to set up more industrial units with lot of subsidy and financial assistance. The Chief Minister, who introduced a separate budget for agriculture sector, has a long-term vision on developing the industrial sector with an transparent administration. The Ministers distributed order sanctioning loan to the tune of Rs. 680.70 lakh to eight industrial units, cheque for loans to the tune of Rs. 109.98 lakh to five unites and also got applications seeking loans to the tune of Rs. 1,026.30 lakh from 12 units. The Additional Chief Secretary and Chairman and Managing Director of TIIC, Hans Raj Verma, said that they would make the industrial units in the State compete at the global level and TIIC will do all hand-holding for the same. Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that Tamil Nadu was thinking at least 10 years ahead of all other States. Two years after Independence, Tamil Nadu had formed TIIC with a vision of industrial development, he pointed out. MLAs, A.R.R. Srinivasan and A.R.R. Raghuraman, District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, General Manager, TIIC, Kirubakaran, secretary of Virudhunagar District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association, Durairaj, Chairman of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, Southern India Region, K. Chalapathi, and various industrialists took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-textile-park-likely-to-come-up-in-virudhunagar-district-minister/article37942047.ece
13 December 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for Namakku Naame Scheme from rural populace||Virudhunagar district administration has invited applications from rural people to create public properties like schools, hospitals, ration shops and anganwadis with public contribution under Namakku Naame Scheme. In a statement, Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that the State Government was implementing Namakku Naame Scheme for the year 2021-22 to ensure self-reliance of people in rural areas and create public properties with a minimum of one-third contribution from them. Under the scheme, classrooms for Government colleges and schools, laboratories, toilets, parking lot, Government hostel buildings, noon-meal centres, cooking sheds, library and buildings for Government hospitals, primary health centres, veterinary hospitals, ration shops, anganwadi centres, integrated sanitary complexes and community halls can be taken up. Besides, basic amenities like drinking water projects, cement roads, paver block roads, tar roads, bridges, threshing plots and solid waste management works like construction of drainage channels and vehicles, parks, playgrounds and traffic islands can also be developed. Those interested should send their application with demand draft, for a minimum of one-third contribution of the project cost, drawn in the name of District Collector, Virudhunagar, and it should be submitted to the respective Block Development Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-namakku-naame-scheme-from-rural-populace/article37942098.ece
13 December 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||7 held with country-made bombs||Virudhunagar district police have arrested seven persons, including two history-sheeters, M. Madhavan (39) and J. Manimaran (36) of Vadamalakuruchi, for making country-made bombs. Four country-made bombs were also recovered from them on Saturday. Acting on a tip-off, a team of police, led by Sub-Inspector of Police, V. Veerachamy, Virudhunagar Rural police station, raided the farm of a retired teacher at Pullalakottai in the early hours of Saturday. They found the accused with four bombs and also in possession of some raw materials, including aluminium powder, iron balls, paste and thread. The police said that the accused, who were involved in criminal cases, were planning a revenge attack on their rivals. All the seven were arrested under the provisions of Explosives Substances Act. One held with sword Meanwhile, the Koomapatti police have arrested one, U. Tamarai (34) of Ramasamyapuram, with a sword. A police party, led by Koomapatti Sub-Inspector of Police, N. Ramkumar, intercepted him. The police said that he was involved in many criminal cases, including murder, and was carrying the weapon as he feared retaliation from his enemies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7-held-with-country-made-bombs/article37942097.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||102 new COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore district||Coimbatore district on Sunday reported 102 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 123 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,179 active cases as on Sunday. The toll in the district increased to 2,488 after a 64-year-old man died of COVID-19 on December 10. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 0.2 % on Saturday when it reported 108 cases. Tiruppur district reported 47 new cases, and 53 persons recovered from the infection. A 64-year-old man died of COVID-19 on December 10, taking the toll to 1,004. The district had 609 active cases on Sunday. Tiruppur's TPR stood at 1.1 % on Saturday. In the Nilgiris, 20 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 34,225. The toll stood at 218 while 152 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/102-new-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore-district/article37942038.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Jab mandate for temple entry withdrawn||The Health Department had also kept the vaccine vials ready, and people were given shots on the spot. However, on Sunday, mandates at both the temples were withdrawn. When contacted, HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu said the Department had already undertaken adequate COVID-19 safety measures at the temples. Guidelines to prevent the spread of the infection are being adhered to, he said. Hence, it was felt that vaccination mandate to enter the premises of temples was not necessary at this stage. On average, around 50,000 people visit Rameswaram. The Meenakshi temple, on average, receives 30,000 to 45,000 devotees, from various destinations, every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jab-mandate-for-temple-entry-withdrawn/article37941994.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sudden showers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sudden-showers/article37942339.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Festival spirit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festival-spirit/article37942044.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sharp showers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sharp-showers/article37942006.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail -DGL||Earthing has not been done for HT lines that cross near Sakthi Sugars office and near Bose Motor, and a LT line near police station in Tiruppachethi. I request TANGEDCO to take action. S. Saravanakumar Tiruppachethi    The Ramanathapuram Collectorate Master Complex remains within the limits of town panchayat Pattinamkathan on the outskirts of the town. A proposal to include Pattinamkathan, R.S.Madai, Sakkarakottai, Peravur, Muthunal, Soorankottai and Achuthanvayal panchayats with Ramanathapuram Municipality was made long back so as to upgrade Ramanathapuram as Corporation. The proposal is pending for the past three years . Asmabagh Anvardeen Ramanathapuram    Excess water from Periya kanmoi enters into the sea even as the Sakkarakottai tank is not full. The district administration should fill Sakkarakottai tank. V. Rajendran Paramakudi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-dgl/article37942091.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Simplify process||The process of submission of life certificate in banks differs from branch to branch. Some branches demand copies of Aadhaar in addition to filling the form with all particulars and affixing thumb impression. Senior citizens face difficulties due to this. I request the bank authorities to simplify the process and make it pensioner friendly. M. Sheik Abdullah, Budalur.   Even though Karur district was formed 26 years ago, it is yet to get a district jail. The existing sub-jail has poor capacity. The authorities should take action to establish a district jail. Will the Electricity Minister representing the Karur constituency look into the matter? M. Ramalingam, Karur.   For convenience and safety purpose, many people prefer to travel by vehicles operated by autorickshaw aggregators. But at times when a booking is made, some drivers demand extra fare from the passengers above the fare fixed by the aggregator. Only if they agree, the autorickshaw comes for the ride. The authorities should monitor such excess fare demands. M. Raja, Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/simplify-process/article37942083.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||The whole of Tamil Nadu is getting rain and almost all dams and water bodies are full. Vaigai dam has s storage of more than 70 feet and Vaigai river along Madurai is overflowing. But, still, water supply is meagre. One wonders why water is still supplied for a limited number of days in a week for a limited period. Is it the mindset of the authorities whoever is controlling or Commissioner has to issue an order or a directive to revisit on this method of release of drinking water. The authorities concerned should take action to release water on daily basis and throughout the day. Based on ground realities, their decision should be dynamic. O. R. Nandagopan, Uchaparambu Medu   Earthing has not been done for HT lines that cross near Sakthi Sugars office and near Bose Motor, and a LT line near police station in Tiruppachethi. I request the TANGEDCO authorities to take immediate action. S. Saravanakumar, Tiruppachethi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article37942278.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown and briefly||There will be no power supply on December 14 in the following areas owing to maintenance works at the sub-stations:  Vilankurichi sub-station (9 a.m. to 2 p.m.): Thaneerpandal, Lakshmi Nagar, Murugan Nagar, Cheranma Nagar, Kumudham Nagar, Jeeva Nagar, Sengaliappan Nagar, Gurusamy Nagar  Kalapatti sub-station (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.): Kalapatti, Veeriyampalayam, Nehru Nagar, SITRA, Kaikolapalayam, Valliampalayam, Balaji Nagar, KR Palayam, Villankurichi, Peelamedu Industrial Estate, Sharp Nagar, Maheswari Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown-and-briefly/article37942032.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||PUDUKOTTAI  J.J.College of Arts and Science: Inauguration of NSS special camp, A. Lakshmi Prabha, NSS Coordinator, Bharathidasan University, chief guest, Malaiyakovil, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37942082.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||tiruchi today||RELIGION  Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple,Srirangam: Vaikunta Ekadasi festival, pagal pathu – Mohini Alangaram, Sri Namperumal purappadu in Nachiar thirukolam from sanctum sanctorum, 6 a.m.;reaching Arjuna Mandapam, 7 a.m.; Arayar seva, 7.30 to 11 a.m. & 11.30 a.m. to 2.30 p.m.; purappadu from Arjuna mandapam, 5 p.m.; reaching Garuda Mandapam, 7 p.m.; purappadu from the mandapam, 8 p.m.; reaching sanctum sanctorum, 10 p.m. GENERAL  Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi: Inauguration of exhibition of modern defence products and vintage weapons used in World War II by Rajnath Singh, Defence Minister, through video conference, Junior Staff Club, factory premises, 3.15 p.m.  Shrimati Indira Gandhi College: Webinar on ‘Women in leadership series: ciolence against women,’ S. Francis Porsingula, Secretary, We Care Social Service Society, speaks, 11.30 a.m.  CARE College of Arts and Science Department of Interior Design: Workshop on ‘Basic of wood working,’ 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article37942368.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements. Coimbatore||Bishop Appasamy College of Arts and Science: Workshop on “Art of Kalamkari”, 10 a.m .  Dr. NGP Institute of Technology: Signing of MoU with Construction Management Training Institute, 10 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Learning session on cryptocurrency, noon; interactive session on gender sensitisation and its global impact, 10 a.m.  Kalaivani IAS Academy: Felicitation to TNUSRB police exam achievers, 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article37942035.ece
13 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Shifting key offices to Suvarna Soudha has remained just a promise||The Karnataka Government is yet to keep its promise of shifting to Belagavi State-level offices that deal with subjects related to northern Karnataka, to ensure effective and decentralised administration, even as another session of the legislature session is set to begin in the border district from Monday. In August this year, the Basavaraj Bommai-led Government issued orders to shift seven directorates to northern Karnataka districts. The shifting of offices to the northern districts is in various stages of progress. They are mostly offices of the departments of Irrigation, Public works, Textile, and Horticulture, and some boards and corporations. The only State-level office that has shifted to the Suvarna Soudha is that of the Information Commissioner, that was set up last year. Another Information Commissioner has taken charge in Kalaburagi. The Commissionerate of Sugar has been shifted to Belagavi city, but is yet to be housed at the Suvarna Soudha. The regional office of the Karnataka Niravari Nigam Ltd., housed in Dharwad, was to be shifted to the Suvarna Soudha, as per an order issued on June 30 this year. But that has not happened till now. “The State Government has given general direction to the Irrigation Department to shift office of the managing directors of the Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam to Bagalkot. But it is yet to issue specific circulars, or movement orders,” said an Irrigation Department officer. The Textile Directorate was listed among the offices to be shifted to northern Karnataka, in the general circular issued by the Government in August. But there has been no follow-up on that either, sources in the Textile Department said.  “The main reason is the reluctance of officers to be posted to districts outside Bengaluru, which is deplorable,” said Satish Jarkiholi, Congress MLA and former Minister. He asked the Government to ensure that all officers posted to Belagavi take charge immediately. Officers, however, say there are other reasons. “The bigger problem is the desire of the political class to have all officers in Bengaluru,” said a senior officer in the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR). “Ministers and legislators want all secretaries, commissioners, and directors to be at their beck and call in Bengaluru,” he said. He added that officers posted here will have to work with officers in Bengaluru in real time. “In fact, the shifting of offices is only a symbolic step towards decentralisation. Real decentralisation would mean giving decision-making powers to district and regional offices. And there are other problems such as cadre planning for officers at various levels. These will need a complete overhaul of the DPAR rules. A mere Government Order for shifting of offices will not suffice,” the officer said. Doublespeak Activists accuse the Government of doublespeak. “On the one hand, the Government promises that State-level offices would be shifted to Belagavi and other northern districts. But on the other hand, it tries to snatch away the Regional Commissionerate, which is an important office that can supervise all other departments in the region,” said Ashok Chandaragi, convener of Kannada organisations in Belagavi. “We have written to the Chief Minister asking him to clarify these things in the winter session.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shifting-key-offices-to-suvarna-soudha-has-remained-just-a-promise/article37941957.ece
13 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Sons of leaders shine in posters||As Belagavi gets set for the legislature session, there are posters everywhere of leaders. Some among them — of sons of politicians who are not members of either of the House — are generating interest. The Legislative Council election results are not yet declared, but leaders of the Janata Dal (Secular) have already decided that Suraj Revanna, another member of the party’s first family who is in the fray, will emerge victorious. Party leaders have put up posters welcoming him to the legislature session in Belagavi. The results will be declared only on December 14. Shankar B. Mudalagi, Belagavi district president of the JD(S), has put up hoardings along the road that leads to the Suvarna Soudha from the city. Interestingly, even if he gets elected, he can attend only the next legislature session, as the term of the current members representing the Local Authorities’ constituencies end on January 5, 2022. Even more curious are posters welcoming Prajwal Revanna, Lok Sabha member, and Nikhil Kumaraswamy, who lost the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. Neither of them is a member of the State legislature. A few hoardings also carry the photograph of B.Y. Vijayendra, son of the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who is also not a member of either of the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sons-of-leaders-shine-in-posters/article37941963.ece
13 December 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||MLA begins padayatra||Anjali Nimbalkar, MLA, began a padayatra from Khanapur to Suvarna Soudha on Sunday protesting against what she called neglect of the backward taluk. She led a group of farmers and farm women from Khanapur to Yallur village. The group camped for the night in Yallur on Sunday. She said that the BJP Government was yet to release compensation to farmers. She also alleged that the Government had failed to take up repair and reconstruction of roads, bridges, school rooms, and other public facilities that were damaged in the floods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mla-begins-padayatra/article37942134.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Passage in Class X CBSE exam paper leaves students shocked||Students, parents, and teachers were left aghast and appalled by the “regressive” portrayal of women in a reading comprehension passage on a husband’s authority over his family that appeared in the Class X CBSE first-term examination paper on Saturday. Describing the passage as misogynistic, teachers that The Hindu spoke to said it was not age appropriate and would only serve to instil or reinforce orthodox ideas of patriarchy among students. To summarise, the passage inferred that a woman drew from her husband’s absolute authority to bring up their children and run her household smoothly, something she could achieve only by giving him her “formal obedience”. For instance, one paragraph stated: “What people were slow to observe was that the emancipation of the wife destroyed the parent’s authority over the children. The mother did not exemplify the obedience upon which she tried to insist. There was more room now for disagreement between the parents, enabling the child to appeal from one to the other, eventually ignoring both. In bringing the man down from his pedestal, the wife and mother deprived herself, in fact, of the means of discipline.” An English teacher said, “In our classrooms, besides merely teaching what is in the text, we impart liberal ideas and strive to ensure that our students break age-old stereotypes. Passages like this destroys all the efforts we have made. ” Another teacher said the paper was ambiguous for students as well. “Initially, I thought the passage probably tried to test the higher order thinking among students. But the questions that followed and the options given in the paper makes it seem like it only intended to propagate regressive ideas among students,” the teacher added. ‘Taken aback’ A student said she was not able to express her dissent as the options given did not have scope for it. Another student felt that the comprehension almost appeared to express regret for the empowerment of women. “We talk of women’s education, women’s rights and then we read such things. I was taken aback,” she said.  The passagealso went viral on social media. Many condemned the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for allowing such a passage to appear in the question paper and urged the board to apologise and take immediate action against the paper setter.  ‘Recall the paper’ S. Jothimani, Member of Parliament from Karur, Tamil Nadu, has written to the CBSE Chairperson urging him to recall the paper. She tweeted that regressive ideas must not have any place in the 21st century. In response to the furore the passage has caused, the CBSE in a statement said, “The matter would be referred to subject experts for considered views”.  OPTIONAL  We talk of women’s education, women’s rights and then we read such things. I was taken aback: Class X Student||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/passage-in-class-x-cbse-exam-paper-leaves-students-shocked/article37941952.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Demolition of properties for KIA metro line nears completion||Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL), which is set to start construction of the long-awaited Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) metro line, has taken possession of most of the property identified for the elevated corridor. Barring three properties, demolition of all other structures is nearing completion on the 38-km stretch from K.R. Puram to the trumpet interchange. The BMRCL had identified 224 properties spread over 2.21 lakh square metres for the project. Land to the extent of 2 lakh sq.m has already been handed over to the engineering section. To build a depot at Shettigere, the BMRCL requires 23 acres of the land, of which it has received 18 acres of government land. Acquisition of five acres of land, however, is pending due to litigation. Channappa Goudar, general manager (land acquisition), BMRCL, said most of the land required for the project had been handed over to the engineering section. “Demolition of only a couple of properties belonging to the Government Flying Training School, an automobile shop at Hebbal, a car showroom near Kodigehalli and a compound wall of a building near the trumpet interchange are pending,” he said. From Hebbal to the trumpet interchange , the land required for the metro line to KIA was received by the BMRCL from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) a while back. The NHAI had initially acquired the land while widening the highway for a proposed high-speed rail link project. One of the concerns on the metro alignment from Kasturinagar to Hebbal was whether it would damage a road that had been white-topped by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) at a huge cost. BMRCL managing director Anjum Parwez said, “The metro elevated corridor is on the median of the road. Available land on the median of the road will be used to build the pier, while metro work on the white-topped road will be minimal.” The official said that within a week, the BMRCL will sign an agreement with a contractor on implementing the work. The airport link will be implemented in three packages and the total project cost is estimated at Rs. 2,200 crore. As part of the ORR-Airport metro link project, the BMRCL has already taken up construction of a metro line from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demolition-of-properties-for-kia-metro-line-nears-completion/article37941942.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City sees rise in office vacancies, say property consultants||As more companies get back to offices for work, over a year-and-a-half after working from home, property consultants said office vacancy levels have risen in cities such as Bengaluru. The reason? New office completions. The latest data from property consultants ANAROCK shows that Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Chennai saw office vacancies increase by at least 4.2%, 3.9%, and 2.78%, respectively, in H1 FY22 as against the same period in FY21. Pune and Kolkata were the only top cities to see office vacancies decline marginally in this period. In Bengaluru, office vacancy levels increased to 10.75% in H1 FY22 against 6.55% in H1 FY21. The city witnessed maximum new office completions in the period — approx. 7.3mn sq.ft., ANAROCK said. Prashant Thakur, director and head - Research, ANAROCK Group, said rising vacancies in the main southern cities could largely be attributed to increased new office space additions in the period. “Altogether, the three cities saw new office space addition of 12.95mn sq.ft area in H1 FY22, accounting for nearly 58% share of the total new completions in top seven cities. However, despite this rise, the current office vacancy levels in the southern cities are still lower than in other top cities such as NCR, MMR, and Kolkata,” he said. On analysing the top seven cities’ growth percentage in both new office supply and net absorption in H1 FY22 as against the same period year ago, it emerges that NCR has done remarkably well. While Bengaluru witnessed the highest absorption of 3.2mn sq.ft in H1 FY22 among all the top seven cities, it also saw a 6% reduction in net absorption as compared to H1 FY21. The net absorption in Hyderabad and Kolkata declined by 30% and 70%, respectively, in the same period. Suresh Hari, chairman, CREDAI Bengaluru, told The Hindu that there is certainly positive traction in the asset class. “Mainly due to ease of restrictions and reduction in the level of infection, the demand is increasing. Overall, the need to attend office physically is on the rise and many organisations are looking forward to open their full working action,” he said. Office rentals Though average monthly rentals in the top seven cities have remained steady at approximately Rs. 75/sq. ft. in H1 FY22 against the corresponding period in preceding fiscal year, IT/ITeS hubs like Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Pune saw a marginal rise of 3% each in average monthly office rentals in H1 FY22. “In Bengaluru, average rentals increased to Rs. 79 per sq.ft. in H1 FY22 from Rs. 77 per sq. ft. in H1 FY21. Interestingly, when compared to the pre-pandemic period H1 FY20, the city saw a 7% jump in average monthly office rentals,” the ANAROCK analysis revealed. Mr. Hari said prices are gradually rising and large space bookings will attract better negotiation at this stage. The rise of co-working The demand for co-working spaces are also on the rise with COVID-19 redefining the need for office spaces, as businesses are heavily focused on cost optimisation to tackle unprecedented crises such as lockdowns in the future. The cost advantage of co-working spaces clearly outstrip the possible risk factors, the analysis said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-sees-rise-in-office-vacancies-say-property-consultants/article37941940.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Teachers, school management members to stage protest||Teachers and management members of private schools following the State board syllabus have decided to stage a protest on Tuesday outside the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi demanding that the Government make the affiliation renewal process simpler. Close to 10,000 teachers and school management members are expected to participate in the protest. They are also demanding that the Government provide the promised COVID-19 relief fund of Rs. 5,000 to all eligible teachers and release RTE reimbursement which has been pending for more than two years. The Registered Unaided Private Schools Management Association (RUPSA) stated that if its demands are not fulfilled, it will close all the schools affiliated to their association in January. “Many school managements are facing a tough time as the renewal of affiliation requires a fire safety and building safety certificate. Getting this has been made very cumbersome. Schools are finding it almost impossible to get the certificate,” said Lokesh Talikatte, president of the association. “If we do not get renewal of affiliation done, our students will not be able to write board examinations.” The RUPSA has also stated that a majority of private school teachers have not received the COVID-19 relief of Rs. 5,000. The State Government had announced this package for teachers who lost their jobs or faced salary cuts during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-school-management-members-to-stage-protest/article37941969.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man held for derogative post on Gen. Rawat||The Vidhana Soudha police on Sunday arrested a 40-year-old laboratory technician from Mysuru for allegedly posting derogatory remarks on Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat, who died in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu on December 8. Based on a complaint filed on Friday by Deepa Ravi Kumar, a police sub-inspector with the social media unit of the Police Commissioner’s office, a police team went to Mysuru and tracked down the lab technician, Vasanth Kumar. He works in a private hospital, according to a police officer. Kumar was charged under Section 505 (statements with intent to cause public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code for his post on the social media. CM’s statement The action comes in the wake of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s statement that he had instructed the police to take strict action against those posting “derogative, celebratory messages” after the death of Gen. Rawat. Earlier on Friday, the Mangaluru police had registered cases against two persons for posting similar messages. The police in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and other States, have also arrested people who took to social media to criticise the late Gen. Rawat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-derogative-post-on-gen-rawat/article37941951.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Depositors of three coop. banks that went bust to get back up to Rs. 5 lakh||A total of 77,819 depositors of three urban cooperative banks (UCBs) that have gone bust will be paid deposit insurance up to Rs. 5 lakh under the newly expanded scheme of the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi has said. He was speaking here on Sunday after participating online in ‘Depositors First: Guaranteed Time-bound Deposit Insurance Payment up to Rs. 5 Lakh’ programme chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Union Government recently brought in amendments to raise the Rs. 1 lakh deposit insurance to Rs. 5 lakh to ensure maximum number of depositors are benefited. They have also introduced a 90-day deadline for insurance payments to the depositors in case a bank goes bust. “As many as 33,000 depositors of Guru Raghavendra Cooperative Bank have received a total of Rs. 753.61 crore on November 29,” Mr. Joshi said. A few depositors symbolically received the cheque from the Union Minister at the event in the city on Sunday. Similarly, 77,819 depositors of Mudhol Cooperative Bank of Bagalkot district, Deccan Urban Cooperative Bank of Vijayapura, and Millath Cooperative Bank of Davangere and Chitradurga districts would be paid a deposit insurance in the coming days, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/depositors-of-three-coop-banks-that-went-bust-to-get-back-up-to-rs-5-lakh/article37941959.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hospital staff held for stealing chain||The Byadarahalli police on Sunday arrested a 27-year-old employee of a private hospital who allegedly stole a gold chain valued at Rs. 3 lakh from an elderly patient when she was hospitalised for COVID-19 in April this year. According to the police, the accused, Imtiyaz, worked in the ICU ward of the hospital. “He waited for the patient to go to sleep after she took her medication, and removed a 70 gram gold chain that she was wearing at the time,” said a police officer. The family members realised that the chain was missing and lodged a complaint, following which the police conducted a probe and identified Imtiyaz as the culprit. The chain was found in his possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospital-staff-arrested-for-stealing-chain-of-patient/article37941946.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||It’s avarekai season, but where are the beans?||Every winter when there’s a chill in the air, people look for their fix of avarekai or hyacinth beans. But this year, though it’s mid-December — the peak of the avarekai season — the city’s favourite beans are not easily found in markets. “By this time of the year, markets would have been flooded with avarekai and it would have become a staple at home. But not this time. Even those ready to pay a steep price are finding it difficult to find stock,” said Asha Kumari, a software engineer from South Bengaluru. The recent spell of heavy rain has played havoc, causing widespread damage to crops, including avarekai, in the State. “Rains in October and November have led to large-scale crop damage, even before flowering. The best avarekai with sogadu is harvested when the beans mature in the mist. But there is almost no crop for that this season. Farmers like myself,who had planted avarekai in Ramanagaram, Kolar, Chickballapur, and Bengaluru Rural districts, have suffered huge losses,” said Chennathimmaiah, an avarekai farmer from Magadi. This in turn has hit supply in the city’s markets by an estimated 70%. “The supply of avarekai this year is less than even 30% of the usual when compared with previous years. There is a clear supply and demand mismatch. Despite trying hard, we are not able to procure adequate quantities of avarekai. There is no crop,” explained a chief procurement official at a leading chain of grocery stores in the city. Umesh Mirji, managing director, Horticultural Producers’ Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society (HOPCOMS), concurred. By mid-December, the price of a kilo of avarekai usually drops to around Rs. 20-Rs. 30. But this year, it is still hovering around Rs. 50-Rs. 60. Vegetable prices tend to be on the higher side in winter. But the flood of avarekai usually results in less demand for other veggies, which acts as a counter-balance. This year, there is no relief for households. Excessive rains in October and November have caused widespread crop damage to both vegetables and avarekai, causing their prices to skyrocket. The price of at least seven staples such as tomato, beans, knol-khol, and brinjal cost more than Rs. 100 a kg. “If there was sufficient avarekai in the market it would have automatically ensured that the prices of other vegetables stabilised. But this season seems bad. It will be at least a month — around Sankranti — before the new crop of vegetables is harvested and prices come down,” said the procurement official of the grocery chain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/its-avarekai-season-but-where-are-the-beans/article37941945.ece
13 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Speaker for dedicating two days for debate on North Karnataka issues||Karnataka Assembly Speaker VishweshwarHegde Kageri on Sunday said he would explore the possibility of earmarking two days in the legislature session commencing from Monday in Belagavi for exclusive discussion on issues specifically pertaining to North Karnataka region. At an interactive meeting with mediapersons at the Suvarna Soudha here on Sunday, Mr. Kageri said he had received requests from many MLAs to take up for discussion issues specific to North Karnataka region. “I will discuss the matter in the Business Advisory Committee meeting scheduled just before the commencement of the proceedings on Mondayand try to explore the possibility to earmark two days for this matter,” he noted. At the same time, Mr. Kageri said the legislature session would have to discuss the problems of the people of the entire Karnataka and expressed confidence that the Government would respond to the issues raised by the Opposition. He said the session was being held in the Suvarna Soudha after nearly three years owing to COVID-19. “I am happy that officials have risen to the occasion and made all arrangements,” the Speaker said. On the decision of several organisations to stage demonstrations during the session, Mr. Kageri said he expected the Government to respond to their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/speaker-for-dedicating-two-days-for-debate-on-north-karnataka-issues/article37941960.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Inconvenience to locals||The State Government has shifted 23 district-level offices to the Suvarna Soudha. Officers say this was mainly to save the rent these offices were paying to private building owners. However, by doing this, the Government has put the additional burden on the common man from Belagavi who has to travel to the Suvarna Soudha on the outskirts of the city for routine work. “We are repenting requesting the Government to shift offices to the Suvarna Soudha,” said RTI activist Bheemappa Gadad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inconvenience-to-locals/article37941964.ece
13 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Deadline extended||Bangalore University has extended the last date for submitting applications online for admission to postgraduate courses for the academic year 2021–22. According to a BU release, the last date for submitting online applications without fine is December 13. With a fine of Rs. 200, candidates can submit applications online by December 18. Further, the release said that the date of counselling for admission to PG courses of all faculties will be announced shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deadline-extended/article37941937.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GP member, woman killed||A grampanchayat member of Chikka Hagade village and his friend were hacked to death in Ramaiah Layout at Chandapura on Saturday. They have been identified as Narayanaswamy, 32, and Kavya, 27. According to the police, Kavya, with her child, was visiting her mother. Narayanaswamy, too, dropped by after she arrived. “Kavya’s mother stepped out of the house for a walk with her grandchild leaving the duo at home,” said the police. When they were alone at home, an unidentified assailant broke into the house and stabbed the two multiple times. The police are on the hunt for Kavya’s husband who has been absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gp-member-woman-murdered/article37941943.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Guard assaulted||The K.G. Nagar police have booked a case against a financier for allegedly kidnapping, torturing, and assaulting a security guard who was reportedly harassing his wife. Though the incident occurred on November 18, the police registered a case on December 10 following a complaint from the victim’s family. The victim, Yatish, who works as a guard at a yoga centre in K.G. Nagar was allegedly harassing financier Guttahalli Vasu’s wife and sending her lewd messages. When he learned about it, Vasu brought Yatish to his office, forced him to strip and assaulted him with a hockey stick. The incident was recorded and the clips were circulated. The police are looking for Vasu. His relatives have filed a counter-complaint against Yatish for harassing Vasu’s wife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guard-assaulted-for-harassing-woman/article37941950.ece
13 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Vote counting: ‘Leave no room for suspicion’||Deputy Commissioner and District Election Officer Vijaya Jyothsna called upon the staff designated to count the votes for the recently concluded Legislative Council polls to maintain transparency and ensure that no room was left for suspicion. “The staff should first be present on time. They should follow the directions and methodology and ensure that transparency is maintained. The counting should leave no room for any confusion or suspicion. If anyone come across a suspicious or unclear vote, the higher authority would take a call,” Ms. Jyothsna said during a training session on Sunday. Making it clear that a voter could use any language recognised by the Constitution for marking the preferential numbers on the ballot paper, the officer advised the staff to consult their higher officers if they had any confusion in reading the numbers. “If Arabic or Roman numbers are used by the voters, it would be easier for counting,” she said. As per the information provided by the officer, 14 tables have been placed for vote counting scheduled to be held at the Mathematics Department premises on Gulbarga University campus on Tuesday. Each table will have a count supervisor, two count assistants, and a Group D staff. Mobile phones are prohibited inside the centre. National chess master trainer Shashi Shekhar Reddy made a comprehensive presentation on vote counting through a presentation and physical demonstration. Additional Deputy Commissioner K.R. Durugesh, Assistant Commissioners Mona Roat and B Ashwija, and other senior officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vote-counting-leave-no-room-for-suspicion/article37942132.ece
13 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Police thwart illegal transportation of cows||The Ajekar police in Udupi district on Sunday early morning reportedly thwarted the illegal transportation of cows and rescued two animals in Thellaru village. The police in a statement said that sub-inspector Sudarshan Doddamani observed a car parked at Guddeyangadi village around 12.15 a.m. As the police vehicle neared the car, the driver suddenly drove away and did not stop despite being asked to do so. The police chased the car which went along Andaru, Kaikamba, hanchikatte, Hermunde and Jarkala before stopping near the rice mill at Thellar. Three persons travelling in the car escaped in the darkness. Upon inspection of the car, the police found two cows inside the car with tied legs and wounds. Rescuing the animals worth around Rs. 45,000, the police also seized a mobile phone and the car. The police suspected it to be a case of cow theft and registered cases under the IPC as well as Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, 2020. The Ajekar police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-thwart-illegal-transportation-of-cows/article37942287.ece
13 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Udupi trust reaps 900 tonnes of paddy||A trust, comprising mainly elected representatives, which promoted organic paddy cultivation on about 1,500 acres of fallow land under Udupi Assembly constituency in this kharif season has reaped about 900 tonnes of paddy. The Kedarottana Trust, headed by Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat, comprised presidents of 19 gram panchayats and councillors from 35 wards of Udupi City Municipal Council and nine others as its members. It prompted the farmers who had left their paddy fields uncultivated for decades to go for organic cultivation by supplying inputs required and arranging machinery for both transplanting and harvesting and preparing the land for cultivation. “We are expecting 500 tonnes of rice from the paddy just harvested. The widespread untimely heavy rains a few days ago damaged the crop to a great extent,” Mr. Bhat told The Hindu . If not rains, the trust was expecting to harvest at least 1,200 tonnes of paddy from the fields, he said adding that it spent about Rs. 4 crore for promoting the cultivation among the farmers. The MLA said that the rice will be sold at Rs. 60 per kg. Its marketing under the brand name ‘Udupi Kedara Kaje’ in Udupi was launched on Sunday by the Minister for Animal Husbandry Prabhu Chavan. “We will market the rice through online platforms soon. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will launch the on-line marketing either on December 20 or December 21,” he said. Mr. Bhat said that Kedarottana Farmer Producer Company (FPC) was launched in Udupi on Sunday to continue the cultivation in those lands in the coming years. The trust’s support to farmers will continue for two more years. The MLA said that there could be more than 7,000 acres of fallow paddy land under his constituency. A school in Udupi bringing 50 acres of fallow land under cultivation last year to mark its golden jubilee had prompted the MLA to take the lead in paddy cultivation on the fallow land in his Assembly constituency this year. Nittur High School in Udupi, managed by Nittur Educational Society, had encouraged 80 to 100 families to cultivate paddy on their lands which had been left fallow for years. The initiative was the brainchild of the then school headmaster Murali Kadekar. Incidentally, Mr. Bhat is also the president of the society. Joint Director of Agriculture, Udupi, H. Kempe Gowda said that normally a tonne of paddy can be expected from one acre of land when went for organic cultivation without supplementing any inputs. But if organic inputs, such as organic manure, is supplemented more yield can be taken. For example, a progressive farmer Prabhakara Mayya near Ujire in Dakshina Kannada reaped more than 2 tonnes of paddy per an acre by providing organic supplements, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-trust-reaps-900-tonnes-of-paddy/article37942294.ece
13 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||16 new COVID-19 cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 15 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday. After 11 patients were discharged following treatment the active cases were at 146. The test positivity rate was at 0.22 %. Udupi district reported a new case on the day. Following the discharge of five patients after treatment, the active cases in the district stood at 55. The new case was from Udupi taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/16-new-covid-19-cases-in-dk-udupi/article37942290.ece
13 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Surf boards and accessories provided to youth||The Surfing Swami Foundation, Mulki, on Sunday distributed 10 full sets of surf boards and accessories to 10 girls and boys. The Rs. 5 lakh worth of boards and accessories were provided to the foundation by Karnataka State Minerals Corporation Ltd., as a part of its corporate social responsibility initiatives. New Mangalore Port Trust Chairman A.V. Ramana handed over the boards and accessories to the beneficiaries at a programme. The foundation conducts free training and provides equipment and scholarships for over 25 children in training in surfing, being a lifeguard, a surf instructor, and stand up paddling from less privileged sections of the society Through these programmes, the foundation intends to harness skill development and scout new talents along the coast of Karnataka. The foundation has been carrying such programmes for over a decade and has produced international and national level surfing and stand-up paddling champions. Foundation Directors Dhananjay Shetty, Gaurav Hegde, Shamanth Kumar and Kiran Kumar, and Surfing Federation of India Vice President Rammohan Paranjape were present. Those interested in taking up surfing and stand up paddling as a career may contact surfingfoundation@gmail.com or call 70224 08328, 83103 84842, said the Foundation in a release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surf-boards-and-accessories-provided-to-youth/article37942292.ece
13 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Sexual harassment: Shopkeeper arrested||The Mulki police on Sunday arrested a shopkeeper selling footwear from Kinnigoli on charges of sexual harassment and molesting a female customer on his premises. The police have identified the accused as Shamsuddin, 42, a resident of Kinnigoli. The woman told the police in her complaint that she visited the shop on Sunday. The shopkeeper displayed a variety of footwear and when she expressed dissatisfaction over the collection, he took her into another cubicle on the pretext of showing more, the complaint said. She alleged that on the pretext of showing footwear, the accused touched her inappropriately and harassed her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sexual-harassment-shopkeeper-arrested/article37942288.ece
13 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||There will be no power supply to A. B. Shetty Circle, Pandeshwara, Pandeshwara Katte, Amrutnagar, Kottara Chowki, Kodical Katte, J B Lobo Road, Alagudda and nearby areas on December 14 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. for maintenance works.    Power supply to some areas in Udupi will be stopped on December 14 from 9.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. The areas are Brahmavara, Matpady, Kumragodu, Santhekatte, Kodi Bengre, Bada Nidiyoor, Nejar, Bantakallu, Pangala, Shirva, Shankarapura, Kundapura, Koteshwara, Kumbhashi, Gangolli, Baindoor, Saligrama, Karkada and Talluru.    Kishor D. Shetty has been re-elected as president of Tulu Theatre Artistes’ Federation, Mangaluru for 2021-23. Gokul Kadri, Vasanthi J. Poojary, and Lakshmana have been elected as vice-presidents and Kumar Malluru as general secretary and Mohan Koppala as treasurer.    A mega Lok Adalat will be held in all courts in the State on December 18. Certain cases can be get settled in the adalat. For details contact the District Legal Services Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37942289.ece
13 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Railways transporting sugar and maize now||The Mysuru division of Southern Railways, which has been attracting newer freight commodities in the last couple of months, has now begun transporting sugar and maize apart from automobiles. “For the first time, 2,661 tonnes of sugar was loaded from Nanjangud of Mysuru division, South Western Railway to New Mangaluru,” tweeted the Ministry of Railways last week, marking the despatch of the first consignment of the scheduled twelve rakes, totalling more than 31,000 tonnes of sugar from Nanjangud to Mangaluru, between December 8 and 27. A Gurugram-based exporter has booked sought movement of 12 rakes of 2,650 tonnes each from Nanjangud to Mangaluru port to transport sugar from Bannari Amman sugar factory near here for export to Indonesia and Bangladesh. Though sugar is transported by road in trucks usually and by railway freight to Tuticorin occasionally, it was for the first time that the commodity had been loaded on the railways to Mangaluru, said sources in the Railways. Apart from sugar, the Mysuru division of South Western Railways has also been transporting huge quantities of maize from Ranibennur and Haveri to parts of West Bengal and Bihar, besides Kerala and Tamil Nadu, mostly to meet the requirement of poultry feed. Before sugar and maize, automobile manufacturers too had begun transporting the vehicles after the Railways modified its coaches to provide New Modified Goods rakes to facilitate transport of two-wheelers from Nanjangud to different parts of the country. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, Mysuru Division, South Western Railways, Manjunath Kanamadi said iron ore and petroleum products continued to be the mainstay of railways freight from the division while sugar and maize were “seasonal”. When asked if the recent rise in prices of fuel had forced the transporters to consider railways over road transport, Mr Kanamadi said businesses will consider railways when the goods are in bulk and the distance is long. For, transportation by train requires businesses to bear the additional expenditure of loading and unloading from trucks at the departure station as well as terminating station. Mysuru division had recorded the highest monthly turnover of Rs. 71.52 crore during October 2021 when freight operations witnessed a spurt after the lockdown by loading more than 8 lakh tonnes of goods during the month. However, November 2021 saw a marginal slump with about 7.6 lakh tonnes being loaded yielding a revenue of Rs. 60.02 crore. The slowdown was attributed to torrential rains lashing the region. Large quantities of onion, which was to be transported to different destinations from Mysuru division, too perished in the rains, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railways-transporting-sugar-and-maize-now/article37942309.ece
13 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mayor promises repair of potholes after rains stop||The cash-strapped Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) is at its wits end to fund road repair works in its jurisdiction given the extent of damage rendered due to incessant rains this year. Though MCC limits is spread over 150 sq.km, there is not a single stretch of pothole-free road in the city. Some of the major arterial roads have potholes that resemble a crater and driving has become a motorists nightmare, more so post-dusk. Two-wheeler drivers run the risk of being thrown off balance that could cause injuries and the risk is accentuated by lack of streetlights along many stretches. When contacted, Mayor Sunanda Palanethra said they are waiting for the cessation of rains before taking up repair works and averred that the MCC would mop up resources to take up the works on a priority basis. “As per the India Meteorological Department, rains can be expected for a few more days and hence there was no point in taking up the road repair works as they would get damaged again. But the works will start in due course,” said the Mayor. She said tenders will be invited to take up the repair works but did not have information on the budgetary requirements or the total length of roads in the MCC that would be repaired. Former councillor K.V. Mallesh faulted the MCC for not taking up the issue seriously. He said the rains are a mere ruse and no work was taken up even ahead of Dasara. “Some of the key arterial and link roads should be identified on a priority basis and at least the potholes should be filled till the actual repairs are taken up,” said Mr. Mallesh. In many cases entire stretches of roads – some stretch extending to more than 500 meters - have to be relaid, he added. “It is not that the roads in Mysuru are merely bad. They are virtually non-motorable,” said Mr. Mallesh. The Vishwa Manava Double Road is a key arterial road and is relatively better compared to other roads. However, even this has come stretches near the Kuvempu statue and library where the motorists tend to be thrown off balance. The New Kantharaja Urs Road is another section which is in urgent need of repairs and the stretch from Ashoka Circle (Ballal Circle) to underbridge leading to New Kantharaja Urs Road, is ridden with potholes. The series of roads radiating from Ramakrishna Statue circle to various residential layouts and the main road to SJCE which also intersects with the Bogadi Road is in bad shape while the road leading to Kuvempunagar Bus Depot from the MUDA complex in that area is equally bad. Similarly, the diagonal road from the court complex leading to Buddha Vihar and Ashoka Circle can be rated among the worst in the city. The link roads criss-crossing across various residential areas in the city including Siddarthanagar, Udayagiri, Yadavgiri, Ramanuja Road, Kuvempunagar, Shivarampet, JP Nagar, Srirampura, Vidyaranyapuram etc are also full of potholes. A senior official said MCC is definitely facing a funds crunch but the civic body cannot shirk its responsibility of providing basic amenities.  Former councillor K.V. Mallesh faulted the MCC for not taking up the issue seriously. He said the rains are a mere ruse and no work was taken up even ahead of Dasara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mayor-promises-repair-of-potholes-after-rains-stop/article37942306.ece
13 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: 34 children test positive in Kodagu||There is a spurt in COVID-19 cases in Kodagu district with as many as 34 children testing positive on Sunday. There were 25 positive cases from the Morarji Desai residential school at Alur Siddapura in Somwarpet taluk of Kodagu district. The local health authorities, who confirmed the developments, said there was nothing to worry and all students were asymptomatic. However, those who had tested positive had been hospitalised for continuous monitoring and observation. The rest were in quarantine in the residential school, the authorities said. There are 210 students in the school and all of them were subjected to RT-PCR test and the results of 75 students were received on Sunday. Out of this, 25 have tested positive while the results of other students are awaited. There was another outbreak in Kodagu Vidyalaya in Madikeri where nine children tested positive and all were asymptomatic, the authorities said. 330 new COVID-19 cases As many as 330 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Sunday in Karnataka. Of these, 205 were in Bengaluru, which saw the State’s third Omicron variant case. Kodagu had the second highest number of cases at 40. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare’s bulletin, there were new four deaths — three of them in Bengaluru — taking the total number of deaths 38,261. There were 7,328 active cases. As many as 304 people were discharged, while the case fatality rate was 1.21%. As many as 63,870 vaccinations were recorded till 3.30 p.m.  There were 25 positive cases from Morarji Desai residential school at Alur Siddapura in Somwarpet taluk of Kodagu district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/34-children-test-positive-in-kodagu/article37941948.ece
13 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Two construction workers killed following argument||Two construction workers died after they were attacked by a co-worker during an argument while they were consuming alcohol on Bogadi Main Road in the city on Saturday night. The Saraswathipuram police has booked a case and arrested the accused Mahesh and another construction worker. The incident took place when a group of construction workers comprising the deceased Krishna and Ravi, both from Kottegala village in H.D. Kote taluk near here, and the accused were consuming liquor. During the conversation, Mahesh became angry over the issue of his wife being teased. He reportedly picked up a construction implement lying nearby and attacked Ravi and Basava, both aged around 30, in a fit of rage. Both died due to the injuries. The police deployed fingerprint experts and a dog squad at the crime spot on Sunday as part of the investigation. The bodies of the workers were handed over to their family members after post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-construction-workers-killed-following-argument/article37942307.ece
13 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Yadgir will host Akhila Bharata Kannada Sahitya Sammelana: KSP chief||Mahesh Joshi, president of the Kannada Sahitya Parishat, has announced that the Akhila Bharata Kannada Sahitya Sammelana will be held in Yadgir. He was speaking after being felicitated by Siddappa Hotti, who was elected as president of the district Kannada Sahitya Parishat unopposed in Yadgir on Sunday. “Kannada, which has 2,000 years of history, is one of richest languages in the country. It will grow widely as many prominent writers, thinkers and literary persons have contributed immensely to make Kannada rich and develop it globally and the younger generation of writers are continuing down the same path. I, being the president of the sahitya parishat, will hold more programmes on Kannada and take its culture and history to every Kannadiga. During my tenure, the aim is get a membership of 1 crore,” Dr. Joshi said, Declaring that he would always stand for Kannada, Dr. Joshi said that he will fight whenever it is required. “I won’t miss any opportunity where I can serve the State in which issues related to language, water, and border dispute are involved.” Dr. Hotti, who took charge as president officially, said that he has been serving Kannada in the border district for eight year. “This is the third time I am becoming president and I am fully prepared to work hard and serve Kannadigas,” he said. Shanthaveera Murugharajendra Swami of Khasamutt, Gumitkal, Shant Mallikarjun Swami of Hedigimadra, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yadgir-will-host-akhila-bharata-kannada-sahitya-sammelana-ksp-chief/article37942130.ece
13 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Assault: Case against eight transgenders||The Yadgir police on Saturday registered a case against eight transgenders in connection with an assault on another transgender in Yadgir on Friday. According to the complaint, Kirana Mallappa Koli said that she was assaulted by eight transgender at her home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assault-case-against-eight-transgenders/article37942136.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Will there be serious debate on NK?||Without such constructive debate which would not only help serve as a guiding light for the development of North Karnataka, but also put pressure on the Government to commit itself for such a development, the purpose of holding the legislature session in Belagavi does not appear to be fulfilled. In this context, the expectation of serious debate on issues concerning North Karnataka have increased, particularly owing to the fact that the session is being held after a gap of three years. A clear indication that pressure is building on politicians to hold such serious debates was evident with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who too hails from North Karnataka, saying on the eve of the commencement of the legislature session that meaningful debates on development works and public grievances are expected at the Belagavi session. Speaking to presspersons in Hubballi he said: “the legislature session is being held in Belagavi after three years. The Government has completed preparations for a smooth session. I wish to have fruitful debates on issues related to development and redressal of grievances of the people of the State.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-there-be-serious-debate/article37942135.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Superstar shines||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/superstar-shines/article37941740.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. planning to increase daily incentive for cows’||He said that after the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020 came into force, 10,000 cows have been rescued. Otherwise they would have ended up in slaughterhouses he said adding that 500 cases have been booked under the new amended law. Those who have opposed this law have approached the Karnataka High Court by filing a public interest litigation, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-planning-to-increase-daily-incentive-for-cows/article37942291.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Corridors of power||The policemen at Holehonnur station in Bhadravati taluk were visited by a very unusual complainant recently. Ramaiah, a farmer from Sidlipura who had come to the veterinary hospital, decided to step into the police station which is housed in the adjacent building. He told the police that he and his wife had been taking care of their cows very well, feeding them regularly. His grouse was that despite his care, the cows were not letting the couple milk them. Ramaiah wanted the police to warn the cows of action if they continue to misbehave. The police wondered if they were seeing things or if it was a practical joke. But the farmer had come armed with a formal complaint neatly typed and printed. He seemed earnest in his appeal. It was not an easy task for the police to convince the farmer that convincing cows to yield milk was way beyond their sphere of work. However, a copy of his complaint went viral on social media. The police believe that some mischievous youths had egged the innocent farmer on to approach the police with this bizarre complaint.     What does MLC stand for? Not Member of Legislative Council according to Lakhan Jarkiholi ( in picture ), Independent candidate for election to the Legislative Council from the two-member Belagavi Local Authorities’ constituency and younger brother of Ramesh Jarkiholi, BJP leader. In almost every campaign meeting, he asked the crowds, “You all know what MLC stands for, right?” After a dramatic pause, he replied, “M stands for Mahantesh Kavatagimath, L for Lakhan and C for Channaraj Hattiholi.” They are the three candidates for the Council polls in Belagavi. This was a hit the first time he tried it on a crowd in Gokak, and he repeated it in every meeting that followed. Among the Jarkiholi brothers, Mr. Lakhan Jarkiholi is known for use of the local Gokak dialect and peppering his speeches with jokes and anecdotes.    Two years after he was released from the jail, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar ( in picture ) has claimed that he was sent to Tihar jail because he did not join the Bharatiya Janata Party. In response to RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwrappa’s question as to why Mr. Shivakumar went to jail, the KPCC chief said, “Because you [BJP] sent me there. You sent me there because I did not support you or join you. There are records to prove it.” The seven-time MLA and former Minister was lodged in New Delhi’s Tihar jail for around 50 days after he was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in September 2019, in a money laundering case. Later, he was released on bail. Sathish G.T. Rishikesh Bahadur Desai Nagesh Prabhu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corridors-of-power/article37941967.ece
13 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Keragramam project launched||The Keragramam project of the State Agriculture Department, meant to boost coconut farming, was launched in Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat on Sunday. It was inaugurated by Agriculture Minister P. Prasad in a function held at the Panchayat Community Hall. Earlier the Minister inaugurated the Keragramam project in Kadakarappally grama panchayat and Cherthala municipality. Speaking at the functions, Mr. Prasad said the government was implementing projects like Keragramam to revive the agricultural traditions in the State. He said that people’s participation was an important factor in reviving agriculture. “Coconut production has witnessed a drastic decline in the State over a period of time. The government has launched Keragramam to increase coconut production in the State,” Mr. Prasad said. The Minister urged people and people’s representatives to join hands to make farming a people’s festival. As part of the implementation of the Keragramam project, agriculture expo, seminars, competitions, cultural events and debates are being conducted under the aegis of Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat. The expo and other programmes will conclude on Tuesday. Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat president Geetha Karthikeyan presided. Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat vice-president M. Santhoshkumar and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keragramam-project-launched/article37942270.ece
13 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||1,000 litres of spirit seized, man arrested||The police have arrested a 29-year-old man in connection with the seizure of 1,000 litres of spirit and illicit liquor from an unoccupied house at Karoor, near Ambalappuzha. According to the Ambalappuzha police, the arrested has been identified as Rahul of Karumadi. The police said they had intensified the search for four other accused in the case. The police raided the house on Friday night. Officials said the house had been used as an illicit liquor production unit. “The accused used to procure spirit from Mangaluru and Coimbatore. Illicit liquor was made by mixing different colours and flavours in spirit. It was then filled into bottles with fake labels of various brands and hologram stickers using machines,” said an official. The police said that the illicit liquor produced at the unit were transported to different parts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spirit-seized-man-arrested-in-ambalappuzha/article37942268.ece
13 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Applications invited||Applications are invited for the temporary post of project assistant in a Department of Biotechnology funded project at the Department of Chemistry of Bishop Moore College, Mavelikara. Graduates in Chemistry/Life Sciences/Food Technology can apply. Last date is December 17. For more details contact- 8606807214..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited/article37942260.ece
13 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Water level in Idukki declines||Water level continued to decline in the Idukki reservoir and on Sunday it fell to 2,400.52 ft. A dam safety official said power generation remained high. There had been no rainfall in the catchment area for the past two days, he said. The water level, however, reached a record in December providing a healthy storage level. It was for the first time since the commissioning of the dam that the water level had moved above 2,400 ft in December, he said. Water is at the blue alert level now. The power generation at the Moolamattom power house on Saturday was 14.828 mu.  At Mullaperiyar The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam continued to be close to the maximum level of 142 ft on Sunday. Tamil Nadu has been keeping the level at the maximum for over a week. One shutter of the dam was kept open to 10 cm on Sunday releasing 144 cusecs of water to the Periyar. The average inflow to the dam on Sunday was 1,359 cusecs while the tunnel discharge was 1,867 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-level-in-idukki-declines/article37942225.ece
13 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||No more 75-year-olds in Kannur CPI(M) panel||The Kannur district committee of the CPI(M) has become the first in the State to implement the party’s decision not to include those above 75 years in its committees. The district committee unanimously reinstated M.V. Jayarajan as party district secretary. All State committee members were removed from the district committee. Former district secretary and State committee member P. Jayarajan and State committee member A.N. Shamseer were removed from the district committee. Women selected For the first time, women were absorbed into the district secretariat. The meeting elected a 50-member district committee and a 12-member secretariat. It decided to form a house committee that would maintain daily contact with all houses in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-more-75-year-olds-in-kannur-cpim-panel/article37942187.ece
13 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Setting the scene for growth of independent cinema||Filmocracy Foundation, a collective that supports independent filmmakers, has launched a script mentorship programme. An expert panel would guide through their scripts and help them achieve their full potential. “The idea is to encourage more independent filmmakers pursue their dreams, without having to compromise on artistic freedom,” says Babu Gangadharan, one of the founder-members of Filmocracy. A non-proft organisation, Filmocracy was formed in 2017 with an aim to help independent filmmakers through the process of filmmaking. It provides the equipment required, such as camera and lights, and crew members to handle them. It also provides a sound package, which includes recorders, mics, lapel mics and batteries. In addition, it offers post-production guidance as well. Filmocracy built its foundation on procuring smart, yet affordable technology. A Bengaluru-based entrepreneur contributed the first set of camera equipment, and the initial cost to set up Filmocracy was sourced through crowd-funding. It lends equipment to filmmakers free of cost. The filmmaker would only have to shell out a nominal compensation for the crew of technicians sent by Filmocracy. Aspiring independent filmmakers have to submit their project proposal on Filmocracy’s website, which would be assessed for their creative merit by a panel of experts. Since its formation, it has supported 20 projects including feature films, short films and documentaries. Vasanthi, directed by Shinos Rahman and Sajas Rahman, which won the Kerala State Film Award for best film in 2020, was supported by Filmocracy. Independent filmmaker Don Palathara, whose film Vithu , was made with production support from Filmocracy, says that he could bring down production costs and complete the project exactly the way he had conceived it. “The collective also facilitates entries to film festivals. It is upgrading its equipment, and this would help so many emerging filmmakers.” Filmocracy Foundation has started accepting projects from outside Kerala as well — Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu. “We want to reach out to more filmmakers across the country,” says Mr. Babu.  The collective also facilitates entries to film festivals. It is upgrading its equipment, and this would help so many emerging filmmakers Don Palathara Independent filmmaker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/setting-the-scene-for-growth-of-independent-cinema/article37942213.ece
13 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Debate over Brahmapuram land hots up||The plea of the Kochi Corporation to the State government to take back the land purchased at Brahmapuram from it has not gone down well with a section of the civic representatives. The issue came to the fore when Mayor M. Anilkumar placed the request before the State Finance Minister the other day. Listing out the city projects for which the civic body sought budgetary support from the State government, Mr. Anilkumar requested the Finance Minister to initiate measures to take back the land and end the practice of deducting the cost of the land from the annual Plan fund allotted to the civic body. Each year, a significant amount is deducted from the annual fund released to the civic body for recovering the money paid by the State government for purchasing the land. It was during the period of construction of the first waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram that the State government acquired the holding located near the plant site after residents complained of stench and pest infestation. The State government had shelled out around Rs. 100 crore for land acquisition, said Mr. Anilkumar. After the deductions made from the Plan fund, the civic body is left with little funds for the development activities in the city. The holding at Brahmapuram has become a burden and a liability to the civic body, he said. The Mayor had earlier written to the Chief Minister and the Minister for Local Self-Government seeking steps to take back the land. Move opposed Antony Kureethara, the leader of the Congress in the council, took objection to the public statement of the Mayor. A special meeting of the Kochi Corporation council should be convened to discuss the statement of the Mayor regarding the Brahmapuram land. The Mayor has been taking unilateral decisions on matters related to the management of waste in the city. Though the councillors had demanded a special session of the council to discuss the issues related to waste management, the Mayor didn’t pay attention to it. It was inappropriate for the Mayor to take individual decisions on matters governing the civic body, he said. The Mayor shall not take decisions on matters of significance without discussing it in the Corporation council. The civic body may require land for future projects, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/debate-over-brahmapuram-land-hots-up/article37942220.ece
13 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Scrappage policy may put brakes on services of old private buses in city||With around 100 of the total 600 city-service private buses expected to attain the age of 15, their ‘superannuation age’, by 2022, fear is rife that there will be considerable depletion of their fleet in a year’s time. The implementation of the National Automobile Scrappage Policy from April 2022, which hiked by eight times the fee to renew the fitness certificate of vehicles that are over 15 years old, will be a testing time for the bus sector in Ernakulam district and possibly the entire State, said stakeholders in the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) and in the private bus sector. They attributed this to considerable number of bus operators purchasing new buses from 2005 to 2007, in keeping with the economic and real estate boom that Kerala, and particularly Ernakulam district, witnessed during that period. Expressing deep concern at the number of private buses in Kerala falling from over 30,000 a decade-and-a-half ago to just around 12,000 at present, M.B. Satyan, the president of Kerala State Private Bus Operators’ Federation, said 15-year-old buses would have to be scrapped from 2022, unless operators maintained them in good condition. “Each such bus would have three chances to pass an automated fitness test done by an agency certified by the Central government. A bus that fails the third time will have to be scrapped.” This could have an impact on Kerala’s fast-dwindling private bus fleet, especially so in Ernakulam, where any reduction in availability of public transport results in people thronging already-congested roads in private vehicles. Same is the case with buses that operate in rural areas, where relatively older buses are more common. The way out is to either ensure proper and timely upkeep of buses to extend their life by another few years or replace ageing buses with new ones, he added. An office-bearer of a city-based bus operator association said the service life of most buses can be increased by another few years, if approximately Rs. 2 lakh is spent to overhaul their key components. The increase in price of CNG to over Rs. 70 per kg has, of late, come to act as a disincentive against retrofitting a CNG kit that costs around Rs. 5 lakh, he said. Ernakulam RTO P.M. Shabeer said both commuters and bus operators would have to keep their fingers crossed on the implication of the new scrappage policy. The KSRTC could step in by augmenting its fleet in the city, he said. All stakeholders confided that the policy would bring about a qualitative change in the public transport sector, since rickety buses do not stand a chance to pass the automated fitness test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scrappage-policy-may-put-brakes-on-services-of-old-private-buses-in-city/article37942206.ece
13 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Mangala Express chugs out of station with new rake||The Ernakulam-Nizamuddin Mangala Express has begun operating with a Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) rake, heeding to consistent demands from passengers to replace its old and often rickety rake. Ernakulam MP Hibi Eden, who was among those present at the Ernakulam Junction railway station to witness the first commercial trip using the rake, said he had submitted memoranda to, among others, the General Manager of Southern Railway John Thomas demanding new rake for the train. Ernakulam Area Manager of Southern Railway Nithin Norbert said an LHB rake was expected in January for the Ernakulam-Patna Express. In the meantime, train nos. 06797/06798 Palakkad Jn.– Ernakulam Jn.–Palakkad Jn. unreserved MEMU Express will commence service from Wednesday (December 15), the Railway has informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mangala-express-chugs-out-of-station-with-new-rake/article37942208.ece
13 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Container Road to get street lights||Under fire for the spree of accidents on the 16-km Container Road that links Vallarpadam Container Transshipment Terminal with NH 66 at Kalamassery, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is readying to install street lights on the stretch. The largely isolated road that abuts the backwaters on the north-western side of Kochi had also become a haven for miscreants and those who dump septic tank and other waste under the cover of darkness. This led to NGOs and commuters demanding that the NHAI, which collects hefty toll from motorists using the corridor, install street lights, reflectors and warning/direction boards. Container lorry parking Official sources said a Detailed Project Report (DPR) to install street lights on the corridor is being readied. It could be implemented as a Build-Operate-Transfer project. Simultaneously, Cochin Port Trust and the police must help end illegal parking of container lorries on the road, which has been the single-biggest cause of fatal and other accidents on the stretch, they added. The agency had probed many options, including of banking on solar panels (the road gets unhindered sunlight) to source power for the lights. Answering a question raised by Ernakulam, MP, Hibi Eden, the Minister for Road Transport and Highways had recently said the Ministry had set in motion an initiative to install lights on the corridor. Mr. Eden said he had met Mr. Gadkari earlier, demanding adequate lights all through the Container Road. The road is all the more important since it provides seamless city connectivity for residents of Kalamassery, Eloor, Kadamakudy and Cheranalloor. “The panchayats through which the road passes do not have resources to provide capital to install the lights. Thus the NHAI that collects toll is duty-bound to install street lights, since the very same motorists will be the main beneficiaries of the project.” Walkway proposal Referring to a long-pending proposal to build an expansive walkway on the western end of the road that faces the backwaters, Mr. Eden said he had submitted a proposal to the Tourism Minister, Kerala Tourism and the NHAI to raise the slanting portion and build a walkway, which could become one of the longest waterfront walkways in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/container-road-to-get-street-lights/article37942216.ece
13 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to boycott Cardinal Alencherry||A rights declaration meet of the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese organised by the Almaya Munnettam on Sunday demanded that the celebration of Mass with priests facing the congregation be fully implemented in parishes under the archdiocese legally, and not through “dispensation”. The meet also decided to constitute a liturgy action committee in parishes under the archdiocese and to stand with the Pope and the Catholic Church for the celebration of Mass with priests facing the congregation. The faithful also took a pledge to oppose at any cost what the Munnettam termed as a ‘Chaldean conspiracy’ led by the Syro-Malabar Synod and Cardinal George Alencherry, to destroy the archdiocese, Binu John, general convener of Almaya Munnettam, said. It was further decided to fully boycott Cardinal Alencherry and others, who the body said, were trying to destroy peace in the Church. Representatives of all parishes under the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese attended the rights declaration meet.  Almaya Munnettam for celebration of Mass with priests facing congregation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-boycott-cardinal/article37942217.ece
13 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Five held on charge of stabbing youths||The Angamaly police on Sunday arrested five persons on the charge of stabbing four youths on December 10. The arrested are Srijith, Abhijith, and Martin of Parakadavu, Anson of Peechanikkad, and Sonu of Poovathusseri. Arrested The Ernakulam Rural police arrested three youths on the charge of stabbing their co-worker, on Sunday. Jomon, the victim, and the three who allegedly stabbed him—Sudheesh of Kollam, Rajeev of Ammanada, and Suresh of Thrikkakara—are truss fabrication workers at Kizhakkambalam. In another case, the Thrikkakara police arrested Shamier, 40, of Kunnumpuram, Fort Kochi, on the charge of stabbing Biju of Veli, Palluruthy, and going on to attack him with a helmet, following a dispute over money. Bike race The Mulavukad police took nine young motorbike riders into custody on the charge of causing public nuisance, endangering life of road users, and indulging in racing. This was after a judge informed the police of the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-held-on-charge-of-stabbing-youths/article37942210.ece
13 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CBI chargesheets two NGOs for fund misuse||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has chargesheeted the Good Samaritan Project India (GSPI), the Catholic Reformation Literature Society (CRLS), and four individuals for allegedly violating the provisions of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) and misappropriation of tsunami funds. They have also been accused of criminal breach of trust. While the GSPI, represented by its chairman K.P. Philip, has been arraigned as the first accused, the CRLS, represented by its chairman Thomas Abraham Kallivayalil, has been named as the second accused. Mr. Philip and Mr. Kallivayalil have been individually arraigned as the third and fourth accused. Jojo Chandy, the treasurer of both the GSPI and the CRLS, is the fifth accused and noted Malayalam writer Paul Zacharia, the secretary of the society, is the sixth accused. 43 charges The investigation agency has recorded 43 charges in the chargesheet. The chargesheet, which was submitted at the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Thiruvananthapuram, has accused the GSPI of misappropriating tsunami funds and transferring around Rs. 19 lakh to its capital fund and making false statements regarding the funds in its annual finance statement. The GSPL and the CRLS had executed charitable and religious projects of the Dutch firm, Woorden Daad (WD), a Christian religious and charitable organisation, in Kerala. Violation of agreement The society, according to the chargesheet, misused the Rs. 1.07 crore meant for the construction of a residential school for street children. The school was illegally launched without the approval of the authorities. The property purchased for the school was sold for Rs. 3.29 crore. The closing down of the school and selling of the property was done unilaterally and in violation of the bilateral agreement, according to the CBI.  The CBI said both the agencies were receiving foreign contribution even after the cancellation of its FCRA registration. The two agencies also submitted false statements regarding the utilisation of foreign contribution. The GSPI utilised the foreign contribution for the purposes other than for which it was donated, according to the CBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbi-chargesheets-two-ngos-for-fund-misuse/article37941728.ece
13 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two police officers placed under suspension||Two police officers of the Aluva East station were placed under suspension on Sunday for alleged lapses in preparing a custody application of Congress activists who had been arrested for protesting in front of the station. They had demanded the suspension of Circle Inspector C.L. Sudheer of the station, whose name was mentioned in the note left behind by a young law graduate who allegedly ended her life citing domestic violence. The suspension of Sub Inspector Vinod and Grade Sub Inspector Rajesh follows a report filed before the court seeking a probe into the possible extremist links of the activists. The alleged action of the two officers had invited widespread criticism, following which the Aluva DySP was deputed to conduct an inquiry and submit a report. The suspension order was issued based on the report. Aluva MLA Anwar Sadath had alleged that the arrested youths were responsible citizens, and that terming Congress workers as having extremist links was serious and unacceptable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-police-officers-placed-under-suspension/article37942211.ece
13 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Talk on feminism held||A talk on DalitBahujan Feminism was organised by the Department of English, Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady, recently. In her talk, Dr. Rekha Raj, who teaches at M.G. University, Kottayam, spoke on inequalities being faced by Dalit women in society and the need for democratic reforms in public spheres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/talk-on-feminism-held/article37942218.ece
13 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Underpass opened to traffic||The long-awaited underpass at Edappally was opened to motorists on Sunday by Hibi Eden, MP. Signal lights to avoid traffic hold-ups along the underpass that is 4 metres wide and 2.50 metres in height will shortly be installed, he said. The need for an underpass arose after the railway gate was closed after the commissioning of the Edappally overbridge in 2012. This led to a wide extent of inhabited land being divided into two, with the result that residents were forced to travel long distances to reach the other side. In 2017, Mr. Eden (who was then MLA), K.V. Thomas, MP, and P.T. Thomas, MLA, allotted Rs. 1.18 crore, Rs. 1 crore, and Rs. 1.25 crore for the construction of the underpass, from their constituency funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/underpass-opened-to-traffic/article37942222.ece
13 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rear Admiral visits defence sites in Lakshadweep||Rear Admiral Antony George, Chief of Staff, Southern Naval Command (SNC), visited Lakshadweep Islands from Friday to Sunday. He reviewed the progress of infrastructure work and security apparatus of various naval units in the isles and inspected the proposed site for the construction of aviation support facilities for naval aircraft operations on Agatti island, upcoming civil-military air field at Minicoy, satellite data centre at Kavaratti, and berthing facilities at Androth. New detachment Towards increasing the naval footprint in the islands, a new detachment is being established on Bitra island. A thorough surveillance and monitoring of the strategic group of Lakshadweep islands are being maintained by the SNC in close coordination with other security agencies and the Lakshadweep administration, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rear-admiral-visits-defence-sites-in-lakshadweep/article37942209.ece
13 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cybersecurity start-up bags Rs. 50-crore investment||CloudSEK, a cybersecurity start-up, which leverages Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) to combat cyber threats, has raised $7 million (Rs. 50 crore) in its Series A investment led by MassMutual Ventures. This brings the total investment in the Singapore-based start-up to to $10 million. It was founded in 2015 by cybersecurity expert Rahul Sasi with the aim of constructing a future where intelligent machines could emulate human cognition to predict cyber threats even before they occur. “Our technology focus is on predicting cyber attacks by leveraging our AI platform. This approach has taken us from six customers to 100+ customers,” said Mr. Sasi, founder and chairman, CloudSEK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cybersecurity-start-up-bags-rs-50-crore-investment/article37942358.ece
13 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Two students held with 82 nitrazepam tablets||Punalur Excise team on Sunday arrested two engineering students with 82 nitrazepam tablets, a prescription drug misused for its potent hypnotic properties. They were arrested as part of Operation Devil Hunt launched in connection with the special Christmas-New Year enforcement drive. The team led by Punalur Excise Circle Inspector K.Sudevan nabbed Kallumala residents Alan George (28), son of George, Charuvilaveettil, and Vijay (22), son of Vijayakumar, Priya Bhavan, following a tip-off received by Kollam Deputy Excise Commissioner B.Suresh. Both were booked under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. According to Excise officials, Kallumala was under the close monitoring of the department for the last one month and the students were arrested during a special inspection held on Saturday night. Alan George, the first accused, is also accused in several narcotic and criminal cases. Ganja smuggling He was arrested six months ago while trying to smuggle 4 kg of ganja through the Aryankavu checkpost. The accused had brought the psychiatric drug for consumption and sales during Christmas and New Year parties. The officials said both are key members of a Punalur-based gang that supplies drugs in the district. The source will be investigated and the phones of the accused will be checked for more information, said Kollam Assistant Commissioner V. Robert. Excise sleuths had made another arrest as part of the special drive on Friday after seizing 1.5 kg of ganja from Abhilash, a 40-year-old Kadavoor resident. The accused used to deliver ganja in an autorickshaw and he was arrested near Mangad Veterinary Hospital on the basis of information received by Circle Inspector G. Krishnakumar. The department had stepped up surveillance steps and launched joint inspections in various parts of the district from the first week of December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-students-held-with-82-nitrazepam-tablets/article37942271.ece
13 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Admission to TV course||Keltron has invited applications for its Television Journalism course. Graduates in any subject can take direct admission. Call 9544958182, 8137969292 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/admission-to-tv-course/article37942261.ece
13 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Concerns over bird flu outbreak||Amidst concerns over a fresh bout of bird flu outbreak in Kuttanad, the Department of Animal Husbandry in Kottayam has issued guidelines with regard to the consumption and handling of chicken and duck meat in the district. Cooked meat According to Shaji Panikkassery, District Coordinator, Disease Control Project of the Animal Husbandry wing, said cooked meat of both chicken and duck was fit for consumption. However, care should be taken to keep hands with soap and water after handling fresh meat. Face mask and gloves should be used while handling dead birds and the fowls that are killed due to disease should not be abandoned in waterbodies or land. Although cases of duck deaths have been reported from a few villages across Kottayam, result of the samples sent to the lab in Bhopal are yet to be received. However, a rapid action force has been constituted on a direction from the District Collector for carrying out preventive actions. As per estimates, 14,298 ducks, including 6,550 ducklings, died across the district this season. In Kallara village Of this, Kallara village reported the highest number of deaths (6,550), followed by Vechur with 4,037 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concerns-over-bird-flu-outbreak-in-kuttanad/article37942262.ece
13 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Excise squads intensify checks ahead of festival season||As part of attempts to prevent the sale of illicit liquor and the smuggling of narcotic drugs during the Christmas-New Year season, special squads of the Excise department have intensified checking activities with the support of the Police, Forest and Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel in the district. Dog squads trained to sniff out narcotic and psychotropic substances are part of the joint squads to ensure flawless surveillance. The strength of patrol squads along district borders and checkposts has been increased and two striking units under two senior Excise officers have been deployed. The recent spike in incidents of synthetic drug trafficking by youngsters and women has also prompted the department to step up surveillance ahead of the festive season. According to Excise officials, plainclothesmen will be deployed to check suspicious movements of carriers and consignments by road, rail, or other means of transportation. Local police stations have been roped in to conduct flash vehicle inspections on national and State highways. Steps will be taken to check the stock in various private godowns. Many such buildings have already been covered by the squads in and around the Thamarassery region. Along with the Excise department, the RPF squads are also in action to track the smuggling of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) by train. “Though there are no restrictions on hosting private parties on the eve of Christmas and New Year, we will definitely keep an eye on such gatherings to prevent the chances of drug abuse. There will be proper surveillance in place with the support of the organisers concerned,” said Deputy Excise Commissioner K. Jayapalan, adding that booking details would be monitored closely. A district-level control room (0495 2372927) is now functional at the Excise Divisional Office at the Civil Station for the public to exchange confidential information regarding drug trafficking or IMFL smuggling with the striking units.  The recent spike in incidents of drug trafficking by youngsters and women has prompted the Excise department to step up surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-squads-intensify-checks-ahead-of-festival-season/article37942190.ece
13 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||House surgeons, teachers to strike work today||Services at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, will be hit on Monday with house surgeons and medical teachers calling for a strike in support of postgraduate medical students who have been on an indefinite strike for the past few days. Functionaries of the Kerala House Surgeons Association said on Sunday that its members were forced to work more in the wake of the indefinite strike. Adding to the mental pressure was the deplorable incident that occurred at the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, where a house surgeon was physically attacked and verbally abused, they said. In protest against the delay in resolving the issues raised by the postgraduate medical students, the house surgeons would observe a 24-hour token strike from Monday morning, boycotting all non-emergency services. They would take out a demonstration at the Kozhikode medical college condemning the Alappuzha incident as well. Meanwhile, members of the Kerala Government Postgraduate Medical Teachers Association too have called for a three-hour strike on Monday from 8 a.m. Apart from supporting the indefinite strike by the postgraduate medical students, the teachers are also highlighting the wage disparities for assistant professors in medical colleges. The postgraduate medical students have been boycotting non-emergency duty such as outpatient services, surgeries, and ward duty since the first week of December. From Friday, they have been keeping off emergency duty such as casualty, labour ward, and intensive care units as well. M.K. Raghavan, MP, visited the striking doctors on Sunday. He promised to bring their demands before the Union Health Minister. He spoke to Opposition leader V.D. Satheesan, who offered to mediate to hold talks with Health Minister Veena George. Mr. Raghavan said the strike had affected medical college hospitals, and there had been a decline in patients admitted for surgeries. It would impact poor patients who would not be able to seek treatment in private hospitals, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/house-surgeons-teachers-to-strike-work-today/article37942200.ece
13 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||No jobs for paramedics trained in other States||Paramedical professionals who graduated from institutions outside the State have filed a writ petition again in the Kerala High Court against rules that bar them from applying for government and private jobs in the State. Khaleel Mohammed, president of Allied Health Students and Professionals Association, said on Sunday that registration with Kerala Paramedical Council was a must for getting jobs in the State. However, only those who studied in Kerala are allowed to register with the council. They need to get an equivalency certificate issued by the Kerala University of Health Sciences too. Registration is required even for temporary jobs. People who had cleared interviews for government jobs too are unable to join them. Some States where they studied do not have a paramedical council. Mr. Mohammed said since the graduates were finding it difficult to get jobs, most of them were unable to repay bank loans taken for studies. They cannot apply for jobs in Gulf countries as well because registration with an Indian government agency is mandatory there. He claimed that though petitions had been filed with the court earlier too, the government was dragging its feet in filing responses. As many as 10,000 graduates stand affected. According to the association, the root of the problem is a Government Order dated April 24, 2018 that disallowed candidates who passed paramedical-allied health science courses from outside Kerala from applying for government or private jobs in the State. Paramedical degrees awarded by national institutions such as the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi; Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Puducherry, and authorised State-level institutions such as Rajiv Gandhi Health University, Jagadguru Sri Shivarathreeswara University in Karnataka, and MGR Medical University in Tamil Nadu have no recognition in Kerala. The courses are B.Sc in Medical Laboratory Technology, Imaging Technology, Radio Therapy, Dialysis Technology, Perfusion Technology, Neuro Science Technology, Operation Theatre Technology, Anaesthesia Technology, Radiography, Cardiovascular Technology, Respiratory Therapy, Physician Assistant, and Optometry. The association functionaries claimed that they were forced to study outside the State because Kerala lacked quality courses. Though many memorandums had been submitted to the Chief Minister, Health Minister, and officials, no solution is forthcoming, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-jobs-for-paramedics-trained-in-other-states/article37942197.ece
13 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Khader hailed as WW II’s contribution to Malayalam||A year after U.A. Khader passed away, Kozhikode remembered the writer through a series of seminars, talks, documentaries and exhibitions. ‘Khader Peruma’ was organised by the Kerala Sahitya Akademi in association with the U.A. Khader commemoration committee on Saturday and Sunday in memory of the author of Thrikkottur Peruma . “Khader is the Second World War’s contribution to Malayalam, in the sense that his father would not have been forced to flee Burma if not for the war,” said writer Subhash Chandran in his U.A. Khader commemoration lecture on Sunday. Describing Khader as a man free of conspiracies and gossip, Mr. Chandran said the writer’s greatest contribution was teaching the readers of Malayalam literature that the feeling of ownership or kinship was meaningless. Earlier, opening the commemoration meeting, CPI(M) Polit Bureau member M.A. Baby said Khader’s life experiences were great lessons for his readers and that they led to great thoughts. Writer T. Padmanabhan, in his keynote address, said Khader was the writer of some of the best fantasies in Malayalam. Sahitya Akademi president and writer Vaisakhan presided over the event. Two-day event The two-day event was inaugurated by Ports Minister Ahammad Devarkovil on Saturday. Seminars were held on topics such as ‘Different paths in language’, ‘Chains of birth relationships’, and ‘Nation, Nationality and Regionalism’.    Uranjadunna Deshangal , a documentary, was screened on the first day. Gandhamapini and Irul Parithoshikam , two books by Khader, were released on the occasion by writer P.K. Parakkadavu. The brochure of the book U.A. Khader: Ezhuthu, Jeevitham, Katha by Gokuldas was also released on the occasion. A painting competition was held for school children on the theme ‘Khader’s characters’, and the paintings of school children have been exhibited at the venue. There is an exhibition of all the awards received by Khader, his books and their handwritten manuscripts, the paintings he made in his sixties, and newspaper cuttings of reports on him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/khader-is-ww-iis-contribution-to-malayalam-says-subhash-chandran/article37942186.ece
13 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Call to include road safety norms in school curriculum||Road safety volunteers owing allegiance to Road Accident Action Forum (RAAF) on Sunday passed a resolution seeking the inclusion of road safety laws in school curriculum. The demand was raised at a meeting of the forum. It was set up nearly 20 years ago to sensitise the public and government functionaries to ways to mitigate road accidents and reach out to families of accident victims with all possible support. The resolution sought the introduction of four separate modules for pre-primary, primary, high school and higher secondary school students. Memorandum to CM  “We have submitted a memorandum to the Chief Minister and other ministers who handle portfolios such as education, transport, and public works,” said K.M. Abdu, president, RAAF. He pointed out that the reconstitution of the Kerala Road Safety Authority with more domain experts and representatives from road safety organisations could be a productive step. The district-level meet was opened by Sub Judge M.P. Shaijal at Gandhi Griham in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-include-road-safety-norms-in-school-curriculum/article37942203.ece
13 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Over 4,000 cases resolved at National Lok Adalat||More than 4,000 cases were resolved at the National Lok Adalat held in various courts in the district recently. The Lok Adalat was held under the aegis of the District Legal Services Authority and the Taluk Legal Services Committees based on the directions of the National Legal Services Authority and the Kerala State Legal Services Authority. 6,200 cases As many as 6,200 cases were taken up in the adalats, including pending and new cases. There were 1,290 pre-litigation petitions while there were 4,901 pending cases among those that were taken up for hearing. Of those, litigants and lawyers turned up for only 4,452, which were resolved. Compensation Compensation worth Rs. 95,11,60,002 was ordered to be distributed in various cases. The hearings were held at the Kozhikode District Court complex, and Koyilandy, Vadakara, Kunnamangalam and Thamarassery courts. The adalat was organised under the leadership of District Judge P. Ragini.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-4000-cases-resolved-at-national-lok-adalat/article37942196.ece
13 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Man arrested||The Town police on Saturday arrested a Kollam native who was suspected of snatching the purse of a differently abled woman while she was selling lottery tickets on Railway Station Link Road. Dhanesh was nabbed after the police examined CCTV visuals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested/article37942201.ece
13 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||CPI activist attacked||A CPI activist who sustained grave injuries in an attack by a gang of unidentified persons was admitted to the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital on Saturday night. K. Rineesh, who came under attack at Vellimadukkunnu, said he was manhandled for supporting the love marriage of his brother-in-law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpi-activist-attacked/article37942202.ece
13 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Facelift for high-range roads||The major roads along the high-ranges of Pathanamthitta, which have been in a state of disrepair following the prolonged monsoon this year, are finally set to get a major facelift. Ending a wait that lasted several months, the Public Works Department has finally kick started works on restoring the roads connecting Murinjakal to Koodal Rajagiri, Thanithodu to Karimanthodu and Kaipattoor to Vallikodu. Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas will inaugurate the restoration works at three separate functions to be held here on Monday. Officials said restoration of the 15-km long Murinjakal-Koodal Rajagiri road using the BMBC technology would be completed in eight months. The works involve restoration of the damaged bridges at Iruthodu and Karakkakuzhi and construction of protection walls and drainage system on both sides of the stretch, besides widening of the pathway. The total cost of works is estimated to be Rs. 15 crore. The Thannithodu-Karimanthodu will be restored at a cost of Rs. 6.76 crore, which also included Rs. 4.26 crore allotted under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative. The work agreement stipulates restoration of the road in eight months and maintenance for a period of five years. The demand for restoring the 6.5-km-long stretch, which runs along the forest fringes and opens access to the historic Aluvamkudy temple, has been a long pending with the authorities. The restoration of the 3.4 km long Kaipattoorr-Vallikodu road is being initiated at a cost of Rs. 6 crore, allotted under the State Budget this year. Last month, the State government had held a high-level meeting to review the damage sustained to the roads in Pathanamthitta and the progress of works on restoring the same. The meeting had evaluated the works by classifying the road works into three different categories namely the works completed, under completion and those experiencing problems over time and also prepared a working calendar for completing the works in a time-bound manner. Rainfall activity Authorities attribute the damaged condition of roads in Pathanamthitta, especially along its high-ranges, to the heavy rainfall activity in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/facelift-for-high-range-roads/article37942272.ece
13 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Treading the line between truth and delusion||During his college days in Mumbai in 2007, filmmaker Prince Shah was having a late night tea with his friends when a stranger with the looks and demeanour of a movie star came to them and asked them to buy him tea and bun. They got curious about him and later it turned out that he was once a movie star. He introduced himself as Master Sailesh, a once-popular child actor who starred in films like Yaadon Ki Baaraat with a young Aamir Khan, but later due to various circumstances ended up in the streets of Mumbai where he has lived for decades. Another character Around the same time, Shah and his friends met Praklawn, another intriguing character, who claims to have had an epic life, from being the youngest freedom fighter to having associated with filmmaker Guru Dutt and James Bond creator Ian Fleming. But, there was no proof for his claims, although the stories he narrated did not have any loopholes, especially with the time periods and other details mentioned. The curiosity about these lives led Shah to making Moon on the Man a documentary on the two individuals with somewhat similar trajectories, which was screened in the long documentary competition at the 13th International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala (IDSFFK) on Sunday. The documentary begins as a quest for the truth behind their claims, with two aspiring filmmakers Asif and Wadood debating on the truth of their claims. Praklawn, 80, who seems to have friends all over the streets of Mumbai, claims that he had taken part in the freedom struggle as a young boy. Some years later, filmmaker Guru Dutt approached him when he was singing on the beach his own song titled ‘Yeh hai Bombay Meri Jaan’, which Praklawn claims was used by Guru Dutt in the movie CID . He says that he was not credited as per his request, as his conservative foster parents wouldn’t have liked it. He also claims to have associated with Dutt in some more movies. “After we met him, we were very curious as human beings to whether he is telling the truth or not. We wanted to decode him and started making this documentary to study why he is saying what he is saying. We pursued and pursued them and made the film with footage shot over 5-6 years. Whenever we were free, we used to shoot. It is a self-funded project, as it got rejected from several places for funds,” says Shah. What begins as a mere curious quest soon raises it to something in which the truth does not matter, and becomes a celebration of two individuals who seem to have derived much pleasure from each minute they have lived on the earth. With some captivating frames and organic moments, which comes only with a thorough familiarity with the subject, the film also documents life on Mumbai streets. “From Praklawn’s point of view, he has achieved as much as someone who has gone to the moon. Some people may call it delusional, but we just need to be empathetic about other people because we don’t know their reality,” says Shah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/treading-the-line-between-truth-and-delusion/article37942266.ece
13 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pothencode murder: 3 arrested||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police on Sunday arrested three people and took seven others into custody in connection with the gruesome murder of a youth near Pothencode a day ago. The police identified those arrested for the murder of Kalloor native Sudheesh as Nandeesh, 22, Nidheesh, 24, both hailing from Sasthavattom near Chirayinkeezhu, and Renjith, 28, of Kaniyapuram. The autorickshaw and the two motorcycles that were used by the 11 perpetrators are also learnt to have been seized. Renjith, who drove the autorickshaw, was apprehended at his wife’s house in Attingal. While seven people have been taken into custody, the prime accused Rajesh alias Ottakam Rajesh remains at large. The police remained confident of nabbing him without delay. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) P.K. Madhu said the incident is being viewed as one borne out of gang rivalry. The deceased as well as those accused in the case have been involved in numerous criminal cases. Multiple teams led by Additional Superintendents of Police (ASPs) and Deputy Superintendents of Police (DySPs) have been formed to crack the case, he added. The incident is believed to be in retaliation against an attack on two members of Rajesh’s gang allegedly by Sudheesh and a few others in Mangattumoola near Attingal on December 6. Ever since, Sudheesh has remained in hiding in a relative’s house where he was murdered on Saturday. Prior to the murder, the gang is learnt to have conducted a ‘rehearsal’ during which they tested country bombs that they purportedly procured for the crime. They used the bombs to scare away a group of local residents who attempted to intervene after the gang chased Sudheesh to his relative’s house. Minister finds fault Meanwhile, Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil found fault in the surveillance measures adopted by the police. The lackadaisical approach towards addressing complaints without delay has been benefiting criminal elements. The law enforcers must ensure tight vigil to bring such people to book and enforce peace, he said.  While seven people have been taken into custody, the prime accused Rajesh, alias Ottakam Rajesh, remains at large||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pothencode-murder-3-arrested/article37942364.ece
13 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Andhra Pradesh reports 1st Omicron case||Andhra Pradesh has reported its first Omicron case on Sunday. A 34-year-old who came from Ireland to Visakhapatnam, was found positive for the COVID variant. He did not have any symptoms. The person was tested at the Mumbai airport, and was found negative. He was allowed to travel to Visakhapatnam on November 27. In the retest held, he tested positive. 3rd case in Karnataka A third case of Omicron has been detected in Karnataka. In Bengaluru, Karnataka Health Minister K. Sudhakar confirmed that a 34-year-old man who returned from South Africa tested positive for the new variant. The first two cases of Omicron were detected in Karnataka on December 2 — a 66-year-old South African national and a 46-year-old doctor from Bengaluru. High alert Health Minister, Veena George, has appealed for heightened vigil and the strict observance of all universal precautions against COVID-19 as the presence of Omicron, a SARS CoV2 variant that has been established as more transmissible than Delta variant, has been confirmed in the State. Ms. George said the State had been adhering to protocols set by the Centre ever since Omicron was first confirmed in the country. .Travellers from abroad who test positive are moved to special wards in hospitals, while those from “high-risk” countries who test negative are asked to remain on home quarantine. While there are early reports that there is an increased risk of reinfection with Omicron and that vaccine performance may be affected by the variant, that does not mean vaccines will become “ineffective entirely”, according to WHO. Mike Ryan, executive director of WHO’s health emergencies programme, was quoted as saying that the idea that a more transmissible virus is a milder virus is “a little bit of an urban legend”. But indications that Omicron is transmitting more than Delta, “does not mean the virus is unstoppable”. Hence non-pharmaceutical interventions, such as masking and social distancing, are important, WHO has said.  (With inputs from Bengaluru and Thiruvananthapuram)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/andhra-pradesh-reports-1st-omicron-case/article37942224.ece
13 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||DJing falls on hard times amid narcotics seizures in State||Grabbing headlines for the wrong reasons in recent times, parties with disc jockeys (DJ) face an uncertain future with the hospitality industry becoming jittery over the prospect of impromptu drug raids. A spate of show cancellations during the year-end festive season has left DJs worried over the impact the recent narcotics cases could have on their livelihood. Signs of revival The hospitality industry has been witnessing signs of revival following the easing of restrictions caused by the pandemic. However, the recent drug haul at a rave party in Poovar near here, and the suspected narcotics angle in the case relating to the deaths of two models in Kochi, has proved to be dampener for “DJ parties”. Many DJs are considering other career avenues for sustenance. “We could be in the midst of our greatest crisis yet,” says Arun S., also known as DJ Arun, an industry veteran with 15 years of experience behind the turntable. Mr. Arun, who donned the chef’s hat and turned to catering during the recent lockdown, said the setback is bound to affect not just DJs, but also the light and sound, and food and beverage industries. In the drug bust at Poovar, three alleged racketeers were nabbed and many others briefly detained from a resort a week ago. After the incident, many sold-out events were called off. Vinish Vijay, the chief executive officer of event management firm Connections Entertainment, said a show that was set to feature Bengaluru-based DJ Ivan, a mentor to many performers, in Kovalam on Saturday was cancelled on the demand of the venue partner. Guidelines likely Alarmed over the scenario, the community is focused on framing guidelines that would help DJs from becoming unsuspecting victims of drug rackets. Kochi’s Jonathan de Rozario, or DJ Jonathan, secretary of the Kerala Disco Jockey Association, said DJs would be advised to inform law enforcement agencies of events in advance. ‘Years of dedication’ DJ Charles of Alappuzha demanded steps to cut the supply of narcotics substances at source, rather than hounding performers who considered DJ-ing an art and had made careers through years of dedication. Like Mr. Arun, he too has ventured into another business — of home decor — as a backup option that could keep him afloat in such trying times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amid-drug-busts-djs-fall-on-hard-times/article37941737.ece
13 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Medicos’ strike garners more support||The ongoing strike by junior residents or postgraduate medical students in government medical college hospitals (MCHs) in the State, who are staying away from all hospital duties and emergency services, except COVID-19 duty, looks set to precipitate a major crisis in the day-to-day functioning of MCHs as more doctors’ organisations have announced their intention to join the strike from Monday. The entire medical fraternity seemed to be supporting the striking doctors and demanding that the government settle the strike. However, Health Minister Veena George maintained that the State government had done everything it could to resolve the issues raised by medicos. House surgeons With their seniors going on strike, house surgeons are left to manage emergency services in MCHs. The house surgeons’ association, in protest, announced the boycott of all duties, except emergency services and COVID-19 duty, for 24 hours from 8 a.m. on Monday as a token protest. They have also demanded an immediate inquiry and action into the assault on a woman house surgeon at the Alappuzha MCH, failing which they would all go on strike. The Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA) pointed out that PG medicos were the main workforce in MCHs and that the government’s attempt to ignore their demands would aggravate the already fragile human resources situation in MCHs and precipitate a serious crisis. The association’s Thiruvananthapuram unit in a statement said that in protest against the workload that the faculty was being burdened with and in solidity with the PG doctors, the faculty will boycott OP, IP, elective surgeries and teaching activities at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, for two hours on Monday. Emergency services In a statement, they warned that if the PG medicos’ strike was allowed to continue, doctors would be forced to restrict medical college services to just emergency care and elective surgeries could get postponed indefinitely. The Senior Resident Doctors’ Association, Kerala, in a statement here, threatened to go on strike, if the administrators intended to burden them, instead of resolving the medicos’ issues PG medicos went on strike 12 days ago, as part of a nationwide protest against the delay in NEET-PG allotment 2021 and demanding that the State government intervene on the issue. Though the government issued orders allowing MCHs to appoint 373 non-academic junior residents in the hospitals to ease the burden of PG medicos, they said the number was inadequate to fulfil the requirements of tertiary care institutions, which were short of at least 1,000 PG doctors. They also demanded a 4% hike in their stipend, which had been promised to them earlier, but which was never implemented.  Government has done everything it can to resolve the issues raised by medicos. Veena George Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medicos-strike-garners-more-support/article37942227.ece
13 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IDSFFK packs gems in animation section||Three kids playing in a village stream suddenly become curious about its origins. While two of them have set ideas on the origins, with one of them claiming that it originates from the sea and the another positing the theory that it flows from a place where the rain never stops, the third one has a more open mind and wonders as to which of the theories to believe. The three of them soon set off upstream, along the twists and turns of the stream, towards its origins. Glued to the seats National Institute of Design graduate J. Balaram’s 12-minute animation film Oru Thudakkathinte Katha tells this story that has something in it to keep both the elders and children glued to their seats. If it is the young curious minds and the absolutely gorgeous recreation of a village stream and its surroundings that would attract the kids, it is the differences that crop up among them, and the way it points to larger contemporary issues that would be of interest to the grown-ups. The animation package at the 13th International Documentary and Short Film Festival (IDSFFK) this year has a few such gems like this, which has in it something for everyone. Abuses In Satyajit Ray Film & Television Institute-graduate Rishi Bhaumik’s Megha , a young girl’s fear of her elder relative is visualised as a disorienting nightmare. The film highlights the issue of abuses happening within the family, in which the victims are often not heard or believed. In Pahal (An initiative), directors Avinash Medhe, Swarup Deb, and Anuj Kumar tell the story of three women from different backgrounds having a conversation with each other, while waiting to pitch their ideas at a start-up funding event.  Own struggles Each has had their own struggles and overcome the many obstacles that a woman with ambitions have to face, to reach where they are now. Their diverse backgrounds provide ample opportunity for the animators to display their skills. The fact that there is a separate animation team for each of their backstories points at the kind of work involved behind the 12-minute movie.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idsffk-packs-gems-in-animation-section/article37942192.ece
13 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Energy conservation awards announced||Travancore Cochin Chemicals Ltd., Udyogamandal has won the Kerala State Energy Conservation Award 2021 in the large scale energy consumer category. Milma Dairy Palakkad was adjudged the best medium scale energy consumer. The awards were declared on Sunday by the State Level Monitoring Committee for Energy Conservation constituted by the Energy Management Centre. In the Buildings category, Gateway Varkala - IHCL SeleQtions, Varkala was declared the winner while Kerala State Electricity Board Ltd emerged the winner in the Institutions and Organizations category. The awards carry a cash prize of Rs. 1,00,000 each. In the large-scale energy consumer category, Nitta Gelatin India Limited, Kakkanad, will be conferred commendation. The other commendation certificate winners are: Indane Bottling plant, Cochin (Medium Scale energy consumer category), BEML Ltd, Palakkad Complex (Small Scale energy consumer category), F5 Sustainability Consultants, Kochi (Architect and Green Building Consultants Category), Cherukara Industries, Aluva (Retailers and Traders category), NavAlt Solar and Electric Boats Pvt Ltd, Ernakulam and Kerala Water Authority (Institutions and Organizations category) and Mallika G, Pathanamthitta (for individual efforts). The winners were selected from 78 entries in eight categories. The total savings in electricity and oil by the applicants were estimated to be 621 MU (million units) and 45345 toe (tonne of oil equivalent) defined as the amount of energy released by burning one tonne of crude oil.  Total savings in electricity and oil by the 78 applicants were estimated to be 621 million units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/energy-conservation-awards-announced/article37942193.ece
13 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree polls to be held in district next month||The Kudumbashree district mission is gearing up for elections to its three-tier network next month. The Kudumbashree has nearly four lakh members under 30,000 neighbourhood groups (NHGs) and 83 community development societies in the district, sources said. Elections will be held to neighbourhood groups, area development societies (ADSs), and community development societies (CDSs). The plan is to complete the election process and have the new CDSs in place by January 26, says Kudumbashree district mission coordinator K.R. Shaiju. The election notification and voter list will be published on December 20. The NHG elections will be held from January 7 to 13. One president and secretary each and three executive members will be elected in each NHG for a three-year term. At the ward-level, the NHGs are federated into ADS. The ADS general body that comprises the elected office-bearers of all NHGs in a ward will elect an 11-member governing body that includes a chairperson, vice chairperson, and secretary. The ADS election will be held on January 16. At the panchayat/municipal level, all the ADSs in the local body are federated into a CDS. The CDS general body includes all ADS governing body members in that panchayat or municipality or corporation. They elect one member from each ward who in turn selects the CDS chairperson and vice-chairperson.  Reserved Of the 83 CDSs in the distruct, 13 are reserved for Scheduled Castes and three for Scheduled Tribes. This time, the Kudumbashree elections are being held with a few changes. While CDS chairpersons could be elected two consecutive times earlier, now it has been limited to twice in a lifetime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-polls-to-be-held-in-district-next-month/article37942361.ece
13 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A riot of colour at ‘Varnangal’||Varnangal, an exhibition and sale of paintings by five women artists along with works by 10 VIP artistes, is under way at Flora Art Gallery at Oottukuzhy here. The exhibition features paintings by Remini Karunakaran, Beena Sunil, Viji R.K., Shali Thomas, and Rachel Jasper. All five women were at home in the wake of COVID-19, restless as life came to a near standstill. But soon they settled down and turned to art to beat the lockdown blues. Ends today Their creativity found expression in 75 paintings, big and small, that they are exhibiting till December 13. Rachel Jasper, a former employee of the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, says they are all students at Flora, but during the lockdown could not attend any classes at the Flora Institute of Arts and Crafts where the gallery is located, and hence began working on paintings. Guidance was given online by artist George Fernandez who runs Flora. VIP artists The paintings that the women created on canvas are exhibited along with paintings, photographs, and digital prints by 10 VIP artists. The proceeds from the sale of works by the 10 VIP artists will go to Pallium India for support of families receiving palliative care. Works by Sheela Devi, actor; George Jacob Muthoot, chairman of The Muthoot Group; his wife Susheela Elizabeth Jacob who works for Muthoot Housing and Infrastructure; Asif Ali Komu, curator; Sheela Kochouseph, businesswoman; Balan Madhavan, photographer; Sethulakshmy Nair, obstetrician; and artists Ummer Paroor, Chandran, and Biji Baskher. Asha Vinson Paul, philanthropist, inaugurated the exhibition on Wednesday. The paintings and photographs are priced from Rs. 200 upwards. The exhibition will be open from 10 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-riot-of-colour-at-varnangal/article37942354.ece
13 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Education dept. to target fake news||The General Education Department will create awareness against fake news. Students and teachers will participate in the ‘Satyamev Jayate’ information-literacy activities as part of the Chief Minister’s 10-point programme. The Educational Technology teachers’ clubs of the State Institute of Educational Technology (SIET) will organise the programme in the higher secondary and vocational higher secondary sections. The programme would equip students to recognise fake news spread through social media, SIET Director B. Aburaj said. In the first phase, training would be provided to teachers. Through them, the Satyamev Jayate module would reach all students. Training would be conducted through videos that will go into aspects such as source of fake news, their risks, vested interests of those behind fake news. District-level teacher training would be completed in all educational districts in the State on Monday and Tuesday. Training School-level teacher training would be completed on Friday. Teachers would introduce the information-literacy module to students next week. After the training, continuous programmes would be conducted for students, Mr. Aburaj said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/awareness-campaign-against-fake-news/article37942263.ece
13 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Maldives envoy’s pat for Vithura school SPC||A team led by Aminath Abdulla Didi, Consul General of the Republic of Maldives, visited Government Vocational and Higher Secondary School, Vithura, to know more about the Student Police Cadet (SPC) scheme and interact with the cadets on Saturday. Deputy Consul Ibrahim Saeed Mohamed and First Secretary Aminath Mohamed accompanied the Consul General on the visit to the Vithura SPC unit. The SPC scheme is implemented by the State Home and Education departments. The team that interacted with the cadets also visited an exhibition of various products created by students following training received at the skill hub under the SPC and a ‘Kuttipallikoodam’ set up at Elavinmoodu in Vithura. Ms. Aminath Abdulla Didi released a brochure of an international campaign ‘Zero tolerance to child marriage’ that is being implemented by the Vithura SPC unit. The visiting team had words of praise for the cadets and the school. SPC State additional nodal officer K. Mohammed Shafi, school headmistress Sindhu Devi T.S., and Vithura station house officer S. Sreejith welcomed the consulate team. Mohammed Saif, chief, Mission Better Tomorrow, which is associated with the ‘Zero tolerance to child marriage’ campaign, accompanied the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maldives-envoys-pat-for-vithura-school-spc/article37942362.ece
13 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||K.M. Sali remembered||K.M. Sali who made commendable contribution to religious, social, and charitable spheres for over half a century was remembered here on Sunday. Transport Minister Antony Raju inaugurated the remembrance meet. About Sali Prominent people from all walks of life spoke. Sali was Thiruvananthapuram Yatheemkhana committee president, Thiruvananthapuram Muslim Association president, Poonthura Puthen Palli Muslim Jamaat president, and Hidayathul Islam Arabic College president. Thiruvananthapuram Yatheemkhana president M.K. Nasarudeen presided over the event. Vallakkadavu Muslim Jamaat president A. Saifuddin Haji was present. Imam Asad Ahsani led a prayer meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/km-sali-remembered/article37942356.ece
13 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3,777 new cases in State||Kerala logged 3,777 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday when 57,121 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden stands at 51,94,605. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 42,967 as on Sunday, with the State adding 143 deaths to the official list. This includes 34 recent deaths and 109 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government. The State’s active case pool dipped below 40,000 and had 38,361 patients on Sunday. A total of 3,856 recovered on the day. According to the Health Department, only 8.1% of the active cases are currently admitted to hospitals. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in the State was 565 on Sunday. On Sunday, the number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 196. Hospitalisations remain below the 5,000 mark. Capital tops Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases, at 808 cases. Ernakulam 590, Kozhikode 505, Kannur 249, Kottayam 242, Kollam 229, Thrissur 224, Malappuram 212, Idukki 182, Pathanamthitta 170, Wayanad 110, Alappuzha 96, Kasaragod 80 and Palakkad 80.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3777-new-cases-in-state/article37942226.ece
13 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Expel Bindu from Cabinet, demands BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran demanded that Higher Education Minister R. Bindu be expelled from the Cabinet. He said the Minister had extended the service of the Kannur University Vice Chancellor by bypassing university norms and ignoring the counsel of Governor and Chancellor of universities Arif Mohammed Khan. She had facilitated backdoor appointments in universities for relatives of CPI(M) leaders. Mr. Surendran said the government had appointed political cronies via the backdoor in universities. It should revoke the illegal appointments and order a judicial inquiry into the clear cases of brazen nepotism. Mr. Khan had registered his lack of confidence in the Pinarayi Vijayan government. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) administration had lost the moral right to continue in office, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expel-bindu-from-cabinet-demands-bjp/article37942228.ece
13 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Supplyco failed to curb price rise: Congress||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the Supplyco had failed in stabilising the price of essential commodities. For instance, it had increased the cost of rice further in the past 11 days. Supplyco charged open market rates on groceries. It offered no relief to the people, he said. The government has admitted that it had increased the price of Supplyco provisions in tandem with the open market. Mr. Satheesan said the people would not accept such an apathetic stance from a public-funded agency tasked to regulate the price of essential commodities. The government had repeatedly refused to cut the local fuel tax. Such a move would mitigate the price rise. KPCC president K. Sudhakaran said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was focussed on CPI(M) conferences while the commoner suffered. The government had failed to curb the intervention of agents in the procurement of vegetables. Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil denied the Opposition’s allegations. The government had stepped up direct procurement of essentials from food growing regions to rein in the rising prices for victuals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supplyco-failed-to-curb-price-rise-congress/article37942229.ece
13 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tvm COVID-19 roundup||The district recorded 808 COVID-19 cases and 359 recoveries as the number of active cases rose to 6,393 on Sunday. A health bulletin issued here on Sunday said the test positivity rate stood at 9.3%. There are currently 1,61,911 people under observation across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tvm-covid-19-roundup/article37942363.ece
13 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Special Nelliyampathi service from KSRTC||In addition to its special trip to Malakkappara, the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has started a tour service to Nelliyampathi from Irinjalakuda. Minister for Higher Education R. Bindu flagged off the first service at 6 a.m. on Sunday. The service, which will be available only on public holidays, is priced at Rs. 680 a person. It includes breakfast, lunch, evening tea and snacks. The trip will cover Varayadu Mala, Seetharkundu View Point, Government Orange Farm, Keshavanpara Point, and Pothundi Dam. The trip that starts from Irinjalakuda at 6 a.m. will ply through Vadakkanchery, Nenmara and Pothundi to Nelliyampathi and return to Irinjalakuda at 8.30 p.m. For booking, contact: 0480 2823990.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-nelliyampathi-service-from-ksrtc/article37942328.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Show of might||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/show-of-might/article37942360.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Spirited contest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spirited-contest/article37942330.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Who’s afraid of COVID?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/whos-afraid-of-covid/article37942189.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ride amid the trees||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ride-amid-the-trees/article37942195.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For noise-free city||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-noise-free-city/article37942215.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Competitive spirit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/competitive-spirit/article37942366.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Waiting for buyers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waiting-for-buyers/article37942276.ece
13 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur to get high-end groundnut processing unit||A state-of-the-art FSSAI-licensed secondary groundnut processing unit is being built at Muddulapuram of Kuderu mandal in Anantapur district with a built-up area of 9,490.75 sq ft, which will have the processing lines for nutri-mix (millet) line, groundnut roasting line, chikki processing line, peanut snacks line, cookie line, and cold-pressed oil line. A.F. Ecology Centre Director Y. V. Malla Reddy, at an ICRISAT-AFEC joint farmer awareness programme in Dharmavaram on new agricultural practices like encouraging mixed cropping, kitchen gardening, and farmer field demonstrations, told the gathering on Sunday that supporting smallholder farmers to better harness markets is a powerful way of helping communities move from poverty to prosperity. Speakers at the awareness programme said that ICRISAT’s Inclusive Market-Oriented Development programme had supported millions of farmers across the country to achieve better livelihoods. The project being implemented in Anantapur with the support of the Walmart Foundation was a great opportunity to further enhance the lives of farmers, they opined. The project was initiated by ICRISAT in 2018 in partnership with the A.F. Ecology Centre (AFEC) with a grant from the Walmart Foundation. Since the inception of the project, 6,000 small farmers were formed into nine Mutually Aided Co-operative Society Limited (MACS), 3,500 of whom are women. The MACS are located in Dharmavaram, Rapthadu, Kuderu, Atmakur, Kalyandurgam, Beluguppa, Kundurpi, and Setturu mandals. The Farmer Producer Organisations were established with the help of the AFEC with an intention of creating farmers as farm earners and making the local farmer organisations a social business enterprise for commercial transactions and higher price realisation. The project successfully established four community-based primary processing centres (PPCs), each run by the MACS at Dharmavaram, Rapthadu, Kuderu, and Atmakur for groundnut and dal. The farmers are able to sell their raw produce at a profitable price, to the PPCs based on quality (Captive mode) providing them Fair Market Price and assured quality benefitting farmers, traders, and stakeholders across the value chain. These units have processed and marketed 216 tonnes of groundnut and 2.77 tonnes of dal, with a transactional value of Rs. 70 lakh, the MACS members said and pointed out that they could make a profit of Rs. 4 lakh generating direct employment for 857 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-to-get-high-end-groundnut-processing-unit/article37941906.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 40 write open letter to Rangayana director||Over 40 eminent people, including writers, artists, and actors and directors earlier associated with theatre repertory Rangayana, have written an open letter condemning the recent statements by Rangayana’s current director Addanda C. Cariappa who in an interview to an RSS-linked media platform alleged that all previous directors of Rangayana barring two had “Maoist” leanings. “Rangayana has never been restricted to either the left or the right and is an autonomous cultural institution beyond these divisions, supported by the people from all walks of life. People of Karnataka did not see those who have worked there before either as leftists or rightists. They thought and worked for the advancement of theatre. We demand that Mr. Cariappaand people like him should not devalue Rangayana and the Bahuroopi theatre festival organised by it,” the letter said. Senior musician Pandit Rajeev Taranath and theatre personalities S. Surendranath, B. Suresh, Venkataramana Aithal, Achyut Kumar, and others have signed the letter. Those formerly associated with Rangayana — C. Basavalingaiah, Bhagirathibai Kadam, Raghunandana, Mime Ramesh, Noor Ahmed Sheikh, and Santosh Kumar Kusanoor — are also among other signatories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-40-write-open-letter-to-rangayana-director/article37941722.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospital staff arrested for derogatory post against General Bipin Rawat||A 40-year-old man who had made a derogatory post on social media against the Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat has been arrested, the police said on Sunday. According to the police, the 40-year-old hails from Mysuru and works here as a lab technician in a hospital. The arrest comes against the backdrop of Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and State Home Minister Araga Jnanendra warning those celebrating the deaths.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hospital-staff-arrested-for-derogatory-post-against-general-bipin-rawat/article37941725.ece
13 December 2021||Chandigarh/Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||India’s tally mounts to 38||New cases from across the States pushed the country’s Omicron tally to 38 on Sunday. Apart from new cases in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, one case each was reported from Chandigarh and Maharashtra on Sunday. All the five persons had arrived from foreign countries. The patient in Maharashtra is a 40-year-old man who tested positive after returning from a West African country. The man in Chandigarh landed in India on November 22 and is currently in institutional quarantine. An official statement said the traveller, who is fully inoculated with Pfizer vaccine, had been asymptomatic throughout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indias-tally-mounts-to-38/article37941741.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||CB-CID registers case to probe copter crash tweet||The Crime Branch CID (CB-CID) of the Tamil Nadu police have registered a case against two persons handling different Twitter accounts in Pakistan for posting false information on the helicopter crash at Coonoor in the Nilgiris district in which Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat, wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 other officials died on December 8, 2021. After ascertaining that the location of the users was outside the country, the CB-CID has written to Twitter India to share the identity of the suspects, their exact location and other information relevant to the tweets, posted with an intent to spread terror, a senior official in the investigating agency said, adding that the Tamil Nadu police were also examining some controversial posts made by different people in various social media platforms on the tragic crash. Case filed The Cyber Crime wing of the CB-CID police have filed a case against two twitter accounts for tweeting abusive posts on the CDS General Bipin Rawat. In a press release, the CB-CID said it has filed a case against World Conflicts Monitoring Centre, bearing twitter handle WorldBreakingN9, and Pakistan Strategic Forum having the twitter handle @ForumStrategic for posting defamatory posts against the top military officer. STF combing continues Meanwhile the Special Task Force (STF), deployed to focus on the movement and activities of Left Wing extremists in the forest area, abutting Karnataka and Kerala, has joined the Indian Air Force and other agencies in the search operation. According to police sources, a STF team reached the site of the helicopter crash within a few hours on Wednesday and assisted the local police in the relief and rescue operations. The team was also engaged in conducting combing operations in the vicinity, comprising mountainous terrain and thick vegetation. When contacted, a senior police official said most of the helicopter components were already seized by the Air Force officials and handed over to the Accident Investigation Board. The STF personnel, who had the expertise to move in jungle terrain, were engaged in looking for fresh evidence that could aid the probe into the circumstances that led to the crash. Asked whether the meteorological report on December 8, 2021, points to inclement weather conditions that could affect visibility along the Sulur Air Base to the Wellington Defence Services Staff College stretch, the official who preferred not to be quoted, said a formal communication had been sent to the authorities concerned, calling for those details.  CB-CID has filed a case against World Conflicts Monitoring Centre and Pakistan Strategic Forum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cb-cid-registers-case-to-probe-tweet-on-chopper-crash/article37942000.ece
13 December 2021||Chennai/Madurai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccine mandate for temple entry withdrawn in Madurai||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department on Sunday withdrew an order mandating two doses of vaccination against COVID-19 for devotees and visitors to the famed Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple in Madurai and the Sri Ramanathaswamy temple in Rameswaram. On Saturday, the Joint Commissioner of the HR&CE Department, Chelladurai, had, citing an advisory from the Madurai district administration on the prevention of a third wave, said that from Monday (December 13), visitors to the Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple must provide proof of having taken both doses of the vaccines. Those not providing proof of vaccination would be denied entry into the temple. Likewise, in Rameswaram, Municipality officials had installed huge hoardings at vantage locations, urging visitors and devotees to get inoculated. “Only those who have taken the vaccine doses shall be permitted [entry into the Sri Ramanathaswamy temple],” an official had said. The Health Department had also kept the vaccine vials ready, and people were given shots on the spot. However, on Sunday, mandates at the temples were withdrawn. HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu said the department had already undertaken COVID-19 safety measures at the temples. On average, around 50,000 people visit the Rameswaram. The Meenakshi temple, on average, receives around 30,000 to 45,000 devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccine-mandate-for-temple-entry-withdrawn/article37941955.ece
13 December 2021||Chittoor,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sai Teja laid to rest with military honours at his native village||Lance Naik Sai Teja (27), who was among the defence personnel killed in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu last week, was laid to rest with military honours at his native Eguva Regadapalle village, near Madanapalle, on Sunday evening. Sai Teja was the personal security officer to Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, who was also killed in the accident. Escorted by the defence personnel, the chest containing the mortal remains of Sai Teja was brought to the village in a specially bedecked vehicle by road from the IAF base camp in Bengaluru. A large number of youths from several areas thronged the outskirts of Madanapalle to pay their tributes before the vehicle entered Chittoor district. Thousands of people joined the funeral procession from Madanapalle to the village and raised slogans such as “Sai Teja Amar Rahe.” Military officers from Chennai, Superintendents of Police S. Senthil Kumar (Chittoor) and Venkata Appala Naidu (Tirupati) paid tributes to Sai Teja. Heart-rending moments were witnessed in the village as the family members grieved the death of Sai Teja. His wife Shyamala swooned on seeing her husband’s mortal remains. She was later guided to the burial area by the family members. The military and police officials consoled the family members. Leaders of various political parties thronged the village to pay their last respects to Sai Teja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-brief/article37941954.ece
13 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on damaged roads and bridges, says Minister at ZP general body meet||Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Sunday directed officials to repair bridges that were damaged during the recent downpours. The Minister was addressing the first Zilla Parishad General Body Meeting here after the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) came to power in the State. The Minister asked the members to enumerate the damages and restore the bridges after prioritising them based on the loss of connectivity between the villages. “Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is giving much importance to the restoration of the damages. He is focusing on Chittoor district as we were recently hit by the rains like never before. The Chief Minister has directed us to give all the estimates related to the rains. Though we need thousands of crores for restoration, the works will begin soon,” the Minister said. The Minister congratulated the newly-elected members, and added that it was a record victory for the YSRCP as the party got maximum members in the meeting. “Usually, the leaders will bring up schemes to attract the voters. But Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is not bothered about the votes. The development of schools under the Nadu-Nedu programme is an example of his vision. Taking care of the health of the poor, the hospitals are being upgraded and given importance. Though there is development, Opposition parties are unable to come to terms with the development taking place,” he said. Mr. Reddy also lashed at the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) for its ‘malicious campaign on the One-Time Settlement (OTS)’. “Nara Lokesh and Mr. Naidu said that there is no need for OTS and are asking people not to pay the amount. They said that they would give the pattas for free. It may be recalled that Mr. Naidu has promised a loan waiver for Self-Help Groups and that was never fulfilled. No government will give a waiver on the fees and interest for the house sites that fall under OTS. If an OTS payment was not made, the interest amount will be increasing. By paying a small amount for OTS, the people who are living in that land will get complete rights," the Minister said. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, ZP chairman Govindappa Vasu, Collector M. Hari Narayanan, newly-elected ZPTC members, officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-damaged-roads-and-bridges-says-minister-at-zp-general-body-meet/article37941909.ece
13 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land sought for Sai Teja’s next of kin||Former Union Minister and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Chinta Mohan on Sunday urged the Centre and State governments to consider providing a five-acre land to family members of deceased Lance Naik Sai Teja in Madanapalle or surrounding areas. In a statement, Dr. Chinta Mohan said that the Centre should provide all support to Sai Teja’s two children and secure admission for them into a Sainik School. He also requested the State government to honour the request of Sai Teja’s wife Shyamala for a suitable government job. As a mark of respect to the former Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his spouse Madhulika Rawat, their two daughters should be given suitable postings in the armed forces, Dr. Chinta Mohan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-sought-for-sai-tejas-next-of-kin/article37941907.ece
13 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP worried over safety of Jagan: Dy. CM||Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy on Sunday alleged that the TDP leaders and sympathisers belonging to a particular community were collecting donations to execute their “vile design to slay YSRCP MLAs.” Speaking at the inaugural session of the Zilla Parishad general body meeting here, he said the TDP cadres were unable to digest the growing popularity of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “The YSRCP leaders are apprehensive about the safety of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy in the wake of the threat to the lives of the party leaders,” he said. Mr. Narayanaswamy was referring to the remarks purportedly made by a community leader against the YSRCP MLAs that had gone viral on the social media recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-worried-over-safety-of-jagan-dy-cm/article37942317.ece
13 December 2021||G. KONDUR (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor shop robbed, watchman ‘murdered’||A watchman of a government-run liquor shop was reportedly murdered and the liquor stocks burgled, at Velagaleru village of G. Kondur mandal in Krishna district. Somaiah (63) was found dead near the shop on Sunday. His head was smashed with a boulder and the shutter of the shop was found open. The deceased hailed from Velagaleru village. “Miscreants might have killed Somaiah with a boulder and taken away the liquor stocks. They covered the body with a blanket,” police said. Nuzvid Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) B. Srinivasulu and Krishna Central Crime Station (CCS) DSP Murali and other officials rushed to the crime scene. A CLUES team and sniffer dog squads were deployed at the spot and they are in the process of collecting evidence, Mr. Srinivasulu said. Ten teams formed “The manager of the liquor shop had taken the cash with him on Saturday night. According to the shop superviser, 96 bottles of liquor are missing,” Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal said. The body was shifted to the Government Hospital mortuary. Ten special teams have been constituted to trace and nab the accused, the SP said. “We picked up some law and order suspects and criminals and are questioning them,” Mr. Kaushal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-shop-robbed-watchman-murdered/article37942376.ece
13 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CID books cases against ABN Andhra Jyothi MD||The A.P. CID on Sunday booked cases against Vemuri Radhakrishna, ABN Andhra Jyothi Managing Director, under IPC Sections 353, 341, 186, 120(b), for allegedly obstructing the official duties of the CID police who were conducting searches at the house of retired IAS officer K. Lakshminarayana on Friday. In a statement, the CID said that Mr. Radhakrishna, along with his crew, barged into the house where searches were going on, and tried to obstruct the CID sleuths from conducting searches. The case was transferred to Telangana. Three arrested Staff Reporter in Vijayawada writes: The CID sleuths investigating the alleged multi-crore scam in the Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) arrested three persons – Soumyadri Shekar Bose, Vikas Vinayaka Kanvelkar and Mukul Agarwal – and produced them in a special court, which remanded them in judicial custody on Sunday. They were accused of committing irregularities in implementing the provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the APSSDC and some private firms. The CID had registered cases against 26 persons, including a few officers of the corporation, and conducted raids on their properties and houses. The CID had served notices on some officials and asked them to cooperate in the investigation. The three accused were produced in court after conducting COVID-19 tests on them, the CID said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cid-books-cases-against-abn-andhra-jyothi-md/article37942320.ece
13 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sensational ATM theft case busted in Kadapa||A notorious inter-State gang was arrested by the Kadapa police on Sunday for stealing Rs. 17.76 lakh from an ATM in the district a few days ago. A duo was sighted entering the SBI ATM kiosk near KSRM Engineering College in C.K.Dinne mandal and spraying a black liquid over the CCTV camera before breaking open the ATM machine with the help of gas cutters. They escaped with Rs. 17,76,400 in cash. They again robbed another ATM in similar fashion at Ramanjaneyapuram where they made away with Rs. 24,43,400. “Since there was no case history for us on this modus operandi, it appeared to be a challenge,” Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan told reporters on Sunday. Records pertaining to similar offences in Anantapur, Chittoor, Kurnool and Prakasam districts and from Hyderabad as well were brought and special teams dispatched to study the investigation process, from where the police secured details and photographs of the accused. “It was found that the accused hailing from Haryana adopted the tactics of smuggling small cars inside large containers and using them for conducting the crime locally to conceal their identity,” he observed. The team led by DSP (Kadapa) B. Venkata Siva Reddy browsed through the FASTag details of containers passing through the Palempalle toll plaza on December 7 and zeroed in on one such vehicle moving towards Hyderabad. Four teams chased the container truck on different routes, which stopped at a secret location near Medchal on the outskirts of Hyderabad and then unexpectedly, returned towards Kadapa. It was sighted at 5 a.m. on December 12 at a roadside dhaba on the Kadapa-Rajampet road, when the police pounced upon the accused Musthakheem Khureshi (24), a native of Bazidpoore Punaha, and Mathin (31), hailing from Mewat, both in Haryana. Police arrested them and recovered cash, two guns, cannabis and liquor. A gas cylinder and gas cutters used for the crimes were also seized from their possession. Five more members of the gang operating out of Haryana are at large, Mr. Anburajan said, and announced a reward for the police team who arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sensational-atm-theft-case-busted-in-kadapa/article37941913.ece
13 December 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||99 godowns to be built in East Godavari for Rs. 950 crore||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Sunday said that the State government has sanctioned Rs. 950 crore for the construction of 99 godowns in East Godavari district to increase storage space required for stocking agricultural produce. Responding to a query during the Zilla Parishad General Body Meeting held on Sunday, Mr. Kannababu said that the State government has targeted to spend Rs. 16,300 crore for creating additional godown space in the State. “In the first phase, the East Godavari district will have 99 godowns to be attached to the Rythu Bharosa Kendras. The godowns will be designated as ‘Multi-Purpose Facility’ that would also equip with cold storage facility. An amount of Rs. 950 crore will be spent on godowns in East Godavari district alone,” claimed Mr. Kannababu.  On the One-Time Settlement (OTS) scheme, Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna has reiterated that the scheme would entitle the owner to have title rights over the property by paying the pending loan, apart from securing the legal rights for resale of the property.  East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran claimed that a total of 27,000 families have opted for the OTS and Rs. 27 crore of the pending loan amount has been collected under OTS. East Godavari district has the highest number of families opting for OTS, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/99-godowns-to-be-built-in-east-godavari-for-rs-950-crore/article37941911.ece
13 December 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||AR personnel excel at sports meet||District Armed Reserve (DAR) personnel on Sunday excelled in athletics by bagging eight medals in the three-day annual Police Sports Meet-2021 which commenced at the District Police Grounds here in East Godavari. SP M. Raveendranath Babu launched the programme in which police personnel from all cadres would compete in 21 events. Kakinada, Amalapuram, Peddapuram, Ramachandrapuram, Chintoor, Rampachodavaram and Armed Reserve divisions are participating in the meet. The eight winners are: K. Kumari (100 metres running), G. Alekhya (200 metres), D. Bharat Kumar (200 metres), S. Srinivasa Rao (400 and 800 metres), M.N. Murthy and K. Pushpalatha (shot-put) and D. Bharat Kumar (long jump).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ar-personnel-excel-at-sports-meet/article37942340.ece
13 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||PFI leaders acquired bar in Abu Dhabi: ED||Leaders of the Popular Front of India (PFI) have engaged in money-laundering activities through various projects in Kerala, including a villa project, according to the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The Munnar Villa Vista project, which is being built by the leaders of the organisation, was used to launder proceeds of crime generated in India and abroad. The PFI leaders have also acquired properties in other countries, including a bar and restaurant in Abu Dhabi, according to a press release issued by the agency. Incidentally, the ED had conducted searches on premises of some PFI leaders on December 8. Searches were conducted on the residential premises of Shafeeque Payeth, a PFI and SDPI member, at Peringathur in Kannur, the residential premises of B.P. Abdul Razak, the divisional president of PFI at Perumpadappu in Malappuram, the residential premises of M.K. Ashraf, a PFI leader at Muvattupuzha, and the office premises of Munnar Villa Vista Project at Mankulam in Munnar. The ED officers said they seized incriminating documents, digital devices and evidence related to foreign funding and acquisition of properties abroad during the search operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pfi-leaders-acquired-bar-in-abu-dhabi-ed/article37941889.ece
13 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aadhaar must for Arjitha Seva at Srisailam||The devotees wishing to perform Arjitha Sevas like Garbhalaya Abhishekam, Kalyanotsavam, and Kumkuma Archana at the Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy temple at Srisailam will need to produce their Aadhaar card proof for purchasing the tickets at the current booking counters at the devasthanam. A release from the temple management said that for Viramadarshan and Sarvadarshan too devotees need to produce copies of the Aadhaar cards. The bookings for all these sevas were available online and offline (at the current booking counter), the release added. Devotees could approach the Executive Officer or the Public Relations Officer for any issues in buying the tickets. The temple management has appealed to the general public not to approach the middlemen and people not connected to the temple ticket booking system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aadhaar-must-for-arjitha-seva-at-srisailam/article37942321.ece
13 December 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BEL’s night vision devices go on display||Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), Machilipatnam, will organise a week-long exhibition of its night vision devices on its premises from December 13. The exhibition is being arranged as part of the ongoing ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations, said BEL General Manager B. Prabhakar Rao. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will inaugurate the exhibition virtually on Monday. Students of various government schools and colleges can visit the expo. “BEL has designed different types of night vision devices for Armed Forces and the A.P. Police, which would be showcased in the exhibition,” the General Manager said. Assistant General Manager (AGM) B. Suresh Babu said that engineers of BEL will explain the production of the organisation and will present demonstrations of different products to the students. Students and visitors are requested to follow all COVID-19 norms, including wearing masks and gloves, the AGM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bels-night-vision-devices-go-on-display/article37942381.ece
13 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Omicron confirmed in Kerala||Kerala reported its first case of Omicron (COVID-19 variant) on Sunday. Kerala Health Minister Veena George said here on Sunday that the Kochi native had flown in from the U.K. via Abu Dhabi on December 6. The 39-year-old and his wife had tested negative on arrival at the airport. However, after he developed slight symptoms, he was tested again on December 8 and was confirmed COVID-positive. The sample was then sent for genomic analysis which confirmed the presence of Omicron variant. The man has been isolated in a separate ward. His only local contact seems to be his wife’s mother and the taxi driver who drove him home from the airport. The wife and her mother have subsequently tested positive and are under separate care. Ms. George said all 149 passengers in the said flight had been alerted and that the passengers in seats 26 to 32, who sat near the Kochi native, were being treated as high-risk. All these persons would quarantine themselves and would be subjected to tests on day eight (December 13) if they develop symptoms. She said the Health department had been taking all precautions as per the protocols advised by the Centre and that while vigil was required to prevent onward transmission, there was no situation which warranted panic amongst the public. In Bengaluru, Karnataka Health Minister K. Sudhakar confirmed that a 34-year-old man who returned from South Africa tested positive for the new variant. Dr. Sudhakar tweeted: “Third case of #Omicron has been detected in Karnataka. A 34-year-old male returning from South Africa has tested positive. He is isolated and being treated in a govt hospital. 5 primary and 15 secondary contacts have been traced and samples sent for testing.” The first two cases of Omicron were detected in Karnataka on December 2.  (With inputs from Bengaluru)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/omicron-confirmed-in-kerala-and-ap/article37941730.ece
13 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make Tirupati a flood-proof city: experts||Speakers at a webinar organised on the topic ‘Recent Cyclone havoc in Tirupati: Problems and solutions’ organised by the Academy of Grassroots Studies and Research of India (AGRASRI) sought that a study be conducted by experts from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) and a solution devised to keep the temple city safe from floods. Representatives cutting across political parties said it was the need of the hour to remove encroachments on water bodies and desilt tank beds and feeeder channels to ensure smooth flow of water. BJP core committee member K.Santha Reddy said there was a lack of foresight on the part of city planners in the narrowing of the Malavadigundam floodwater drain passing through the heart of the city. “This created a bottleneck and made water flood the low-lying areas,” she said. CITU State vice-president Kandarapu Murali wanted the MCT, TUDA and irrigation wings to work in tandem in chalking out a plan of action, as frequent cyclones could pose a similar challenge in future. City Congress president Mangati Gopal Reddy, who is also the president of the Federation of Farmers Associations, expressed surprise at the reported conversion of the Thummalagunta irrigation tank into a playground, alleging that this was the reason behind the flooding of the western part of the city. TDP’s Telugu Yuvatha constituency in-charge A. Ravi Naidu wanted focus on the safety of buildings, claiming that the rickety structures could collapse after suffering damage during the floods. K. Bhochandra Reddy, MPTC member of A. Rangampet representing the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), blamed the engineers for ‘botching up’ the Kalyani dam operation that had led to the submergence of most areas. “The gates were not opened on time, could not be closed due to lack of power supply with no generator backup, thus allowing more outflow than required that made the Swarnamukhi river swell and break the Chiguruvada and Padipeta bridges,” he observed. Indian Red Cross Society (Tirupati) chairman D. Venkateswarlu and AGRASRI Founder Director D. Sundar Ram suggested developing two water storage dams at the Tirumala foothills not only to prevent the flooding of the city, but also to conserve water to meet the city’s needs. They also advocated the need for another reservoir near Kalyani dam to catch the water flowing from the Talakona and adjoining forest areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-tirupati-a-flood-proof-city-experts-urge-govt/article37941914.ece
13 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan offers ‘shramadan’ to repair road at Vaddeswaram||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president and actor Pawan Kalyan participated in a ‘shramadan’ to repair a road at Vaddeswaram in Guntur district on Sunday. The R&B road connects many educational institutions. Mr. Pawan Kalyan took a spade and filled baskets with gravel and cement, while his party colleagues filled the potholes with gravel. JSP cadres gathered in good numbers and joined hands with Mr. Pawan in repairing the road. The JSP leader was on his way to participate in a protest against privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, at Mangalagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-offers-shramadan-to-repair-road-at-vaddeswaram/article37942326.ece
13 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Judiciary in A.P. going beyond its limits and powers: retired judge||Retired judge of the Madras High Court K. Chandru has opined that the judiciary in Andhra Pradesh is “going beyond its limits and powers.” Mr. Chandru was speaking at a programme organised by the A.P. Civil Liberties Association and the Kula Vivaksha Porata Samithi on the occasion of the World Human Rights Day here on Friday. Charging the Andhra Pradesh High Court with “terrorising” the State government so much so that the latter had to repeal the three capitals Act, he wondered how two Judges could be a part of the full Bench of the high court hearing the petitions against the three capitals when they owned plots in Amaravati. The State government had asked the Judges to recuse themselves from the case, saying they should not hear the case because they were allottees of land in Amaravati. “It was a genuine request. The Judges, however, said there was nothing wrong as they were paid from the consolidated fund. When the counsel had asked for an order to that effect, the Judges said the recusal petition would be decided with the main case, which means the government will not be in a position to challenge the order,” Mr. Chandru said. “But, a Division Bench (in A.P.) writes an order – By tomorrow, if there is no proper response, we will recommend President’s Rule in the State,” he said. “Where do we get all this? This was not an off-the-cuff remark. It was written in the judicial order itself,” Mr. Chandru pointed out, adding, “It’s unheard of for a court to make a mention about bringing President’s Rule in a case between the State and an individual.” “This is what I am worried about ... an FIR cannot be registered, social media posts cannot be tolerated, and President’s Rule is sought to be recommended in the State,” Mr. Chandru said. Recalling his battle against caste discrimination, Mr. Chandru said, “We need Judges who will protect the rights of the people. Now, what do we see in Andhra Pradesh? An elected government is fighting for survival not from rivals, not from political rivals, or mass movements, but from the judiciary itself.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-judiciary-terrorising-govt/article37941734.ece
13 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Oppn. should unite to achieve SCS’||CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu on Sunday called upon the people and the opposition parties to join hands to achieve Special Category Status to Andhra Pradesh. “A State bandh can be called to mount pressure on the Union government to accord SCS to A.P.,” Mr. Madhu said. “The YSRCP can join the fight against the BJP, which has gone back on the promises it made to people after coming to power,” he said. “The YSRCP leaders can put in their papers later, but they have to wage a united fight against the BJP first,” he added. Move to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, realising the Kadapa steel plant, and ensuring release of funds for Polavaram were some of the issues before the people. The YSRCP and the TDP should ponder over these, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oppn-should-unite-to-achieve-scs/article37942324.ece
13 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Manipal Hospital turns 15||Former international cricketer V.V.S. Laxman lauded the services of Manipal Hospitals at its 15th anniversary celebrations here on Sunday. “Manipal Hospital is the only one with state-of-the-art facilities for treating cancer in A.P.,” he said. Mr. Laxman visited the oncology ward and bone marrow transplant units at the hospital. Later, he interacted with children who were cancer survivors. Doctors G. Krishna Reddy, D. Madhav, and director K. Sudhakar participated. Archer Jyothi Surekha was felicitated on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/manipal-hospital-turns-15/article37941905.ece
13 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ex gratia eludes scribes who succumbed to virus’||TDP Repalle MLA Anagani Satya Prasad has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to ensure payment of ex gratia to the next of kin of journalists who succumbed to COVID-19 in the line of duty. In a letter to the Chief Minister on Sunday, Mr. Prasad expressed concern over the “inordinate delay” in the payment of ex gratia. “More than 130 journalists have lost their lives during the first and second waves of COVID-19, but the government has not yet paid the promised Rs. 5 lakh ex gratia to the bereaved families,” he said. He demanded that the government recognise journalists as frontline warriors and provide Rs. 5 lakh as ex gratia to the bereaved families. Accusing the government of neglecting the problems of the mediapersons, Mr. Satya Prasad said eligible journalists were yet to get the promised houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-gratia-eludes-scribes-who-succumbed-to-virus/article37942323.ece
13 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Why can’t Pawan take up VSP issue with ally BJP?’||YSRCP MLA Ambati Rambabu came down heavily on JSP president Pawan Kalyan for targeting the State government over the Union government’s move to privatise the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), and said the latter should impress upon the Centre to drop the proposal. Addressing the media at the party’s central office on Sunday, Mr. Rambabu said that the JSP was sailing with the BJP, whose government at the Centre decided to privatise the steel plant. The State government had passed a resolution in the Assembly opposing privatisation of the VSP. Our MPs raised the issue in Parliament, he added. Daring Mr. Pawan Kalyan to protest in front of the BJP office demanding that the proposal be dropped, he said people had no trust in the JSP president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-cant-pawan-take-up-vsp-issue-with-ally-bjp/article37942319.ece
13 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Residents seek construction of foot overbridge at Madhurawada||The death of three members of a family, after being run over by a lorry, at Madhurawada on December 9, has once again brought to the fore the long-pending demand for construction of a foot overbridge (FOB) at Madhurawada-Chandrampalem area. Residents of Madhurawada, PM Palem, Chandrampalem, Kommadi and surrounding areas say that movement of heavy vehicles on the NH-16 stretch at high speed is posing a risk not only to two-wheelers riders, but also to the pedestrians, who are forced to cross the road due to lack of an FOB. There has been a gradual rise in the population of PM Palem region over the last one decade. With the establishment of multiplexes, markets, theatres and shopping complexes, people tend to cross the roads for various needs. Though there is an under-bridge, only a few, mainly motorists utilise it, while pedestrians ignore it, citing long-distance. Almost all the pedestrians cross the NH-16 to reach the other side of the road. A senior traffic police officer said that despite two traffic signals, located within one-km stretch at Car Shed Junction and Kommadi Junction, some motorists were driving at a high speed. In July, a three-year-old girl had died, while her mother received injuries after being hit by a lorry while crossing the road at Madhurawada, he said.“We have to cross the road to buy essentials and for various other purposes. We do not let our children cross the roads alone,” said K Avinash, a resident of Kommadi. School students In the recent council meeting, Corporator of Ward no. 6, M. Priyanka, appealed to the GVMC to construct an FOB at Chandrampalem. She said that there are around 4,500 students of ZP High School, Chandrampalem, and many of them, cross the road (NH-16) to reach the school, which poses grave danger to their lives. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP-Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana said in view of risk to students, two traffic constables are being deployed in the mornings and evenings at Chandrampalem to help the children cross the road safely. In the evening, it becomes a tough task to regulate traffic, as a large number of children rush out of the school, he said. The ADCP also said that proposal for constructing a flyover at PM Palem was under consideration of the State Government. Dangerous stretch Yendada-Kommadi stretch has become one of the accident-prone areas in the city, contributing to a number of road accident cases. In less than a month, six persons died and many others were injured in accidents, which occurred on the stretch. The traffic police said that an interceptor vehicle is being deployed to check overspeeding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/residents-seek-construction-of-foot-overbridge-at-madhurawada/article37942387.ece
13 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||State done well in controlling pandemic, says official||Andhra Pradesh has done reasonably well in controlling the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic through testing, treatment and creating awareness among the common people on the importance of adhering to COVID-19 protocols to check the spread of the virus, Principal Secretary, Health, Medical and Family Welfare, Muddada Ravi Chandra, has said. 100th CME In his opening remarks at a webinar on the “100th Continuing Medical Education (CME): Update on COVID-19”, organised by the Andhra Medical College(AMC) on Sunday evening, he said: “We crossed three crore tests, vaccinated 93% of the 5 crore people in the State with at least one dose and about 63% with both doses, which was among the highest in India. On the treatment side, 24,000 oxygen concentrators and 28,000 oxygen cylinders were available.” He recalled the sacrifices made by doctors, nurses and paramedical staff in the fight against the pandemic. Referring to the detection of the first Omicron case at Vizianagaram on Sunday, he said there was no need to panic. About 90,000 RTCPR tests can be done in a day in the State.  He announced that genome sequencing facility would be set up in Vijayawada soon. He congratulated the AMC team and the AMCANA (AMC Alumni of North America) for completing 99 episodes of CME programmes successfully. P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, AMC, recalled that the idea of conducting the CMEs was mooted by the then District Collector V. Vinay Chand in August 2020 for sharing of knowledge and changing protocols on the new disease. He complimented AMCANA, particularly Dr. Sridhar Chilimuri and Dr. Ram Kairam, for their cooperation in the success of the CMEs. “I met a doctor from remote area of Srikakulam district recently. He told me prior to the CME webinars, doctors from rural areas of north Andhra were in two minds whether to treat COVID-19 patients in Srikakkulam or shift them to Visakhapatnam. After attending some of the CMEs, the confidence of the rural doctors had improved and he told that he had helped in saving several lives,” Dr. Sudhakar said. The CMEs have helped practitioners in rural areas to keep abreast of the changing treatment protocols, he added. Dr. Sudhakar said: “I have also spoke to some of the participants from abroad and they told me they were also benefited by the experience of doctors from India. We have started a YouTube channel containing the repository of the wealth of knowledge by experts from both the countries. This can be accessed by all practitioners in both India and the USA.” Dr. Sridhar Chilimuri, physician-in-chief, Bronxcare Hospital Center, New York, spoke on the topic “COVID-19: The next phase”. Dr. T. Ravi Raju, former DME, spoke. Dr. Ram Kairam, a former Professor of Neurology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, moderated the webinar. Over 400 doctors and medical students participated in the virtual conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-did-well-in-covid-fight/article37942378.ece
13 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Follow safety norms to keep virus at bay’||Strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols like wearing a mask, social distancing and frequent hand washing will help in keeping the virus at bay, said P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College (AMC). He was speaking at an awareness camp, organised by the Alluri Walkers Association, at Seethammadhara here on Sunday morning. Dr. Sudhakar appealed to the public not to believe in miracle cures and unverified health tips, but to rely on scientifically proven medicines. Though the omicron variant was not causing severe symptoms, it was spreading rapidly and hence utmost caution was needed to check its spread. The severity was less in those who have taken both doses of the vaccine, he said. He said that AMC has conducted 99 webinars at the rate of one webinar a week. These webinars have helped to gain knowledge from specialists from across the globe on the latest medical practices and their experiences in treating emerging cases besides sharing of knowledge and experience of doctors from AMC and other hospitals in India with their counterparts in other nations. This had helped in rendering better medical aid to COVID-19 patients apart from helping reducing the mortality rate, he said. Phanindra, a pulmonologist, said identification of the symptoms and consulting a doctor within a week would help in early recovery. P.J. Srinivas, physician, spoke. The three doctors were felicitated by association president M. Suresh Babu, chief advisor Ch. Narasinga Rao, honorary president T. Shantaram and treasurer N. Sanjeev.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/follow-safety-norms-to-keep-virus-at-bay/article37942383.ece
13 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jana Sena activists join stir against sale of VSP||Jana Sena Party (JSP) leaders and activists participated in the relay hunger strike, being organised under the aegis of Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee (VUPPC) at Kurmannapalem Junction, on the 303rd day on Sunday. The JSP representatives joined the strike to express their solidarity with the JSP president Pawan Kalyan, who staged a day-long protest, at Mangalagiri, against the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). Addressing the gathering, VUPPC representatives Kommineni Srinivas and K.M. Srinivas described the decision of the Centre on strategic sale of the VSP as a ‘mockery of the sacrifices made by the people of the State, who had lost their lives in the agitation for establishment of VSP’. They hoped that Mr. Pawan Kalyan’s protest would propel leaders of other political parties to chalk out their plans of action to oppose the privatisation of VSP. They also demanded that the Centre repeal its decision at least now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jana-sena-activists-join-stir-against-sale-of-vsp/article37942382.ece
13 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 12 new cases, 30 recoveries||The district recorded 12 new COVID-19 cases and 30 recoveries in the last 24 hours ending on Sunday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,59,149. The death toll stands at 1,105 as no COVID-19 death was reported in the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries has increased to 1,57,857 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-12-new-cases-30-recoveries/article37942389.ece
13 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naval personnel take part in beach cleanup activities||As many as 250 naval personnel from various units in Visakhapatnam participated in the beach cleanup activities at Yarada and Kalinga beaches on Sunday. The event was aimed at reaching out to the local people and spreading the message of social belonging and responsibility towards protection and commitment for a clean and plastic-free coastline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naval-personnel-take-part-in-beach-cleanup-activities/article37942385.ece
13 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special pujas performed at temple||Sri Chakranavavararchana, Lakshmi Homam, Veda parayanam, Saptashati parayana and Mahavidya parayana were performed, as part of the ongoing Margasiramasotsavam, at Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple at Burujupeta in Old Town, here, on Sunday. A total of 16 donors participated in the ‘Trikala Panchamrutabhishekam’ seva conducted on Sunday. Devotees, who wish to participate in this seva, have to pay Rs. 7,500 for participation on Thursdays and Rs. 2,500 on other days during the month-long festival, according to temple Executive Officer S.J. Madhavi. Payments have to be made at Union Bank of India, Kotha Road branch, Account no. 060810011006691, IFSC Code: UBINO806081. Those transferring the amount online, have to submit the transaction details, name of the devotee, on whose name the puja has to be performed, their gothra, complete address and phone no. The details have to be emailed todecoskmlad@gmail.com The EO noted that 500 devotees were being given packed food every day. Kalla Appa Rao and troupe of Vizianagaram presented ‘Burra Kadha’ on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-pujas-performed-at-temple/article37942384.ece
13 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘kills’ wife after row over marriage day celebrations||A 35-year-old woman was allegedly murdered by her husband following a heated argument at Sontyam under Anandapuram Police Station limits, here, on Saturday. The incident came to light after police registered a case on Sunday. According to Inspector of Anandapuram Police Station, Y. Ravi, the couple A. Ravi Kumar and his wife Lalitha Devi (35) were celebrating their marriage anniversary on Saturday. Lalitha Devi had allegedly asked her husband to take her out on the occasion of marriage day, for which he refused. The couple then entered into an altercation on the issue. Ravi Kumar allegedly beaten Lalitha Devi with a hammer a thrice resulting in her death. The police took the accused into custody and shifted the body for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-kills-wife-after-row-over-marriage-day-celebrations/article37942388.ece
13 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man arrested for ‘drunk’ driving on Beach Road||A 30-year-old man, who was allegedly under the influence of alcohol, has caused panic among morning walkers by driving his car rashly during ‘no-entry’ period for vehicles at R.K Beach Road here on Sunday. According to the police sources, a man named Deepak gained access to Beach Road, near the Police Officers Mess, and drove the vehicle in a rash manner. The efforts of the morning walkers to stop him proved futile and one N. Ganesh, sustained minor injury on his hand. Police personnel who noticed him, stopped the car, by placing barricades and immediately took him into custody. Basing on the complaint from the injured person, the police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-arrested-for-drunk-driving-on-beach-road/article37942390.ece
13 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. keen to improve sports infra, says Botcha||Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana on Sunday said that the State government was trying to improve sports infrastructure in all the districts. At the valedictory of the district-level tournament-cum-selections for the Chief Minister’s Cup, he said that youngsters should bring laurels to the fort city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-keen-to-improve-sports-infra-says-botcha/article37942341.ece
13 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telagas to fight for BC status||District Telaga Samkshema Sangham president Pallantla Venkata Ramarao on Sunday said that the community would launch an agitation to step up pressure on the government to include Telagas in the backward classes’ list. He said that hundreds of students could not get seats and fee reimbursement in the absence of reservation facility. The association felicitated the public representatives of Telaga, Kapu, Balija and Vontari castes of the North Andhra region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telagas-to-fight-for-bc-status/article37942322.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP went back on promise to fight against VSP sale, alleges Pawan||“I am fighting for Visakha Steel Plant even though I lost in Gajuwaka or even in North Coastal districts. The YSRCP is demanding that I should fight against the BJP, and they do not even have common sense. The YSRCP has promised to the people of Visakhapatnam that they will oppose privatisation of VSP during the local body elections and now, they have backtracked. The 22 party MPs never raised the VSP issue during the winter session of Parliament,” said Mr. Pawan Kalyan. He was protesting in Mangalagiri to convey the message that the fight against privatisation of VSP was being held across the State, he said. “It was due to the sacrifice of former Tadikonda MLA Amrutha Rao that then Central government announced the setting up of the steel plant at Visakhapatnam. Who can forget the sacrifices of the people of the State during the agitation? The YSRCP is saying that the VSP is being privatised due to an enormous debt of Rs. 22,000 crore, and what about the State which has a debt burden of Rs. 6 lakh crore?” he questioned. Movie ticket price Referring to some policies over cinema ticket pricing, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said that the YSRCP government was bent on harming his financial interests. “They want to hit my financial interests. Now, I am challenging them to do it. I will show my movies free of cost in movie halls across A.P. Does the excise policy have any transparency? Well, if you want people to buy liquor at Rs. 700 and watch movie for just Rs. 5, then go on,’’ Mr. Kalyan remarked. Party Public Affairs Committee chairman Nadendla Manohar said that VSP was a matter of pride for the entire State. As many as 32 persons had lost their lives during the agitation, and of them 10 were from Krishna and Guntur districts. “We are holding the protest at Mangalagiri to highlight the fact the agitation for the Visakha steel plant took place across the State. The Chief Minister had not responded to our demand that an all-party team should take up this issue with the Prime Minister. There was no mention of this issue by the MPs of YSRCP during the winter session of Parliament. When Telangana MPs are raising the issue of paddy procurement with the Centre, why are the MPs of A.P. silent?” he asked. Stating that Mr. Pawan Kalyan had met Home Minister Amit Shah and other senior leaders of the party at Delhi soon after the announcement on the steel plant was made, Mr. Manohar said that the JSP was the only party which had taken up the issue of privatisation of VSP at national level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-went-back-on-promise-to-fight-against-vsp-sale-alleges-pawan/article37942316.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call of faith||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-of-faith/article37942380.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bonhomie||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bonhomie/article37942392.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||First Omicron case in State||The person was tested at the Mumbai airport, and was found COVID-19 negative in the RT-PCR test. He was allowed to travel to Visakhapatnam on November 27. In the retest conducted at Vizianagaram, he tested positive, and his sample was sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, for genome sequencing, which detected the Omicron variant. This is the first Omicron case identified in A.P., the officials said. “Fifteen foreign travellers were found COVID-19 positive, and their samples were sent to the CCMB. The results of 10 were declared, of which one Omicron case has been detected. The other results are awaited,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-omicron-case-in-state/article37942315.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Setback for Secunderabad railway station modernisation plan||Habibgunj or Rani Kamlapati station in Madhya Pradesh became another modernised version of what a traditional railway station usually looks like with airport terminal like features. A Bengaluru station in Karnataka too has undergone a similar swank change along with Gandhinagar station in Gujarat, whereas the chances of Secunderabad railway station getting such a look anytime soon increasingly looks remote. All these three stations were developed under the public, private partnership mode by the Indian Railways Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) in association with the State governments. Special purpose vehicle Secunderabad station, the marquee station of the South Central Railway (SCR) was also to have been redesigned and ‘modernised’ by the same railways special purpose vehicle formed by joint equity participation of IRCON International and Rail Estate Development Authority (REDA) in 2012 with the objective to give an airport look to at least 150 railway stations across the country. However, the Railway Board has shut down IRSDC a couple of months ago, just after the agency put up a draft model concessionaire agreement up for discussion by the stakeholders to take up stations redevelopment making use of the real estate for discussion on its website. The Railway Board has now asked the general managers of the zonal railways to take up the stations redevelopment plans, and all the works or contracts being handled by IRSDC are to be taken over by the former. The SCR had handed over the stations maintenance and other works to the IRSDC overcoming initial resistance from the unions and now the contracts are to be reverted. Back then about five firms had evinced preliminary interest few years ago when IRSDC called for bids at an estimated cost of Rs. 282 crore to have “airport” like separate arrivals, departures, food courts, clean toilets, shops, etc. for 5.62 acres of area in and around Secunderabad station and 96,243 sq.mts of main building for real estate development. It was Rs. 194 crore for Vijaywada station with 7.87 acres of land available and 61,000 sq. metres of main building for redevelopment but the stumbling block was firms wanted more than the “40 years ownership rights offered under the PPP mode.” “We are serious about identified stations redevelopment. There could well see quicker modernisation as the Railway Board has indicated that funds are going to be earmarked for the same,” informed senior officials, pleading anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/setback-for-secunderabad-railway-station-modernisation-plan/article37942155.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Omicron fear leads to rush for vaccines||Though the Omicron variant is not yet detected in Telangana, it has spread considerable fear among people due to which a steady rush for vaccination has been noticed recently. Officials of the State Health department said that ever since the new variant reached India, more number of people are going to hospitals and health centres to get their COVID shots. The uptick is observed from the beginning of December. The total population in the State above 18 years is 2.77 crore and are eligible for vaccination. From January 16 to November 29, 2.48 crore people took the first dose, which is 89.87% of the target (2.77 crore) and 46.05% took the second dose. By the night of December 11, the first dose coverage increased to 95.79% (2,65,35,482) and second dose to 52.60% (1,45,70,779). The second dose coverage in Telangana is less than the percentage of people across India who are fully vaccinated. Out of the total 94 crore adult population across the State, 86.5% were administered the first dose and 54.5% took the second dose till December 12. However, the fully vaccinated targeted population in TS is 52.60%. Prior to December, around 2 lakh to 2.5 lakh people in the State used to be given the vaccine shots in a day. The recent fear about Omicron started to spread since November-end. Currently, around 3.5 lakh to 4 lakh people are taking the vaccine doses daily. Health Minister Harish Rao had earlier set a target of 100% vaccination in the State by the end of December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/omicron-fear-leads-to-rush-for-vaccines/article37942147.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revanth to tour LS constituencies||Telangana Congress president A. Revanth Reddy will tour all the 17 Lok Sabha constituencies as part of the membership drive and also to motivate party workers and get them into fighting mode against the state government. The tour will start after the Parliament session and everyday he will cover two Parliamentary constituencies to oversee the digital membership drive that the party has started recently. Telangana is the only state where the membership drive is totally digital while party units in other states have adopted the blended model. Mr. Reddy who was able to give a push to the party cadre with a series of Dalita Girijana Dandora meetings right after he took over as president has seen some lethargy in the party work due to its abysmally poor performance in the Huzurabad bypoll. Moreover, the present political narrative in Telangana has pushed the party behind the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Though the visits are said to be for reviewing membership drive, the party chief wants to assess the strengths of constituency level leaders and their performance in the membership for future evaluation. “It will be a sort of test for the MLA aspirants and other local leaders to get into the good books of Mr. Revanth Reddy and the party high command thereafter. Going in the TRS mode, the Congress has also decided to offer personal insurance to all party workers who enrol themselves. Mr. Reddy said members will be covered with Rs. 2 lakh insurance and their families would get the assistance in case of unfortunate incident. “Talks with the insurance companies are in the final stages and the party will pay the premium for insurance,” a senior leader involved in the process said. TPCC working president Mahesh Kumar Goud said the response was good even at the villages and the process is a little slow with the digital drive facing some technical issues. “It is being sorted out and by January 26 the party hopes to reach its target of 30 lakh members,” he said as observers for all the 119 constituencies are being appointed to expedite the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-to-tour-ls-constituencies/article37942171.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mahila Congress stages protest against price rise||Telangana Mahila Congress staged a protest in the city against the rising inflation and the prices of essential commodities and fuel going out of the common man’s reach. The protest led by Telangana Mahila Congress chief Sunita Rao saw the party activists blaming the Central government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his inability to govern for the price rise. The women members of the party held placards saying even a basic vegetable like tomato cannot be afforded by the middle class pushing it out of the kitchens. Ms. Sunita Rao said that edible oil prices had doubled during the BJP government’s rule at the Centre while the petrol and diesel prices have touched a record high despite the crude oil prices crashing in the world market. The members held placards comparing the prices during the Congress government till 2014 and the BJP government now. The programme was a part of the nationwide call by the party high command against the price rise. The Congress held a mega rally in Jaipur on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mahila-cong-stages-protest/article37942173.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bank of Maharashtra to expand in TS||Bank of Maharashtra (BoM) is planning to open nine branches in five districts across Telangana by March as part of its emphasis on sharpening focus on the State. “Telangana is where we see good business opportunity. Hyderabad is known for IT, pharma... lot of infrastructure is being developed,” Executive Director A.B. Vijayakumar said, adding the branch expansion is in line with BoM’s stress on having a branch in each district of the country. “We have got 38 branches in Telangana, of which 19 are in Hyderabad. We are yet to open a branch in 17 districts... plan to open at least 9 branches in five districts by March 2022,” he said during his visit to the city recently. Driving the decision is a robust, 50% growth BoM’s Hyderabad zone is on course to clock this fiscal thereby reaching, if not surpassing, the business level it had before Vijayawada zone was carved out. With the creation of the Vijayawada zone, by carving 25 branches in Andhra Pradesh, the Hyderabad zone’s business had reduced from Rs. 12,121 crore to around Rs. 8,000 crore, he said. “There is good support from our existing customers. We are getting support from the State government for good projects where cash flows are there. It is a win-win situation for both government and the bank to work in tandem,” he said. In Hyderabad, Mr. Vijayakumar participated in inauguration of a new corporate finance branch (CFB) by Special Chief Secretary for Irrigation to Telangana government Rajat Kumar and made a courtesy call on Finance and Health Minister Harish Rao. The Minister spoke of the State government plan for a multispeciality hospital in Warangal and wanted BoM to be a partner. BoM, which recently opened its 2,000th branch in Tirumala, is pursuing plans to open 150 branches across the country this fiscal. “We have opened 86 branches so far. Of the 64 remaining, 24 are to be opened by December and the rest by March,” he said. Besides network expansion, BoM is eyeing more growth through a combination of strategies, including opening of focused verticals such as corporate finance branches, setting up centralised processing centre for retail and MSME customers, having business development officers as well as containing slippage and improving recovery by strengthening the asset recovery branches. On the operation side, “we are focusing on reducing cost,” he said, adding the emphasis is also on utilising digital banking tools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bank-of-maharashtra-upbeat-on-state/article37942142.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Home buyers lose while RERA takes a snooze||Builders developing real estate ventures in and around the city are resorting to several unscrupulous practices to evade action by the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), while the authority is yet to be constituted fully in Telangana to take any action against them. Prominent among the instances of foul play is mention of three different dates of completion respectively in agreements of sale, sale deed and in RERA application. At the time of application, builders are giving themselves the maximum possible window of five to seven years for project completion, while luring the customers with the promise of hand-over in two to three years. “I had questioned them about the same before booking the flat, and their reply was that my unit would be handed over before the date mentioned in the agreement, while the same mentioned on RERA website was deadline for completion of the whole project. Towards the end, when I questioned them about the delay in hand over, the project heads started to prevaricate, saying they had time up to 2024,” complained B.Kavitha, a buyer from a prestigious developer. When queried about the same, senior officials from Planning wing of GHMC said the date mentioned in the agreement holds good when it comes to disputes, and not the one in the RERA application. “RERA does not control the builders as to the deadlines mentioned in applications. Its purview with regard to dispute resolution is limited to the agreement between the builder and the buyer,” the official said. Common areas Common areas which cannot be measured is another way the buyers are hoodwinked by the builders. According to official sources, there is no provision of “super built up area” in the RERA Act proposed by the Central government, and buyers should be charged for the carpet area they are promised. However, the powerful builders’ lobby in the city, and practical absence of any voice from citizens/buyers has ensured that the term is introduced in the TS RERA rules. “In some cases, as much as 30% of the square footage is shown as common area. If you calculate all the common built up area, and try to match it with the common area deducted from the square footage promised to each buyer, there are bound to be discrepancies. This is the reason why a 1200 square foot home from 30 years ago, appears larger than a 1800 sq ft home now. What has grown is not the dwelling space, but the builders’ greed,” says another official under the condition of anonymity. Further, buyers are charged twice separately for common areas and amenities, though both heads mean the same. Neither is mentioned separately in the agreements or sale deeds, nor the cost per square foot. Typically, this chicanery is practised only in Hyderabad, which means that the cost per sq ft here would end up much higher than other cities if the charge for common areas is included.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/home-buyers-lose-while-rera-takes-a-snooze/article37942163.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tracing of old records made easier||At a time when several State Government departments at district and State level are still struggling to maintain physical records of all official transactions and finding it difficult to trace old records when in need, the district administration of Mahabubnagar has made a giant leap forward by digitising all records in the district record room. As part of the digitisation exercise, a whopping 50-lakh pages of records in about 65,600 files have been scanned and uploaded to the server for easy tracing and recall. The digitisation of records was taken up in 2017 but could be completed in November this year with District Collector S. Venkata Rao speeding up the process after he took over in February last year. “The transformation of Mahabubnagar district, which was once known for its parched lands and migration of labour for livelihood, in the recent years has been multifaceted, particularly after formation of Telangana. While the improved irrigation facilities turned the parched lands into green pastures, the revival of farm sector has set off reverse migration”, a district official involved in the process said. Now the district is witnessing labour migration from other States working in the farm fields of Mahabubnagar as in the industries/development works including rice mills, project works and others. Digitisation of records is another offset of the transformation of the district, which is still in progress, the official said. Giving the details of digitation of records, the official said official documents of 150-year-old and beyond including those written in Urdu and Parsi were digitised (scanned and uploaded to server) along with their index. “Tracing old records used to consume more than a couple of weeks at times but now they are only a click away. It has reduced health issues in tracing dusty records”, the official said. A total of 1,848 files written in Urdu and Parsi pertaining to the period from 1200 to 1499 and 4,491 files pertaining 1900-1979 were among those digitised as part of the exercise. Further, service registers of all State Government employees of the erstwhile Mahabubnagar district, 72 district offices, all mandal offices were digitised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tracing-of-old-records-made-easier/article37942165.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Abdul Kalam Missile Complex scores a hat-trick of launches||The A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Missile Complex, which houses the Research Centre Imarat (RCI), Defence Research & Development Laboratory (DRDL) and the Advanced Systems Laboratory (ASL) here, scored a hat-trick of sorts with three successful launches — vertical launch of Short Range Surface to Air Missile (SR-SAM), air version of Brahmos supersonic cruise missile and the Stand Off Anti-Tank (SANT) missile — this month. The first two were test fired at Chandipur integrated test range off the coast of Odisha and the last one was flight tested from the Pokhran range in Rajasthan, all indigenously developed, with RCI and DRDL being the nodal labs, senior officials informed on Sunday and sought anonymity. Scientists involved in the making of these sophisticated missile systems were elated at these ‘smooth’ launches, but coming in the backdrop of the tragic helicopter crash that killed Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 other officers at Coonoor, it was a subdued affair. RCI equipped these missiles with onboard avionics, integrated software, tracking algorithms and computers while the DRDL was into advanced propulsion and guidance systems. The VL-SRSAM missile is for the Indian Navy to be fixed on the ships. It was launched against an electronic target at a very low altitude and all ‘sub-systems’ performed as per expectation, senior officials explained. The first trial was held in February this year and the latest one “is confirmatory trial” to prove the “consistent performance of the configuration and integrated operation”, they said. Brahmos was being tested for advanced propulsions, engines, airframes, navigation and guidance systems. It was test-fired from the supersonic fighter aircraft Sukhoi 30 MK-I, paving the way for the serial production of air-version of the missiles. The first test was held in July. BrahMos is a joint venture between India (DRDO) and Russia (NPOM), already inducted into the Armed Forces. SANT is equipped with a state-of-the-art MMW seeker and propulsion technology providing high precision strike capability with 10 km range. It was designed and developed by RCI in coordination with other DRDO labs and participation from industries, the officials said. While DRDL director Dashrath Ram and RCI director U. Raja Babu led their respective teams, the director general of Missiles and Strategic Systems BHVS Narayana Murthy, holding additional charge of the Brahmos, reviewed the launch operations. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, and Secretary Department of Defence R&D and DRDO chairman Satheesh Reddy congratulated the scientists for these successful indigenous efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/abdul-kalam-missile-complex-scores-a-hat-trick-of-launches/article37942153.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Police reluctant to appear in court processes’||Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy of the Telangana High Court expressed his anguish over the delay in disposing of cases and the predicaments of police officers in appearing during the court process. He was speaking after inaugurating courses at the NALSAR University of Law on Saturday. He also touched upon various stages of criminal justice process starting from arrest including the recent amendment to Sec 41 A, to chargesheet and discussed other impediments in admitting the evidence in a criminal trial. Special courts The Judge highlighted the issues involved in Sec 41 A of CrPC and strongly felt the criminal justice process required thorough reforms. He proposed that special courts may be established to try cases of people belonging to minority communities, women and children which would help in speedy disposal of cases. He also highlighted the importance of forensic science by saying that in cases of circumstantial evidence forensic science helps the judiciary in conviction. The inaugural was attended by Vice-Chancellor Prof. Faizan Mustafa, Registrar Prof. V. Balakista Reddy, Dr. K.P.C.Gandhi, Founder, Truth Labs and faculty members and students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-reluctant-to-appear-in-court/article37942161.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Translation of literary classics vital to promote languages: VP||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu said that to preserve and promote the use of various Indian languages, efforts should be made to translate literary classics into other languages. Translation technologies and other advancements must be explored to further the heritage of regional literature in the country, the VP said on Sunday. He was speaking during the Foundation Day celebrations of Potti Sreeramulu Telugu University on Sunday. The VP lauded the institute’s commitment to preserve Telugu language, literature and history through various research initiatives. Like ‘Amuktamalyada’ by Sri Krishnadevaraya was made accessible to people in other languages by the university, other institutions should also do the same, Mr. Naidu said. While remembering the late Chief Minister of AP N.T. Rama Rao, who was integral in establishing the Telugu University, he also appreciated the TRS government under CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao for furthering the cause of Telugu language and culture. Noting that globalisation has its impact on the present generation in advancing the cultural heritage, he expressed confidence that the National Education Policy addresses the issue as it encourages primary education in one’s mother tongue. Mr. Naidu was joined by Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali during the inauguration of a photo exhibition titled ‘Ek Bharat Shreshta Bharat’ by the Regional Outreach Bureau of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. The exhibition showcases the various aspects of art, culture, and books, related to Telangana and Haryana. It will be open for people till December 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/translation-of-literary-classics-vital-to-promote-languages-vp/article37942144.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Building ventures to be inspected||In view of recent instances where villas were constructed without permission in Dundigal, Special Chief Secretary Arvind Kumar issued express instructions to authorities in purview of HMDA to inspect all ongoing constructions. More than a hundred villas were sealed in Dundigal municipality, upon orders from the Medchal-Malkajgiri district collector S.Harish, as they were being constructed without permission in the FTL of a lake. Upon inquiry, it came to light that the permission was granted by village panchayat before Dundigal became a municipality. Mr.Arvind Kumar asked the municipal commissioners within the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority to verify if the ventures within their purview had valid permissions, and if found to be unauthorised constructions, to take action for their demolition. An action taken report should be submitted to the government by December 30, the orders said, warning the municipal commissioners of disciplinary action in case of lapses in discharge of their duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/building-ventures-to-be-inspected/article37942164.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Warangal police seize 64 kgs ganja||Warangal police nabbed four persons who were reportedly smuggling ganja originating from Andhra Pradesh and Odisha to Pune and parts of Maharashtra, on Sunday. Sixty-four kilograms of the contraband, at an estimated value of Rs. 6.40 lakh, was recovered from them. Police Commissioner Tarun Joshi said all the arrested hailed from Pune and another accused from Koraput of Odisha was absconding. Mr. Joshi explained that the gang got along as they were from the same place. On Sunday they were arrested near Rayaparthi bus stand, when they reached the spot with suitcases filled with ganja, from various routes such as Rajahmundry, Bhadradi Kothagudem, Khammam and Mahbubabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-seize-64-kgs-ganja/article37942156.ece
13 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Green challenge accepted||Film actor Mehreen Pirzada planted saplings at Ramanaidu’s Studios as part of the Green India Challenge programme launched by Rajya Sabha member Joginapalli Santosh Kumar. Mehreen appreciated Mr. Santosh Kumar for launching the Green India Challenge and appealed to people to plant trees to ensure that India turns into a green and clean country. Green India Challenge co-founder Raghava presented a copy of the book Vriksha Veda to Mehreen Pirzada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/green-challenge-accepted/article37942141.ece
13 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth succumbs to injuries||A 26-year-old youth who fell down from the historic Golconda Fort while taking selfies last Tuesday, died while undergoing treatment on Friday. Golconda police said S. Ranjith Kumar, an electrician from Rajanna-Sircilla district along with his friend went to the fort and while taking selfies he slipped and suffered severe injuries. He was soon rushed to OGH for treatment. Doctor ends life A 29-year-old cardiac surgeon was found dead in his residence at SR Nagar. Dr. Rajkumar, a native of Kadapa district in Andhra Pradesh, was practising at a private hospital in Ameerpet. Police said that on Friday, he consumed poison and died. Roshni - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-succumbs-to-injuries/article37942159.ece
13 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Container hits bus, two hurt||Two persons travelling in a TSRTC bus suffered injuries after a speeding container crashed into the bus at Medchal on Sunday. Medchal police said that the accident took place around 4.45 a.m. when the bus driver was taking a turn to enter the depot, and in the meantime, the container driver lost control and crashed into it. A case was registered and the injured were taken to a nearby hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/container-hits-bus-two-hurt/article37942158.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||25 cybercrime victims get refund||A total Rs. 34.27 lakh was refunded to victims of cybercrimes through the mega lok adalat in Rachakonda police commissionerate limits in December, an official release said. Prompt reporting of the cases via the toll-free number 155620 led to recording the crimes and a speedy investigation. The December tally involved 25 victims, who had lost money online through various frauds, it said. If the November figures were included, the police said a total 50 fraudulent cases were compounded through the lok adalat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/25-cybercrime-victims-get-refund/article37942166.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘India a ray of hope for the world’||“Only a sangatith Bhaarat will be unified, efficient and will earn its self-esteem. The RSS is for building such India,” said joint general secretary of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh Dattatreya Hosabale, at a mammoth event held in Nalgonda on Sunday. Thousands of RSS workers marched the various routes in Nalgonda town in unison in their white and khaki uniforms, bringing the town to a standstill and gathering all attention. The sea of workers passing through the clock tower centre flowed along the arterial Hyderabad Road in the town, before they squatted at the N.G. College grounds to listen to their senior leader. According to Mr. Hosabale, while India is a ray of hope for the world, the Hindu samaj is the lifeline in India. And the RSS will continue to work to organise that samaj, he said at the ‘Hindu Shakti Sangamam’ meet. Ideas and strategies emanating from self-esteem, he opined, resulted in great returns, and cited recognition of ‘yoga day’, free vaccine against COVID-19 and the like were some examples other countries learned from India. Mr. Hosabale asserted that construction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya was “a symbol of sanskruthik jagruthi “ or cultural awakening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/india-a-ray-of-hope-for-the-world/article37942167.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS records 146 COVID cases; one from ‘at risk’ positive||One more person who landed in Telangana from an ‘at risk’ country tested COVID positive after an RT-PCR test on Sunday. Samples collected from the air passenger were sent for genome sequencing. Altogether, the sequencing results of four fliers were awaited. Meanwhile, the State recorded 146 COVID cases on Sunday, taking the total to 6,78,288. While 26,625 samples were examined, results of 3,123 were awaited. Two more COVID patients have died. The new COVID cases include 72 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), and 20 from Rangareddy. From March 2, 2020, to December 12 this year, a total of 2.90 crore samples were tested and 6,78,288 were detected with COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-records-146-covid-cases-one-from-at-risk-positive/article37942148.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Breathing lung transplant performed||A breathing lung transplantation was performed by doctors at the Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) on Saturday. Doctors claimed that this was the first such procedure conducted in India. The surgery was performed by director of the Lung Transplant programme Dr. Sandeep Attawar and his team on a middle aged patient with end stage interstitial lung disease with 10 litres of oxygen support. The doctors said that breathing lung transplantation procedure helps in mitigating the ill effects of cold ischaemia time and improves lung function thereby increasing the organ utilisation. “The idea of ‘breathing lung’ is to run the lungs through a device that cools the organ while it breathes, and nourishes it with a substrate enriched solution that has antibiotics that wipe out small traces of the infection. Cleaning of the air passages by means of bronchoscopy can be performed while on the machine as well as several tests can be done simultaneously to further assess and enhance the performance of the lung before it is cooled and then transplanted into the recipient,” as per a release. “Only a select few transplant institutions in the US, Canada, and Austria take this approach to enhance lung transplant outcomes,” said Dr. Sandeep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/breathing-lung-transplant-done/article37942149.ece
13 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC Robotics inks pact with IIT-Hyderabad||HC Robotics, a technology company specialising in design and manufacture of customised UAVs, Aerostats, EOIR cameras, and AI-based image processing, has signed a memorandum of understanding with IIT-Hyderabad for testing of new technologies at the newly built IIT-H Technology Research Park Foundation (IITHTRP) research facility in the campus last week. The technologies to be taken up for research and testing from January 2022 include robotics arms attached to drones to implement certain unmanned tasks with the subsequent manufacturing to be done by HC Robotics. The firm already has research and design centres in the United States and Australia. It is also partnering with IIIT-DM, Kurnool, for research collaboration on UAVs and other advanced technologies. HC Robotics have received patents for longest and lightest Robotic Arm for UAVs and Robotic Insulator Cleaner for transmission towers. IIT-HTRP, registered and promoted by (IIT-H), is governed by a board of distinguished academicians, faculty and industry professionals. The firm has received approval from DGCA for conducting experiments on Beyond Visual Line of Sight (BVLOS) operations and have been allotted an area to conduct the experiments by the Airport Authority of India. Along with its parent company, Centillion Networks, it completed tower inspection for three lines and 10 towers for TS TRANSCO inspection and safe operation of the grid, said a press release on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-robotics-inks-pact-with-iit-hyderabad/article37942150.ece
13 December 2021||MULUGU,TELANGANA||Warehouse for EVMs opened||Telangana Chief Electoral Officer Shashank Goel on Sunday inaugurated the newly constructed warehouse to store Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) and Voter Verified Paper Audit Trails (VVPATs) in the district headquarters town of Mulugu. Collector S Krishna Aditya and other officials of the district were present. According to sources, the district administration ensured speedy completion of the construction of the warehouse in adherence to the stipulated quality standards within three and a half months in Mulugu, the tribal majority district, which was carved out of Jayashankar-Bhupalpalli district in February 2019. The warehouse will be used to store the EVMs and VVPATs safely for future elections. Mr Goel said as many as 20 new warehouses have been constructed across the State to store EVMs and VVPATs. Construction of two more warehouses one each in Kamareddy and Narayanapur is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/warehouse-for-evms-opened/article37942353.ece
13 December 2021||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Fast-track plan for Vemulawada||An action plan has been devised to fast-track the ongoing road development works and launch a slew of new development initiatives to ensure hassle-free vehicular movement in Vemulawada and comprehensive development of the temple town, the abode of Lord Raja Rajeshwara Swamy. The plan envisages expeditious completion of works on the second bridge across the Mulavagu stream and to widen the main road from the bridge centre to Sri Raja Rajeshwara Swamy temple and the temple to the police station in Vemulawada at an estimated cost of Rs. 100 crore. Sources said that efforts were on to implement a series of measures to overcome traffic congestion, improve road safety and launch central lighting system along certain important stretches of the main roads in and around the temple town as part of the comprehensive road development plan. Plans are afoot to beautify the surroundings of the rejuvenated Gudi Cheruvu spread over 167 acres as part of the temple tank development plan. The long-felt need of the denizens of the temple town for a new bus station is likely to be met soon. The authorities have reportedly identified 20-acre land near Gudi Cheruvu on the Jagtial road for the new bus station in the major pilgrim centre. A proposal has been mooted for development of Baddi Pochamma temple near the famous Sri Raja Rajeshwara Swamy temple. Vemulawada MLA Ch Ramesh Babu on Saturday inspected the ongoing works on the second bridge across the Mulavagu and other development works with the officials concerned in Vemulawada. He reviewed the progress of various development works and discussed the comprehensive plan for the integrated development of the temple town and improvement of amenities for local residents as well as the devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fast-track-plan-to-develop-vemulawada/article37942175.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Pitfalls of re-allotment of staff||The ongoing re-allotment of employees to their native districts as part of implementation of the new zonal system in the State has its own pitfalls. The process is not their cup of tea for junior employees because the seniors steal a march over them in the lists. For example, `X’ number of senior employees opt for a particular district and `Y’ number of junior employees opt for the same district, the available posts will go in the order of seniority until they are exhausted. Hence, the junior employees in the bottom levels nurse a grouse that they will never stand a chance of getting allotted to their native district as they did not expect the seniority list to be thin. Coming to their second and third preferences of allotment to adjoining districts, the employees feel it will be no different as the seniors will again supersede them. Now, they are resigned to their fate that they will continue to work on `order to serve’ basis which what the employees have been doing for the last two-and-a-half years in districts away from their native places.     The three-day strike in Singareni Collieries which ended on Saturday threw up interesting possibilities both for management and workers. To make up for the loss of production, the management decided to invite workers for duties on Sunday which was a holiday. For duties on holidays, the workers were paid an additional muster. But, rules stipulated that to avail work on holidays, the workers must have attended to duties for a minimum of four days in a week. To aid the workers, the management relaxed the four day norm and made it two days. The trade unions which gave the call for strike in protest against privatisation of four coal block in the collieries have threatened to go on indefinite strike again after January 20. This was after the Regional Labour Commissioner and the management expressed helplessness that they had no role in considering the demand as only the Central government was competent.   The State government is asking the farmers to go for alternative crops such as maize, jowar, pulses, groundnut and other oilseeds after declaring that it will not buy paddy grown in the current rabi. . However, apart from not having the cover of minimum support price (MSP) for the alternative crops, farmers are equally or more worried about monkey and wild boar menace as they inflict heavy loss by eating/damaging a majority of the crops being suggested. Except for crops such as safflower and mustard, others including jowar, maize, greengram, bengalgram, blackgram, lentil, groundnut, sunflower raised in rabi are easy feed for monkeys, langurs, spotted deers, rabbits and various kinds of birds. The State Government has formed a panel with forest, veterinary and agriculture department officials to suggests ways to tackle monkey and wild boar menace to prevent the heavy crop loss/damage. In turn, the three departments have asked their field-level personnel to collect information on the menace including the population of monkeys and wild boars which damage crops most.  ((N. Rahul and   B. Chandrashekhar)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pitfalls-of-re-allotment-of-staff/article37942168.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Let there be light||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/let-there-be-light/article37942348.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Stabilising prices||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stabilising-prices/article37942351.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||A beauty in the making||photo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-beauty-in-the-making/article37942177.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Reader’s Mail||Mutual Fund companies are nowadays ‘troubling’ investors stating that their signatures, in respect of aged or merged or switched accounts, are not tallying with the signatures held on record with them. Instead of obtaining fresh signatures based on the PAN, Aadhaar, residential address, mobile, and email ID, they are insisting on submission of fresh signatures attested by the banker and are not agreeable to share the signatures held on record with them. Abbreviation of surnames into a single letter are not accepted and submission of a stamped notarised affidavit is being insisted along with personal appearance of the unit holder for submission of document. It is beyond comprehension as to why they insist for bankers’ attestation when original cancelled cheque with unit holders’ name printed is submitted. No request is being considered over email too. B. Sarada Devi Domalguda    ‘Kala Thoranam’ in Public Gardens is a monolith in limbo with no activities for years except security. Why cannot it be made active as a functional hall with literary and cultural functions along with events like book fairs? Once it was a Chinese garden with exotic plants and its backdrop was used for screening movies. Already it is devoid of its heritage. What this place was known for like Bal Bhavan, swimming pool, boating and so on, looks like a haven for unsocial elements. The place is pleading for attention. Thomas K.E. Red Hills    After publication of my letter dated August 23 on ‘Bad Road’ in this column, only the All Saints’ Church road was recapped completely but just one furlong away, the damaged road in front of the BSNL office towards Lal Bazaar was not attended to. I came to know that these two adjacent areas are under two different jurisdictional authorities. I once again appeal to the officials concerned to take up this issue at the earliest. N.S.R. Murthy Secunderabad    There are a number of PUC (Pollution Under Control ) checking stations in twin cities, some mobile vans and some operating from the premises of fuel stations. Most of them claim that they are authorised by RTA to carry out the PUC tests, but fail to display the rates being charged for each category of vehicle. Since it is a government mandated requirement, they should display the rates. I would like to request the legal metrology department to visit these facilities to ensure rates are displayed. Kumar Shastri Moula Ali  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk -at-thehindu. co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail/article37942151.ece
13 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||BJP MLA dies of multiple organ failure||Gujarat BJP leader Asha Patel died of multiple organ failure on Sunday while undergoing treatment for dengue in a private hospital in Ahmedabad. The 44-year-old MLA from Unjha Assembly constituency in was rushed to Zydus Hospital, where she was put on ventilator support after being admitted on December 9. “She died as her organs failed. She was already critical when brought to hospital,” said former Deputy CM Nitin Patel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-mla-dies-of-multiple-organ-failure/article37942256.ece
13 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Office vacancies rising in Bengaluru, show data||As more companies get back to offices for work, over a year and a half after working from home, property consultants said office vacancy levels have risen in cities such as Bengaluru. The reason? New office space additions. The latest data from property consultants ANAROCK show that Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Chennai saw office vacancies increase by at least 4.2%, 3.9%, and 2.78% respectively in the first half (H1) of FY22 as against the same period in FY21. Pune and Kolkata were the only top cities to see office vacancies decline marginally in this period. In Bengaluru, office vacancy levels increased to 10.75% in H1 FY22 against 6.55% in H1 FY21. The city witnessed maximum new office completions in the period – approx. 7.3 mn sq.ft., ANAROCK said. Prashant Thakur, director and head - research, ANAROCK Group, said rising vacancies in the main southern cities can largely be attributed to increased new office space additions in the period. “Altogether, the three cities saw new office space addition of 12.95 mn sq. ft. area in H1 FY22, accounting for nearly 58% share of the total new completions in top seven cities. However, despite this rise, the current office vacancy levels in the southern cities are still lower than in other top cities like Delhi-National Capital Region, Mumbai Metropolitan Region, and Kolkata,” he said. On analysing the top seven cities’ growth percentage in both new office supply and net absorption in H1 FY22 against the same period year ago, it emerges that NCR has done remarkably well. While Bengaluru witnessed the highest absorption of 3.2 mn sq. ft. in H1 FY22 among all the top seven cities, it also saw a 6% reduction in net absorption as compared to H1 FY21. The net absorption in Hyderabad and Kolkata declined by 30% and 70% respectively in the same period. Suresh Hari, chairman, CREDAI Bengaluru, told The Hindu that there is certainly positive traction in the asset class. “Mainly due to ease of restrictions and reduction in the level of infection, the demand is increasing. Overall, the need to attend office physically is on the rise,” he said. Office rentals Though average monthly rentals in the top seven cities have remained steady at approximately Rs. 75/sq. ft. in H1 FY22 against the corresponding period in the preceding fiscal year, IT/ITeS hubs like Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Pune saw a marginal rise of 3% each in average monthly office rentals in H1 FY22. “In Bengaluru, average rentals increased to Rs. 79 per sq. ft. in H1 FY22 from Rs. 77 per sq. ft. in H1 FY21. Interestingly, when compared to the pre-pandemic period H1 FY20, the city saw a 7% jump in average monthly office rentals,” the ANAROCK analysis revealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/office-vacancies-rising-in-bengaluru-show-data/article37942071.ece
13 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha DGP visits BSF’s new base in Maoist-affected region||Left wing extremists have mostly relocated to other places as security forces have established their domination in Swabhiman Anchal, which was once a stronghold of the outlawed CPI(Maoist), said Odisha Director General of Police Abhay on Sunday. Mr. Abhay, who visited Ghanbeda, once a highly Maoist affected area in the Swabhmian Anchal, where Border Security Force (BSF) recently set up Company Operating Base (COB), said, “State police, BSF and local people have been working in tandem to bring changes in the area. The transformation is visible in the area.” “A bridge is required to be constructed for facilitating smooth movement of forces to reach Jantri, the tail end of Swabhiman area. It would mark the end of the presence of CPI (Maoist),” he said. Malkangiri is one of the worst affected districts in India recording 332 Maoists incidents in last 12 years between 2008 and 2020. Majority of the violence by the rebels has taken place in the Swabhiman Area. Swabhiman Area was formerly known as Cut-off area because of its remoteness that was inflicted upon people by the Balimela Dam project. The reservoir created over 60-kilometre-long water channel encircling 151 villages from three sides. For three years between 1975 and 1978, the water-locked people did not have access to main land which almost erased their memories associated with the rest of the world. Taking advantage of the backwardness and anger of local people against administration, the CPI (Maoist) almost turned the area into their fortress. Swabhiman Anchal in Malkangiri district got its first road connection to rest of Odisha in 2018 when Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik inaugurated Gurupriya Bridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/odisha-dgp-visits-bsfs-new-base-in-maoist-affected-region/article37942247.ece
13 December 2021||bhubaneswar,||Central team visits Odisha’s Cyclone Jawad-affected districts||A six-member Central team led by a Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs on Sunday left for the field verification to assess the damage done to agriculture and other sectors due to Cyclone Jawad, which reached near Odisha coast in the form of a depression before moving towards West Bengal early this month. The team members left to the affected districts after holding discussion with Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P.K. Jena here. The team has been divided into three units. While one unit will visit Ganjam and Puri districts, the second one to assess losses in Jagatsinghpur and Cuttack districts. Another unit will visit the Jajpur and Kendrapara districts. The inter-ministerial Central team led by Saurav Ray, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, was apprised by the State government of the damage done by the calamity. Though there were no major damage to the electrical infrastructures and buildings, the extremely heavy rainfall during the calamity had severely damaged the standing crops. Mr. Jena said there has been no major damage to the infrastructure in the recent cyclone. “However, we have apprised the team that the maximum damage has been caused to the farmers in terms of crop loss. We have given them preliminary information in this regard,” he said.  State Govt. report Stating that the loss assessment of agriculture is a little difficult task, Mr. Jena said the State government will submit a report to the team. After the field visit and preparation of the final assessment, the team is likely to submit its report within one week to the Disaster Management Division of the MHA for quick admissibility of central assistance. The team will also recommend whether the disaster can be considered to be of a ‘severe nature’, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/central-team-visits-odishas-cyclone-jawad-affected-districts/article37942244.ece
13 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||4,503 acres of 13 Odisha temples in illegal occupation, finds CAG||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has found irregularities in the management of wealth of Hindu religious institutions in Odisha. The auditors have examined the implementation of the Orissa Hindu Religious Endowment (OHRE) Act, 1951 in 13 institutions. The CAG has found that 4,503.87 acres of land belonging to 13 temples were in illegal occupation while about nine kg of gold has been found to be in ‘unauthorised’ custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/4503-acres-of-13-odisha-temples-in-illegal-occupation-finds-cag/article37942072.ece
13 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||War of numbers over AAP’s poll promises||As Assembly elections in Punjab inch closer, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is hard-selling its “Delhi model” of development and governance in the State. However, its slew of freebies on offer has come in for criticism from political rivals. AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been visiting the State and making populist announcements. The party’s key election promises so far include free education for every child born in Punjab in Government schools; free medical treatment at Government hospitals; free electricity up to 300 units to every household; a monthly stipend of Rs. 1,000 for women and providing Rs. 1 crore for Army and police personnel killed in the line of duty. Last week, Mr. Kejriwal launched what the party termed the “world’s largest women’s empowerment campaign” under which women above the age of 18 would be paid Rs. 1,000 a month if the AAP is voted to power. At the event, Mr. Kejriwal claimed that according to an estimate, illegal trade of Rs. 20,000 crore a year in sand and gravel mining alone was going on in Punjab. He asserted that after the AAP formed the government, it would stop this “theft” and the money will be used to pay the Rs. 1,000 stipend to women. State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu asked Mr. Kejriwal to tell the people of Punjab how he planned to finance the freebies. He should stop fooling the people. Sukhbir Badal, president of Shiromani Akali Dal, also took on Mr. Kejriwal for “misleading” the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/war-of-numbers-over-aaps-poll-promises/article37942066.ece
13 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab Govt. schools in bad shape: AAP||Scaling up the inter-State spat on school education, AAP leader and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said government schools in Punjab are in a bad shape and sought people's support to bring his party to power in the State to improve the condition of the educational institutions. ‘Teachers good but sad’ “In Punjab, the State of education is very bad. Government schools are in a bad shape. There is no study at all in government schools. Punjab’s teachers are very good, but they are sad. In government schools in Punjab, 24 lakh students from poor, Dalit, SC community study. Think about what is the future of these children?” Mr. Kejriwal said in a video message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjab-govt-schools-in-bad-shape-aap/article37942241.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,||CB-CID files case to probe tweet on chopper crash||The Crime Branch CID (CB-CID) of the Tamil Nadu police have registered a case against two persons handling different Twitter accounts in Pakistan for posting false information on the helicopter crash at Coonoor in the Nilgiris district in which Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat, wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 other officials died on December 8, 2021. After ascertaining that the location of the users was outside the country, the CB-CID has written to Twitter India to share the identity of the suspects, their exact location and other information relevant to the tweets, posted with an intent to spread terror, a senior official in the investigating agency said, adding that the Tamil Nadu police were also examining some controversial posts made by different people in various social media platforms on the tragic crash. The Cyber Crime wing of the CB-CID have filed a case against two twitter accounts for tweeting abusive posts on the CDS General Bipin Rawat. In a press release, the CB-CID said it has filed a case against World Conflicts Monitoring Centre, bearing twitter handle WorldBreakingN9, and Pakistan Strategic Forum having the twitter handle @ForumStrategic for posting defamatory posts against the top military officer. Meanwhile the Special Task Force, deployed to focus on the movement of Left Wing extremists in the forest area, abutting Karnataka and Kerala, has joined the IAF and other agencies in the search operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cb-cid-files-case-to-probe-tweet-on-chopper-crash/article37942064.ece
13 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||Linking Tabligh with terrorism baseless, says Darul Uloom||The Darul Uloom, Deoband, on Sunday, disapproved of the Saudi Government’s decision to ban Tablighi Jamaat for spreading terrorism and said linking the organisation with bidat (undesirable religious innovation) and shirk (indulging in idolatry) was baseless. The Islamic seminary, where the largest Muslim organisation took root, asked the Kingdom to review its decision. In a press note in Urudu, signed by rector Maulana Abdul Qasim Nomani, the Darul Uloom said the charges were baseless and that the Jamaat’s role was to spread deen ( faith) . In a tweet, it further stated the Jamaat came into being in Deoband because of the efforts of Maulana Mohammad Ilyas about a century ago. Saudi directives The tweet came as a response to a series of tweets by the Religious Affairs Ministry of the Saudi Government wherein it directed preachers and mosques that held Friday preachers to warn against Tablighi and Da’wah group that is called Al Ahbab. It said the sermon should include a declaration of the “misguidance, deviation and danger of this group” and went on to describe it as “one of the gates of terrorism even if they say otherwise.” The tweets further stated that the sermon should state that affiliation with partisan groups (Tablighi and Da’wah) was prohibited in the Kingdom. However, sources in Deoband and those following the practices of the Jamaat said the seminary and a section of the media had overread the Saudi Government’s statement as it had less to do with the terror charges and was more about the differences in interpretation of Islamic practices. They felt the Salafis consider Tablighis as grave worshippers and question the importance they give to Faza’il e A’mal, a treatise by influential Jamaat ideologue Muhammad Zakariya over the Koran, and that is why the references of shirk and bidat have come out. Musharraf Usmani, a senior journalist based in Deoband, said the Saudi Government’s tweets seemed to be directed towards a particular group called Al Ahbab and not the Jamaat in general. Drawing a parallel, he said, “In 2017, Darul Uloom also banned the entry of Tablighis in the seminary after a feud between two sections of the Jamaat. The seniors didn’t want the followers of the Maulana Saad , the head of one of the factions, to enter the campus.”  The Saudi Government’s tweets seemed to be directed towards a particular group called Al Ahbab and not the Jamaat in general Musharraf Usmani Senior journalist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/linking-tabligh-with-terrorism-baseless-says-darul-uloom/article37942073.ece
13 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||Tikait’s advice to Govt.: change ideology, else you will get voted out||Addressing Bharatiya Kisan Union’s first mahapanchayat after the Government and Samyukt Kisan Morcha arrived at an agreement in Kairana on Sunday, national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said if the incumbent Government didn’t change its ideology, it will be voted out of power. He described the 13-month long agitation as an “ideological revolution” and a training ground for the farmers and the youth of the country. Thanking the villages for sending ration to the morchas, Mr. Tikait said nobody asked whether the food came from the Hindu, Sikh, or a Muslim home. One of the biggest successes of the movement, he said, was that the Minimum Support Price became a household name and people realised its importance for farmers. “We don’t say whom to vote. Our job is to remind the Government of the promises made and the promises kept. Elections are about choosing one ideology over the other and I would like to advise the present dispensation to change its ideology else people would look for other options,” said Mr. Tikait to thousands of farmers huddled together. He said a perception was being created that the MSP guarantee law would become a burden on the Government. “According to a rough estimate crops worth Rs. 12 lakh crores are grown in India. If the MSP guarantee law comes into the being, out of this sum, Rs. 3 lakh crore rupees that go to the big businessmen at present, will come to the farmers. The Government doesn’t have to spend an extra penny from its pocket,” he explained to an applauding crowd. He once again appealed to farmers to stay united. “We are being asked why we are holding a panchayat in Kairana. Some people don’t like your mel-milap [rapprochement],” he said, alluding to CM Yogi Adityanath’s repeated reference to the alleged exodus of a community from the town which has a significant Muslim population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tikaits-advice-to-govt-change-ideology-else-you-will-get-voted-out/article37942069.ece
13 December 2021||Gurugram,||Gurugram Muslims sought land for mosques in vain much before current namaz face-off||Much before the controversy over offering of Jumma Namaz (Friday prayer) in the open erupted in the Millennium City in 2018, the Muslim community had realised the need for more mosques for their growing numbers, and to avoid inconvenience to residents. Two trusts — India Islamic Research Center (IIRC) and Muslim Minority Trust — had applied for five of the religious sites on offer by the Haryana Government in 2016. A detailed brochure accompanying the application pointed out how only nine mosques, including Anjuman Trust Masjid in Sector 57, had the total capacity to accommodate only 3,200 people. But they failed to get the land. Again, amid the raging protests across the city over namaz in the open this year, the IIRC applied for allotment of 1,627 sq. m. plot in Sector 39 two months ago in response to an advertisement by Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). Though the trust has not officially been communicated about the decision yet, one of the members present at the interview for the plot allotment said they are not very hopeful this time as well. ‘Seven minutes’ “The interview was conducted by a committee headed by the Gurugram Divisional Commissioner via videoconferencing last month. However, the entire exercise was over in just seven minutes,” said Gurgaon Muslim Council member Altaf Ahmad, who was part of a five-member committee of the IIRC  attending the interview. Their proposal, Mr. Ahmad said, was for a multi-purpose hall for religious, educational and social activities for the community. “We duly paid 10% cost of the plot, around Rs. 18 lakh, as an earnest money and produced bank account details for another 25% amount,” he said. As per the policy, normally two sites for religious or social institutions are provided in the layout plan of each sector at different places and the applications for the allotment of the same at concessional rates are invited through advertisement in newspapers. The applications are scrutinised by a committee headed by the deputy commissioner concerned and its recommendations are placed before the meeting of the HSVP for approval. The institutions or the trusts are required to complete the construction within two years from the date of offer of possession with maximum three years’ extension. ‘Politically influenced’ A senior retired corporate employee, who was involved in the process on both occasions as a member of the Muslim community, said members from their own community in the Government had told them that the final decision for land allotment for religious sites, irrespective of the party in power, was politically influenced. “Whoever is making the decision, we are disappointed to learn that they are not supporting the community and that is recurring repeatedly. In fact, the Muslim community all over the country, and more so in northern India, seems to face marked reluctance from bureaucracy as well as political leadership, irrespective of the party in power, in allotment of land for a mosque. It is just a matter of degree in different dispensations. It has been going on for decades and seems stronger and more in the open now than before,” the source told The Hindu . He recalled how the land for the Sector 57 mosque too was allotted with “a great degree of difficulty and political influence” with two prominent political leaders from the community speaking to then Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala in this regard. “Still the mosque is caught in a legal tangle with a case filed on the grounds that the land allotted was meant for other purposes and the area had little concentration of Muslims. The mosque is partially built with stay on further construction.” In 2016, the earnest money deposited for the sites was refunded a year later and the community members were verbally told that “the process was cancelled. That reason was not officially communicated. It appears the process did in fact go through and we were denied”, the source said. Seeking support This year too, the community approached several political leaders before the interview to garner support. Mr. Ahmad said the community is in urgent need of land for a mosque in New Gurgaon, broadly comprising the South and East municipal zones, not just for their religious activities, but also to present a better picture to foreign visitors from the Muslim community. They come to the city for different purposes, including for treatment at Medanta Hospital, and usually visit the far-off semi-built Sector 57 Anjuman Trust Masjid and get a bad impression, he said. “We hope the administration understands this, but we are not very hopeful this time as well. We are the largest minority community in the country, but there is a discrimination against Muslims in Gurugram when it comes to allocation of land for religious purposes. If it does not work out this time, we will be left with no choice but to move court seeking land for a mosque,” Mr. Ahmad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gurugram-muslims-sought-land-for-mosques-in-vain-much-before-current-namaz-face-off/article37942059.ece
13 December 2021||JAIPUR,||FAO recognises tribal farmers’ drive to revitalise soil health||A community initiative of tribal farmers in three districts of southern Rajasthan to revitalise soil health and restore its biodiversity has received recognition from an unexpected quarter. The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) has praised nutrition-sensitive farming system adopted in the region for its impact on soil health, agricultural output and environment protection. The initiative launched in the tribal-dominated Pratapgarh, Dungarpur and Banswara districts has led to the revival of a large number of traditional farming practices. The sustainable approach adopted with a participatory learning action has improved the quality of farm produce and broadened the tribal community’s vision for indigenous food and agricultural management. The FAO has appreciated the initiative and included it in one of its recent publications under the theme, “Soil biodiversity in action”. While the tribal farmers are upbeat about the outcome of their enterprise, a voluntary group from Banswara district participated virtually in a global symposium on soil biodiversity, organised by the FAO’s Global Soil Partnership and the U.N. Convention on Biological Diversity, to showcase the initiative’s results. The nutrition-sensitive farming involves mixed cropping with legumes as natural fertilisers, crop rotation, agro-forestery, mulching, plantation in homestead and growing hedgerows and grassy strips around agricultural fields. The cultivators in the region have found these practices useful in their farmland, most of which is rough, uneven and sloping on the foothills. Man Singh Ninama, a farmer in Anandpuri block’s Sundrao village, told The Hindu that the mixed cropping adopted in his 12-bigha land had increased the production and rendered a better quality of crops. “After the harvesting of maize, sesame and pulses, I have sown grams and peas with the main crop of wheat in this rabi season. The density of crops with the rows of different varieties will also reduce soil erosion and soil flow in the sloping field,” Mr. Ninama said. ‘No chemicals’ Another tribal farmer, Kal Singh Damor, in Kushalgarh block’s Amli Para village, said he had stopped using chemical fertilisers in his field and was producing organic vermicompost which had improved soil health. “The impact is visible in the size, colour and taste of maize and rice which I have grown this year. I could save a good quantity for my family's consumption as well,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fao-recognises-tribal-farmers-drive-to-revitalise-soil-health/article37942249.ece
13 December 2021||Kolkata,||How the pandemic helped Bengal’s moa -makers boost their sales||For the makers of the Joynagar moa , the famous winter sweetmeat of Bengal, the pandemic turned out to be a blessing as it forced them out of their comfort zone and reach out to consumers — a move that has dramatically increased their sales. “COVID has been a great teacher. Before the pandemic, people came to Joynagar in search of our moa and we were happy with whatever we sold. But COVID placed restrictions of the movement of people and we realised it was time for us to reach out to them. This seems to have created a win-win situation for both manufacturers and consumers,” Ashok Kumar Kayal, founding secretary of the Joynagar Moa Nirmankari Society — a group of 46 moa -makers from the town of Joynagar near Kolkata — told The Hindu . The moa is a popped-rice ball held together with fresh date-palm jaggery that is extracted during the winter months, and its manufacture is so synonymous with Joynagar that it earned the Geographical Indication tag of Joynagar Moa in 2015. Last year, the society had, for the first time, tied up directly with popular sweet shops in and around Kolkata in a bid to check imitations that cashed in on the name of Joynagar moa . But the tie-ups weren’t very fruitful for the moa -makers because the shops stocked the sweet in limited quantities as they didn’t want it to overshadow their regular fare. “So, this year in Kolkata, we have tied up with some large government-run wholesale cooperative societies — in Jadavpur, Behala, and in Sarsoona — and also with Biswa Bangla. We have also arranged with some private parties, such as Metro Cash & Carry, to sell our products. We are also aggressively reaching out to customers in the districts of Bardhaman and Hooghly,” Mr. Kayal said. Not just West Bengal; on Thursday, a consignment of 15 kg of moa was shipped to Chennai. A similar quantity will soon go to Hyderabad. Last year, for the very first time, moa (a highly perishable product) was sent by air to outside India — to Bahrain. This year, a few hundred boxes are likely to go to Canada and Hong Kong as well. “This year, we expect to sell around 7,000 boxes (each box contains 500 gm of moa ), last year we did only 3,000 boxes. COVID has been a big lesson for us — we would have never reached out to consumers otherwise,” Mr. Kayal said. Available in winter only The moa is available only during the winter months in Bengal, from the beginning of December till the end of February, when fresh date-palm jaggery is available. It is said to have made its appearance as recently as in 1904, becoming synonymous with Joynagar over the decades, even though many other adjoining settlements specialise in it. The sweetmeat is made of aromatic khoi — popped rice — mixed with jaggery, sugar, cashew nuts and raisins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/how-the-pandemic-helped-bengals-moa-makers-boost-their-sales/article37942251.ece
13 December 2021||Lucknow,||Two sitting MLAs join SP ahead of U.P. Assembly polls||Ahead of the crucial 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, the Samajwadi Party got a shot in the arm on Sunday when two MLAs joined the party at its headquarters here in the presence of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. The legislators are Vinay Shankar Tiwari from Chillupar Assembly seat in Gorakhpur, who was expelled from the BSP recently, and Digvijay Narayan alias Jai Chaubey (BJP) from Khalilabad constituency in Sant Kabir Nagar. Former Chairman of the U.P. Legislative Council Ganesh Shankar Pandey, who was fielded by the BSP in 2010 for the post of Council Chairman, also joined the Samajwadi Party. Apart from these prominent leaders, a large number of Brahmins from different political parties also joined the party. The BSP had on Monday expelled Mr. Tiwari, his elder brother and former MP Kushal Tiwari and their relative Mr. Pandey from the party. They were expelled for allegedly creating indiscipline in the party and for improper behaviour with senior leaders. Hitting out at Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the SP chief said: “In the last four-and-half years [of the BJP rule], work has been done with discrimination. The way in which the British practised ‘divide and rule’, in the same way, the BJP wants to rule the people by making them feel afraid and killing them. In the upcoming polls, the people will teach a lesson to the BJP.” He said that no one can forget the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur in which eight people, including four farmers lost their lives. ‘COVID mismanagement’ The SP chief, on this occasion, also accused the Government of mismanagement during the COVID-19 pandemic, saying that no one can forget the shortage of oxygen in hospitals, floating bodies in rivers and other irregularities. “People were made to stand in queues during demonetisation, to get medicines and hospital beds during the pandemic and farmers stood in queues to get fertilisers. But, in the upcoming Assembly elections, the people will queue up and remove them. Neither are they able to control the bull nor will they be able to control the bulldozer,” he said. The SP chief said that the BJP Government, in its final days, is talking about the election promise of giving tablets to students, which they had made in 2017. “It is being heard that these items could be imported from China,” he said. Election manifesto To a question that if voted to power, will the SP order a probe into the alleged fake encounters which took place in the current regime, Mr. Yadav said, “Let our election manifesto come. It will have a number of things.” The SP chief on this occasion also said, “Samajwad is Ambedkarwad and vice-versa because Ram Manohar Lohia and Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar believed in breaking the caste system.” He also said that if voted to power, his Government will send a proposal to the Centre to make the Gorakhpur University a Central university. Mr. Yadav said that if the SP forms the Government in the State, then it will build canteens to provide free nutritious meals to poor people. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Tiwari termed Yadav a ‘popular leader’ and claimed, “This [BJP] Government was not formed for democracy [loktantra] but for autocracy [rajtantra], and there is a ban on free speech. This Government has also started a new trend of putting its plaques on foundation stones or development work of any other Government.” The Government has sown seeds of hatred and has divided the people, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-sitting-mlas-join-sp-ahead-of-up-assembly-polls/article37942259.ece
13 December 2021||Lucknow,||Two sitting MLAs join SP ahead of U.P. polls||Ahead of the crucial 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, the Samajwadi Party got a shot in the arm on Sunday when two MLAs joined the party here in the presence of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. The legislators are Vinay Shankar Tiwari from Chillupar Assembly seat in Gorakhpur, who was expelled from the BSP recently, and Digvijay Narayan alias Jai Chaubey (BJP) from Khalilabad constituency in Sant Kabir Nagar. Former Chairman of the U.P. Legislative Council Ganesh Shankar Pandey, who was fielded by the BSP in 2010 for the post of Council Chairman, also joined the Samajwadi Party. A large number of Brahmins from different parties also joined the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-sitting-mlas-join-sp-ahead-of-up-polls/article37942067.ece
13 December 2021||Mathura,||Act against right-wing groups, urges priests’ forum||The Akhil Bhartiya Teerth Purohit Mahasabha on Sunday said the Uttar Pradesh Government should take strict action against right-wing groups that shouted slogans on December 6 demanding installation of a Krishna deity inside the Shahi Idgah mosque here. The mosque is located next to the Srikrishna Janmasthan. “Stern action should be taken against the organisations trying to start some new programme inside and outside the mosque,” Mahesh Pathak, national president of Akhil Bhartiya Teerth Purohit Mahasabha said in a statement. He said it will have an adverse impact on the economy of Mathura since the inflow of pilgrims and devotees to the temple town could be affected. Mr. Pathak said if the dispute leads to a decline in tourists, then it would affect the priests who are already facing financial difficulty. As the matter is sub-judice, the courts will have to decide on the issue, he said. Expressing doubt over the designs of the Government, he alleged that the right-wing groups were running BJP’s agenda. Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had recently offered support for a new temple in Mathura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/act-against-right-wing-groups-urges-priests-forum/article37942257.ece
13 December 2021||New Delhi,||Stuck in transit||As the Delhi Development Authority’s (DDA) in situ slum rehabilitation project at Kathputli Colony drags on, the slum dwellers, who were relocated to the Anand Parbat transit camp, are uncertain if, and when they could get the flats promised to them. A few individuals living in the makeshift settlement told The Hindu that their eligibility under the rehabilitation initiative “has been cancelled”. “It has been five years since we had shifted to this transit camp on the assurance that we would be allotted the DDA flats that are being constructed at Kathputli Colony. A couple of weeks ago, we came to know that our eligibility had been cancelled and no concrete reason was given for the decision,” Sangeeta, a resident of the camp, said. The houses at the colony are meant for people like us, she said, adding, “Where do we go now?” ‘Unhygienic conditions’ Another resident said that the living conditions at the camp are “unhygienic and pathetic” and that there is a looming uncertainty as to “when we will finally get to move to the homes that were promised to us”. A senior DDA official said the Kathputli Colony project aims to provide 2,800 economically weaker section (EWS) houses and it is being executed on the public-private-partnership model. While the project was proposed more than a decade ago, construction has been held up for multiple reasons. Apart from the delay in vacating the land and relocating the slum dwellers, the DDA official said the recurring bans on construction due to the increasing pollution levels in the Capital have slowed down the pace of the work. According to the DDA’s in situ slum rehabilitation policy, which aims to make Delhi “slum-free by 2022 as per the mandate under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Urban (PMAY-U)”, the developers are responsible for providing amenities and ensuring hygienic living conditions at the transit camp. Implemented by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, the objective of PMAY-U is to give proper housing to slum dwellers along with the low, middle-income groups, and EWS “by 2022”. Not hopeful While residents of the Anand Parbat transit camp said that a possible move to the DDA flats “seems unlikely this year”, those of the Bhoomiheen camp voiced similar concerns over allotment under the DDA’s EWS housing project at A-14, Kalkaji. A camp resident said there have been surveys carried out by the DDA and that their eligibility and documents have been verified. “While we were hopeful of finally moving to EWS houses this year, another survey was conducted a few weeks ago and we were told that a video survey would be held soon. I do not think we are going to the DDA flats this year,” the resident said. According to the senior DDA official, 3,024 EWS flats at the Kalkaji site are nearing completion. However, he confirmed that neither of the projects will be completed this year. Construction ban It is likely that the Kathputli Colony and the Kalkaji projects will be ready by late 2022, though the ban on construction can further add to the delay, the official said. “As to those claiming that their allotment was cancelled, we have found encroachments at the Anand Parbat camp and some are also running businesses which is not allowed.” Some residents have even rented out their homes at the camps, the official said . “Some have built  two floors to accommodate more family members, but they will be allotted only one flat unless the individuals have a separate ration card for the extra floor,” the official said, adding that the Kalkaji project was taken up by the DDA. He said that the eligible beneficiaries will be allotted flats on the payment of nearly Rs. 1.1 lakh along with a five-year maintenance charge of Rs. 30,000. “The final eligibility survey for the Bhoomiheen camp is complete. Apart from this, 16 projects are being planned. However, a slum-free Delhi by 2022 does not seem to be a possibility,” the DDA official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/stuck-in-transit/article37942058.ece
13 December 2021||New Delhi,||Farmers gone, Rohtak Road at Tikri border opens for traffic||A day after rejoicing farmers left for their homes, the Tikri border stretch of Rohtak Road was opened for vehicular movement on Sunday, while work was underway to clear the protest sites at Ghazipur and Singhu borders of the national capital. According to police, barricades put up at one side of the carriageway on Rohtak Road were removed in October to allow movement of traffic. The other side of the carriageway, where the farmers were agitating, was completely cleared by the Delhi Police on Sunday, they said. The multi-layered barriers placed at the Rohtak Road have been completely removed after the departure of the farmers, a senior police officer said. “There is no obstruction in the way. The two sides of the road are completely open for vehicular traffic movement,” he said. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh had laid siege on Delhi's borders on November 26 last year, demanding a repeal of three contentious farm laws of the Centre, which were repealed last month. According to farmer leaders, Singhu border site has been cleared by over 95% and a cleaning exercise has been initiated by farmer groups and non-government organisations (NGOs) on Sunday. “Cleaning work is going on at the Singhu Border. More than 20 JCBs and over 100 volunteers are working here tirelessly to clear the stretch as soon as possible,” a representative of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said. He said that layers of barricades, boulders and barbed wires are being removed from the border. At Ghazipur border, more than half of the farmers have vacated the protest site and left for their native places. The process of dismantling rest of the tents is underway. ‘Stage taken down’ “A stage on one of the roads occupied during the agitation has been taken down. The remaining part of the road will also be cleared for traffic movement. Most of the farmers have already left, while those associated with the BKU are still here and will leave as decided before December 15,” said Atul Tripathi, a farmer and member of the BKU. Two langars are still functioning and they will be wrapped up when the rest of farmers leave, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farmers-gone-rohtak-road-at-tikri-border-opens-for-traffic/article37942252.ece
13 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC asks NIA to reply to petition of ISIS suspect||The Delhi High Court has asked the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to respond to a petition by a Hyderabad youth, arrested for his alleged links to terror outfit ISIS, seeking his case to be transferred to the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) as he was a minor when he joined the terrorist organisation. A Bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Anup Jairam Bhambani gave the direction last week while hearing the petition filed by Abdul Qadeer challenging a January 29, 2021, decision of a Special NIA Court here rejecting his plea to transfer his case to the JJB. Advocate Md. Mobin Akhtar, representing Qadeer, said that his client’s date of birth is November 25, 1999. He argued that since as per the charge framed, the conspiracy started on May 16, 2017, on which date Qadeer was a juvenile, his client is bound to be sent to the JJB for appropriate proceedings. Before the Special NIA Court, the agency had submitted that Qadeer came into contact with another accused Abdullah Basith after watching Basith in a sting operation relayed on a news channel on May 16, 2017. After meeting Basith two-three times, Qadeer expressed his intention for doing ‘Hijrat’ and later got involved in the conspiracy to further the activities of ISIS in India, it said. Qadeer was arrested on August 12, 2018. The NIA has not disputed the date of birth of Qadeer but said that its case is based on a larger criminal conspiracy hatched by accused Basith, his associates and handlers based abroad to strengthen the activities of ISIS in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-asks-nia-to-reply-to-petition-of-isis-suspect/article37942061.ece
13 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||At 6.4 degrees Celsius, city sees season’s coldest night||The Capital recorded a minimum temperature of 6.4 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees below normal and the coldest night of the season. The maximum temperature settled at 23.9 degrees Celsius. The Met department has forecast that the night temperatures are likely to stay low for the next few days with partly cloudy sky and dry weather. The AQI in the Capital was in the ‘poor’ category with a reading of 254. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) says that on December 13 and 14, winds are likely to be low to moderate with partially cloud conditions, keeping the air quality in the ‘poor’ level during noon time or the ‘lower end of very poor’ category during night and early morning hours. It added that from December 15, the air quality is likely to improve due to relatively high wind speed but in the ‘poor’ or the ‘lower end of very poor’ category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/at-64-degrees-celsius-city-sees-seasons-coldest-night/article37942062.ece
13 December 2021||New Delhi,||Tihar inmates break into a fight, legal action initiated||A scuffle broke out between two inmates inside the Tihar jail on Friday after one of them stabbed the other with a barber’s scissor while getting a haircut, officials said. According to Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel, both of them sustained injuries. “They were separated by jail staff. The injuries of both the inmates were not serious,” Mr. Goel said, adding that they were sent to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital and were discharged on the same day. Incidentally, this is the sixth instance of inmate violence inside Tihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tihar-inmates-break-into-a-fight-legal-action-initiated/article37942063.ece
13 December 2021||Panaji,||No alliance with Trinamool for Goa Assembly polls: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday said it will not have an alliance with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) for the forthcoming Goa Assembly elections. The AAP is determined to provide a fresh alternative to Goa with good candidates and form an honest and corruption- free government, the party’s Goa desk in-charge Atishi said. The Assembly polls in the coastal State are due early next year. “I say with full responsibility that there will be no alliance with TMC. So, there is no question of any talks with them. We are determined to give Goa a fresh alternative with good candidates and form a honest corruption-free government,” Ms. Atishi tweeted. She was responding to a tweet by a West Bengal-based writer, who quoted a media report saying the AAP is looking to forge an alliance with the TMC in Goa and that the Mamata Banerjee-led party is yet to decide on the proposal, but the two sides have held a round of discussion on the issue. The AAP has decided to contest the Goa Assembly elections on its own. The Arvind Kejriwal-led party contested the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, but did not win a single seat. The TMC, which recently announced that it would contest all the 40 seats in the Goa Assembly, has tied-up with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, the oldest regional outfit in the coastal State. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the Congress had emerged as the single largest party by winning 17 seats, but failed to form government. Later, the BJP forged an alliance with some regional outfits and independents to form the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-alliance-with-trinamool-for-goa-assembly-polls-aap/article37942246.ece
13 December 2021||Patna,||Former Bihar Congress chief’s son joins JD(U)||In a setback to the Congress in Bihar, Shubhanand Mukesh, whose late father Sadanand Singh was a party heavyweight, on Sunday crossed over to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) along with a large number of supporters. Mr. Mukesh was inducted into the JD(U) by national president Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan at a glittering ceremony inside the sprawling Shri Krishna Memorial Hall here. The development came barely two months after Sadanand Singh, a former State Congress president, breathed his last. The current Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief, Madan Mohan Jha, sought to make light of the switchover, stressing that Mr. Mukesh owed his standing to his father and did not have any political accomplishments of his own. Notably, in the Assembly polls last year, Mr. Mukesh fought on a Congress ticket from Kahalgaon but failed to retain for the party a seat his father had represented for a record eight terms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/former-bihar-congress-chiefs-son-joins-jdu/article37942242.ece
13 December 2021||Pune,||3 held for trying to leak MHADA papers||Pune cyber police arrested three persons for trying to leak questions papers of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority’s (MHADA) recruitment exams, which were due to be held Sunday, said authorities. Among those nabbed was an employee of a software company tasked with setting the question papers, said authorities. While he hailed from Pune, the two other accused are residents of Buldhana district. “As per information, we came to know that the MHADA recruitment exam paper was about to be leaked. We accordingly shared the information with MHADA and immediately nabbed the three accused. We have also taken two other people into custody in Aurangabad and will be arresting them soon,” said Pune Commissioner of Police Amitabh Gupta Minister apologises The accused were nabbed late Saturday night, following which Maharashtra Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad, in a video message in the wee hours of Sunday, announced the postponement of the exams till next month. “I sincerely apologise to all students that owing to some irremediable reasons and technical problems that all MHADA exams to be held on Sunday and during the week will be postponed till January [2022]. The reason I am posting this message so late in the night is that students in the rural areas should not be troubled to go centres in the morning,” Mr. Awhad said. However, the postponement drew heavy criticism from student bodies as well as the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), who charged the ruling tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) Government with gross inefficiency. Dubious record The MHADA exam bungling is the latest in a string of blunders on the part of the ruling Government following the mismanagement of the conduct of the medical recruitment exams by giving the contract of holding the exams to a blacklisted firm. “First, it is the medical recruitment exam fiasco…now, they cancel the MHADA exam at midnight…The State Government is not ready to spell out the reasons for their actions in a transparent manner. How many more days and times will students have to endure this?” said former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis. Mr. Fadnavis lambasted the MVA by remarking that there seemed to be no semblance of Government in the State. Kamalakar Shete of the ‘Yuvak Kranti Dal’, a Pune-based student outfit, said the Government’s insistence on conducting these exams through private firms with dubious records was akin to playing with the lives of students who came from the social margins in the State’s rural hinterland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-held-for-trying-to-leak-mhada-papers/article37942074.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Hero’s farewell||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/heros-farewell/article37942255.ece
13 December 2021||Liverpool,||G7 calls on Russia to de-escalate, warns against Ukraine incursion||Russia faces massive consequences and severe costs if President Vladimir Putin attacks Ukraine, the Group of Seven (G7) warned in a statement on Sunday. U.S. intelligence assesses that Russia could be planning a multi-front offensive on Ukraine as early as next year, involving up to 1,75,000 troops. Russia denies it plans to invade and says the West is gripped by Russophobia. Moscow says the expansion of NATO threatens Russia and has contravened assurances given to it as the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991. At a meeting in the northern English city of Liverpool, the G7 delegates said they were united in their condemnation of Russia’s military build-up near Ukraine and they called on Moscow to de-escalate. “Russia should be in no doubt that further military aggression against Ukraine would have massive consequences and severe cost in response,” said the statement. “We reaffirm our unwavering commitment to Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as the right of any sovereign state to determine its own future.” A statement released by the Russian Embassy in London on Saturday evening, before the joint G7 document was reported, said that Britain’s frequent use of the phrase “Russian aggression” during the Liverpool meeting was misleading and designed to create a cause for the G7 to rally round. Iran deal On Iran, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss, from G7 host Britain, said resumed talks in Vienna were the Islamic Republic’s “last chance to come to the negotiating table with a serious resolution”. “The final communique from the talks said Iran “must stop its nuclear escalation and seize the opportunity to conclude a deal, while this is still possible”. (With AFP inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/g7-calls-on-russia-to-de-escalate-warns-against-ukraine-incursion/article37941671.ece
13 December 2021||Jerusalem,||Israeli PM Bennett travels to UAE on historic first visit||Israel’s Naftali Bennett arrived in the United Arab Emirates Sunday for the first official visit by a Prime Minister of the Jewish state, after they established diplomatic ties last year. The trip announced by Mr. Bennett’s office comes amid Israel’s renewed diplomatic push against resumed international talks with its arch foe Iran over the Islamic republic’s nuclear programme. Mr. Bennett on Monday meets Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al-Nahyan to discuss “deepening the ties between Israel and the UAE, especially economic and regional issues,” the Prime Minister’s office said. There was no immediate comment from the UAE on the visit. The UAE last year became the third Arab nation to establish full diplomatic relations with Israel after Egypt and Jordan. Bahrain and Morocco then followed as part of a series of deals brokered by former U.S. President Donald Trump. Sudan also agreed to normalise ties with Israel under the so-called Abraham Accords, but full relations have not yet materialised. The agreements were negotiated by Mr. Bennett’s predecessor, Benjamin Netanyahu, who said they would offer Israel new regional allies against Iran and bolster its diplomatic efforts to stop Tehran from acquiring nuclear weapons. Iran and world powers have resumed negotiations on the frayed 2015 nuclear deal that offered Iran sanctions relief in exchange for curbs on its nuclear programme, which Tehran says is civilian in nature. He has called for the Vienna talks to be halted, accusing Tehran of “nuclear blackmail”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-pm-bennett-travels-to-uae-on-historic-first-visit/article37941675.ece
13 December 2021||COLOMBO,||We seek full implementation of 13th Amendment: TNA leader||A group of Opposition MPs in Sri Lanka, representing Tamils from the north and east, hill country (Malaiyaha Tamils), and Tamil-speaking Muslims on Sunday sought the full implementation of the 13th Amendment to ensure “existing rights are not snatched away”. The contentious 13th Amendment, born out of the Indo-Sri Lanka Accord of 1987, has remained in Sri Lanka’s Constitution for nearly four decades without seeing full implementation, as successive regimes in Colombo have refused to part with power over crucial areas including land, and law and order. Some within the Rajapaksa administration are calling for its repeal deeming the provincial councils, created consequent to the Amendment, “white elephants”. The 13th Amendment is the only legislative guarantee thus far for a measure of power devolution that many in the southern Sinhala majority consider “too much”, and most in the Tamil polity consider “too little”. India has repeatedly asked the Sri Lankan leadership to ensure the full implementation of the 13th Amendment. While Colombo has in turn given many assurances to “go beyond” the legislation, to ensure meaningful devolution, “that has not happened so far,” said said senior Tamil politician and Tamil National Alliance Leader R. Sampanthan. “We have gathered today from different political parties to discuss the situation. We exchanged our views on the subject, and will be taking this discussion forward,” he told a press conference, following the MPs’ meet at a Colombo hotel on Sunday. “There is now talk of a new Constitution, but simultaneously we see the government’s efforts such as ‘One Country, One Law’,” the 88-year-old Trincomalee parliamentarian said, of an ongoing initiative of the government that critics fear might further impair even the limited legislative powers of the Provincial Councils. The parliamentarians will finalise a “comprehensive document” by December 21, said Mano Ganesan, Leader of the Tamil Progressive Alliance that represents Malaiyaha Tamils. “We are challenging this government and asking them to fully implement what is already in our Constitution. Nothing has changed in this country 12 years after the war ended. Our message is not only to the Sri Lankan leadership, but also to India, the international community and UN bodies,” he said. As a signatory to the Accord of 1987, “India has an obligation,” Mr. Ganesan added. The final document coming out of the discussion would also be sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, according to the organisers. Sri Lanka’s nine Provincial Councils are defunct for about two years, after their terms lapsed in 2018 and 2019. “Meanwhile, the Centre through various presidential task forces is trying to snatch our powers. If that has to be stopped, we must emphasise our rights highlighting what is guaranteed in our Constitution,” said Rauf Hakeem, Sri Lanka Muslim Congress Leader and legislator. Jaffna MP and former Northern Provincial Council Chief Minister C.V. Wigneswaran said in demanding the full implementation of the 13th Amendment, the MPs were not abandoning the call for a federal political solution to Sri Lanka’s historic Tamil national question. “While we don’t see the Amendment as a permanent solution, we recognise its importance in the interim, until there is an acceptable permanent solution,” he said, adding: “India will be able to intervene only as long as the 13th Amendment is there.” Tamil polity divided In this renewed emphasis on the 13th Amendment, Sri Lanka’s Tamil polity appears divided. While TNA constituents Tamil Eelam Liberation Organisation (TELO) and People’s Liberation Organisation of Tamil Eelam (PLOTE) are part of the MPs’ initiative centred on the legislation, the Illankai Tamil Arasu Kachchi (ITAK) — chief constituent of the TNA that Mr. Samapanthan and Mr. Sumanthiran belong to — have been focusing on the prospect of a political solution in the promised new Constitution, turning the spotlight away from the 35-year-old Amendment that few Tamils consider adequate. In August this year, Mr. Samapanthan wrote to President Gotabaya Rajapaksa expressing keenness to meet him and discuss the new Constitution.President Rajapaksa was scheduled to meet the TNA in June, but the meeting was postponed, and his office is yet to announce a new date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/we-seek-full-implementation-of-13th-amendment-tna-leader/article37941677.ece
13 December 2021||Noumea,||New Caledonia votes to stay in France amid separatists’ boycott||Voters in the French island territory of New Caledonia chose overwhelmingly on Sunday to remain as part of France, in a referendum boycotted by pro-independence forces and closely watched around the South Pacific. French President Emmanuel Macron hailed the result as a resounding confirmation of France’s role in the Indo-Pacific, and announced negotiations on the territory’s future status. Separatist activists expressed disappointment. “Tonight France is more beautiful because New Caledonia decided to stay,” Mr. Macron said. They had urged a delay in the vote because of the pandemic, and were angry over what they said were French government efforts to sway the campaign. So they called on their supporters to stay away from voting stations. And they did. Official results showed 96% of those who took part chose to stay in France. Overall turnout was just 42% — less than half the numbers who showed up in a previous independence referendum last year, where support for breaking away was 46.7%. “Tonight we are French, and we will stay that way. It’s no longer negotiable,” said Sonia Backes, President of the Southern Province region and a fervent loyalist. The vote was monitored by the UN and regional powers, amid global efforts toward decolonisation and amid growing Chinese influence in the region. New Caledonia, colonised by Napoleon’s nephew in the 19th century, is a vast archipelago of about 2,70,000 people east of Australia — and hosts a French military base.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-caledonia-votes-to-stay-in-france-amid-separatists-boycott/article37941682.ece
13 December 2021||Geneva,||Omicron spreads faster and weakens vaccine efficacy: WHO||The Omicron coronavirus variant is more transmissible than the Delta strain and reduces vaccine efficacy but causes less severe symptoms according to early data, the World Health Organization said on Sunday. The WHO said Omicron had spread to 63 countries as of December 9. Faster transmission was noted in South Africa, where Delta is less prevalent, and in Britain, where Delta is the dominant strain. But it stressed that a lack of data meant it could not say if Omicron’s rate of transmission was because it was less prone to immune responses, higher transmissibility or a combination of both. Early evidence suggests Omicron causes “a reduction in vaccine efficacy against infection and transmission”, the WHO said. “Given the available data, it is likely that Omicron will outpace the Delta variant where community transmission occurs,” it added. Omicron infections have so far caused “mild” illness or asymptomatic cases, but the WHO said the data was insufficient to establish the variant’s clinical severity. South Africa reported Omicron to the WHO on November 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/omicron-spreads-faster-and-weakens-vaccine-efficacy-who/article37941885.ece
13 December 2021||London,||U.K. steps up efforts to combat Omicron spread||Britain on Sunday announced additional measures to stop the spread of the Omicron coronavirus variant, including the extension of booster jabs to people over 30. From Tuesday, fully vaccinated contacts of people who test positive for COVID-19 will be required to take daily lateral flow tests for seven days. But those who have not had one or two shots of a COVID-19 vaccine will have to self-isolate for 10 days, the Department of Health and Social Care said. “The Omicron variant is quickly gaining ground in the U.K. and is expected to become the dominant strain by mid-December,” said Health Secretary Sajid Javid. “We are taking this proportionate and more practical measure to limit the impact on people’s day-to-day lives while helping to reduce the spread of Omicron.” Britain is banking on vaccination as the best way to stop the rapid spread of the virus.  The government has set itself a target of giving everyone aged 18 and over a booster jab by the end of January. The over-30s can get a third dose of a vaccine from next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-steps-up-efforts-to-combat-omicron-spread/article37941681.ece
13 December 2021||Beirut,||Two Palestinians killed in Lebanon funeral gunfire||Gunfire erupted on Sunday during a Hamas-organised funeral in a tense Palestinian refugee camp, leaving at least two people dead and seven injured, officials said. Lebanon’s National News Agency said the gunfire was sparked by an altercation during the funeral. But Hamas spokesperson Ayman Shanaa told Palestinian media that gunmen opened fire at the mourners and put the death toll at four. The Hamas member buried on Sunday had died under disputed circumstances late Friday when the tense Burj Shamali was rocked by a series of explosions. The Palestinian Hamas group said an electrical short-circuit in a storage area for oxygen bottles caused the blast. A Lebanese security official said the explosion happened in an ammunition depot. NNA had also reported an explosion in a Hamas arms warehouse in the camp. Sunday’s funeral for Hamza Chahine drew scores of mourners. The gunfire broke out before his body arrived at the burial site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/two-palestinians-killed-in-lebanon-funeral-gunfire/article37941884.ece
13 December 2021||Peshawar,||Policeman on polio duty killed in Pak.||A Pakistani policeman guarding a polio team in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province was shot dead on Sunday, a day after a soldier was killed in a similar incident. The incident happened in Tank district bordering South Waziristan, when constable Nazir Shah died after he was shot while he was guarding a polio team. Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), known as the Pakistani Taliban, claimed responsibility for the attack. It was the second attack since the TTP on Thursday announced the end of a one-month ceasefire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/policeman-on-polio-duty-killed-in-pak/article37941678.ece
13 December 2021||Nairobi,||‘Tigray rebels retake Lalibela in Ethiopia’||Tigray rebels on Sunday recaptured the north Ethiopian town of Lalibela, home to a UNESCO world heritage site, local residents said, 11 days after Ethiopian forces said they had taken it back. Tigrayan fighters “are in the town centre, there’s no fighting,” said a resident. “They came back. They’re already here,” said another. The Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) said in a statement that they had launched “widespread counter-offensives” in numerous locations, including along the road linking Gashena and Lalibela. Communications have been cut in the conflict zone and access for journalists is restricted, making it difficult to verify the claims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tigray-rebels-retake-lalibela-in-ethiopia/article37941680.ece
13 December 2021||Washington,||Gothic novelist Anne Rice dead at 80||Anne Rice, the gothic novelist best known for writing Interview with the Vampire , died on Saturday aged 80, her family said. “In her final hours, I sat beside her hospital bed in awe of her accomplishments and her courage,” her son Christopher Rice said in a post on her Facebook page. He said she died of complications from a stroke.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/gothic-novelist-anne-rice-dead-at-80/article37941673.ece
13 December 2021||Rome,||Three dead, six missing in Sicily blast as search continues||Firefighters on the Italian island of Sicily searched through rubble on Sunday for survivors of a blast that toppled residential buildings and killed at least three people. The explosion was believed to have been caused by a gas leak, appeared to have levelled four buildings in Ravanusa, a town of nearly 11,000 inhabitants.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/three-dead-six-missing-in-sicily-blast-as-search-continues/article37941679.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The evolution and framing of the Constitution||Constitution Day was celebrated on November 26 this year too with the Government of India organising a grand event in the Central Hall of Parliament to remind citizens that the Indian Constitution was adopted by the Constituent Assembly this day, 72 years ago. As usual, speeches were made about the greatness of the Constitution. But politics was not kept out entirely. In fact, there is always an unexciting predictability about these speeches. That is largely attributable to the sequacity of the political class. It is not certain whether the various speeches made on this occasion every year have enlightened the younger generation of India about the historical background of the Constitution. It is a fair guess that the new generation in this country knows pretty little about the freedom struggle led by Gandhi and the Congress. A refresher For the information of this generation, let me state a few facts. The framing of the Constitution is not an isolated and accidental event in the sense that one fine morning, a few barristers and jurists got together and decided that India needed a Constitution and began writing it. It is the culmination of long years of the struggle for freedom which consumed a countless number of precious lives of ordinary Indians. The Indian National Congress, under the leadership of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, had demanded, in 1935, a Constituent Assembly to frame a Constitution for free India, and Nehru wanted the election to be held to the Assembly on the basis of adult franchise. As it happened, the Constituent Assembly came to be constituted 11 years later, in 1946, but the election was held on the basis of communal representation. After almost three years of hard work, the Constitution was completed in November 1949 and was adopted by the Constituent Assembly on November 26. Although the Constitution was adopted and signed by the President of the Constituent Assembly, Dr. Rajendra Prasad, on that day, it was brought into effect only on January 26, 1950. This date was chosen because it was on this day in 1930 that the Indian National Congress under the presidentship of Nehru declared ‘Poorna Swaraj’ (complete independence) for India. Thus, the history of the Constitution is bound up with the history of the Congress and the freedom movement. Nehru’s contribution Any celebration of Constitution Day will remain incomplete if Nehru’s contribution to the making of the Constitution is not remembered. It was his Objectives Resolution which formed the Preamble of the Constitution. It contained the philosophy, the vision and the goal of the Constitution. The ideas thrown up by the European Renaissance, the America Independence and the French Revolution tremendously influenced him. The ideas of liberty, equality and fraternity and freedom of speech, freedom of conscience, justice-social economic and political permeated the Indian Constitution under the influence of Nehru. It is an interesting thought that India’s mainstream society which is structurally incapable of internalising the ideas of equality and social justice, had to suffer terrible inconvenience from the imperatives of equality and social justice. The Constitution ushered in an era of equality, signifying a complete break with an unsavoury past. Choice of Ambedkar Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, of course, is rightly remembered in the context of the Constitution and more frequently in political contexts. However, it is difficult to remember a single memorable speech by any politician about the contribution of Dr. Ambedkar to the building and concretising of the concept of social equality in the Constitution. Dr. Ambedkar became the Chairman of the drafting Committee perhaps incidentally. He admits in one of his famous speeches in the Constituent Assembly that he had come there to plead for the depressed classes, but the Assembly made him the Chairman. Dr. Ambedkar was an original thinker and a very perceptive social scientist who had a keen understanding of the terrible structural inadequacies of Hindu society and its philosophical pretentions. He radically deferred with Gandhi on many crucial issues and had serious differences with the Congress. He ridiculed civil disobedience, non-cooperation and Satyagraha and said “these methods are nothing but the grammar of anarchy and the sooner they are abandoned, the better for us”. But the Constituent Assembly, which had an overwhelming majority of Congressmen, chose him as the Chairman of the drafting Committee. The great men who led the freedom movement and guided the making of the Constitution, had displayed tremendous foresight in choosing Dr. Ambedkar to draft the Constitution. On accountability Speeches made on Constitution Day expectedly contained references to the Judiciary. Many such references are undoubtedly about the Supreme Court. Of course, Constitution Day cannot pass without making pontifical observations about the role and the responsibility of the Judiciary, particularly the top court. Judicial accountability is an issue which the political class seems to be obsessed with. The Preamble of the Constitution begins with “We, the People of India”. The people are the sovereign, and every organ of the state is ultimately accountable to them. But, accountability is a nuanced term which is understood or interpreted differently in different contexts. In a parliamentary system with the Cabinet form of government, the Executive is accountable to the Legislature, because the Legislature consists of representatives of the people. Therefore, if the Legislature withdraws support to the government, it does not survive. Similarly, the legislators are accountable to the people who elect them. They have to go back to them every five years. But, how is judicial accountability dealt with by the Constitution? Recently, this interesting issue was raised by the present Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, in one of his thought-provoking speeches, on November 26, in the context of the Constitution Day celebrations. He said, “The framers of the Constitution made accountability an integral element with respect to the Legislature and Executive. However, they consciously decided to keep the Judiciary on [a] different pedestal.” This is a lucid exposition of the constitutional position of the Judiciary vis-à-vis other organs of the state with respect to accountability A different pedestal Serious students of the Constitution can readily agree with the learned Chief Justice of India because the Constitution does not impose the same burden of accountability on the Judiciary as the Executive and the Legislature. The mandate given to the Judiciary is to do justice to the people, and, therefore, the Constitution made it an independent institution answerable neither to the Executive nor to the Legislature in respect of its functions. Article 142 brings in the concept of complete justice. The top court, where all litigations terminate, is mandated to do complete justice. In order to be able to do that, the Judiciary has been placed on a different pedestal. One can unhesitatingly agree with the Chief Justice of India when he says “they (constitution makers) trusted the competence of the men and women who would adorn the Bench in upholding the Constitution”. Who can deny that the doctrine of ‘basic structure’ propounded by the Supreme Court in the Kesavananda Bharati case has in a way saved the Constitution from being mutilated by politicians who believe in neither democracy nor in justice? An independent judiciary which does not have to look over its shoulder is the pride of the Indian Republic. Accountability of the Judiciary in the political sense is a disaster. “We, the People of India” made it independent so that it does complete justice to us. The Chief Justice of India knew what he was saying. P.D.T. Achary is Former Secretary General, Lok Sabha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-evolution-and-framing-of-the-constitution/article37941660.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The flawed Islamic democracy of Pakistan||By not making Pakistan a theocracy even after short-sightedly establishing it as a Muslim nation, Muhammad Ali Jinnah provided an excellent opportunity for that country to peacefully coexist within the comity of secular democracies. But in what was a bewildering constitutional move, Pakistan decided to call itself an ‘Islamic Republic’ even while claiming to be a state ‘dedicated to the preservation of democracy’. Since then, it has been hurtling headlong into a state of ataxia that has numbed its capacity to comprehend its statal essentialism. Over the years, civilian-military rule in Pakistan could figure out neither the meaning of the designation ‘Islamic democracy’ nor its societal implications. Is it about enacting laws to target political opponents and curtail the freedoms of religious and ethnic minorities or is it the name of statutorily preserving legal egalitarianism and social justice as envisaged in the Quran and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights? Attacked for alleged blasphemy A serious consequence of this ontological incertitude has been the maddening perversity of thought that marks the justification of mob violence against those charged under blasphemy laws in Pakistan. The most notorious example of this was the ordeal a Christian woman, Asia Bibi, went through before being acquitted of blasphemy in 2018. Many who defended her had to pay with their lives including the Punjab Governor, Salman Taseer. The latest manifestation of the chronic malaise was the lynching in Sialkot earlier this month of a Sri Lankan man for allegedly taking down posters on which Quranic verses were inscribed. Less than a week before the Sialkot savagery, an extremist mob had burned a police station in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa when officers rejected its demand to hand over a mentally unstable man arrested for allegedly desecrating the Quran. These ghastly incidents were preceded by the shocking arrest in July this year of an eight-year-old Hindu boy for “intentionally” urinating on the carpet of a madrasa library where religious books were kept. The boy’s family and several members of the Hindu community in the district of Rahim Yar Khan had to flee their homes when a Muslim crowd attacked a Hindu temple after the boy’s release on bail in August. The unnerving commonality that runs through almost all blasphemy cases in Pakistan is the questionable nature of the charges and the insatiable appetite for vigilante justice. According to the Center for Social Justice, a minority rights organisation in Pakistan, between 1987 and 2020, about 1,855 people were accused of blasphemy under Sections 295-B (Defiling, etc., of Holy Qur’an) and 295-C (Use of derogatory remarks, etc., in respect of the Holy Prophet) to 298-C (Person of Quadiani group, etc., calling himself a Muslim or preaching or propagating his faith) of the Pakistan Penal Code. Seventy-eight of them were killed in extrajudicial ways of which 42 were Muslim. Muslims also made up 75% of the people charged under blasphemy laws in 2020. This shows that the criminalisation of factitious religious offences in Pakistan has become a legislative tool to impose on the people an interpretation of Islam alien to the Quran and Prophetic teachings, not to mention the political scores that are sought to be settled through it. No justification in the Quran In the context of blasphemy, the provision in question is Section 295-C of the Pakistani Penal Code which seeks to punish anyone who “defiles the sacred name” of the Prophet. It is indeed a great sin to denigrate the Prophet. But there is no historical evidence to suggest that it was criminalised in the early phase of Islam. The Arabic term for this offence, sabb al rasool , was not in use during the Prophet’s lifetime although the Quran mentions several defamatory insults that were hurled at him. The reason for this could be that the Quran did not criminalise the barbs (or mockery of the Quran). It asked the Prophet to ignore them and distance himself from the offenders showing magnanimity (73:10, 6:68).  Sabb al rasool had its genesis in the misinterpretation of Prophetic rulings that made treasonous behaviour against the nascent Muslim community a capital crime. It is true that some of those killed under this law had also abused the Prophet. But their execution was exclusively for treason because the Prophet could never have sentenced his detractors to death in violation of the Quranic instruction to ignore personal insults. In short, there is no categorical directive in the Quran or Prophetic teachings to justify any worldly punishment for blasphemy. Most of the extra-Islamic offences developed gradually in the post-Prophetic period (after the Rashidun Caliphate of Companions Abu Bakr, Umar, Usman, and Ali) due to the ‘religionisation’ of Islam for political exploitation. This was done by tribal despots in collaboration with a complaisant clergy. In Islam, Authoritarianism, and Underdevelopment: A Global and Historical Comparison , scholar Ahmet Kuru points out that marginalisation of the intellectual and bourgeois classes by the ‘ulema–state alliance’ contributed to the endurance of Muslim authoritarianism. It is no wonder, therefore, that Muslim history is dotted with violent inquisitions over creedal polemics such as the mind-boggling 9th-century contestation in the Abbasid Caliphate to establish if the Quran had existed eternally or was divinely created at some point in time. The Abbasid Caliphs used the controversy to consolidate their religious credentials in pursuance of power, reducing Islam to a dogmatic creed in the process. Understanding democracy In reality, Islam had emerged more as a movement for social justice than a ritualistic religion. The Prophet’s mission was not to alienate people from mundane realities and  dulcify them with distant paradisiacal promises but to educate and liberate them from oppressive yokes ( yaza’u anhum israhum wal aghlaala ).The Quran, while upholding religious freedom (2:62 & 256, 6:108, 10:99, 22:40, 109:1-6), presented in a non-dogmatic manner its fundamental doctrine of tawheed (monotheism) to emphasise the logical impossibility of multiple creators at a time when the Meccan oligarchy was inventing and managing deities to exploit and control the masses. In a detailed passage (6:136 -140) the Quran explains how this exploitation — which included the ritualistic killing of children — necessitated the appearance of a Prophet who would inspire humans to overcome their gullibility through emancipatory education. Indeed, the first message (96:1-5) delivered by the Prophet to the Meccans began with the word ‘read’ ( iqra ) and spoke of the liberative nexus between knowledge ( ilm ) and the pen ( qalam ). If Muslim countries which boast of being Islamic democracies are to fulfil the obligations of Islam, they should take steps to de-religionise the faith and restore its Quranic originality. Only then would they be able to understand the true meaning of democratic values such as freedom of religion, civil liberties, fraternity, equality, human rights, and sustainable development. Perhaps this is what the Prophet meant (in Bukhari) when he asked Muslims to be lenient and promote peace by not presenting Islam in a manner that creates aversion for it in the minds of people ( yassiru wa laa tu assiru; wa sakkanu wa laa tunaffaru ). A. Faizur Rahman is Secretary-General of the Islamic Forum for the Promotion of Moderate Thought. Email: themoderates2020@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-flawed-islamic-democracy-of-pakistan/article37941670.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The stepping stones in the post-pandemic world||The COVID-19 pandemic has profoundly impacted lives and livelihoods across the world; an economic catastrophe that affected growth, trade and investments, and employment, among others. Governments, global institutions, industry, academia and non-profit organisations around the world have joined hands to tackle the global challenge and help countries rebuild their economies.  The novel coronavirus pandemic has once again highlighted the criticality of international cooperation in combating current and future challenges. Key among these include economic growth, building competitiveness of the investment climate, ensuring sustainable development paths and adapting to technology acceleration. Trade and investment flows have proved to be an engine of growth for many countries, in spite of temporary supply chain glitches. Changing world In organising the partnership summit, a global conference, we at the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), found a world changing at multiple levels that combines to offer a window to India to play a more significant role in the global commons. India’s recent reforms, role in combating the pandemic, and startup vibrancy, among other factors, have attracted global attention and can help it attain a faster growth path, provided its integration with the world economy and trade gains strategic intensity. As the world adapts to a new normal post-COVID-19, building resilience to cope with the threats posed by pandemics and other man-made and natural disasters has necessitated strengthening global partnerships now more than ever. The power of collectively working together cannot be underlined more in this context. Global partnerships help in building mutual trust and understanding by agreeing upon common rules and standards and sharing of best practices. Areas to look into The current situation has brought to the forefront the importance of building partnerships in several thrust areas. To begin with, while the world economy is rebounding strongly, the long-term sustainability of the growth process needs to be strengthened. Exit from the massive stimulus packages itself may pose risks of economic and financial instability. Further, the issue of growing inequality of incomes among countries as well as within countries must be addressed. Mechanisms for reviving growth in certain parts of the world should be coordinated effectively so as not to disrupt it in other parts of the world. Second, the pandemic severely disrupted global supply chains and set the global trade trajectory on a downward path. Even as the world emerges from the pandemic, facilitating medical supplies and essentials will continue to remain a top priority and for this, supply chains will need to be kept flowing. Data on world trade For this year, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) indicates an increase of 22.4% in the value of global merchandise trade compared with 2020, which attests to the efficacy of fiscal and monetary measures. World trade is expected to stand about 15% higher than before the COVID-19. The global foreign direct investment (FDI) flows in the first half of 2021 reached an estimated $852 billion, showing stronger than expected rebound momentum. FDI flows in developing economies also increased significantly, totalling $427 billion in the first half of 2021. As the free flow of goods, services and capital will continue to play a dominant role in the global economic recovery process, collaborative efforts from countries across the world would be required in facilitating trade partnerships at both regional and multilateral levels to better protect consumers and producers. Cooperation on trade facilitation for enhancing open and transparent markets, technical assistance and reduction of complex process and arrangements must be promoted. Third, competitiveness will be key in facilitating growth and inclusive development. New opportunities and avenues across potential high growth sectors such as manufacturing and start-ups must be leveraged. An ecosystem of entrepreneurship and innovation with targeted policies and interventions will contribute to enhancing productivity and generating employment. Fill the technology gaps Four, certain structural changes are likely to become permanent in the future and this is especially true of the digital economy which completely transformed the future of work and the business landscape. The rise of telemedicine, remote work and e-learning, delivery services, etc. necessitates equitable adaptation to advanced technologies and tools, building robust infrastructure, and occupational transitions. Skill development and worker training, investments in education and vocational training, and capacity building would be some key areas of focus for filling technology gaps and nurturing new and existing talent. At the same time, investments in innovation will be crucial, especially during a crisis. The convergence of the global scientific community for vaccine development and genome sequencing has set a new precedent in international cooperation. Global collaboration in areas including research and development and Industry 5.0 and investments in digital and corporate strategy can similarly become key drivers of industrial development. Five, climate change has now acquired urgency from policymakers around the world, as seen in the recent COP26 at Glasgow. International alliances and cooperation on building sustainable solutions, green technology, resource efficiency, sustainable finance, etc., must be promoted to fast-track meeting the sustainable development goals and for ensuring all-round development. There is a place for India With these multiple strategic shifts, India’s role as a reliable and trusted player in the comity of nations stands enhanced. Besides protecting its own citizens, India provided medical supplies and equipment to more than 150 countries in the world. It also played a leadership role in the supply of COVID-19 vaccines, besides undertaking a massive vaccination programme for its own citizens. It is undertaking serious action in meeting its other global commitments including climate change where its targets will make a difference. In the post-pandemic world, it will be critical for India to improve on its investment climate and systematically target its export capabilities across sectors and regions. Ease of doing business and new free trade agreement with major markets will help it integrate closely with the world through trade and investment partnerships. The time for India is here and it must leverage international partnerships for ensuring a robust and sustained economic growth path. Chandrajit Banerjee is Director General, Confederation of Indian Industry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-stepping-stones-in-the-post-pandemic-world/article37941662.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The better part of valour||The tragic death of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat reminded me of my days in the Army and in civil aviation. When the Indian Air Force (IAF)’s Tupolev-124 with Prime Minister Morarji Desai on board crashed near Jorhat, Assam, on November 4, 1997, all the five crew members died. Desai’s entourage and an under-trainee flight engineer who were not in the cockpit survived. I remember Desai’s words, as quoted by the media, after he walked out of the smouldering wreckage: “I survived. My faith in God has been reinforced.” I was deputed to take a small contingent of my unit soldiers to pay respects to Squadron Leader Mathew Cyriac, the co-pilot, whose funeral rites were held in Trivandrum where I was posted. As I laid the wreath, I saw Cyriac’s wife sobbing and their daughter playing with another child. I never forgot Desai’s words. I couldn’t help wondering whether God plays cruel games with humans, sparing some and striking others. An unbearable tragedy I have witnessed many accidents both in the forces and in the civil aviation sector, including in my own company. On March 3, 2002, I received a call which hit me like a thunderbolt. A helicopter belonging to Deccan Aviation crashed into a pond in the Krishna District of Andhra Pradesh. Everyone on board, including the Speaker of the Lok Sabha, G.M.C. Balayogi, was killed. The investigation report submitted six months after the accident by the Accident Investigation Committee to the Civil Aviation Ministry revealed that the pilot, Captain K.V. Menon, flew into thick fog with very poor visibility. He decided to do an emergency landing and wait for the fog to clear to resume his flight. But he mistook the 20-acre shallow fish pond to be solid ground and descended. He realised his mistake too late — when he attempted a sudden take-off, the tail rotor hit the water and the chopper spun out of control and crashed. It was an unbearable tragedy. Captain Menon was an accomplished pilot who had flown extensively in Jammu and Kashmir over high altitudes, including over the forbidding heights of Siachen Glacier, and in inclement weather with terrorists lurking below. That he should die in peace time in a regular flight in the plains along with a VIP passenger was hard to come to terms with. The ill-fated flight with Gen. Bipin Rawat on board was similarly flown by pilots of the IAF who had vast experience in flying over varied terrains and in all kinds of conditions. A tri-service inquiry headed by an Air Marshal has been ordered by the IAF into the incident. Nothing can be ruled out until all the evidence is gathered and technical and forensic investigation is completed. The report, when ready, should be widely disseminated so that future accidents can be prevented. Unfortunately, there are already conspiracy theories and fake videos circulating on social media, which do a lot of harm. Having said that, these accidents are cautionary tales for pilots, engineers and ground-handling staff. Most flight-related accidents in the world are related to pilot error and faulty maintenance. Disregarding standard operating procedures and throwing caution to the wind when undertaking flights in inclement weather or while under pressure causes such accidents. It is well known now that there was thick fog on the day of the flight. There are some troubling questions which the investigation team may look into. Why was there no advance pilot helicopter before Gen. Rawat’s flight was cleared? For a VIP of his stature, a helicopter could have flown in advance and returned to advise cancellation of the flight of the General if the fog was impenetrable. Handling pressure It is not uncommon for VIPs to put pressure on pilots to take them to attend important functions. Sometimes, there is also pressure from the management of the organisations on the crew to undertake flights to please the VIP, or commercial pressure in the case of the private sector. And at times, the pilots themselves are at fault as they want to live up to their reputation of being daring. Since many accidents occur in the mountains, especially during foul weather, it is pertinent to mention that low ground fog and low clouds greatly hinder visibility. And as pilots fly visually and do not rely on instruments, in remote locations they have a tendency to cling closer to the ground to gain visibility. In these cases, there is spatial disorientation and greater danger of hitting an obstacle during landing and take-off. This may not have been the case in Gen. Rawat’s flight, but it bears emphasis nevertheless that pilots must not succumb to pressure or yield to temptations of adventurism. They must have the courage to call off a flight if, in their opinion, it is unsafe to fly. The VIP and the commands in defence and the civil management must show grace and prudence and not belittle or punish the pilot who says ‘no’. Discretion is the better part of valour. G.R. Gopinath is a farmer, soldier and founder of Air Deccan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-better-part-of-valour/article37941665.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The dream of being a chip hub||India is aiming to manufacture silicon semiconductor chips. It has intensified efforts to set up a semiconductor fabrication plant with the help of Taiwan, the market leader, for which the government is investing over $7.5 billion. The Tata Group is in talks with three States — Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Karnataka — to invest over $300 million to set up a semiconductor manufacturing facility. Meanwhile, there are several techies working in silicon fab and chip-making companies across the globe, notably IIT alumni from Andhra Pradesh, who want to revive the five-year old initiative of bringing the industry to A.P., according to a Mumbai-based venture capitalist. With the Centre moving fast in the direction, the Telugu NRIs see an opportunity in becoming a part of the initiative. At a recent meeting in Visakhapatnam, a Telugu NRI association mentioned that the chip-making industry will be the new focus in development. The idea of setting up a fab and related industries in A.P. dates back to 2014, when NASSCOM wanted to promote a National Technology Corridor along coastal A.P. stretching through the Visakhapatnam, Rajahmundry and Vijayawada region. Given the abundance of water, sand (raw material for making silicon ingots), road, rail, ports and airport connectivity, the industry body wanted to push and promote the design and manufacturing of electronic chips. Besides, several techies from the region, who are working in chip making industries across the world, want to be part of the fab and chip ecosystem, according to NASSCOM. A team led by the then NASSCOM vice-president, Rajiv Vaishnav, went on an intensive tour meeting stakeholders and exploring possibilities to push the idea and promote niche design and electronic chip manufacturing. While welcoming such moves by the government and technology experts, local players in the segment say that chip making itself will not be enough. Other aspects such as designing and Intellectual Property are required to make a mark. An alumnus of IIT-Madras and the CEO of the Andhra Pradesh-based Efftronics, D. Ramakrishna, says, “There are several IIT alumnus virtual groups collaborating to make chip-making a reality in India but it’s a long road ahead. Designing is what brings value to the chips. If the Intellectual Property lies with the foreign entity, we end up manufacturing the basic material which does not serve the purpose. Rather, we need an ecosystem to promote SoCs (System on a Chip) which makes more sense.” There are several firms in India which are now making SoCs, which is a good sign. The bigger challenge and immediate need for the Indian government is to connect related industries in India to create the ecosystem, industry players say. National capability needs to be enhanced, according to B. Gopi, CTO of the Visakhapatnam-based embedded systems design firm, Sankhya Technologies. “Ours is one among several firms connected to the fab and semiconductor industry. The government should help promote the supply and value chains. Nothing is impossible if things are moved in the right direction. It’s the industry of a high value addition,” he says. The initiative is an uphill task as many factors need to come together for India to make a mark in the niche chip making and designing industry. Also, upcoming firms should be able to sustain themselves in the market when subsidies from the government are withdrawn. The ground is ready. It’s a matter of time before these firms become part of the global ecosystem. appaji.r@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-dream-of-being-a-chip-hub/article37941667.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Freedom and power||Since his election campaign last year, U.S. President Joseph Biden had promised to hold a “Summit for Democracy” in order to highlight the worrying trends around the world of growing authoritarianism, and to bolster democratic institutions that appear to be faltering. While the concerns are genuine, and Mr. Biden’s successful delivery of his promise last week, with a summit that saw 110 nations invited must be credited, it has also thrown up troubling questions. The State Department’s decision to “arbitrarily place” restrictions on the invitee list, has led to a controversy. In South Asia, the inclusion of Pakistan, along with India and Nepal, but the exclusion of Bangladesh, Bhutan and Sri Lanka raises serious doubts on the criteria applied. And, if the “quality of democracy” and the importance of human rights were the criteria, then the question is which country is qualified to make that value-based judgment? Expectedly, the Summit was roundly criticised for the most notable exclusions: Russia and China. In a joint editorial, the Russian and Chinese Ambassadors to the U.S. claimed their own states are democratic in practice, and criticised the U.S.’s experiments in regime change and “democratic transformations” in Iraq, Libya and Afghanistan. That the summit was organised in a year when newest democratic entrants, Afghanistan and Myanmar, reverted to autocratic regimes that rule by the power of the gun casts doubts on the efficacy of the international system in enforcing democracy through external interventions. Apart from a more inclusive guest list, as a result, the summit would have done better to begin with a globally accepted definition for democracy, and a common understanding of the challenges. The Biden administration committed to announcing specific targets on helping free media, ensuring free and fair elections, and the participation of women, and listed authoritarianism, corruption and human rights violations as key challenges. Prime Minister Narendra Modi referred to the principles of “inclusion, transparency, human dignity, responsive grievance redressal and decentralisation of power” as key to Indian democracy. Many accused big tech companies and social media of “digital authoritarianism”, and some spoke of the devastating impact of COVID-19, climate change and rising economic inequality as major stumbling blocks. Few, however, were willing to concede the shortcomings in their own democracies, however, especially the rise in hyper-nationalism, xenophobia and majoritarianism that saps the very essence of representational, pluralistic and inclusive governance today. Democracy, like charity, begins at home, and rather than making international pledges at summit-level conferences, elected leaders must keep their promises of freedom and equality for the people or “demos” that make up their nations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/freedom-and-power/article37941655.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Endless ordeal||The ruling by the High Court in London that WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, currently in a British prison, can be extradited to the U.S., where he is facing charges under the Espionage Act, is a blow to all those who believe in press freedom. A lower court had earlier this year rejected the U.S. request for extradition, citing his mental health. His lawyers and doctors had argued that he might be driven to suicide by American jail conditions. But the High Court, after receiving some assurances from the U.S. authorities that Mr. Assange would not be held in restrictive prison conditions (based on his conduct), decided to allow the extradition. The U.S. accuses him of conspiring to hack into defence databases to get sensitive unclassified information. The leaks, the U.S. says, put lives at risk. If convicted, Mr. Assange, 50, could face up to 175 years in jail. His legal team will now appeal and the legal process could drag on for years. But these cases have already put him in one or the other form of confinement for years. He took refuge in the Ecuadorian Embassy in London in 2012 while facing a probe on accusations of sexual assault in Sweden, which were later dropped. In 2019, after his arrest from the Embassy, he was jailed for 50 weeks in the U.K. for breaching his bail conditions. He is now in London’s Belmarsh prison. The documents WikiLeaks released on the Iraq and Afghan wars, which were published by almost all media houses, exposed official crimes and cover-ups. Any responsible, democratic government should have taken action against those who committed those crimes. Instead, the U.S. government went after the publisher. The Trump administration unsealed the indictment against Mr. Assange for violating the Espionage Act, a First World War-era law, after his 2019 arrest. The U.S. government argued that he was not a journalist. But beyond the definition of journalism, what the U.S. tried to do was to use a controversial law to punish someone who published unpleasant truths about powerful entities. If he is extradited and convicted, it would set a bad precedent for press freedom and investigative journalism, raising questions about the protection the First Amendment offers to the press. It is ironic that the administration of President Joseph Biden, who convened a global “Summit for Democracy” last week and emphasised the role of free press, is following Mr. Trump’s policies in pursuing Mr. Assange. If the U.S. and the U.K., among the world’s oldest democracies, are serious about their proclaimed commitment to press freedom, they should take steps to set Mr. Assange free. The ordeal the “free world” has put this man in for exposing abuses of power has taken away years from his life and affected his health. This should not go on forever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/endless-ordeal/article37941656.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Economic fall-out from Bangla Desh (From an Editorial)||During the last few days spokesmen of industry and Government have affirmed their resolve to hold the price-line. The Union Home Ministry has specifically written to Chief Secretaries of State Governments to ensure adequate supplies of essential commodities and nip in the bud any tendency on the part of unscrupulous traders to push up prices. Yet, in an economy of shortages like ours, much depends on how far the public is willing to support these efforts and to refrain from hoarding supplies at whatever price for fear of acute scarcity in the future. Neither the long arm of the law nor self-regulation imposed by chambers of commerce and industry is likely to curb blackmarkets as effectively as the consumers’ determination to regulate their purchases judiciously. Even if the emergency is lifted soon, there will still be the aftermath of the ill-effects suffered by us during the conflict. That is specially why the wheels of industry have to be kept turning at top speed so that the economy recoups quickly. That is only one side of the picture. The other side is constituted by the problems posed by refugee relief in the immediate present and by the assistance that may have to be given to Bangla Desh hereafter to rehabilitate its economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/economic-fall-out-from-bangla-desh-from-an-editorial/article37941663.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Sangwan on fire as Delhi pips Haryana||Shivam Chauhan was sitting quietly at one end of the Sector 16 Stadium on Sunday evening. A few minutes ago, a brilliant diving catch at point by Himmat Singh off a Mayank Yadav delivery had seen him return to the dugout after playing a gritty innings of 107 off 136 balls. Those were anxious moments for the Haryana camp. It was getting colder and darker, with the ground officials rushing to turn on the floodlights. Chasing 268, Haryana still needed 12 in a must-win Vijay Hazare Trophy fixture against Delhi. With five wickets remaining, there was hope. Spearheaded by captain Pradeep Sangwan, who claimed a five-for, the Delhi bowlers had other plans. Against a nervous and inexperienced Haryana lower-order, Delhi picked up the last five wickets for just one run to script a dramatic 10-run victory. Soon after Shivam fell, Sangwan forced Ajit Chahal (6) to offer a catch to Lalit Yadav at long-off. In the next over, Delhi tightened the noose with the young Mayank dismissing Mohit Sharma for a duck and Nitin Saini getting run out off the next. From 256 for five, Haryana slipped to 256 for eight and as a dejected Shivam shook his head in disbelief in the dugout, Sangwan nailed the batters off the final two deliveries to help Delhi grab four points. Earlier, Haryana had rode on Shivam’s century and Pramod Chandila’s 78 to fight back after losing three quick wickets. Shivam targetted young fast bowler Mayank. He added 166 with Pramod before Sangwan trapped the latter in front. Shivam fell in the next over. In the morning, after Haryana chose to bowl, it made quick inroads as Mohit Sharma (two for 53) rattled the Delhi top-order. Off the penultimate delivery of his first over, Mohit castled Vaibhav Kandpal, who had replaced Dhruv Shorey, for a duck. In his second over, Mohit bowled Himmat with a length delivery. With his team reeling at three for two, Shikhar Dhawan struggled to find his rhythm and crawled to 18 off 42 deliveries. His misery ended when he chopped a ball onto his stumps off leggie Yuzvendra Chahal. Kshitiz Sharma (17), too, fell to Chahal, caught by Ankit Kumar. However, Delhi rebuilt with Jonty Sidhu scoring an unbeaten century (100 off 100 balls) and forging a 145-run alliance with Lalit Yadav. With the Haryana bowlers taking things easy after striking the early blows, Lalit made the opponent pay. He rotated the strike, giving more opportunities for Sidhu who went after left-arm spinner Tinu Kundu and smashed a few boundaries. Just when the two looked set, Lalit was caught behind by Saini off Chahal. With five overs remaining, Delhi needed quick runs when Anuj Rawat came up with a cameo (44, 16b). At Mohali, Uttar Pradesh thrashed Hyderabad by seven wickets. Yash Dayal’s five for 31 restricted the latter to 149 before the former won at a canter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delhi-pips-haryana/article37942050.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Sijomon shines again for Kerala||Sijomon Joseph is turning out to be Kerala’s trump card in the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament at Rajkot. A day after helping Kerala score a stunning victory with his bat, he used his primary skill on Sunday to star again. He took five for 33 with his left-arm spin as Kerala restricted Chhattisgarh to 189 and then needed only 34.3 overs to overhaul the target. The five-wicket win was Kerala’s second victory in as many days. Sijomon also delivered when promoted up the order while batting, making 27 off 30 balls. It was his 42-run partnership with Vinoop Manoharan (54 not out, 72b, 9x4) that arrested what could have been a costly collapse. After openers Rohan Kunnummal (36, 36b, 6x4) and Mohammed Azharuddeen (45, 37b, 5x4, 1x6) put on 82 inside 12 overs, Kerala slumped to 89 for four before Sijomon joined Vinoop. Their partnership put Kerala’s chase back on track. Ample support Vishnu Vinod (26 not out) — his record seventh-wicket stand with Sijomon had turned the match against Maharashtra — then gave ample support to Vinoop. They added 62 for the unfinished sixth wicket to take their side home. Kerala’s team management should be happy with the decision to send in Vinoop, who usually bats much lower down the order, at one-drop. The same may not be said perhaps about its rival’s decision to bat first after winning the toss, as Chhattisgarh was bowled out in 46.2 overs. After losing a wicket off the first ball — Akhil Herwadkar trapped lbw by Basil Thampi — Sanjeet Desai (32, 38b, 2x4, 1x6) and Harpreet Singh Bhalla (98, 128b, 11x4, 1x6) raised 93 for the second wicket. Nobody else managed 15 though.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sijomon-shines-again-for-kerala/article37942180.ece
13 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Karnataka beats a listless Baroda||Karnataka rolled over a listless Baroda to notch up its third win in Elite Group B of the Vijay Hazare Trophy cricket tournament at the Sports Hub here on Sunday. After bundling out Baroda for a modest 176 in 48.3 overs on a spin-friendly track, Karnataka romped home in the 39th over, losing just four wickets. Flurry of boundaries Karnataka was cruising at 136 for four when rain stopped play for about half-an-hour. A flurry of boundaries from K.V. Siddharth (46 not out) and S. Sharath (21 not out) after the restart saw Karnataka reach the revised target of 147 quite easily. Earlier, things looked bright for Baroda in the morning when openers Kedar Devdhar (31) and Aditya Waghmode (27) added 59 runs for the first wicket. But medium-pacer V. Koushik dismissed the openers to set the stage for the spinners. Relentless The Karnataka spinners stifled the Baroda batters in the middle-overs with their accuracy to draw false strokes from them. Leg-spinner K.C. Cariappa with subtle variations picked up three wickets (three for 28) while another leggie Praveen Dubey (two for 31) and left-arm spinner J. Suchith, who bowled economically, were relentless as Baroda lost its way. The Baroda spinners failed to get the same purchase from the pitch to trouble the Karnataka batters. The slow surface also blunted the effectiveness of the medium-pacers as openers R. Samarth (35) and Rohan Kadam (14) added 44 runs. Quick run outs The two quick run outs of Manish Pandey (19) and Karun Nair (0) were the only hiccups Karnataka suffered during its chase. At the St. Xavier‘s College ground, Pondicherry stunned Tamil Nadu by one run (VJD Method). Needing 206 for a win off 44 overs (revised target), Tamil Nadu fell agonisingly short as Pondicherry medium-pacer Sagar V. Trivedi bowled a splendid final over. He conceded just seven runs and picked up the important wicket of M. Mohammed (17) to give his side its second win of the tournament. Momentum hit The rain break hurt Tamil Nadu’s momentum as the side collapsed from a comfortable 159 for three to 174 for seven. The Pondicherry medium-pacers pulled things back with tight spells. At the KCA stadium, Murukumpuzha, Bengal defeated Mumbai by 67 runs, again by the VJD Method.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-beats-baroda/article37941919.ece
13 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Andhra’s Srikar Bharat makes merry||K. Srikar Bharat’s record hundred and his 174-run partnership with opener Ashwin Hebbar set up Andhra’s 30-run win over Himachal Pradesh in its penultimate Group A game of the Vijay Hazare Trophy on Sunday. Riding on Bharat’s unbeaten 161 (109b, 16x4, 8x6) and Hebbar’s 100 (132b, 10x4), Andhra piled on 322 for three at the MCA’s Bandra-Kurla Complex facility. Early damage Despite captain Rishi Dhawan (79, 61b, 7x4, 2x6) leading the Himachal chase, Girinath Reddy’s (4/52) early damage meant Himachal was bowled out for 292 in 46 overs. Bharat’s effort was the second-highest individual score in List A cricket after Hanuma Vihari’s 169 (against Mumbai in Chennai in 2017-18). More importantly, Bharat ensured Andhra had a glimmer of hope to qualify for the knockouts. It will now have to beat Gujarat by a huge margin and then hope for other results to go its way. Despite having joined the Andhra team straight from India’s Test squad, Bharat had a relatively quiet week in the tournament. He exploded on Sunday and showed that his skills with the willow are as good as — if not better than — his glovework. J&K stuns Odisha Left-arm pacer Abid Mushtaq claimed five for 38 as Jammu & Kashmir stunned table-topper Odisha and registered its maiden win at Thane. Mushtaq’s impressive spell meant Odisha was bundled out for 183 in 45 overs, chasing 279. With Gujarat overcoming Vidarbha in a run-feast at the Brabourne Stadium, the group is now wide open. Barring J&K, all other teams are in with a chance of finishing in the top two and progressing to the knockouts.  Bharat’s effort is the second-highest individual score in List A cricket after Hanuma Vihari’s 169 against Mumbai in Chennai in 2017-18||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/andhras-srikar-bharat-makes-merry/article37942314.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||King Carlsen brooks no challenge||By the time the eighth game was over it was obvious that Ian Nepomniachtchi’s chances were negligible. He had to win two of the last six games. What was especially worrying was his performance in Game 8. Game 6 could have happened to anyone, but Game 8 looked like the play of a man in freefall. Carlsen said before the match that Ian would fall to pieces after a setback. Was he going to be proved right? Need to change tack When a match goes against you, you have to change course, mentally clear your head. The problem is that since you are improvising with limited time, your ideas tend to be incomplete. However, Ian looked impressive in Game 9. He played his second best line, the English Opening. Even though Magnus played a rare line, Ian seemed to know his way around and played the best moves — for a while. If he had found 15.b4, (a fairly human move even if the supporting variations are very computerish) he would have had a solid edge.  15.b4  Even 15.bxa3 didn’t spoil it and he seemed to be getting some chances. However, Magnus’ good pawn structure meant his position wouldn’t get too critical. And then Ian blundered. He thought for just five minutes and blundered with 27.c5 and a shocked Magnus who could barely believe it, played 27...c6 to trap the enemy bishop. And that was it! End of comeback. Three points down. The next day, he played a sensible Game 10 and made a draw. But he was kicking an open door. A draw suited Magnus just fine. By now, the life had gone out of the match. In Game 11, the only question was whether Ian would even try. He did play the Italian opening and Magnus had to solve one difficult issue. He did. He found 21...Re4 and 22...Rf4  22..Rf4 has solved all Black’s problems. Now people assumed the game would end in a draw. Unbelievably, Ian actually played 23.g3. What is this?! Anyone can see that 23...dxe3 24.gxf4 Qxg4+ can only be better for Black. It seemed like every spectator could see what the challenger had missed. Or deluded himself into believing. The fact that he no longer appeared to care whether he drew or lost meant he was broken. Magnus couldn’t believe his eyes. In fact, he missed several easy wins, but never lost the advantage. He gets the job done. Even when your opponent is falling to pieces, you have to play well. Work ethic Magnus keeps up the intensity and effort regardless and it is representative of his formidable work ethic. He is always willing to adapt, and there is no doubt that had Magnus lost the sixth game, he would not have collapsed like his rival. That is the difference between him and the others. Meanwhile, the thoughts of the chess world have moved on to the next match. There is a formidable slate of candidates including Fabiano Caruana and the enormously talented Alireza Firouzja. They all still have a mountain to climb!  There is no doubt had Magnus lost the sixth game he would not have collapsed like his rival||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/king-carlsen-brooks-no-challenge/article37941747.ece
13 December 2021||CHENNAI,||South Zone Nationals gets underway today||The South Zone phase of the senior National basketball (men & women) championships will be held at the Nehru Indoor Stadium here from December 13 to 17. Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Puducherry will participate in the round-robin tournament. The top three will make it to the senior Nationals to be held in Chennai from January 23 to 31. Similarly, the top three from the East, West and North zones and one from the North-East will also qualify for the Nationals. By virtue of winning many titles in the past, Services and Railways have been given direct entry into the 16-team Nationals. Tamil Nadu has received a free passage as the host. While all the States will be fielding the men’s and women’s teams, Puducherry will not be bringing a women’s side. “Since Tamil Nadu (men and women) has already qualified as the host, there will be three more teams from the South who will make it. Tamil Nadu has been included to provide local flavour,” BFI technical committee chairman Norman Issac told The Hindu on Sunday.  Tamil Nadu teams: Men: P. Baladhaneswar, M. Aravind Kumar, M. Lokeswaran, H. Muin Bek, E. Anantharaj, R. Karthik, J. Justin Gnanaraj, G. Siva Balan, B. Soorya, A. Aravind, P. Jeevanantham, U. Vishnu Prasad. Head coach: S. Baskar; Assistant coach: D. James.   Women: M. Nishanthi, A. Ashmitha, I. Amirtha, T. Dharshini, S. Lakshmi Priya, S. Rajeswari, J. Parthipa, J. Ishwarya, J. Monica Jayaseeli, R. Sruthy, B. Neeta, Donna Elsa. Head coach: R. Delhi Raj; Assistant coach: M. Gayathri .   By virtue of winning many titles in the past, Services and Railways have been given direct entry into the 16-team Nationals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/south-zone-nationals-gets-underway-today/article37941970.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||East Bengal forces Blasters to a draw||What do you think about the referee, asked a frustrated Adrian Luna of Kerala Blasters after the 1-1 draw against the bottom-placed SC East Bengal in the Indian Super League at the Tilak Maidan, Mormugao, on Sunday night. That summed up the mood in the Blasters camp for the Kochi team had much reason to be disappointed. Its Spanish forward Alvaro Vazquez’s attempt, in a goalmouth melee in the 15th minute, was first ruled as a goal, but disallowed a few seconds later. Blasters had the advantage as they moved towards the goal but the referee R. Venkatesh had spotted an Amarjit Kiyam handball just outside the box and had blown the whistle. Confusion But as the ball moved forward, Vasquez sent it into the net and the referee whistled again. That caused confusion and much controversy and after a brief discussion with the assistant referees, Vazquez’s goal was disallowed. East Bengal went into the lead 20 minutes later with Australian Tomislav Mrcela guiding a long throw from Raju Gaikwad into the net. Blasters got the equaliser in the 44th minute and this time Vazquez’s attempt, from the edge of the box, hit Mrcela’s head before going into the goal. It was first given as an own goal by Mrcela but was later credited to Vazquez. After the lively first half, the second half failed to live up to expectations. Despite Uruguayan midfielder Adrian Luna’s hard work, Blasters could not find the match-winner. Strong defence East Bengal also put up a strong defence and managed to get away with a draw, the third for both the teams. Blasters’ goalkeeper Prabhsukhan Singh Gill stood out, stopping many an East Bengal attempt in the match. Blasters moved up a rung, to seventh, while East Bengal remained at the bottom.  The result: SC East Bengal 1 (Mrcela 37) drew with Kerala Blasters 1 (Vazquez 44).   Today’s match: Hyderabad FC vs NorthEast United FC .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/east-bengal-forces-blasters-to-a-draw/article37941749.ece
13 December 2021||Chennai,||Arjun, Chirag come up with dominant performances on rain-hit day||Coimbatore veteran Arjun Balu (Race Concepts) and Chirag Ghorpade, the schoolboy from Bengaluru, lit up the second round of the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Car Racing Championship 2021 with dominating performances in their respective categories on a rain-marred Sunday at the MMRT here. Chirag, who had won the first race in the MRF F1600 category on Saturday, topped the third today of the triple-header after local teenager Dillon Zacharaiah took the honours in the second outing for his maiden win in this class. Balu, the 47-year old ace from Coimbatore, brought into play all his vast experience to complete a double in the premier Indian Touring Cars class after starting from P3 (reverse grid) in a “wet race” following a bout of heavy showers in the afternoon. The day’s programme was delayed due to bursts of rains overnight and this morning, but the track dried up quickly later in bright sunshine.  The results (provisional, 8 laps unless mentioned):   MRF F1600 (Race-2): 1. Dillon Zacharaiah (Chennai) (16mins, 37.473secs); 2. Suriyavarathan (Coimbatore) (16:37.844); 3. Viswas Vijayaraj (Nellore) (16:38.344).   Race-3 (6 laps): 1. Chirag Ghorpade (Bengaluru) (10:37.982); 2. Viswas Vijayaraj (Nellore) (10:45.318); 3. Ashwin Datta (Chennai) (10:45.995).   Indian Touring Cars (Race-2): 1. Arjun Balu (Race Concepts, Coimbatore) (17:00.366); 2. Jeet Jhabakh (Rayo Racing, Hyderabad) (17:09.508); 3. Anindith Reddy (Rayo Racing, Hyderabad) (17:09.774).   Super Stock (Race-2): 1. Rithvik Thomas (Race Concepts, Bengaluru) (18:32.647); 2. Deepak Ravikumar (Performance Racing, Chennai) (18:33.644); 3. R.P. Raja Rajan (Performance Racing, Chennai) (18:50.454).   Indian Junior Touring Cars (Race-2): 1. Charen Chandran (Pvt, Coimbatore) (18:03.480); 2. K. Srinivas Teja (Performance Racing, Chennai) (18:07.131); 3. Hatim Shabbir Jamnagarwala (Performance Racing, Chennai) (18:11.507).   Formula LGB 1300 (Race-2): 1. Raghul Rangasamy (MSport, Chennai) (19:34.504); 2. Tijil Rao (Momentum Motorsport, Bengaluru) (19:36.053); 3. Viswas Vijayaraj (DTS Racing, Nellore) (19:40.848).   Volkswagen Polo (Race-1): 1. Sai Sanjay (Salem) (16:45.578); 2. Sandeep Kumar (Chennai) (16:46.427); 3. Sourav Bandyopadhyay (Thane) (16:53.278).   Race-2: 1. Ritesh Rai (Chennai) (16:57.162); 2. Avik Anwar (Bangladesh) (16:57.729); 3. Sandeep Kumar (Chennai) (16:58.533).   MRF Saloon Cars (Toyota Etios – Race 3, 4 laps): 1. Fahad Kutty (Red Line Racing, Mumbai) (12:11.978); 2. Jamie Shaw (Red Line Racing, Mumbai) (12:16.327); 3. Jai Prashant Venkat (Red Line Racing, Coimbatore) (12:16.595) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjun-balu-and-chirag-ghorpade-hog-the-limelight/article37941751.ece
13 December 2021||Madrid,||Barca slips up again||Barcelona let three points slip from its grasp at Osasuna as a late stunner from Chimy Avila secured a 2-2 draw for the host in LaLiga on Sunday. Nineteen-year-olds Nico Gonzalez and Abdessamad Ezzalzouli both scored as the visitors twice took the lead. But Osasuna levelled first through defender David Garcia and then almost in stoppage time, through a low shot from Avila from outside the box that deflected in off Samuel Umtiti’s right foot. Barcelona is eighth in the table, still outside the European qualification places.  The results: Premier League: Burnley 0 drew with West Ham 0; Leicester 4 (Tielemans 39-pen, 81, Daka 57, Maddison 85) bt Newcastle 0; Crystal Palace 3 (Gallagher 41, 90, Tomkins 62) bt Everton 1 (Rondon 70).   La Liga: Villarreal 2 (Mandi 32, Gerard 36-pen) bt Rayo Vallecano 0; Osasuna 2 (Garcia 15, Avila 87) drew with Barcelona 2 (Gonzalez 12, Ezzalzouli 49).   Serie A: Torino 2 (Sanabria 24, Skorupski 69-og) bt Bologna 1 (Orsolini 79-pen); Verona 1 (Simeone 22) lost to Atalanta 2 (Miranchuk 37, Koopmeiners 63).   Bundesliga: Eintracht Frankfurt 5 (Tuta 23, Lindstrom 30, N'Dicka 50, Jakic 66, Sow 76) bt Bayer Leverkusen 2 (Schick 5, 22-pen).   On Saturday: Premier League: Norwich 0 lost to Manchester United 1 (Ronaldo 75-pen).   La Liga: Valencia 2 (Guedes 23, Piccini 86) bt Elche 1 (Boye 75); Athletic Bilbao 0 lost to Sevilla 1 (Delaney 38).   Serie A: Udinese 1 (Beto 17) drew with AC Milan 1 (Ibrahimovic 90+2); Venezia 1 (Aramu 55) drew with Juventus 1 (Morata 32) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/leicester-wins-big/article37941753.ece
13 December 2021||KARACHI,||Three test positive for COVID||Left-arm pacer Sheldon Cotrell and all-rounders Roston Chase and Kyle Mayers have been ruled out of the upcoming Twenty20 International series against Pakistan after testing positive for COVID-19 upon arrival here on December 9. Besides the trio, a non-coaching member of the touring team management also tested positive, Cricket West Indies said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/three-test-positive-for-covid/article37941920.ece
13 December 2021||Hyderabad:,||Watch My Stride wins feature||Trainer R.H. Sequeira’s Watch My Stride (Abhay Singh up) claimed the Telangana And Andhra Sub Area Cup, the chief event of Sunday’s (Dec. 12) races. The winner is owned by Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni & Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy.  1. ZOOM ZOOM PLATE (1,100m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): FLAMINGO FAME (Santosh Raj) 1, Elmira (Abhay Singh) 2, Battle Ready (A.A. Vikrant) 3 and Silver Set (R. Ajinkya) 4. 2-1/4, 1-1/2 and 2. 1m, 6.49s. Rs. 16 (w), 11, 24 and 26 (p). SHP: 75, THP: 76, SHW: 15 and 48, FP: 126, Q: 107, Tanala: 1,111. Favourite: Flamingo Fame. Owners: Mr. Sanjay R. Goyani & Mr. S. Prasad Raju. Trainer: K.S.V. Prasad Raju.  2. TRIBUTE PLATE (DIV. I) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): GARNET (G. Naresh) 1, N R I Sun (B.R. Kumar) 2, Princeton (B. Nikhil) 3 and The Pianist (S.J. Sunil) 4. Not run: Isra. 1/2, 3 and 1/2. 1m, 13.11s. Rs. 261 (w), 29, 12 and 35 (p). SHP: 31, THP: 76, SHW: 57 and 10. FP: 971, Q: 199, Tanala: 12,356. Favourite: N R I Sun. Owners: Mr. Prakash Babu & Mr. Suresh Chintamaneni. Trainer: D.Netto.  3. MEGATOP PLATE (DIV. I) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45: STAR RACER (R. Ajinkya) 1, Sun Dancer (Kiran Naidu) 2, Curcumin (B.R. Kumar) 3 and Sheldon (Rafique Sk.) 4. Nk, 1-1/2 and 3/4. 1m, 12.86s. Rs. 132 (w), 36, 14 and 15 (p). SHP: 58, THP: 68, SHW: 82 and 26, FP: 1,211, Q: 473, Tanala: 3,780. Favourite: Curcumin. Owners: Mr. Jitendra D. Parekh & Mr. Mamidi Bhudevi Dilip Kumar. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  4. ARDENT KNIGHT PLATE (1,400m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): RED SNAPER (Afroz Khan) 1, Four One Four (Abhay Singh) 2, Balius (Santosh Raj) 3 and Makhtoob (P. Ajeeth Kumar) 4. 1/2, 1-1/2 and 1-1/2. 1m, 25.19s. Rs. 33 (w), 15, 18 and 18 (p). SHP: 70, THP: 70, SHW: 27 and 49, FP: 381, Q: 201, Tanala: 1,903. Favourite: Makhtoob. Owners: Ms. Meka Ahalya & Mrs. Rajini Meka. Trainer: L.D. Silva.  5. MEGATOP PLATE (DIV. II) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): N R I VISION (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Hashtag (Gaurav Singh) 2, Gusty Note (A.A. Vikrant) 3 and Sputnic (G. Naresh) 4. 1, Nk and Hd. 1m 12. 42s. Rs. 32 (w), 14, 18 and 17 (p). SHP: 68, THP: 64, SHW: 50 and 37, FP: 335, Q: 257, Tanala: 1,400. Favourite: N R I Vision. Owner: Mr. Ravinder Reddy Male. Trainer: G. Shashikanth.  6. TELANGANA AND ANDHRA SUB AREA CUP (1,100m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): WATCH MY STRIDE (Abhay Singh) 1, Kingston (Nakhat Singh) 2, Menilly (Santosh Raj) 3 and Trump Star (G.Naresh) 4. Not run: Siyavash. Hd, 1-1/4 and Nk. 1m, 5.68s. Rs. 16 (w), 11, 12 and 18 (p). SHP: 46, THP: 41, SHW: 10 and 27, FP: 67, Q: 52, Tanala: 161. Favourite: Watch My Stride. Owners: Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni & Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.    7. NIRMAL PLATE (DIV. I) (1,400m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III): SALISBURY (Abhay Singh) 1, Wot’s Up Jay (Koushik) 2, Challenger (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Over Joy (Ashad Asbar) 4. 3-3/4, 3 and 1-1/2. 1m, 26.58s. Rs. 75 (w), 30, 18 and 16 (p). SHP: 36, THP:72, SHW: 56 and 15, FP: 488, Q: 192, Tanala: 1,829. Favourite: Wot’s Up Jay. Owners: Mr. M. Rama Krishna Reddy, Miss. Ameeta Mehra, Mr. Bharat Venkat Epur & Ms. Meka Ahalya. Trainer: L.D. Silva.  Note: Royal Girl (Gaurav Singh up) planted in the starting stalls and did not participate. Jackpot: 70% Rs. 27,424 (8 tkts.) & 30%: 1,000 (94 tkts.). Mini jackpot: (i) 23,862 (C/O), (ii) 2,435 (30 tkts.). Treble : (i) 27,394 (1 tkt.), (ii) 417 (96 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/watch-my-stride-wins-feature/article37941922.ece
13 December 2021||Coimbatore,||Rajendra rules MRF 2W Rally of Coimbatore||He looked dazed and dizzy at the start but once on the RTR450 bike and the dusty terrain R.E. Rajendra of Team TVS Racing mesmerised all with his daring run to emerge the overall winner of the fifth round of the FMSCI Indian National Rally Championship MRF MOGRIP 2W Rally of Coimbatore in Kethanur, near Palladam, on Sunday. Rajendra started the season with a bang but went out of control in the last two rounds. His teammate Abdul Wahid Tanveer cashed in on the chance and moved to the top of the table. He was expected to further widen the gap at the top, but Rajendra, despite the odds, was there to deny him. Rajendra enjoyed a five-second edge over Tanveer after the first two stages. The latter fought back in the final stretch but it was a bit too late. “The stages were stretchy with some sharp corners and hard patches and I played it safe all the way,” said an utterly exhausted Rajendra. Championship leader Tanveer was obviously disappointed. “I was going good in the final two stages till about 13km but, unfortunately, I had a bad fall. It was a long stretch followed by a tight corner. I went full throttle, misread it and soon was off the track and into a pit. It proved very costly.” Winner of the Ladies Class Aishwarya Pissay was thrilled. “It ran with clockwork precision without any delay, and the hospitality was outstanding,” she said about the event. She was all the more pleased with the terrain. “Coimbatore is always one of the best rounds because of the long terrains (17km). It is close to an actual rally. The earlier four rounds were demanding because of the rain, the slush and the muck, but I am happy we finally had a dry and fast race,” she said. Local lad Kalimohan clinched the Star of Tamil Nadu award for his splendid show. He finished overall ninth with a timing of 59:51s. MRF District Manager Deeban gave away the prizes.  The results (provisional): Class 1 (Super bike Pro Expert A): 1. R.E. Rajendra (TVS Racing) 00:53:17.424s; 2. Abdul Wahid Tanveer (TVS Racing) 00:53:47.474s; 3. R. Nataraj (TVS Racing) 00:55:56.490 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajendra-rules-mrf-2w-rally-of-coimbatore/article37941925.ece
13 December 2021||Ban Chang (Thailand),||Arvind bags gold||Arvind Singh (7:55.942s) bagged the lightweight men’s single sculls gold in the Asian rowing championships on Sunday.  Other medal winners: Lightweight double sculls: Silver: Ashish Phugat and Sukhjinder Singh (7:12.568s).   Quadruple sculls: Silver: Bittu Singh, Jakar Khan, Manjeet Kumar and Sukhmeet Singh (6:33:661s).   Coxless fours: Silver: Jasveer Singh, Punit Kumar, Gurmeet Singh and Charanjeet Singh (6:51.661s) . PTI      Odisha, Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Telangana, Bihar and Maharashtra registered victories on the second day of the 11th Hockey India senior men’s National championships here on Sunday.  The results: Odisha 8 bt Gujarat 0; Bengal 8 bt Goa 0; UP 9 bt Kerala 0; Jharkhand 11 bt Assam 0; Telangana 13 bt Himachal 1; Bihar 4 bt Chhattisgarh 2. Maharashtra 18 bt Mizoram 0 . ANI      R.E. Rajendra of Team TVS Racing emerged the overall winner of the fifth round of the FMSCI Indian National Rally Championship MRF MOGRIP 2W Rally of Coimbatore.  The results (provisional): Class 1 (Super bike Pro Expert A): 1. R.E. Rajendra (TVS Racing) 00:53:17.424s; 2. Abdul Wahid Tanveer (TVS Racing) 00:53:47.474s; 3. R. Nataraj (TVS Racing) 00:55:56.490 .    Philadelphia 76ers beat Golden State Warriors 102-93 on Saturday in the NBA.  The results: Clippers 106 bt Magic 104; Wizards 98 lost to Jazz 123; Cavaliers 117 bt Kings 103; Grizzlies 113 bt Rockets 106; Heat 118 bt Bulls 92; 76ers 102 bt Warriors 93; Spurs 112 lost to Nuggets 127 . AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arvind-bags-gold/article37941926.ece
13 December 2021||SOLAPUR,||Rutuja prevails over Vaidehi||Top seed Rutuja Bhosale recovered from a tough start to beat sixth seed Vaidehi Chaudhari 4-6, 7-5, 6-1 in the final of the Jamshri $15,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament at the MSLTA Solapur District Complex on Sunday. Rutuja’s fourth singles title in the professional circuit fetched her 10 WTA points and $995, while first-time finalist Vaidehi got six WTA points and $515. Vaidehi was unable to capitalise being a break up after winning the first set. Rutuja had nine double faults in the match, and converted five of 17 break points to win the contest that lasted two hours. The 21-year-old Vaidehi converted three of seven break points that she forced.   The result (final):   Rutuja Bhosale bt Vaidehi Chaudhari 4-6, 7-5, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rutuja-prevails-over-vaidehi/article37942303.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Confident HFC takes on struggling NEUFC||With two wins and a draw from four games, Hyderabad FC (HFC) hasn’t done badly in these early days of the ISL. Its rival on Monday, NorthEast United FC (NEUFC), is going through a tough phase, having lost three of its five matches. The NorthEast men, with a win and a draw, are on four points and lying ninth, placed above only Bengaluru FC and East Bengal in the 11-team league. Hyderabad, with seven points, is in the fifth position. Having defeated Bengaluru in its last match, HFC should be in a confident frame of mind when it marches out into the field at the GMC Athletic Stadium to take on the struggling NEUFC. The lone goal in the game against Bengaluru was netted by Bartholomew Ogbeche. That was his third goal in as many games. Hyderabad must be hoping the Nigerian striker continues with his early-season form. No complacency Coach Manolo Marquez indicated that Hyderabad would not take NorthEast lightly. “They played a good game and did not deserve to lose against Odisha,” he said. “This game will be difficult for us. Every team can beat the other team (in the ISL).” NEUFC’s assistant coach Alison Kharsyntiew expressed confidence that his boys would bounce back. “We played very well in the last game (against Odisha) but we could not do well in the final third. The players are mentally very strong and they will bounce back.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/confident-hfc-takes-on-struggling-neufc/article37942139.ece
13 December 2021||Huelva (Spain),||Srikanth advances||Ace shuttler K. Srikanth, seeded 12th, beat Pablo Abian of Spain 21-12, 21-16 in the first round to begin his BWF World Championships campaign on a winning note here on Sunday. However, B. Sai Praneeth, seeded 14th, went down fighting against the Netherlands’ Mark Caljow 21-17, 7-21, 18-21. It was curtains for the doubles pair of Manu Attri and B. Sumeeth Reddy, as they lost 16-21, 15-21 against Joel Elpe and Rasmus Kjaer of Denmark. Earlier, the women’s doubles pair of Pooja Dandu and Sanjana Santosh retired after they lost the first game 12-21 to the Dutch duo of Alyssa Tirtosentono and Imke van der Aar.  The results (first round): Men: K. Srikanth bt Pablo Abian (Esp) 21-12, 21-16; Mark Caljow (Ned) bt B. Sai Praneeth 17-21, 21-7, 21-18. Doubles: Joel Elpe & Rasmus Kjaer (Den) bt Manu Attri & B. Sumeeth Reddy 21-16, 21-15.   Women: Doubles: Alyssa Tirtosentono & Imke van der Aar (Ned) bt Pooja Dandu & Sanjana Santosh 21-12, retd .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srikanth-advances/article37941890.ece
13 December 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Stewards reject Mercedes’ appeals||Mercedes’ bid to overturn the result of the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix failed when the stewards rejected the two protests. Mercedes claimed that Verstappen overtook Hamilton during the safety car period at the end of the race. The stewards concluded that although the Dutchman did briefly move in front of Hamilton, he was not in front at the end of the safety car period. The second appeal concerning the safety car procedure was also rejected by the stewards after a thorough study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mercedes-lodges-two-appeals/article37941742.ece
13 December 2021||Hyderabad:,||Tomorrows Dreams primed to repeat||The four-year-old gelding Tomorrows Dreams, who won in his last outing, maintains form and may repeat in the Kasu Brahmananda Reddy Memorial Cup, the main event of Monday’s (Dec. 13) races here.  TRIBUTE PLATE (Div. III) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.15 p.m: 1. The Prospect (9) A.A. Vikrant 60, 2. Indian Glory (4) Surya Prakash 56.5, 3. N R I Touch (10) Akshay Kumar 56, 4. Blast In Class (7) Kiran Naidu 54, 5. Thunder Road (6) B.R. Kumar 54, 6. Art In Motion (3) Afroz Khan 53, 7. Dead Centre (2) Md. Ismail 52.5, 8. Dizizdtymtowin (1) Abhay Singh 52.5, 9. Precious Gift (5) Santosh Raj 52 and 10. Secret Circle (8) B. Nikhil 52.  1. N R I TOUCH,   2. THE PROSPECT,   3. THUNDER ROAD   PALAMPET PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.45: 1. N R I Infinity (6) B.R. Kumar 60, 2. Royal Grace (9) Ashad Asbar 60, 3. Wallop And Gallop (1) P. Ajeeth Kumar 59.5, 4. Campania (4) Nakhat Singh 59, 5. Kimberley (10) Mukesh Kumar 57, 6. Georgia Peach (5) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 7. Explosive (8) B. Nikhil 55.5, 8. Dillon (7) Gaurav Singh 54, 9. Silver Bells (2) C.S. Jodha 53.5 and 10. Soul Empress (3) Aneel 53.  1. ROYAL GRACE,   2. GEORGIA PEACH,   3. DILLON   TRIBUTE PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.15: 1. City Of Blessing (2) Mukesh Kumar 60, 2. Unmatched (7) Akshay Kumar 56, 3. Moderator (10) Nakhat Singh 54, 4. Executive Decision (8) C.S. Jodha 53.5, 5. Akash (6) G. Naresh 53, 6. Flying Rudolf (3) Aneel 53, 7. Paladino (9) Afroz Khan 53, 8. Aarya (4) S.S. Tanwar 52.5, 9. Greek’s Ace (5) B. Nikhil 52.5, 10. Briar Ridge (11) Santosh Raj 52 and 11. Hot Seat (1) Md. Ismail 52.  1. EXECUTIVE DECISION,   2. CITY OF BLESSING,   3. AKASH   PALAMPET PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.45: 1. Cheltenham (3) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Bandit King (7) Mukesh Kumar 57.5, 3. Muaser (11) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 4. Advance Guard (4) Surya Prakash 57, 5. Archangels (1) A.A. Vikrant 55.5, 6. Sweet Melody (9) C.P. Bopanna 55.5, 7. Southern Act (5) Koushik 54.5, 8. Nolan (2) C.S. Jodha 53, 9. Gurbaaz (6) Md. Ismail 52, 10. Horse O’ War (10) B. Nikhil 51 and 11. Wandring Warrior (8) P. Sai Kumar 51.  1. MUASER,   2. CHELTENHAM,   3. ARCHANGELS   KASU BRAHMANANDA REDDY MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): 1. Palomar (6) Surya Prakash 60, 2. House Of Diamonds (5) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 3. Chuckit (4) Aneel 56, 4. Amyra (1) Ashad Asbar 55, 5. Different (2) Gaurav Singh 55, 6. Blissful (9) Nakhat Singh 54, 7. Tomorrows Dreams (7) C.S. Jodha 53.5, 8. Mind Reader (10) R.S. Jodha 53, 9. N R I Magic (3) B. Nikhil 53 and 10. Rapid Fire (8) S.S. Tanwar 53.  1. TOMORROWS DREAMS,   2. HOUSE OF DIAMONDS,   3. AMYRA   NIRMAL PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 4.45: 1. Open Affair (6) A.A. Vikrant 62, 2. Sea Of Class (8) Akshay Kumar 62, 3. Neffereti (11) Mukesh Kumar 61.5, 4. Sharp Mind (4) Khurshad Alam 61.5, 5. Berkeley (2) Md. Ismail 61, 6. Solo Winner (9) P. Gaddam 61, 7. Sye Ra (12) P. Ajeeth Kumar 60.5, 8. Theo’s Choice (10) Santosh Raj 60, 9. Dream Jewel (5) Rupal Singh 59, 10. Inception (3) Gaurav Singh 58, 11. Epsom (1) Kiran Naidu 56 and 12. New Hustle (7) B. Nikhil 53.  1. SEA OF CLASS,   2. NEFFERETI,   3. THEO’S CHOICE  Day’s Best: TOMORROWS DREAMS  Jackpot: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6. Mini Jackpot: 3, 4, 5 & 6. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 4, 5 & 6. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tomorrows-dreams-primed-to-repeat/article37941917.ece
13 December 2021||PUNE,||Odisha and Bengal have it easy||Odisha, Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Telangana, Bihar and Maharashtra registered victories on the second day of the 11th Hockey India senior men’s National championships here on Sunday. Odisha notched up a comfortable 8-0 victory over Gujarat while Bengal thumped Goa by the same margin. Maharashtra blanked Mizoram 18-0 and Telangana scored a 13-1 win over Himachal.  The results: Odisha 8 bt Gujarat 0; Bengal 8 bt Goa 0; UP 9 bt Kerala 0; Jharkhand 11 bt Assam 0; Telangana 13 bt Himachal 1; Bihar 4 bt Chhattisgarh 2. Maharashtra 18 bt Mizoram 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/odisha-and-bengal-have-it-easy/article37941921.ece
13 December 2021||Los Angeles,||Sixers subdue Warriors||Philadelphia 76ers beat Golden State Warriors 102-93 on Saturday, stopping Stephen Curry from getting to the all-time NBA three-point record. Curry came into the contest needing 10 three-pointers to surpass Ray Allen’s 2,973, but managed only three.  The results: Clippers 106 bt Magic 104; Wizards 98 lost to Jazz 123; Cavaliers 117 bt Kings 103; Grizzlies 113 bt Rockets 106; Heat 118 bt Bulls 92; 76ers 102 bt Warriors 93; Spurs 112 lost to Nuggets 127 . AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sixers-subdue-warriors/article37941923.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Value of self-discipline||All beings are bound by prakriti and the three gunas that constantly draw us towards the world of senses. It is important to win over the powerful sway of the senses. That is why sastras insist on nitya naimittika karmas for individuals as a measure of self discipline which is the foundation for good habits and conduct. The traditional system of teaching and learning has always focused on the upright way of life followed by the preceptors, parents and elders in society which is sure to influence the moral calibre of their immediate successors, pointed out Swami Vidyashankara Saraswati in a discourse. Learning is not only laukika knowledge, but also the awareness of one’s self or atma. Humanity has been in continuous search of this knowledge that culminates in realisation. Realisation is not something that can be evaluated through any examination as is the case with laukika knowledge where the learning can be assessed by certain parameters. The Gita captures the spirit and essence of guru-sishya learning when it highlights the grace of the guru who, being a realised soul, is able to inspire disciples to seek the truth. Krishna makes it clear that realisation cannot be taught and has to be caught by the sincere seeker. The realised soul, a ‘seer of Tatva,’ whose way of life conforms to his direct perception of the Truth, has to be approached by the sincere seeker with total humility. The disciple pays obeisance to the preceptor and offers to serve him. By the guru’s blessings, his spiritual progress is steady even as he imbibes the disciplined way of life, the basis of true knowledge. Samartha Ramdas, a great Rama bhakta and Hanuman upasaka, as guru to Shivaji influenced him to be an inspired and righteous leader who was fired with national fervour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/value-of-self-discipline/article37941714.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 07:32 IST,||Sudoku — December 13, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-13-2021/article37942467.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Picking up steam||Last year, the National Education Policy highlighted the importance of bridging the science-arts gap. It falls in line with STEAM or the integration of the arts into traditional STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths) education. While it is heartening to see growing acceptance towards STEAM in India, there is still a misconception that the arts serve as a distraction, or take away from the seriousness of science education. When the concept picked up in 2015, a US-based publication made an important distinction: STEAM is not about spending less time on science to make room for the arts; it is about bringing these two disciplines together and looking at things in a new way. Many students on the brink of college or starting work spend a lot of time worrying about how they will choose between two “conflicting” interests of science and art. That, more than anything else, is where STEAM education changes the game. It doesn’t dilute your experience with science or alienate you from it while you take up the arts. It is a people-focused approach to career-building, one where you can tailor your career path to suit your unique interests without leaving one behind in favour of another. As a musician and educator, art is an integral part of my day. My background in law also gives me a better understanding of entertainment contracts that come our way. As an entrepreneur, I have to think about numbers, growth, feasibility, and scaling. I’m not the only one whose day involves taking charge of creative processes while also having to build new technical skills. Embrace the link This is the new world we are moving towards, and there are shining examples of people who have embraced the science-arts link in big ways. My personal favourite: Brian May, who managed to build a career as a songwriter, lead guitarist of Queen, and astrophysicist. Another great example of STEAM in action? Doug Dietz, an industrial engineer and 20-plus-year veteran of General Electric, had just wrapped up a revolutionary project on MRI scanning, and was happy with his work until he saw a little girl crying on her way to the scanner. He then saw it through her eyes; a big, dark, scary machine. So, how could he redesign this to be child-friendly? He took a workshop at Stanford d.school, and spent time understanding what paediatric patients go through. It inspired the prototype of his new design, the “adventure series” scanner, which was installed in children’s hospitals. It brought patient scores up by 90%, and left children, parents, and doctors much happier. Our cutting-edge laptops combine technology with sleek design. Our favourite movies and shows involve animation and graphics. And good urban planning involves solid engineering and aesthetic appeal in equal amounts. So, it is safe to say that the arts are not taking us away from the “real” work; they are simply making our careers better-rounded. In music education, the idea of bringing together overlapping career paths is possible with courses on music production and audio editing and career paths like sound engineering. Thus, you can engage the full range of your abilities and interests without having to choose between science and the arts. Education writer Jeevan Vasagar rightly said “Education is under pressure to respond to a changing world.” And it is time for us, as educators, students, and employers, to realise that the world we now live in has a demand for people who can bring the best of science and artistic disciplines to make it a better place. The writer is a singer-songwriter, author, and Founder and CEO at Subramaniam Academy of Performing Arts (SaPa)  It is a people-focused approach to career-building, one where you can tailor your career path to suit your unique interests without leaving one behind in favour of another||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/picking-up-steam/article37941881.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Picking up steam||Last year, the National Education Policy highlighted the importance of bridging the science-arts gap. It falls in line with STEAM or the integration of the arts into traditional STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths) education. While it is heartening to see growing acceptance towards STEAM in India, there is still a misconception that the arts serve as a distraction, or take away from the seriousness of science education. When the concept picked up in 2015, a US-based publication made an important distinction: STEAM is not about spending less time on science to make room for the arts; it is about bringing these two disciplines together and looking at things in a new way. Many students on the brink of college or starting work spend a lot of time worrying about how they will choose between two “conflicting” interests of science and art. That, more than anything else, is where STEAM education changes the game. It doesn’t dilute your experience with science or alienate you from it while you take up the arts. It is a people-focused approach to career-building, one where you can tailor your career path to suit your unique interests without leaving one behind in favour of another. As a musician and educator, art is an integral part of my day. My background in law also gives me a better understanding of entertainment contracts that come our way. As an entrepreneur, I have to think about numbers, growth, feasibility, and scaling. I’m not the only one whose day involves taking charge of creative processes while also having to build new technical skills. Embrace the link This is the new world we are moving towards, and there are shining examples of people who have embraced the science-arts link in big ways. My personal favourite: Brian May, who managed to build a career as a songwriter, lead guitarist of Queen, and astrophysicist. Another great example of STEAM in action? Doug Dietz, an industrial engineer and 20-plus-year veteran of General Electric, had just wrapped up a revolutionary project on MRI scanning, and was happy with his work until he saw a little girl crying on her way to the scanner. He then saw it through her eyes; a big, dark, scary machine. So, how could he redesign this to be child-friendly? He took a workshop at Stanford d.school, and spent time understanding what paediatric patients go through. It inspired the prototype of his new design, the “adventure series” scanner, which was installed in children’s hospitals. It brought patient scores up by 90%, and left children, parents, and doctors much happier. Our cutting-edge laptops combine technology with sleek design. Our favourite movies and shows involve animation and graphics. And good urban planning involves solid engineering and aesthetic appeal in equal amounts. So, it is safe to say that the arts are not taking us away from the “real” work; they are simply making our careers better-rounded. In music education, the idea of bringing together overlapping career paths is possible with courses on music production and audio editing and career paths like sound engineering. Thus, you can engage the full range of your abilities and interests without having to choose between science and the arts. Education writer Jeevan Vasagar rightly said “Education is under pressure to respond to a changing world.” And it is time for us, as educators, students, and employers, to realise that the world we now live in has a demand for people who can bring the best of science and artistic disciplines to make it a better place. The writer is a singer-songwriter, author, and Founder and CEO at Subramaniam Academy of Performing Arts (SaPa)  It is a people-focused approach to career-building, one where you can tailor your career path to suit your unique interests without leaving one behind in favour of another||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/picking-up-steam/article37941880.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Picking up steam||Last year, the National Education Policy highlighted the importance of bridging the science-arts gap. It falls in line with STEAM or the integration of the arts into traditional STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths) education. While it is heartening to see growing acceptance towards STEAM in India, there is still a misconception that the arts serve as a distraction, or take away from the seriousness of science education. When the concept picked up in 2015, a US-based publication made an important distinction: STEAM is not about spending less time on science to make room for the arts; it is about bringing these two disciplines together and looking at things in a new way. Many students on the brink of college or starting work spend a lot of time worrying about how they will choose between two “conflicting” interests of science and art. That, more than anything else, is where STEAM education changes the game. It doesn’t dilute your experience with science or alienate you from it while you take up the arts. It is a people-focused approach to career-building, one where you can tailor your career path to suit your unique interests without leaving one behind in favour of another. As a musician and educator, art is an integral part of my day. My background in law also gives me a better understanding of entertainment contracts that come our way. As an entrepreneur, I have to think about numbers, growth, feasibility, and scaling. I’m not the only one whose day involves taking charge of creative processes while also having to build new technical skills. Embrace the link This is the new world we are moving towards, and there are shining examples of people who have embraced the science-arts link in big ways. My personal favourite: Brian May, who managed to build a career as a songwriter, lead guitarist of Queen, and astrophysicist. Another great example of STEAM in action? Doug Dietz, an industrial engineer and 20-plus-year veteran of General Electric, had just wrapped up a revolutionary project on MRI scanning, and was happy with his work until he saw a little girl crying on her way to the scanner. He then saw it through her eyes; a big, dark, scary machine. So, how could he redesign this to be child-friendly? He took a workshop at Stanford d.school, and spent time understanding what paediatric patients go through. It inspired the prototype of his new design, the “adventure series” scanner, which was installed in children’s hospitals. It brought patient scores up by 90%, and left children, parents, and doctors much happier. Our cutting-edge laptops combine technology with sleek design. Our favourite movies and shows involve animation and graphics. And good urban planning involves solid engineering and aesthetic appeal in equal amounts. So, it is safe to say that the arts are not taking us away from the “real” work; they are simply making our careers better-rounded. In music education, the idea of bringing together overlapping career paths is possible with courses on music production and audio editing and career paths like sound engineering. Thus, you can engage the full range of your abilities and interests without having to choose between science and the arts. Education writer Jeevan Vasagar rightly said “Education is under pressure to respond to a changing world.” And it is time for us, as educators, students, and employers, to realise that the world we now live in has a demand for people who can bring the best of science and artistic disciplines to make it a better place. The writer is a singer-songwriter, author, and Founder and CEO at Subramaniam Academy of Performing Arts (SaPa)  It is a people-focused approach to career-building, one where you can tailor your career path to suit your unique interests without leaving one behind in favour of another||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/picking-up-steam/article37941877.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||List out your interests||I am a 19-year-old B.Com. student preparing for CMA Final. I’m very interested in analysing or investigating crimes and am also doing an Advanced Certification course on Crime Scene Investigation (CSI) offered by International Forensic Science Institute. Is there any course/career that matches both my interests? – Srivathsa Dear Srivathsa, This is a dilemma and unfortunately, I don’t see a middle ground where both meet unless you look for CMA jobs across the police, cyber crime, or a criminal law firm. So, work on a cost-benefit-analysis and find out the pros and cons of which one you love more and what can fetch you your daily bread. The other then becomes an active interest or hobby till you are able to enjoy reasonable success to make it a primary career choice. I am a 24-year-old post graduate in Law. I developed my skills by attending several moots and public speaking competitions and also cleared NET exam for teaching. I am confused about whether to pursue teaching or to practice in courts. – Monisha Dear Monisha, Identify what you will enjoy long-term. Would you enjoy being a litigation attorney or would you rather inspire young minds and help them realise and become whoever they dream to be? You could also be a corporate counsellor or get into academia and research or legal publishing and media or become an activist. Make a pros and cons list and take professional help if you need more clarity. My brother graduated this year with a B.Sc Mathematics Honours from Delhi University. He wants to become an entrepreneur. I doubt if he has access to enough capital for his goals and we don’t come from a business background. How should I advise him? – Sahi Dear Sahi, While your concern is genuine, how does your brother feel about you advising him? Perhaps a therapist or a career counsellor may be able to help him think about his skill sets (or lack), finances and get him to recheck his current credentials. Explain your fears and have an open discussion if you must but let him think of what he can do to realise his dream. He could do an MBA in Entrepreneur Management from an accredited B School and upgrade his current abilities. I have finished my BA Sociology and, though interested in the discipline, not sure if I should pursue a Master’s. I am considering a degree in Peace and Conflict Studies. I don’t want to teach. What are my options? – Antarika Dear Antarika, A Master’s in Peace and Conflict Studies is a very niche specialisation. You don’t need to teach but can get into many meaningful fields, like counselling, trauma therapy and healing, victim support, armed forces, human rights, international development, work with immigration law or labour and employment law, migration, and human trafficking.     Disclaimer:  This column provides advice and suggestions on education and careers. It is merely a guiding voice from a practising career counsellor.        The writer is a practising counsellor and a trainer. Send your questions to eduplus.thehindu@gmail.com with the subject line ‘Off the edge’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/list-out-your-interests/article37941879.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The pet care boom during the pandemic||When a blind cat went missing in a Mumbai neighbourhood, the owners called Annukta Ganjoo, an animal communicator. With the help of a photograph, she connected telepathically with the animal and found the petrified feline on top of a concrete platform. The only clues to her location: a “mental image” of a well and five coconut trees. Searches came up empty, until someone recalled a well in the neighbouring colony. “And there, beside a garbage bin, she was sitting on a platform above a drainpipe. Next to her, five coconut trees,” Ganjoo tells me on a Saturday morning call. “These are the moments when I gain confidence in what I do,” she adds. Though she no longer takes on lost cases (“they drain me too much”), the pastry chef communes with dead animals and helps pet parents across the country decipher their companions’ needs. The same evening, I speak with Sai Charan, a Bengaluru-based software engineer. An animal lover and avid hiker, he became an animal communicator in April 2020 — inspired partly by a video on South African interspecies communicator Anna Breytenbach. He saw Breytenbach on YouTube, and wanted to connect with his pets (a cat, two dogs, three birds and a turtle). Since then, he has helped locate several lost pets (he gets four to five cases a week, both lost cases and others), and consults with animal rescue groups. When I call him, he’s just finished a mission. “A streetie that a rescuer was feeding went missing. Since they didn’t have a photo, I went to the location to communicate with the landscape, and I realised that the BBMP [the civic body] had picked him up for sterilisation. When we went to their office, he was there.” Quick, simple... and yes, mine are one of the many raised eyebrows that greet anecdotes like this.  Rise of the pet parent  But scepticism aside, animal communication is one of the many jobs that have been gaining popularity during the pandemic. As people stayed home, they adopted four-legged and feathered friends and exotic companions (everything from snakes, turtles and bearded dragons to Capuchin monkeys). This has led to a boom in pet care and pet-related services — much like the tech boom of 2020 — and shows no signs of flagging. “Pre-pandemic, pet care was just another business. But that’s not the case anymore,” says Ashish Anthony, founder of Ahmedabad-based Just Dogs. “It’s no longer cool to call someone a dog owner; they are pet parents.” And pet parents need a strong ecosystem to help them be one. So, there are new apps and labs popping up now, trainers and behaviourists, groomers and nutritionists, pet food deliveries and raw meat subscriptions. Aashish Mehrotra, who chronicles fun times with his pooches via #borktales on Instagram, is glad of this development. He adopted his second dog, Heidi, in April 2020. “She is a proper pandemic puppy,” he laughs. “Last year, she saw only two people [he and his partner Shweta]. There were no people, not even doorbells ringing. Unlike her older sibling, Lucifer, she was very anxious to go out [for a walk, or to the vet],” Mehrotra adds. So last December, when Heidi fell ill, he didn’t want to cart her around town. He relied on an app, PetKonnect, that offered vet services online and also helped him with pet insurance. Since then, he’s kept his eyes peeled for other online Samaritans. Lizzy’s Delicious (@lizzys.delicious) is one such discovery. “It is like a dabba service for dogs. Started in November 2020, they offer lovely meals and flavours such as pork pumpkin apple, steak and vegetables, which is so different from what is available in the market.”  The Bengaluru effect  The more people I talk to, a pattern emerges. While start-ups are launching across the country — think Delhi-based DannyDoo Pupcakes (@dannydoopupcakes), which offers gluten/grain-free gourmet treats, or Mumbai’s Carni Kitchen (@carnikitchen that provides raw meat-based diet plans for dogs — the hub seems to be Bengaluru. All phone calls lead back to the city where pet boarders, groomers and trainers are mushrooming, and services such as dog walking (@bangaloredogwalkers) and dog sitting are picking up as people head back to the office. This isn’t surprising, says Anthony. “Because of the weather, it is the biggest breeding centre in India. It also has the highest pet penetration in the country.” Take Supertails. The four-month-old digital platform for pet care and supplies announced a pre-Series A funding round of $2.6 million in July (actor Deepika Padukone is an investor). The one-stop pet care platform — “which provides pet supplies along with high-quality digital services such as healthcare and online training” — aims to provide what’s “lacking in the lives of new pet parents”, co-founder Varun Sadana has been quoted as saying. A friend points me to other pandemic babies, such as Canine Craving, which offers 100% natural treats and chews. Though the company launched mid-2019, the pandemic was “the trigger”, says co-founder Sundeep Dhar. “We grew by 300%!” Dhar, a chef by education, had started developing supplements and raw treats because his dogs — Casius, a boxer, and Bailey, a golden cocker spaniel, both rescues — have several health problems. Later, he quit his job at Wipro, where he led the procurement service line, to take his home experiments to a national market. “During the pandemic, we saw a major shift. There was more awareness among pet parents as people began going online to research what’s good for their pet. They started breaking out of the mafia of Pedigree, Royal Canin and the like [still the big players in the Indian pet food market], and began moving towards a completely grain-free diet, which we champion.” (Proponents of grain-free believe that soluble carbohydrates can lead to several problems in dogs.) Today, Dhar retails on HUFT and Supertails, where his products often sell out the moment they are listed.  Corporates switching lanes  This has also meant an influx of new, and often surprising, talent into the Bengaluru pet pool. Clare Pachuau, 37, quit her job as a trainer at Hewlett-Packard to learn to be a groomer, and this July, she opened A Tiny Groomer in Madiwala, one of the oldest localities in Bengaluru with a strong middle and upper middle class population. The demand is very high, she notes, perhaps because despite work from home giving people more time with their pets, longer work hours mean they can’t do everything they want to. And pet parents don’t mind spending money (between Rs. 1,800 to Rs. 3,000 for a grooming session) to get it done. For others like Malvika Manjunath, it was a feeling of discontent that made her switch gears. The 38-year-old quit her high-profile job at Apple to become a full-time dog trainer this July. “I’d reached a point where it was less about the money and more about doing something I would enjoy,” she says. She trained with Anvis Inc, a pet services company in Bengaluru, and is now a full-time employee with them.  Where have the trainers gone?  Where there’s an uptick in interest, however, there’s always a downside. (Let me not get into the heartbreaking rates at which pandemic pets are being abandoned as WFH ends. That’s a whole other story.) A point of concern is the sheer number of people getting into pet care. “When something scales really quickly, there is that want to be a part of the hype. So, it is still something that many are doing in their free time, or as a passion project. I don’t see depth [in many of the start-ups],” says Rashi Narang, co-founder of premium pet care retail brand Heads Up For Tails. Lack of training is a worry, as is the absence of a regulatory board to keep things in check. “It is a scary boom, especially in grooming, boarding and training. A lot of people who are not qualified are getting into these industries just because they are pet lovers,” says Leena Balak, a veteran Bengaluru-based groomer. “And I am seeing a lot of neglect.” Preeti Narayanan, a certified trainer with Anvis and co-founder of Happy Tailz (which makes board games for dogs), agrees. With the growth of e-commerce and the onlining of education (how to become trainers, for instance), many are launching platforms without the prerequisite experience. She’s come across several start-ups that are running training courses based on databases of information that can fit any query, irrespective of what an animal’s individual needs are. “And this is worrisome,” she says. “[Faulty training] can feed into the loop of pets being abandoned because new pet parents can’t handle them. It used to happen before, and now it is going to get worse.”  Building a community  What is needed in India today is a focus on creating a pet parent community, on educating the consumer. As Manjunath puts it, abroad, there is a well-educated support system around pets — be it through trainers, retail stores, or just dedicated pet spaces. We need the same here. Big brands such as HUFT, Wiggles and Just Dogs are attempting this, as are players like Anvis. Maybe there’s a way to bring all their varied experiences and expertises together? Challenging for sure, but one can hope.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-pet-care-boom-during-the-pandemic/article37942234.ece
13 December 2021||December 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The pet care boom during the pandemic||When a blind cat went missing in a Mumbai neighbourhood, the owners called Annukta Ganjoo, an animal communicator. With the help of a photograph, she connected telepathically with the animal and found the petrified feline on top of a concrete platform. The only clues to her location: a “mental image” of a well and five coconut trees. Searches came up empty, until someone recalled a well in the neighbouring colony. “And there, beside a garbage bin, she was sitting on a platform above a drainpipe. Next to her, five coconut trees,” Ganjoo tells me on a Saturday morning call. “These are the moments when I gain confidence in what I do,” she adds. Though she no longer takes on lost cases (“they drain me too much”), the pastry chef communes with dead animals and helps pet parents across the country decipher their companions’ needs. The same evening, I speak with Sai Charan, a Bengaluru-based software engineer. An animal lover and avid hiker, he became an animal communicator in April 2020 — inspired partly by a video on South African interspecies communicator Anna Breytenbach. He saw Breytenbach on YouTube, and wanted to connect with his pets (a cat, two dogs, three birds and a turtle). Since then, he has helped locate several lost pets (he gets four to five cases a week, both lost cases and others), and consults with animal rescue groups. When I call him, he’s just finished a mission. “A streetie that a rescuer was feeding went missing. Since they didn’t have a photo, I went to the location to communicate with the landscape, and I realised that the BBMP [the civic body] had picked him up for sterilisation. When we went to their office, he was there.” Quick, simple... and yes, mine are one of the many raised eyebrows that greet anecdotes like this.  Rise of the pet parent  But scepticism aside, animal communication is one of the many jobs that have been gaining popularity during the pandemic. As people stayed home, they adopted four-legged and feathered friends and exotic companions (everything from snakes, turtles and bearded dragons to Capuchin monkeys). This has led to a boom in pet care and pet-related services — much like the tech boom of 2020 — and shows no signs of flagging. “Pre-pandemic, pet care was just another business. But that’s not the case anymore,” says Ashish Anthony, founder of Ahmedabad-based Just Dogs. “It’s no longer cool to call someone a dog owner; they are pet parents.” And pet parents need a strong ecosystem to help them be one. So, there are new apps and labs popping up now, trainers and behaviourists, groomers and nutritionists, pet food deliveries and raw meat subscriptions. Aashish Mehrotra, who chronicles fun times with his pooches via #borktales on Instagram, is glad of this development. He adopted his second dog, Heidi, in April 2020. “She is a proper pandemic puppy,” he laughs. “Last year, she saw only two people [he and his partner Shweta]. There were no people, not even doorbells ringing. Unlike her older sibling, Lucifer, she was very anxious to go out [for a walk, or to the vet],” Mehrotra adds. So last December, when Heidi fell ill, he didn’t want to cart her around town. He relied on an app, PetKonnect, that offered vet services online and also helped him with pet insurance. Since then, he’s kept his eyes peeled for other online Samaritans. Lizzy’s Delicious (@lizzys.delicious) is one such discovery. “It is like a dabba service for dogs. Started in November 2020, they offer lovely meals and flavours such as pork pumpkin apple, steak and vegetables, which is so different from what is available in the market.”  The Bengaluru effect  The more people I talk to, a pattern emerges. While start-ups are launching across the country — think Delhi-based DannyDoo Pupcakes (@dannydoopupcakes), which offers gluten/grain-free gourmet treats, or Mumbai’s Carni Kitchen (@carnikitchen that provides raw meat-based diet plans for dogs — the hub seems to be Bengaluru. All phone calls lead back to the city where pet boarders, groomers and trainers are mushrooming, and services such as dog walking (@bangaloredogwalkers) and dog sitting are picking up as people head back to the office. This isn’t surprising, says Anthony. “Because of the weather, it is the biggest breeding centre in India. It also has the highest pet penetration in the country.” Take Supertails. The four-month-old digital platform for pet care and supplies announced a pre-Series A funding round of $2.6 million in July (actor Deepika Padukone is an investor). The one-stop pet care platform — “which provides pet supplies along with high-quality digital services such as healthcare and online training” — aims to provide what’s “lacking in the lives of new pet parents”, co-founder Varun Sadana has been quoted as saying. A friend points me to other pandemic babies, such as Canine Craving, which offers 100% natural treats and chews. Though the company launched mid-2019, the pandemic was “the trigger”, says co-founder Sundeep Dhar. “We grew by 300%!” Dhar, a chef by education, had started developing supplements and raw treats because his dogs — Casius, a boxer, and Bailey, a golden cocker spaniel, both rescues — have several health problems. Later, he quit his job at Wipro, where he led the procurement service line, to take his home experiments to a national market. “During the pandemic, we saw a major shift. There was more awareness among pet parents as people began going online to research what’s good for their pet. They started breaking out of the mafia of Pedigree, Royal Canin and the like [still the big players in the Indian pet food market], and began moving towards a completely grain-free diet, which we champion.” (Proponents of grain-free believe that soluble carbohydrates can lead to several problems in dogs.) Today, Dhar retails on HUFT and Supertails, where his products often sell out the moment they are listed.  Corporates switching lanes  This has also meant an influx of new, and often surprising, talent into the Bengaluru pet pool. Clare Pachuau, 37, quit her job as a trainer at Hewlett-Packard to learn to be a groomer, and this July, she opened A Tiny Groomer in Madiwala, one of the oldest localities in Bengaluru with a strong middle and upper middle class population. The demand is very high, she notes, perhaps because despite work from home giving people more time with their pets, longer work hours mean they can’t do everything they want to. And pet parents don’t mind spending money (between Rs. 1,800 to Rs. 3,000 for a grooming session) to get it done. For others like Malvika Manjunath, it was a feeling of discontent that made her switch gears. The 38-year-old quit her high-profile job at Apple to become a full-time dog trainer this July. “I’d reached a point where it was less about the money and more about doing something I would enjoy,” she says. She trained with Anvis Inc, a pet services company in Bengaluru, and is now a full-time employee with them.  Where have the trainers gone?  Where there’s an uptick in interest, however, there’s always a downside. (Let me not get into the heartbreaking rates at which pandemic pets are being abandoned as WFH ends. That’s a whole other story.) A point of concern is the sheer number of people getting into pet care. “When something scales really quickly, there is that want to be a part of the hype. So, it is still something that many are doing in their free time, or as a passion project. I don’t see depth [in many of the start-ups],” says Rashi Narang, co-founder of premium pet care retail brand Heads Up For Tails. Lack of training is a worry, as is the absence of a regulatory board to keep things in check. “It is a scary boom, especially in grooming, boarding and training. A lot of people who are not qualified are getting into these industries just because they are pet lovers,” says Leena Balak, a veteran Bengaluru-based groomer. “And I am seeing a lot of neglect.” Preeti Narayanan, a certified trainer with Anvis and co-founder of Happy Tailz (which makes board games for dogs), agrees. With the growth of e-commerce and the onlining of education (how to become trainers, for instance), many are launching platforms without the prerequisite experience. She’s come across several start-ups that are running training courses based on databases of information that can fit any query, irrespective of what an animal’s individual needs are. “And this is worrisome,” she says. “[Faulty training] can feed into the loop of pets being abandoned because new pet parents can’t handle them. It used to happen before, and now it is going to get worse.”  Building a community  What is needed in India today is a focus on creating a pet parent community, on educating the consumer. As Manjunath puts it, abroad, there is a well-educated support system around pets — be it through trainers, retail stores, or just dedicated pet spaces. We need the same here. Big brands such as HUFT, Wiggles and Just Dogs are attempting this, as are players like Anvis. Maybe there’s a way to bring all their varied experiences and expertises together? Challenging for sure, but one can hope.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-pet-care-boom-during-the-pandemic/article37942233.ece
