14 December 2021||VARANASI,||Heritage and progress now go side by side in India, says Modi||After a dip in the Ganga and rituals inside the temple, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor that connects the temple to the banks of the river, terming it a “symbol of Sanatan culture of India”. He said India today had begun to come out from the effects of slavery. “The long period of slavery broke our self-confidence in such a way that we lost faith in our own creation. Today, from this 1,000-year-old Kashi, I call upon every countryman — create with full confidence, innovate, do it in an innovative way,” Mr. Modi said. Today’s India had bothvirasat(heritage) andvikas(progress). “Today’s India not only beautifies Somnath temple, but also lays thousands of kilometres of optical fibre in the sea. Today’s India not only renovates Kedarnath temple, but is preparing to send Indians to space. Today’s India is not only making a Ram Temple in Ayodhya, but is also making medical colleges in every district. Today’s India is not only giving the Vishwanath temple a grand look, but making crores of houses for the poor,” Mr. Modi said. On a two-day visit to his Lok Sabha constituency of Varanasi, Mr. Modi was greeted by several supporters. After taking a dip at Lalita Ghat, he walked up the red carpet to the newly constructed corridor. After the rituals, Mr. Modi had a photo-op with construction workers who had worked on the project. Addressing a gathering of around 3,000 people, including Hindu religious heads from across the country, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP president J.P. Nadda and other party functionaries, Mr. Modi said Varanasi or Kashi had resisted invaders through the ages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/long-period-of-slavery-broke-indias-self-confidence-modi/article37949030.ece
14 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Orissa HC orders postponement of State film awards ceremony||The Orissa High Court on Monday directed the State Government to postpone the 31st Odisha State Film Awards 2019 ceremony scheduled for Tuesday. A single judge Bench headed by Justice Arindam Sinha made the ruling after hearing a plea filed by Odia film-maker Bobby Islam that said two films selected for awards in several categories were remakes. Justice Sinha said, “The ceremony scheduled to be held tomorrow [Tuesday] will stand postponed. The State, through its concerned functionary, will re-evaluate all entries for awards.” The court also directed the State Government to re-evaluate films chosen for State awards. “On such re-evaluation, the result will be made known to the petitioner and all concerned. In the event the petitioner reports to this court that his grievance has been taken care of or there is required adjudication, the ceremony will be held post order of disposal of the writ petition,” it said. Remake of Korean film Mr. Islam said he was aggrieved that his film, Chhabirani , was ignored by the jury appointed by the State Culture Department. He said the films Khusi and Golmal Love of Tarang Cine Productions, which were chosen for several awards, were remakes of the Korean film Hope and the Punjabi film Carry on Jatta respectively. Mr. Islam said, “In fact, Khusi , which has been adjudged the winner in five categories, has been remade frame by frame.” The film-maker said an advertisement had been put up on the website of the Department of Culture inviting applications for the State film awards in 27 categories and the 8th Odisha State Tele Awards 2019 in 20 categories. He said the rules stipulated that only original films made in Odia language or Odia tribal language should be nominated for awards. Mr. Islam accused the jury of gross violation of selection guidelines to favour a few films. Earlier, several film critics had raised objections to the composition of the jury, which was headed by former IAS officer Rabi Narayan Senapati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/orissa-hc-orders-postponement-of-state-film-awards-ceremony/article37949191.ece
14 December 2021||Srinagar,||2 policemen killed, 12 injured in militant strike near Srinagar||Two policemen were killed and 12 injured in a militant attack on a police bus in the Zewan area near here on Monday. The deceased — an assistant sub-inspector and a constable — died of injuries sustained in the attack. Two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants were killed in another operation in the Rangreth area of Srinagar earlier in the day. Indiscriminate firing “Preliminary investigation has revealed that at least three terrorists fired indiscriminately upon the police vehicle carrying personnel of 9th Battalion around 6 p.m. when they were travelling back to the Zewan camp from Srinagar. It seems a new [terrorist] group is active because we had earlier carried out a successful operation in the area ,” Director-General of Police Dilbag Singh said. Police later said the attack was carried out by the Kashmir Tigers, an offshoot of Jaish-e-Muhammad. The attack comes just two days after two policemen were killed in Bandipora. Kashmir has witnessed stepped up attacks on policemen this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-policemen-killed-12-injured-in-militant-strike-near-srinagar/article37949031.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Inflation spikes to 4.91% in November||India’s retail inflation hardened for the second month in a row in November, touching 4.91% from 4.48% recorded in October, with urban parts experiencing a sharper rise in prices at a pace of 5.54% and vegetable prices jumping 7.45% from the previous month. Transport and communication inflation eased only marginally to 10.02% in November, from 10.9% in the previous month, despite tax cuts on petrol and diesel announced by the Centre in the first week of the month, followed by most States paring their own fuel duties in subsequent weeks. This suggests that upward price pressures persist, owing to the rise in input and commodity costs, as reflected in the wholesale price inflation touching a five-month high of 12.54% in October. November’s wholesale price trends are to be released this Wednesday. Input pressures “With input price pressures forcing producers to raise prices in many sectors, the November retail inflation accelerated slightly faster than we had expected, shrugging off the favourable base effect and the cut in fuel taxes,” said ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar. The fuel tax cuts helped douse the transport and communications inflation by 0.6% on a month-on-month basis, but all the other categories of miscellaneous items displayed a hefty sequential rise, Ms. Nayar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inflation-spikes-to-491-in-november/article37949037.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||After furore, CBSE ‘regrets’ misogynistic question||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has expressed “regret” for including a misogynistic comprehension exercise in its Class 10 English examination, and vowed to review its paper setting processes. Soon after the issue was raised in the Lok Sabha by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday, followed by a walkout by Opposition MPs, the CBSE said the question would be dropped and all students granted full marks for that section. One of the question paper sets for the exam held on Friday included a passage which appeared to blame a “feminist revolt” for teenage indiscipline. It stated that the “emancipation of the wife destroyed the parents’ authority over the children, contrasting it to the past when wives obeyed their husbands and “children and servants were taught to know their place”. A question following the passage said the writer “takes a light-hearted approach to life”. Students, parents and politicians had expressed outrage over the passage, demanding an apology from the Board, a review of gender sensitivity standards, and a classroom debrief to sensitise students to the problematic nature of the content.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/after-furore-cbse-regrets-misogynistic-question/article37949035.ece
14 December 2021||Mangaluru,||150-year-old school demolished in Puttur||Over a century-old school building that had hosted the theatre activities of the late K. Shivaram Karanth at Nellikatte in the heart of Puttur Town was demolished reportedly at the behest of the School Development and Monitoring Committee on Sunday. “We had been attempting its restoration through the State Archaeology Department and had sent a proposal recently. What has happened was completely illegal,” said Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat CEO Kumara. Certain procedures have to be followed to demolish any government building, including its assessment by the Public Works Department, approval, and the like. “None of these procedures were followed in Puttur and I have ordered issuing show-cause notice to the school headmaster,” Mr. Kumara told The Hindu . The building had been abandoned and the higher primary classes were being conducted in an adjacent building, he added. SDMC president Panchakshari denied having demolished the building. While committee members were removing roof tiles for maintenance on Sunday, a wooden plank fell on another ensuing a chain of action. The roof collapsed while weakened walls built of latterite stone with mud masonry too gave in, he said. Mr. Panchakshari said SDMC had been pressing for building restoration since a year as the dilapidated structure was a threat to students of the school and an anganwadi. Journalist Gopalakrishna Kuntini in his social media post expressed anguish over the manner in which the 156-year-old heritage building came down and recalled efforts by him and others to preserve the building. The government could have easily restored the building, he said. S.N. Amrith, doctor and writer from Puttur, said the demolition was a criminal act of the SDMC while the Education Department and the MLA too were responsible. He had been pursuing building restoration plans for eight years with the authorities concerned. G.S. Shashidhara, who was the Block Education Officer in Puttur, said he was pained on hearing the demolition. He recalled efforts to get the building restored. He was told by his elders that Mr.. Karanth had been conducting theatre activities in the building and had also spoke at the Puttur Dasara event, Mr. Shashidhara said. On the complaint by Dr. Amrith, the Deputy Director of Public Instructions, Dakshina Kannada, on Monday directed the Puttur BEO to conduct an inquiry and initiate suitable legal action against the headmaster and SDMC committee members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/150-year-old-school-demolished-in-puttur/article37949446.ece
14 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Compensation figures exceed COVID-19 toll in Gujarat||The Gujarat Government has so far paid compensation to more than 19,000 persons though only 10,098 people died of COVID-19 as per the Health Department’s figures. “We are following the Supreme Court’s guidelines in paying the compensation. It’s an ongoing process as the district authorities are distributing the forms and disbursing the compensation in accordance with the guidelines,” Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) Manoj Aggarwal said. The State has received 34,678 applications for the Rs. 50,000 compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/compensation-figures-exceed-covid-19-toll-in-gujarat/article37949484.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Daily classes for students to resume from Jan. 3||Regular classes on all working days (without any batch wise rotation) for students of Classes VI to XII, colleges and industrial training institutes (ITIs) will resume from January 3, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced on Monday. To curb the spread of COVID-19, revellers would not be allowed entry into beaches on December 31 and January 1. The existing ban on organising social, cultural and political meetings with public participation would continue, the State Government said while extending lockdown restrictions till December 31 with further relaxations. More relaxations In addition to the existing restrictions and relaxations, all swimming pools would be allowed to function and auditoriums could host permitted events, Mr. Stalin said in the release. Earlier in the day, the Chief Minister chaired a meeting at the Secretariat in Chennai to review the COVID-19 situation across the State, and discussed the measures and precautions that are being taken in view of the Omicron variant. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy, Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu, Revenue Secretary Kumar Jayant, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Officer on Special Duty in the Health Department P. Senthil Kumar, Public Secretary D. Jagannathan and senior officials participated. Safety protocols The Government reiterated the need for adhering to COVID-19 safety protocols. Mr Stalin stressed on the theme ‘Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination-COVID-19 Appropriate Behaviour.’ In view of the forthcoming festival season, he appealed to the people to follow COVID norms and get themselves vaccinated at the camps being organised by the district administration and the Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-classes-to-resume-in-tn/article37949084.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Govt. urges CAQM to reopen schools||The Delhi Government has sent a proposal to the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas for schools and colleges to be reopened and would abide by its decision. The Education Department has proposed an immediate reopening of colleges and schools for Class VI and above, and of classes below from December 20. Announcing this on Monday, Environment Minister Gopal Rai said the ban on entry of trucks into the city will be extended with the existing exceptions for essential services. He also said requests for easing curbs on construction work will be relayed to the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-urges-caqm-to-reopen-schools/article37949192.ece
14 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,||MLC poll: all set for counting||Counting of votes polled in Friday’s Legislative Council election to the Local Authorities Constituency will begin at 8 a.m. on Tuesday. Karimnagar LAC saw a voter turnout of 99.70%, exercising their franchise to elect two Members to Legislative Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mlc-poll-all-set-for-counting/article37949297.ece
14 December 2021||Vijayawada,||CM to announce PRC decision in 72 hours||A committee headed by Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma has submitted a report to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to examine the recommendations of the 11th Pay Revision Commission (PRC). The Chief Minister will take a decision in the next 72 hours on the recommendations and make an announcement. Addressing a press conference on Monday, Mr. Sharma said that the committee examined the aspects relating to the impact of bifurcation on the financial position of the State, employee welfare measures taken by the government such as sanction of interim relief, increase in salaries for various categories etc. The committee examined seven different scenarios with different fitments for implementation of 11 PRC recommendations. The government would have to shoulder an additional burden of Rs. 11,557 crore per annum if PRC recommendations with a fitment of 23% were to be implemented. It would be Rs. 13,422 crore if the fitment were 27%. Similarly, the burden would be Rs. 9,150 crore and Rs. 10,211 crore if the fitments were 14.29% and 23% respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-to-announce-prc-decision-in-72-hours/article37949034.ece
14 December 2021||Pune,||Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi allies with RJD, IUML||Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi chief Prakash Ambedkar on Monday announced an alliance with the RJD and the IUML for the crucial Mumbai civic body polls to be held in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vanchit-bahujan-aghadi-allies-with-rjd-iuml/article37949193.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||COVID-19 relief given to 21,235 in Delhi: Minister||A one-time compensation of Rs. 50,000 each to the families of those who have died of COVID-19 has been given to 21,235 people in the city so far, Delhi Social Welfare Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-relief-given-to-21235-in-delhi-minister/article37949195.ece
14 December 2021||Belagavi,||State to recommend Padma award for Puneet||The Karnataka Government will recommend to the Centre to confer Padmashri award on the late actor Puneeth Rajkumar, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-recommend-padma-award-for-puneet/article37949447.ece
14 December 2021||Panaji,||‘Up to Congress to join TMC-led anti-BJP bloc’||Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee on Monday said it was for the Congress to decide whether it wanted to join its anti-BJP alliance ahead of the Goa elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-to-congress-to-join-tmc-led-anti-bjp-bloc/article37949408.ece
14 December 2021||Pune,||Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi allies with RJD, IUML||Snubbing Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi chief Prakash Ambedkar on Monday announced an alliance with the RJD and the IUML for the crucial Mumbai civic body polls to be held in February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vanchit-bahujan-aghadi-allies-with-rjd-iuml/article37949410.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Central Asian leaders invited for R-Day||India is awaiting responses from leaders of five Central Asian nations to an invitation to attend as chief guests of Republic Day, with the details expected to be finalised during a ministerial-level meeting of the India-Central Asia Foreign Ministers’ dialogue, which External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar will host this weekend in Delhi. Officials confirmed that the External Affairs Ministry has reached out to the Governments of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan to confirm their attendance, as is the protocol for Republic Day guests before a formal invitation is handed over. According to the officials, uncertainty over the COVID-19 situation, as well as the extra coordination required for multiple invitations, has led to the delay in the process of the invitations, which is normally wrapped up by December each year. If they accept, this will be the first time all five countries will attend the Republic Day parade together, though Kazakhstan’s former President Nursultan Nazarbayez was the chief guest in 2009. Sources told The Hindu that one of the five Central Asian members has yet to respond, and a final decision on the collective invitation will be taken once the last holdout was resolved, as it is expected to be by December 18, when Mr. Jaishankar is hosting the third India-Central Asia Dialogue. Diplomats said the invitation was part of India’s reach-out to the former Soviet States, that intensified since 2015, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited all five capitals. India joined the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in 2017, which all Central Asian States other than Turkmenistan are members of. The India-Central Asia dialogue was launched in 2019, and in July this year, Mr. Jaishankar attended the Central Asia-South Asia connectivity conference. Maritime connectivity “The invitation is also a signal that India wants to increase its links to the region, where land connectivity has been difficult due to Pakistan’s [obstructive] position,” former Ambassador to Tashkent Vinod Kumar told The Hindu . “Maritime connectivity remains important, and the Republic Day meeting will help strengthen India’s initiatives through Chabahar and through the International North South Transport Corridor,” he added. The move to invite Presidents Kassym-Jomart Tokayev of Kazakhstan, Sadyr Japarov of Kyrgyzstan, Emomali Rahmon of Tajikistan, Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov of Turkmenistan, and Shavkat Mirziyoyev of Uzbekistan, is also part of the Modi government’s attempts to bring together immediate neighbours and “far neighbours” in a group format on multiple occasions. Mr. Modi invited SAARC and BIMSTEC group leaders to his swearing in ceremonies in 2014 and 2019 respectively, and invited 10 leaders of the ASEAN as Republic Day guests in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-asian-leaders-invited-for-r-day/article37948940.ece
14 December 2021||VARANASI,||In corridor of the divine, cash registers ring||Traders in the vicinity of the Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi celebrated Monday’s inauguration of the corridor connecting it to the Ganga by lighting oil lamps and counting the increase in business. The owner of a sari shop with lamps at the entrance, Prabhakar Sharma, said: “Everyone is happy. Only those with political motivation are complaining. While the corridor was under construction, our business increased by 100%. Now, we expect it to increase further.” Kanhaiya Kapoor, who owns a shop selling religious articles near the temple, said the corridor, which carved out space in congested lanes, would allow more pilgrims to visit the shrine and lead to an increase in business for traders like him. Many rejoice “Earlier people used to come and see the long queues to enter the temple, get scared and leave. It’s not like Banaras has big industry, we rely on tourists. Despite COVID and fewer people travelling, my business has increased. Today alone I sold items worth Rs. 10,000, whereas it used to be around Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 2,000 before the corridor construction started,” Mr. Kapoor said. Krishna Kumar Gupta, an employee of a sari shop near the temple, said not only had the corridor been built, but the area outside the temple had been spruced up. “Earlier you couldn’t take a two-wheeler to see Baba [Lord Shiva], now you can take a four-wheeler, even a JCB if you want,” he said, referring to the road improvement work. About 300 buildings were cleared to make way for the 400 metre corridor before construction began in 2019. According to Uttar Pradesh Government officials, the land for the project was secured without litigation and by paying the residents amounts above the market rate. Some grievances But some raised issues of lack of employment and families being split up. Pawan Goswami said his family sold its house in 2018, but he has been left without work as he used to help his father run a shop of puja supplies and conduct rituals for worshippers at a temple maintained by his family. He says he was allowed to conduct rituals at the temple for one year after moving out, but the temple now sits inside the larger Kashi Vishwanath complex. “I am unemployed as of now,” he said. Amarnath Kharwar said his family also sold its property in 2018. “We did not think we had any option.” He said along with his family home, he also lost his work — a sari workshop on the property. “I haven’t been able to set it up again,” he said. Vijay Shankar Pandey said his family had lived in the area for generations, but after the house was sold, he and his brothers went their separate ways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-corridor-of-the-divine-business-thrives/article37948948.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||SC seeks reply on revival of vaccine PSUs||The Supreme Court on December 13 said it wanted to know the Government’s policy to revive vaccine public sector units, considering the dire need to ramp up COVID-19 immunisation and utilise their full production capabilities by placement of purchase orders. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said the Government should file a response to a petition filed by Amulya Ratna Nanda, former IAS officer, the All India Drug Action Network, the Low Cost Standard Therapeutics and Medico Friend Circle, represented by advocates Satya Mitra and Pragya Ganjoo. The petition has urged the Supreme Court to push the “reluctant” Union Government to put these PSUs to use, especially after public funds were once spent to make them compliant with Good Manufacturing Practices. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, said the issue was within the domain of policy. “Yes, we would like to know what is the policy. So we shall like you to file a reply,” Justice Chandrachud addressed Mr. Mehta. The petition said the PSUs, once revived, should be granted “full autonomy” as envisaged in the Javed Chowdhary report of 2010 in order to ensure their complete revival and smooth functioning in the future. The plea said steps should be immediately taken “to revive vaccine PSUs by ensuring issuance of production licences to the remaining GMP-compliant vaccine PSUs to utilise them for manufacturing all mass vaccination programmes, including COVID-19 vaccines”. The petition referred to an order of the Supreme Court in October 2016 based on an earlier plea. In that hearing, the Government had agreed to take action to revive the PSUs. Unfortunately, the plea said, the Government did not honour its commitment. “India is home to the oldest vaccine PSUs, with 25 of them set up under the British Raj. By 1980s, 29 PSUs were set up with the sole objective of self-reliance and self-sufficiency in vaccine production for the Universal Immunisation Programme introduced in 1986 to prevent mortality and morbidity amongst children in India as a part of the global effort by the World Health Organization,” it said. According to the petition, following the liberalisation and privatisation policies, 17 PSUs were shut down by 2005. By 2007, only seven PSUs remained operational in India, it said. Out of this, two are State-level PSU and five Central-level PSUs. King Institute of Preventive Medicine (KIPM, Chennai), a State-level PSU, has not produced any vaccines for the past two decades. The only functional State-level PSU today is the Haffkine Institute and its commercial arm, Haffkine Biopharmaceuticals Co. Ltd., in Mumbai. The Central-level PSUs are Bharat Biologicals and Immunologicals Ltd., Indian Institute of Immunologicals, Central Research Institute in Kasauli, Pasteur Institute of India in Coonoor and BCG Vaccine Laboratory in Chennai, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-seeks-reply-on-revival-of-vaccine-psus/article37948967.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Response plan for crashes was in the works||The Ministry of Civil Aviation in October proposed an Emergency Response Plan (ERP) in all States to deal with helicopter accidents or emergencies, including making contingency documents available to all districts. It was reiterated that the focus of the ERP should be on managing a crisis by covering aspects of who to contact, how to act and what resources to use. While it would not be practicable to train personnel to respond to a full-fledged aircraft fire, “the response of the local fire department should be geared to contain fires within their capability of training and be able to rescue survivors”, the guidelines noted. Breath-analyser checks The civil-registered helicopter fleet in India numbers nearly 250, of which Government and public sector undertakings operate 26. Reiterating the primary safety aspects, the advisory said prior to any flight, every aircraft movement should obtain a flight plan clearance, receive meteorological and Air Traffic Control briefing by the pilots and pre-flight breath-analyser check for the crew at the first departure point of the day. The advisory noted that during hovering prior to landing and at take-off, a helicopter could generate a rotor downwash wind that could easily exceed 100 kmph for a medium-sized aircraft. “The wind force is sufficient to cause the topsoil to be whipped into a heavy dust cloud and debris to be blown away with force, uprooting even loosely secured objects in vicinity,” it said. “This has caused accidents due to loss of visual cues to the pilot, entanglement of objects in rotors, loss of engine power due to dust/debris ingestion and even injuries to bystanders who otherwise were well clear of the helipad,” it added. DGCA advisory The safety guidelines also had a check-list for the district administration and police, revenue and health departments for helicopter operations. Following up closely, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation issued a separate circular for State governments to follow in VIP flight operations. The DGCA, India’s aviation watchdog, issued a circular on November 22, elaborating detailed guidelines for aircraft carrying State, Central and foreign dignitaries. The advisory was based on the outcome of investigation of accidents and incidents involving such aircraft operations in the past. It said there was a need for harmonisation of requirements and guidelines. The safety guidelines noted that twin-engine aircraft with good operational capability, reliability and easy maintainability characteristics should be used and its operations be in accordance with the aircraft rules and instructions issued from time to time. Pre-flight requirements The advisory said that pilot-in-command, before commencement of such flights, should familiarise himself with necessary meteorological information required for the intended flight. “For every flight under Instrument Flight Rules, the pilot should study the current weather reports and forecast and plan alternative courses of action to provide for the eventuality that the flight may not be completed as planned because of weather conditions,” it said. On the possession of ‘Certificate of Airworthiness’, the DGCA said the aircraft should be inspected and certified prior to flights by the Aircraft Maintenance Engineer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/response-plan-for-crashes-was-in-the-works/article37948942.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||Suspension an ‘act of revenge’: MP||The suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members was an act of revenge by the Government for raising voice against the three farm laws, Congress MP Syed Nasir Hussain said on Monday, the 13th day of the Opposition protest against the“illegal” suspension. Four of the 12 MPs — Elamaram Kareem of the CPI(M), Dola Sen of the Trinamool Congress, and Ripun Bora and Mr. Hussain of the Congress — were also suspended in September 2020, when the three farm laws were cleared in the Rajya Sabha amid a vociferous protest from the Opposition. At the start of the winter session, the 12 lawmakers were suspended for their alleged misconduct in the monsoon session during the passage of the General Insurance Act. The Opposition lawmakers and the parliamentary security officers had a physical tussle, when their demand to send the Bill to a parliamentary select committee was ignored and it was passed amid a din. ‘Created awareness’ “I think the Government wanted to take revenge. Had the Opposition not raised its voice last year, the country would not have known the real intent of the Government. After our suspension, the three Bills became a matter of debate, both nationally and internationally,” Mr. Hussain told The Hindu . The protest by farm organisations at the border of Delhi also began a month later in November. Mr. Hussain said the repeal of the three laws was a huge climbdown for the Government, especially when the Prime Minister and his entire Cabinet kept saying that there was no going back. The suspension, he said, was deliberate. “Our suspension was also an attempt to reduce our numbers within the House, giving the Government more elbow room,” Mr. Hussain said. Mr. Hussain said the Opposition has been sincere in its attempt to allow the House to function. “Every day, we move at least a dozen notices under Rule 267 to debate the issues that concern each one of us, be it the price rise that we are all reeling under, the Pegasus spyware where the Opposition was specifically targeted, the year-long farm agitation that claimed 750 lives. The Government blocked each of these debates. They only want to pass the Bills without any debate, discussion or evaluation,” Mr. Hussain said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/suspension-an-act-of-revenge-mp/article37948952.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition to intensify protests||In an escalation of the protests against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members, the Opposition parties will march to Vijay Chowk on Tuesday and also hold a joint rally later this week in which the national heads of the parties will participate. Monday was the 13th day of the protest. With the Government remaining adamant on its position that the suspension would be revoked only if an apology is made on the floor of the House, the Opposition leaders, at a meeting in the morning, decided that there was an urgent need to intensify the protests. The Trinamool Congress, which has so far remained aloof from any joint Opposition efforts led by the Congress, decided to make an exception and will be participating in the march. In the Rajya Sabha, the disruption continued on Monday. The first half of the proceedings was washed out. Deputy Leader of the Congress Anand Sharma urged the Government to heed the advice of Chairman Venkaiah Naidu that the two sides should hold discussions and find a solution to the issue. There was no response from the Government, following which the Congress staged a walkout. ‘Refusing request’ Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said the Opposition was “repeatedly requesting” the Government to find a solution. “The Government cannot dictate what should [we] do, what should [we] not do? They are repeatedly refusing to concede our request and they are putting the blame on us. So it’s not good. Therefore, I can say that the Government is adamant and... they are provoking us to disrupt the House. So, in protest of that, we will walk out,” he stated. Mr. Naidu then adjourned the House till noon. When it met at noon, Leader of the House Piyush Goyal said “allegations and wrong statements” were made by Mr. Kharge. “They should not think that we have not responded. We constantly tried speaking to the Leader of the Opposition and members but they are making statements that they will not apologise as they have not done anything wrong,” Mr. Goyal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-to-intensify-protests/article37948954.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India lays emphasis on UNCLOS||India remained committed to promoting a free, open and rules-based order rooted in international law and undaunted by coercion, the Centre informed Parliament on Monday while reiterating support for the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). “Government of India is committed to safeguarding maritime interests and strengthening security in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) to ensure a favourable and positive maritime environment,” Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt said in a written reply in the Lok Sabha. India also supported freedom of navigation and overflight, and unimpeded commerce based on the principles of international law, reflected notably in the UNCLOS 1982. As a State party to the UNCLOS, India promoted utmost respect for the UNCLOS, which established the international legal order of the seas and oceans, the statement said. India developed its maritime cooperation with regional partners in consonance with the Government’s vision of Security and Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR), Mr. Bhatt said. The steps taken include ‘Mission based Deployments’ of naval ships and aircraft to enhance Maritime Domain Awareness, promote maritime security and address contingencies that may arise, he stated. Joint exercises In addition, India proactively engaged with regional and extra-regional maritime forces through multilateral exercises, joint surveillance, coordinated patrols among others to promote maritime security in the region in an inclusive and cooperative manner, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-lays-emphasis-on-unclos/article37948787.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Help children left homeless by pandemic: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday directed States to take immediate steps to identify and rescue homeless children hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao said enough had not been done for these children across the country who number lakhs. The States should not wait for judicial orders or delay its efforts to take these children off the streets and rehabilitate them. The court said their details should be uploaded on the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) portal ‘Bal Swaraj’, dedicated to children adversely affected by the pandemic. “The data provided by the State governments in respect of the scheme of rehabilitation for such children has been placed on record. Looking at the number of the ‘children in street situations’ who have been identified, it appears that the process of identification is at a slow pace,” the Bench recorded in its order. It said the matter was brought to its notice on November 15 by the NGO, Save the Children, which had reported that there were two lakh such children in ten districts of Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal and Delhi. “There might be lakhs of children in street situation in the remaining parts of the country who need to be rescued and rehabilitated,” said the order. The court said the process of collecting the information with regard to the social background of the children and identification of benefits under the individual care plan had to be conducted by the Child Welfare Committees under the Juvenile Justice law. The court noted that there were about 70,000 children in the streets of Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/help-children-left-homeless-by-pandemic-sc/article37948965.ece
14 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat compensation figures exceed official COVID-19 toll||The Gujarat Government has apparently revised the COVID-19 death figure while disbursing compensation to the victims’ families. Officially, 10,098 people died of COVID-19 as per the Health Department’s figures. These figures were released in the daily bulletin issued by the State Government. However, the State has so far paid compensation to more than 19,000 persons. “We are following the Supreme Court guidelines in paying the compensation. It’s an ongoing process as the district authorities are distributing the forms and disbursing the compensation in accordance with the guidelines,” Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) Manoj Aggarwal said. The State has received 34,678 applications for the Rs. 50,000 compensation. Mr. Aggarwal said the State administration intends to help as many families as possible. He said the compensation was being paid by the Collector’s offices. In October, the Supreme Court approved the payment of Rs. 50,000 to the families to be paid over and above the amounts paid by the Centre and the State under various schemes. The death toll has remained a point of controversy in the State, which had allegedly under-reported the numbers during the first and the second waves of the pandemic. According to former Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda, more than three lakh persons died of COVID-19 in the State since March 2020. “The Congress party has already received 70,000 applications from the families of the deceased. We have asked people to submit their applications,” Mr. Chavda said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-compensation-figures-exceed-official-covid-19-toll/article37948970.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||Not informed of PM’s Twitter account hacking: MeitY officials||Officials of the Ministry of Electronics and Information technology (MeitY) told the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology at a meeting on Monday that the Prime Minister's office did not contact the Ministry about hacking of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Twitter account. The MeitY officials, according to sources, claimed that they got to know about it from news reports on Monday morning. The Prime Minister’s Office, they said, was directly in touch with Twitter to resolve the issue. The members quizzed MeitY officials on the number of fake news and child pornography and terrorism related posts on Facebook and other social media platforms. According to the sources, MeitY officials informed the standing committee that half a million posts of child pornography and another 55,000 posts related to terrorism made its way to Facebook in October itself. “While they maintain a log of number of objectionable posts that are pulled down, the Ministry officials failed to inform us on the action taken against those who put up such objectionable posts,” said a member who attended the meeting. “It is a worrying trend that most of these posts are made by anonymous persons and no action is taken against them,” the member added.  The committee members predominantly shared the view that social media users should not be anonymous. However, many felt that it would be tricky too for a private firm to have personal information of its users.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/not-informed-of-pms-twitter-account-hacking-meity-officials/article37948938.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Call from within judiciary to change collegium system’||Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju told the Rajya Sabha on Monday that there was a call from within the judiciary and parliamentarians to change the collegium system for appointment of judges. He said a draft memorandum of procedure for bringing transparency and accountability to the system was submitted by the Government to the Supreme Court, and it was pending. The National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC) Bill passed by both the Houses of Parliament was declared ultra vires by the Supreme Court in 2015. “There is a call from several quarters to bring transparency to the appointment of judges. Till 1993, the appointments were taking place as per the Constitution, the President of India appointed the judges in consultation with the SC. Soon this changed and from 1998, the collegium system kicked in. So consultation was changed to concurrence… the nation should introspect on this important issue,” Mr. Rijiju said. He said the Government should carry out its duty diligently in consultation with the top court. ‘Not a challenge’ “If the Government considers a particular person is not fit to be an SC or HC judge, how can we be forced to appoint that person…my words should not be construed as a challenge to the judiciary. If we are not crossing the line, then others should also not come in our way,” he said. He said the Government had written to the Chief Justices of all High Courts to include names of members from the reserved categories while recommending names for appointment as judges. John Brittas of the CPI(M) said it had been six years since the court struck down the NJAC, but “this Government has found it convenient and expedient so that there is a barter”. “The Government has successfully spiked the appointments of those who are inconvenient to them. And the Government has been sitting on the proposals of the collegium whenever they find certain names who are persona non grata for them. Some judges are transferred for unknown reasons as a punishment. But some Chief Justice openly speaks against secularism and thus the Constitution. No age criterion for becoming judges, some are rejected for want of age, some are appointed overnight,” he said. Mr. Rijiju was participating in a discussion in the Rajya Sabha on a Bill that clarifies the process to count the age of retired judges to determine when they will get enhanced pension. The Bill was passed by voice vote in the Upper House. The High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021 was passed earlier by the Lok Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-from-within-judiciary-to-change-collegium-system/article37948955.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Supersonic missile-assisted torpedo system tested: DRDO||A supersonic missile-assisted torpedo system developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) was successfully launched from Wheeler Island in Odisha on Monday. “The system is a next-generation missile-based stand-off torpedo delivery system. During the mission, full-range capability of the missile was successfully demonstrated. The system has been designed to enhance anti-submarine warfare capability far beyond the conventional range of the torpedo,” the DRDO said in a statement. It was a textbook launch, where the entire trajectory was monitored by the electro-optic telemetry system, various range radars, including the down-range instrumentation and down-range ships, the DRDO said. The missile carried a torpedo, parachute delivery system and release mechanisms. This canister-based missile system consists of advanced technologies — two-stage solid propulsion, electro-mechanical actuators and precision inertial navigation. The missile is launched from a ground mobile launcher and it can cover a range of distances. While a number of DRDO laboratories developed various technologies for this system, industry participated in the development and production of various sub-systems, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supersonic-missile-assisted-torpedo-system-tested-drdo/article37948958.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||Bill correcting drafting error in NDPS Act passed by LS||The Lok Sabha on Monday passed a Bill that corrects a drafting error in the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Act retrospectively, with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman stating that the retrospective provisions were not “substantive” in nature. “Amendments with retrospective effect to substantive part of criminal law is not permitted, but clarificatory amendment that seeks to remove an obvious mistake is permitted,” Ms. Sitharaman said, referring to the opinion of the Solicitor-General. The NDPS (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed by a voice vote and amendments moved by the Opposition members were rejected by the House. Biju Janata Dal (BJD) member Bhartruhari Mahtab and Congress MP Manish Tewari were among those who opposed the retrospective applicability of the provision, arguing criminal provisions cannot be brought into force retrospectively. Mr. Tewari argued that the amendment would set a dangerous precedent and said it would shake people’s confidence in the supreme legislative institution. The debate also saw Shiv Sena member Arvind Sawant and NCP member Supriya Sule hit out at the Centre for allegedly targeting Bollywood actors over alleged substance and drug abuse. Ms. Sitharaman did not refer to the issue in her reply. Mundra drug seizure However, the Finance Minister referred to the 3,000-kg drug haul at Gujarat’s Mundra Port but refused to get drawn into a debate over its private ownership and asserted that it was a national port. She said the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, with its prompt action, had prevented drugs from reaching several parts of the country and that the case was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) after the contraband was seized at the port itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bill-correcting-drafting-error-in-ndps-act-passed-by-ls/article37949025.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||Trinamool, Congress MPs move privilege motion against Gogoi||Two Trinamool Congress MPs and three of the Congress have moved a privilege motion against former Chief Justice of India and Rajya Sabha member Ranjan Gogoi over his remarks that he attended the House when he felt like doing so. Since he joined the House in March 2020, Mr. Gogoi, a nominated member, has attended proceedings only six times. Monday was the seventh instance when he came to Parliament. Undermining dignity Jawahar Sircar and Mausam Noor of the Trinamool moved the motion, arguing that Mr. Gogoi’s comments “undermine the dignity of the House”. In an interview to NDTV, Mr. Gogoi said he skipped two sessions on medical advice because of the COVID-19 pandemic. “I go to Rajya Sabha when I feel like, when I think there are matter of importance on which I can speak. And I am a nominated member, I am not governed by any party whip, whenever the bell rings for the party members to come, that does not bind me... I go there by my choice and I come out at my choice. I am an independent member of the house,” he said. “What is this magic about RS? I would have been better off in terms of pay, emoluments if I had been a chairman of a tribunal. I am not taking a penny from the RS,” he added. According to the rules, a member should attend at least one day during the session and if not, the member should apply for leave which has to be sanctioned by the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-congress-mps-move-privilege-motion-against-gogoi/article37948945.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Education Ministry must apologise: Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday condemned the “blatantly misogynistic” and “shockingly regressive passage” in the CBSE Class 10 English paper, and urged the Education Ministry to not just apologise but also conduct a thorough inquiry into how such a question, which “reflected poorly” on the standards of education and testing, found its way into the paper. The passage, which appeared in the reading comprehension section of the paper on Friday, created outrage among parents and students as it contained sentences such as “women gaining independence is the main reason for a wide variety of social and family problems”. Strong objection “I add my voice to these concerns of students, parents, teachers and educationists and I raise strong objection to such blatantly misogynist material finding its way into an important exam conducted by the CBSE. It reflects very poorly on the standards of education and testing and goes against the norms of a progressive and empowered society,” Ms. Gandhi said in the Lok Sabha. “I urge the Ministry of Education and the CBSE to immediately withdraw this question, issue an apology and conduct a thorough review into this egregious lapse to ensure it is never repeated again,” she said, adding that the Ministry must conduct a review of gender sensitivity standards of the curriculum and testing. Congress MPs demanded an answer on the issue, and not getting a response, staged a walkout from the Lok Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/education-ministry-must-apologise-sonia/article37948950.ece
14 December 2021||Kolkata,||BJP flags gap in Mamata scheme for Goa, Bengal||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress chairperson Mamata Banerjee is visiting Goa for the second time in the past two months. However, her announcement “Griha Laxmi Card” to women in Goa has given a handle to the Opposition in West Bengal to target the Trinamool. The Trinamool had announced a similar “Lakshmir Bhandar” scheme in West Bengal ahead of the Assembly election and implemented it after coming to power. A sum of Rs. 500 is given a month to every woman in the general category and Rs. 1,000 in the reserved category. The Opposition parties, however, have raised questions on the huge difference in the payout. The BJP leadership, including Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, flagged the difference in the cash incentives for West Bengal and Goa. BJP leader Sayanatan Basu said the party leaders were well aware that if they promise Rs. 500 in Goa, nobody would take them seriously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-flags-gap-in-mamata-scheme-for-goa-bengal/article37948974.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||CBSE ‘regrets’ misogynistic question||It stated that the “emancipation of the wife destroyed the parents’ authority over the children, contrasting it to the past when wives obeyed their husbands and “children and servants were taught to know their place”. Students, parents and politicians had expressed outrage over the passage, demanding an apology from the Board, a review of gender sensitivity standards, and a classroom debrief to sensitise students to the problematic nature of the content. Just minutes after a number of Opposition parties escalated the issue further by walking out of the Lok Sabha, the CBSE issued a statement acknowledging that the passage was “not in accordance with the guidelines of the Board with regard to the setting of question papers”. On the basis of a subject expert committee’s review, it was decided to drop the question, and award full marks for all students for passage no. 1, regardless of which question paper set they received. Later in the evening, facing criticism for its failure to apologise, the Board went a step further to say: “CBSE regrets this unfortunate incident and is setting up an expert committee to thoroughly review and strengthen the question paper setting processes, to avoid such occurrences in the future.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-regrets-misogynistic-question/article37948936.ece
14 December 2021||Mumbai,||Was helping police even during suspension: Vaze||Suspended police officer Sachin Vaze told a judicial commission on Monday that because of his uprightness and performance, he was recording statements of witnesses and tracing suspects and accused for the police across India even during his suspension for 16 years. The encounter specialist, who is reported to have killed 63 alleged criminals, was brought before Justice K.U. Chandiwal (retired) from the Taloja Central Jail. He has been lodged in Taloja Central Jail for the case against him after explosives and a letter were found near Antilia, the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. The Chandiwal commission was constituted in March to inquire into corruption allegations made by Param Bir Singh, former Commissioner of Mumbai police, against Anil Deshmukh, former Home Minister of Maharashtra. Mr. Vaze was cross-examined by Mr. Deshmukh’s lawyer Girish Kulkarni. Anil Deshmukh was brought from the Arthur Road Jail where he is lodged on charges of money laundering by the Enforcement Directorate. Mr. Kulkarni asked Sachin Vaze about the procedure of reinstating an officer back after suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/was-helping-police-even-during-suspension-vaze/article37948939.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul to undertake padayatra in Amethi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi will undertake a padayatra in his former Lok Sabha constituency Amethi on December 18 as part of the Jan Jagran Abhiyan against inflation and the gross mismanagement of the economy, the Congress announced on Monday. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, will join the march. In a statement, AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal said the party launched a countrywide agitation on November 14 “to expose the gross mismanagement of the economy by the Modi Government and make people aware of its insensitivity in addressing the prevalent backbreaking inflation”. The party had tried to ensure a discussion on inflation in the ongoing Parliament session, he said. Mr. Venugopal said Mr. Gandhi would address a public rally in Dehradun on December 16 to celebrate the 50th anniversary of ‘Vijay Diwas’, marking the 1971 victory against Pakistan and commemorating the Bangladesh Liberation War.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-to-undertake-padayatra-in-amethi/article37948972.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Heritage and progress now go side by side: PM||After the rituals, Mr. Modi had a photo-op with construction workers who had worked on the project. Addressing a gathering of around 3,000 people, including Hindu religious heads from across the country, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP president J.P. Nadda and other party functionaries, Mr. Modi said Varanasi or Kashi had resisted invaders through the ages. He said the city was witness to the atrocities of Aurangzeb, but the soil of India was different from rest of the world adding that Kashi had seen “sultanates” rise and fall. Speaking a few sentences in Tamil, Kannada and in a local dialect, Mr. Modi said the Kashi Vishwanath temple was dear to people. Varanasi had been the city where Adi Shankarachara was inspired by a Dom king to unite the country, he said. The Doms have historically carried out cremations at the ghats of Varanasi. Taking a dig at critics, Mr. Modi said some people had doubted that Varanasi could see any change when he first became its MP in 2014. He said whenever Kashi took a new turn, it changed the fate of the country. Estimated to cost Rs. 800 crore, the portion of the corridor opened on Monday was the first phase of the project. The gateway to the river and the steps going to the ghat would be completed in the coming months, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/slavery-broke-indias-self-confidence-modi/article37948781.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||2 policemen killed, 12 injured in J&K attack||Kashmir has witnessed stepped-up attacks on policemen this year. Most of these attacks were carried out in and around Srinagar. According to the Prime Minister’s Office, Prime Minister Narendra Modi sought details on the terror attack in J&K. He has also expressed condolences to the families of those security personnel who have been martyred in the attack, a spokesman said. The J&K Lieutenant-Governor and regional parties have condemned the militant attack on the policemen in Srinagar. Earlier in the day, the Srinagar police killed two LeT militants, including a foreigner, in a brief “chance encounter” in the Rangreth area of Srinagar. Clashes broke out between the security forces and local youth in Rangreth after the operation. In a separate incident, official sources said a special police officer (SPO) and his associate, who were guarding a BJP leader, have gone missing along with two service weapons in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-policemen-killed-12-injured-in-jk-attack/article37948783.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Inflation spikes to 4.91% in November||These ranged from 0.2% for education to a sharp 0.9% for personal care and effects, underscoring the growing price pressures in the economy. November’s inflation is within the central bank’s target range of 2% to 6%, but on the higher side of the tolerance band, Knight Frank India research director Vivek Rathi noted. Fuel and transport costs remained the main constituents that pushed the level higher in this reading as these categories exert cost pressure on various input items, he pointed out. Inflation in food prices paid by consumers more than doubled from 0.85% in October to 1.87% in November, with oil and fats inflation moderating only mildly from 33.5% in October to 29.7%. However, except for tomatoes and vegetables, prices of many food items corrected downwards. Relative to urban denizens, rural India faced a more moderate rise from 4.07% in October to 4.29% in November, as per official data from the National Statistical Office. Even as economists are worried that the base effects from last year’s inflation trends will turn unfavourable in coming months, most agreed there is little chance of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) shifting from its accommodative monetary policy stance in favour of growth to focus on higher inflation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/inflation-spikes-to-491-in-november/article37948785.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC won’t interfere with HC order on Adhikari||The Supreme Court on Monday did not intervene in a petition filed by the West Bengal Government against an interim stay order of the Calcutta High Court that protected BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari from “coercive action” from the police in several criminal cases initiated against him. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud noted that the Single Judge of the High Court, on September 6, besides staying the probe against Mr. Adhikari, directed the West Bengal Government and the investigating officer to file their affidavits in the case. This was not done, and the State had instead approached the Supreme Court by invoking the Supreme Court’s special powers of appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution. The Bench said it was still open for the State and the investigating officer to file their affidavits in the High Court. The Supreme Court said the High Court could then expeditiously dispose of the petitions before it. It refrained from expressing any opinion on the merits of the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-wont-interfere-with-hc-order-on-adhikari/article37948935.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delivery apps’ employees seek statutory benefits||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Government to respond to a petition filed by a body representing workers of app-based delivery and transport services seeking statutory benefits, social security rights and recognition as “unorganised workers”. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao issued notice on the petition filed by the Indian Federation of App-based Transport Workers (IFAT), which represents workers employed by food and taxi apps such as Zomato, Swiggy, Ola and Uber. “We seek a declaration that the drivers or delivery workers are actually workmen in the classical sense of the word. Worldwide for Uber they have been considered as workers,” senior advocate Indira Jaising, for IFAT, submitted. She referred to how the U.K. Supreme Court had concluded that the relationship between the online app and these workers were that of employer-employee. These workers were eligible for social security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delivery-apps-employees-seek-statutory-benefits/article37948968.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||India to produce 5 bn doses of vaccines next year: Goyal||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Monday said India plans to produce 5 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines next year. “We have been exporting in the past, we continue to export and we have offered to all the countries in the world that we will be willing to supply as many vaccines as other countries would require to ensure equitable availability at affordable prices for vaccines for all the countries in the world,” Mr. Goyal said at the CII Partnership Summit 2021 being held virtually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-produce-5-bn-doses-of-vaccines-next-year-goyal/article37949024.ece
14 December 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha suffers crop loss due to Jawad rain||Standing crops on more than 5.78 lakh hectares of land were damaged following untimely rain that lashed Odisha under the impact of Cyclone Jawad over the Bay of Bengal earlier this month. The State Government briefed a Central inter-ministerial team led by Saurav Ray, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs. “Standing crops on more than 5.78 lakh hectares of land in around 131 blocks of 12 districts were severely damaged. These districts are Ganjam, Bhadrak, Puri, Cuttack, Balasore, Kendrapara, Keonjhar, Khordha, Jagatsinghpur, Nayagarh, Jajpur and Mayurbhanj,” the team was informed. “ Detail damage report would be sent after completion of the field level assessment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-suffers-crop-loss-due-to-jawad-rain/article37949196.ece
14 December 2021||Mumbai,||No arrest for Kangana till court hearing||The Mumbai police on Monday told the Bombay High Court that it will not take action till January 25 against actor Kangana Ranaut in an FIR filed against her for making derogatory remarks on social media against farmers. A Division Bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and S.V. Kotwal was hearing a petition filed by Ms. Ranaut seeking to quash an FIR against her after a Sikh organisation filed a complaint with the Khar police station. Chief Public Prosecutor Aruna Pai, who appeared for the police, said the Khar police had issued a notice to Ms. Ranaut, asking her to appear before them for questioning, but the actor had not responded to it yet. Ms. Ranaut’s counsel told the court that his client was willing to appear before the police on December 22, but was worried about being arrested. The Bench noted, “Unless the police make a statement of not arresting her (Ranaut), we’ll have to grant some relief.” Ms. Pai then said the police would not arrest her until the next date of hearing, which is January 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-arrest-for-kangana-till-court-hearing/article37948960.ece
14 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘Punjab Cong. Ministers want to join AAP’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday said that at least four Ministers of the ruling Congress Government in Punjab and a few other leaders wanted to join the AAP even as State Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi hit back, saying that the AAP wanted to create nuisance by indulging in malicious tactics, which would eventually backfire. AAP leader Raghav Chadha said that the four Ministers had been constantly approaching them to join their party. “Since these four leaders are facing serious allegations related to sand mafia, we have decided not to include them in our party,” Mr. Chadha said at a press conference in Chandigarh. Delhi Chief Minister and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “The Aam Aadmi Party is going to form the government in Punjab after a few months. So many leaders from other parties are approaching to join the Aam Aadmi Party. We will not include any corrupt and criminal leader under any circumstances. We will give a clean and honest government to Punjab.” Hitting out at the AAP, Mr. Channi cautioned the AAP to desist from mouthing lies to create unnecessary hype.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-cong-ministers-want-to-join-aap/article37948784.ece
14 December 2021||Mumbai,||Congress seeks HC permission for rally||The Mumbai Congress on Monday moved the Bombay High Court seeking permission to celebrate the Indian Nationalist Congress’s public meeting at Shivaji Park on December 28. A plea has been filed by State party president Bhai Jagtap seeking a direction to the Maha Vikas Aghadi to grant permission for the rally which will be attended by Congress leaders Sonia and Rahul Gandhi. The plea is likely to be heard tomorrow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-seeks-hc-permission-for-rally/article37949411.ece
14 December 2021||Pune,||Prakash Ambedkar snubs AIMIM, allies with RJD and Muslim League||Snubbing the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) chief Prakash Ambedkar on Monday announced an alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Muslim League for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) election to be held in February. Mr. Ambedkar, grandson of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar, projected his alliance as an alternative to the BJP and the ruling MVA in the BMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prakash-ambedkar-snubs-aimim-allies-with-rjd-and-muslim-league/article37948937.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||'Conman' spoofed Amit Shah's office no to befriend Jacqueline Fernandez: ED chargesheet||Alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar made a “spoofed” call replicating the office number of Union Home Minister Amit Shah to befriend actor Jacqueline Fernandez, the ED has said in a chargesheet filed under the PMLA. The agency said her make-up artist “got a call from the office of Home Minister Amit Shah and he was asked to get in touch with Mr. Shekhar alias Sukesh Chandrashekhar as he was a very important person in government”.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/conman-spoofed-amit-shahs-office-no-to-befriend-jacqueline-fernandez-ed-chargesheet/article37949020.ece
14 December 2021||Jammu,||Woman intruder shot near R.S. Pura border: BSF||A woman infiltrator has been shot near the International Border (IB) in Jammu's R.S. Pura area, the Border Security Forces (BSF) said on Monday. “The BSF troops noticed suspicious movement in R.S. Pura area and warned the intruder many times not to cross the IB but the intruder kept running towards border fencing aggressively. Alert BSF troops fired and neutralised the intruder and thwarted the infiltration attempt,” the spokesman said. The incident, according to the BSF, took place on Sunday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-intruder-shot-near-rs-pura-border-bsf/article37948943.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||U.S. Defence Secretary condoles Rawat’s death||U.S. Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin expressed condolences over the demise of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash. He conveyed this in a telephonic conversation with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Appreciating the telephone call from Mr. Austin, Mr. Singh said, “Secretary Austin warmly recalled his meeting with Gen. Rawat during latter’s recent visit to U.S.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-defence-secretary-condoles-rawats-death/article37948789.ece
14 December 2021||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||Ariyalur Collector walks the talk||In a bid to highlight the importance of minimising usage of motor vehicles in day-to-day life towards preserving the environment, Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi decided to walk to her office on Mondays. As usual, her driver had kept ready her official car on the portico of the Collector’s Bungalow on Monday morning. But, Ms. Saraswathi, who emerged from her residence, sprang a surprise. She asked the driver to stay put in the camp office and began walking to her office situated about 700 meters from her residence. Surprised by her action, a few of her office staff including Personal Clerk to the Collector and “daffedar” also followed her. She is said to have taken the decision to give effect to the DO letter by Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, who had asked the officials across the State to avoid motor vehicles reaching office on Wednesdays so as to contribute in preserving the environment. “Each and every one of us needs to step in to do something to preserve the environment. Except for unavoidable circumstances, I avoid field inspections on Mondays as Collectors have to be in the headquarters. Hence, I have decided to avoid taking the vehicle to visit the office every Monday,” Ms. Saraswathi told The Hindu . She said that she had instructed her subordinates and department heads to avoid vehicles to visit their offices at least one day a week, preferably Wednesday. But, she could not compel them. “Positive messages poured in from various quarters, minutes after I walked to my office on Monday. It was unexpected. I will be happy if it has a positive impact on the society,” said Ms. Saraswathi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ariyalur-collector-walks-the-talk/article37949238.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sand lorry owners plan protest against overloading on Dec. 27||Members of the All M-sand and River Sand Lorry Owners’ Federation plan to stage protest on December 27 against overloading of lorries that cause accidents and result in poor quality M-sand. Members of the federation complained at a press meet on Monday that the lorries were overloaded at crusher units and sent without transit pass leading to accidents and seizure of vehicles, and cases were being booked against lorry owners and drivers. Moreover, growth of unauthorised crusher units has led to sale of M-sand without transit pass issued by the Mines Department. About 250 such unapproved crusher units were operating at places like Thiruneermalai and Erumaiyur near Chennai alone. S. Yuvaraj, president of Tamil Nadu State Sand Lorry Owners Federation, complained of exploitation of natural resources and said that blue metal and M-sand were being transported to neighbouring States such as Kerala and Karnataka without transit pass or GST bills. Functioning of crusher units without licence had led to sale of poor quality M-sand in the market. On the other hand, several licensed quarries were being closed due to restrictions and this resulted in shortage of the construction material. Moreover, minerals are being sent to Bangladesh. A tonne of M-sand is being sold for Rs. 7,000 as against Rs. 6,000 fixed last month, due to shortage. “The government must engage in the operation of quarries and direct sale of blue metal and M-sand just like river sand,” Mr. Yuvaraj said. Members of various sand lorry associations have planned to go on a protest on December 27 seeking solution to their demands and also go on an indefinite strike from January 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sand-lorry-owners-plan-protest-against-overloading-on-dec-27/article37949130.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mullaperiyar water level hovering around 142 feet for last two weeks||The water level of the Mullaperiyar dam has been hovering around 142 ft consecutively for the last two weeks. This is the current maximum permissible level since the dispute over the dam was raised in 1979. An official of the Water Resources Department points out that though there had been several instances of the water level touching the 142-ft mark, the duration of such occasions was very short — one or two days. But this time, thanks to the almost continuous rain in the catchment areas, the water level of the dam has remained around 142 ft. A perusal of the data on water levels of the dam in the last two weeks reveals that it was on November 29 that the level almost touched 142 ft — It was 141.9 ft then. As the inflow was about 2,200 cubic feet per second (cusecs), the discharge through the tunnels was 1,867 cusecs and through the river, 833 cusecs. Given the dam’s position, when the release takes place through the river, the water flows westward, to Kerala. The situation gets reversed if the drawal of water is done through the tunnels. The next day, the water level went up to the maximum permissible limit of 142 ft. [As per the existing regulations of the Central Water Commission, the water level could touch the 142-ft-mark only on November 30.] The level remained at 142 ft for two more days. After a dip in the level for a few days, it rose again to the permissible mark. December 6 was an eventful day as the discharge through the river was about 5,690 cusecs, and on December 7, it was 4,060 cusecs. On those two days, the drawal through the tunnels was in the range of 1,200 cusecs to 1,670 cusecs. Again, on December 9, the level rose to 142 ft and was static till December 11. On Monday, the water level stood at 141.95 ft. The discharge through the tunnels was 700 cusecs and through the river, 144 cusecs. The inflow was 1,146 cusecs. Meanwhile, the Cauvery Water Management Authority is scheduled to hold its meeting on December 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mullaperiyar-water-level-hovering-around-142-feet-for-past-2-weeks/article37949110.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Tamil Nadu planning for major shift towards e-mobility’||The Tamil Nadu Planning Commission is revisiting the e-vehicle policy unveiled in 2019 to mark a huge shift towards e-mobility, T.R.B. Rajaa, MLA and member of the commission, said. Speaking during a webinar organised by the Dravidian Professionals Forum on ‘Tamil Nadu’s transition to net-zero carbon economy’ Mr. Rajaa said the commission was looking at the possibility of setting up e-vehicle charging infrastructure in the State. Batteries It would also look at how batteries are used and manufactured and fix responsibility for recycling batteries. “We will give a big boost to green charging infrastructure,” he said. The commission would also look at the possibility of having more CNG buses and study the viability of hydrogen fuel cells and usage of more e-vehicles. The State would consider a no-coal policy once it achieved self-sufficiency in the power sector, especially with the usage of wind and solar power. Net Zero Tamil Nadu Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said, “If India needs to achieve Net Zero by 2070, Tamil Nadu needs to achieve it by 2050 at least. Tamil Nadu needs to be ahead of the curve. It is possible through innovation, technology and storage options for renewable energy.” Erik Solheim, former executive director of the U.N. Environment Programme and former Norwegian Minister for Environment, said Tamil Nadu had an important role to play in the Net Zero initiative, and the opportunity to go into renewables, including solar power, was enormous.  Big role He said Tamil Nadu could have a big role to play in the production of electric vehicles, and the government could look at policies that provide introductory offers and incentives to people to use electric vehicles. Irene Giner-Riechl, co-founder, Global Women’s Network for the Energy Transition, and President, Global Forum on Sustainable Energy, said the energy transition was a terrific economic and social opportunity. “It is important that it is used as an opportunity to engineer social progress, inclusivity and diversity and make our societies more just,” she added. Energy efficiency Benoit Lebot, senior advisor, Government of France, said lifestyle and behaviour changes of people could reduce greenhouse gases, and there was a need to look at energy efficiency of everything that people used, the choice of energy that was used and the material used in various products. “We imperatively have to move the world on a low carbon path,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-planning-major-shift-towards-e-mobility/article37949116.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||657 persons test positive for COVID-19 in State||Fresh COVID-19 infections dropped marginally to 657 in Tamil Nadu on Monday. Of the 38 districts, Ramanathapuram and Theni had no new case, while 21 districts logged fewer than 10 cases each. In Chennai, 114 persons tested positive for the infection, taking the city’s tally to 5,59,581. Coimbatore’s daily caseload dipped to 101, taking its total case count to 2,51,704. A total of 53 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Erode, while Chengalpattu and Namakkal had 47 cases each. There were 46 cases in Tiruppur and 43 in Salem. Of the 21 districts that had fewer than 10 cases each, four districts — Ariyalur, Kallakurichi, Mayiladuthurai and Perambalur — reported a single case each. The fresh cases pushed the State’s tally to 27,36,046. The State reported 12 more COVID-19 deaths (five in private and seven in government hospitals). This took the toll to 36,624. A total of 702 persons, including 120 in Coimbatore and 108 in Chennai, were discharged after treatment. The total recoveries stood at 26,91,756. With this, the State’s active caseload dropped to 7,666. As many as 1,00,085 samples were tested on Monday. So far, a total of 5,55,96,111 samples have been tested. 2.50 lakh get jabs A little over 2.50 lakh persons were vaccinated across the State on Monday. Of the 2,50,485 persons who were inoculated, 1,46,699 persons were aged 18 to 44 and 67,744 persons were aged 45 to 58. This took the total coverage of government vaccination centres so far to 7,49,55,849.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/657-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19/article37949141.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai-Bengaluru highway awaits repair||If the recent rain made driving on roads from bad to worse, the Chennai- Bengaluru highway has once again become a nightmare. “Have you driven down from Chennai to Kancheepuram recently? The large potholes have only made the experience a harrowing one. Expansion work is moving at snail’s pace and the many diversions only make driving a nightmare, especially at night,” said S. Selvaraj, a multi-axle vehicle driver. “There is some respite in traffic only for a couple of hours in the afternoon and if there is a pile up, motorists are done for. The condition of the road, which is a gateway to Chennai, is in a pitiable state and there has been no improvement for over a year now. Many projects in the city have been completed but this one remains hung, nobody knows why,” said L. Sahana, who travels frequently to Bengaluru. Sources in the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said potholes were being filled whenever there was some respite in the rain. “We are waiting for the rain to stop so that we can complete the repairs. The widening work would soon be completed,” the official said. In short supply However, other sources associated with the project said the work remained incomplete due to the need for gravel and earth. “We require 1.2 lakh cubic metre for this project and we are unable to construct even structures like flyovers due to this. Though contractors have complained to the Central Government and the Union Minister, who has in-turn spoken to the State Government, we are not getting borrow permissions,” said a source, who wanted to remain unnamed. Meanwhile, the NHAI is also taking steps to repair potholes on Chennai’s elevated bypass, northern stretch of Inner Ring Road and Tiruvottiyur-Ponneri-Panchetti Road. “We have fixed potholes and by this weekend, when we have a dry patch, we will re-lay the damaged stretches using paver machines. As far as Manali Oil Ring Road is concerned, about one km of the wearing coat has been damaged. These works have all been carried out by the respective contractors as part of maintenance,” he said. A total of Rs. 26 lakh has been sanctioned for repairs to the stretch of Maduravoyal-Koyambedu on the Poonamallee High Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-bengaluru-highway-awaits-repair/article37949582.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM unveils 3rd master plan for city||A third master plan for Chennai is being prepared, in which combating floods, urbanisation, traffic disruptions and other problems pertaining to the city will be given importance, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said after inaugurating Statecon 2021 – “Vision Tamil Nadu Growth for The Next 10 Years”, organised by the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai) Tamil Nadu Chapter. The plan is for 2026 to 2046. He said that a business centre is being planned in Pattinapakkam in Chennai and there are plans to raise the Koyambedu integrated market and bus stand, Madhavaram bus terminus and Sathangadu Iron Market to global standards. The Chief Minister said the government is taking steps to make the State slum-free by 2031 and plans were afoot to provide 9.5 lakh houses to the poor in the next 10 years. Mr. Stalin said that under the “Affordable Rental Housing Complex” scheme, private companies should build houses and dormitories on their own land and give it them on rent to those in need for 25 years. “This will be useful for those who work here coming from other States,” he said. Talking about the real estate and construction sector, Mr. Stalin said the construction industry was a major contributor to the State’s economic growth and was a revenue generator through registration of property. In September alone, the State government earned around Rs. 5,973 crore through registration of land documents and in November there was an increase of 17% in the registrations compared to last year. “A single window portal will be introduced to quickly start construction work by approving plots of land within 60 days,” the Chief Minister said. New chapters Suresh Krishn, president, Credai Tamil Nadu, said that after the farming sector, it is the construction industry which generated the maximum number of jobs. Credai planned to open five new chapters in Tirunelveli, Dharmapuri, Hosur, Salem, and Karur. The Chief Minister released the Credai Tamil Nadu CBRE report which highlighted the latest developments in the real estate sector. According to the report, south Chennai was the most active residential destination and housed about 60% of the residential stock in the city. Key corridors of the south Chennai includes OMR (Rajiv Gandhi Salai), GST (Grand Southern Trunk) Road, and ECR (East Coast Road) along with Velachery, Thiruvanmiyur, Adyar, Pallikaranai, and so on. A majority of the residential activity was witnessed along OMR and GST. The demand was due to the presence of IT parks and SEZs. The report pointed out that the increasing manufacturing activity had led to a rise in demand for warehouses over the past few years. The warehousing space in Chennai crossed 28 million sq. ft. by the third quarter of 2021, with close to 10 million sq. ft. added in the past three years. Western corridors 1 and 2 included locations such as Sriperumbudur, Oragadam, Vallam, Mappedu, Mannur, Tiruvallur and account for about 60% of the stock in the city. Northern corridor, covering locations such as Puzhal, Manali and Red Hills accounts for about 35% of the total stock. The warehousing space take-up in Chennai had been primarily driven by the entry and expansion of FMCG, auto and ancillary and e-commerce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-unveils-3rd-master-plan-for-city/article37949126.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Playing nagaswaram effortlessly like a bird in flight||A genius can be born anywhere. It is explained by the emergence of nagaswaram maestro Karukurichi P. Arunachalam in the world of carnatic music even though was born in a community, family and region which were not even remotely connected with classical music. Paravaikkalam , a documentary film on Arunachalam whose birth centenary is being celebrated, has sought to drive home the point. “I have played with him and many an occasion refused to play after he rendered a raga or song. The reason was I did not want to kill the finest feeling he had evoked in the audience. His lips are made to play nagaswaram. You can only envy him,” recalled clarinet player A.K.C. Natarajan and a contemporary of Arunachalam. The documentary made by R.R. Srinivasan does not stop with extolling the greatness of Arunachalam’s music, but explains the evolution of nagaswaram music in the composite Thanjavur district which also produced great exponents of the instrument. The producers are Madurai-based advocate D. Gurusamy and Nagercoil-based Ayurvedic physician L. Mahadevan and the film will be screened on December 17 at Kovilpatti where the centenary is celebrated. The documentary makers titled the film Parvaikkalam , because Arunachalam would play the instrument effortlessly like a bird in flight. “The effect of his music is explained by the fact that it will convert the audience into individuals. They may be part of a group, but would be experiencing it only as individuals, who were transported separately to another world,” late writer Ki. Rajanarayanan, a close friend of Arunachalam, had once recalled. Arunachalam’s father Palavesan was in the occupation of measuring paddy. He learnt nagaswaram after seeing the respect accorded to Koranadu Natesa Pillai, a nagaswaram player, who had performed at his village. Arunachalam fulfilled the aspirations of his father. He started his career as a nagaswaram player performing naiyandi melam. The unique sound of his nagaswaram attracted nagaswaram wizard Thiruvavaduthurai T.N. Rajarathinam Pillai, who had come to his village for a concert. He invited Arunachalam to become his student and the tutelage shaped his career. “There was no dearth of nagaswaram players in Thanjavur district. Still he had chosen to take a person from another region under his wings. This proves Rajarathinam Pillai’s judgement about Karukurichiyar’s talent. After his guru, I do not find any other artist who can match him,” said nagaswaram player Enjikudi E.M. Subramanian. He scaled great heights and made friends in every walks of life. “Apart from the owners of TVS and Chokkalal beedi companies in Tirunelveli district, he was the only one who owned a Plymouth car. He also constructed a bungalow in Bungalow Street in Kovilpatti, unthinkable for a person from his community. I have seen actors such as Sivaji Ganesan and Gemini Ganesan visiting him,” recalled Mr. Gurusamy. His rendering of ‘Singaravele Deva’ from the film Konjum Salangai continues to remain an all-time great film song. He was also close to former Chief Minister Kamaraj. “We played in the streets of Tirunelveli and collected money for flood relief. It could be Rs. 40,000. When we handed over it to Kamaraj, he said it would amount to many crores of rupees,” recalled Mr. Natarajan.  The effect of his music is explained by the fact that it will convert the audience into individuals Ki. Rajanarayanan Late writer, friend of Arunachalam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/playing-nagaswaram-effortlessly-like-a-bird-in-flight/article37949526.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Completion of new reservoir at Orathur delayed by six months||The deadline for work to create a reservoir by linking Orathur and Arambakkam tanks across a tributary of the Adyar near Padappai has been pushed by six more months as it awaits land transfer. The new reservoir was envisaged to cater to the needs of the burgeoning metropolis and mitigate floods in some of the city’s southern suburbs. However, the nearly Rs. 56-crore project has been delayed due to issues in acquiring land. The Water Resources Department is awaiting orders from the Revenue Department for transfer of nearly 38.47 acres of land to owners whose property would be acquired for the construction of the new reservoir. The identified land is in places such as Ammanambakkam and Orathur. Instead of compensation, the land would be transferred to make land acquisition easy, the officials said. Officials said the major work to construct the connecting bund between the two tanks is pending due to the land transfer issue. Of the connecting bund running to 800 metres, nearly 420 metres is yet to be completed as land is yet to be transferred for the project. Surplus water As only 57% of the work to build the reservoir has been completed, a portion of the floodwater received from tanks upstream had to be drained into Orathur maduvu that joins the Adyar during this northeast monsoon. The department had created a temporary, a 38-metre wide channel, to convey surplus water from the reservoir into Orathur Maduvu. “We were able to store only 75% of water in both the tanks as the work is incomplete. Once the lands are transferred, we will be able to complete the project in six months,” said an official. Designed on the lines of the fifth city reservoir in Thervoy Kandigai-Kannankottai project, the new reservoir would have a water spread area of nearly 1,200 acres and store 750 millioncubic feet of water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/completion-of-new-reservoir-at-orathur-delayed-by-six-months/article37949122.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Government school teachers seek clarity on exam schedule||With the School Education Department announcing that a combined revision exam will be held instead of quarterly and half-yearly exams this year, teachers in government schools are still awaiting a detailed schedule for the same. A government school teacher handling science for classes XI and XII said that despite reduced syllabus, at least three rounds of revision exams should be held so that students can be tested in all lessons. “These exams need to be accommodated ahead of the board exams and it will be convenient only if a schedule for the same is released at the earliest,” he said. State board schools have been waiting for clarity on annual exams for classes X, XI and XII. “The reduction in syllabus for class X in particular has helped. While classes have been steadily progressing for senior students ever since schools reopened in September, it would help teachers a lot if the board exam schedule is announced to plan better,” said John Kennedy, a science teacher and State Assistant general secretary, Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers Federation. While many districts were gearing to have revision exams at the end of December, rain holidays and closure of schools for some days has resulted in delay. Teachers, however, say the early announcement of the syllabus reduction in June and six-day working weeks have helped them so far. “When students came back on campus in September, we had to first focus on motivating them. Some schools have been able to conduct unit tests, and we expect that we will be able to begin revision exams from February,” said P.K. Ilamaran, President, Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-school-teachers-seek-clarity-on-exam-schedule/article37949139.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Five announcements on healthcare implemented’||Five Budget announcements — establishing cognitive rehabilitation daycare centres, internet de-addiction centres, post-natal depression counselling, newborn hearing special screening and expansion of emergency care and recovery centres for the mentally ill were implemented on Monday. Launching the facilities at Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said usage of cellphones among children had increased during the pandemic, resulting in Internet addiction. All government medical college hospitals in the State would provide special counselling for children and students to reduce mobile phone usage and prevent Internet addiction. Such centres would function at the department of paediatrics. The Emergency Care and Recovery Centres were being expanded to 22 government medical colleges. Each facility would have 10 exclusive beds. A team of psychiatrists and nurses were formed to treat the mentally ill. On the newborn hearing special screening, he said that of the 1,000 children born in Tamil Nadu, 1.42 had hearing impairment. Six postgraduate courses would be launched during 2021-2022 academic year at the Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital - MD General Medicine (six seats), MD General Surgery (six seats), MD Paediatrics (six seats), MS Obstetrics and Gynaecology (four seats), MD Anaesthesiology (three seats) and MS Orthopaedics (three seats). HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu and dean of Government Medical College Hospital R. Jayanthi were present.  Usage of mobile phones among children had increased during the pandemic, resulting in Internet addiction||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-announcements-on-healthcare-implemented/article37949142.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CBI books NHAI official, road contractors on graft charge||The Central Bureau of Investigation has registered a case against a senior official of the National Highways Authority of India and two civil contractors on charges of causing loss to the tune of Rs. 1.38 crore to the State exchequer. Acting on reliable information, the agency’s Anti-Corruption Branch booked M. Muthudayar, the then Project Director/Deputy General Manager, NHAI Project Implementation Unit, Karaikudi. During 2014-17, the accused official allegedly entered into a criminal conspiracy with the contractor M/s KNR Constructions Ltd., that was awarded the tender work for improvement/augmentation of roads in Madurai-Ramanathapuram section of NH-49. In the improvement/augmentation of four-lane and two-lane on certain stretches under the National Highways Development Project Phase-III, the official, knowing well that there were no supporting documents for justification to process the claim, processed and released 5% contingency fund in every bill submitted by the contractor towards shifting of electrical utilities. This resulted in excess payment and wrongful loss of about Rs. 76.39 lakh. In a similar case relating to the improvement/augmentation of two-lane along the Thanjavur-Pudukottai section of NH-226 under the NHDP Phase-IV project, the work of which was awarded to M/s Gayatri-SPL (JV), the same official allowed claims to the tune of Rs. 62.5 lakh for electrical utilities without any supporting documents. The CBI said that the information revealed prima facie disclosed commission of offences punishable under Section 120(B) (Criminal Conspiracy) read with other relevant sections of the IPC and the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. After obtaining sanction for conducting enquiry against the official from the competent authority, the CBI registered a case against Mr. Muthudayar, the two construction firms and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-books-nhai-official-road-contractors-on-graft-charge/article37949147.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Next session of State Assembly to begin on January 5||The next session of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly would commence at 10 a.m. on January 5, 2022 with the customary Governor’s address in the Assembly Hall on the Fort St. George campus, Speaker M. Appavu said in Chennai on Monday. Following the COVID-19 outbreak, some sessions of the Assembly were held at Kalaivanar Arangam. Interacting with reporters in his chamber, Mr. Appavu said all COVID-19 norms would be followed. To a query whether the public would be allowed to watch the House proceedings as visitors, he said the Business Advisory Committee would take a call. When asked if he would reiterate his comments on the holding up of Governor’s/Presidential assent for Bills passed in the Assembly, Mr. Appavu replied in the negative. He pointed out that the comments were made at a conference in Shimla meant for Legislative Assembly Speakers. At the conference, he had observed that Governors sometimes sit on a Bill passed by the Assembly without giving assent or returning the Bill for an indefinite period. Governors were “taking months together” to do so, he had contended, and observed that it eroded the authority of the legislatures. When asked why an officer from Parliament has been deputed to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Secretariat, what his responsibilities were and whether he was here to monitor the proceedings, Mr. Appavu said he did not feel the officer was here for monitoring purpose. “The Central and State Governments would be working together. The taxes from Tamil Nadu are going to the Centre. The Centre and the State Government are jointly implementing several schemes. All schemes would be implemented through the State Government. There is no need for monitoring here,” Mr. Appavu contended. Asked why such officers were not deputed in the past, Mr. Appavu cited media reports that ranked Chief Minister M.K. Stalin as the best performing Chief Minister and quipped, “So, officers could have come to see how best practices from here could be taken to other States and to Parliament.” On the possibility of putting up a portrait of late DMK leader K. Anbazhagan in the Assembly Hall, he said, “The answers to all your queries would come at the appropriate time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fort-st-george-to-host-next-assembly-session-from-jan-5/article37949118.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Review 32 out of 75 directions on preserving architectural heritage, State tells High Court||The State Government on Monday preferred a review application urging the Madras High Court to modify, clarify or reconsider 32 out of the 75 directions it had issued on June 7 on a batch of cases, including a suo motu public interest litigation petition it had taken up in 2015 to preserve the architectural heritage of the State. Appearing before a special Division Bench of Justices R. Mahadevan and P.D. Audikesavalu, which was constituted to hear temple-related cases, Advocate General (A-G) R. Shunmugasundaram said 70 of the 75 directions were related to the State Government and the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, and the rest were related to other authorities. Of the 70 directions, the HR&CE Department had begun implementing 38. There were certain problems in implementing the rest, the A-G said, and insisted on modifying a direction to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to declare all temples, chariots, jewellery, art, artefacts and sacred groves that were over 100 years old as national monuments. He said nearly 10,000 temples were over 100 years old, and most cities and towns had developed around them. “Social and economic life of people mostly depends on such temples. If temples are declared as monuments by ASI, the area extending to a distance of 100 metres in all directions shall be declared as prohibited area. Serious implication “No commercial or construction activities will be allowed in the restricted area. Hence, declaration of temple as ‘monument’ will have serious implication on the social life of the public,” he said, and urged the court to modify the direction. He also said it would not be possible to comply with the direction to let out temple lands to poor farmers for cultivation. Pointing out that the lands were leased out through public auction, the government said it would not be possible to lease out the lands to ‘poor farmers’ if they do not participate in the auction or quote the highest price. It also said all cultivating tenants could not be forced to do organic farming and temple animal husbandry, as ordered by the court. The A-G said the salaries of temple staff, including Archakas and Oduvars, could not be fixed as per the Minimum Wages Act since they would not fall under the definition of ‘workmen’ under the Act. He also sought a change in the direction to constitute a 17-member Heritage Commission to identify, preserve, conserve or restore heritage buildings. He said the commission should not have over 16 members, as per the Tamil Nadu Heritage Commission Act of 2012 and, therefore, that particular direction required modification. It was also brought to the notice of the court that though the Act was passed in 2012, the statutory rules under it were yet to be framed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/review-32-out-of-75-directions-on-preserving-architectural-heritage-state-tells-high-court/article37949113.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||928 grams gold seized at airport||About 928 grams of gold and electronic goods worth Rs. 45.45 lakh were seized at Chennai airport by Air Customs. On Saturday, Chennai Customs detained six passengers who came down from Colombo and Dubai on suspicion. The Customs officials found that these passengers had concealed gold bundles wrapped in adhesive tape inside the cavity of their footwear, according to a press release. When it was extracted, the officials found 928 grams of gold. Officials also seized undeclared electronic goods worth Rs. 5.17 lakh. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/928-grams-gold-seized-at-airport/article37949127.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State bags awards for NCD screenings, wellness sessions||The Government of Tamil Nadu has bagged two awards for undertaking the highest number of non-communicable disease (NCD) screenings in the country and conducting the third highest number of wellness sessions during the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav campaign. To celebrate 75 years of Independence, the Government of India conducted the campaign from November 16 to December 12, during which States and Union Territories were assigned specific targets for NCD screenings and wellness sessions to be conducted at all functional Health and Wellness Centres (HWC). In Tamil Nadu, the campaign was implemented under the name of Sudhandhirathin Amirtha Peruvizha . The State undertook the highest number of NCD screenings (29,88,110) and the third highest number of wellness sessions (85,514)during the course of the campaign. The Health Department’s field team from Achanakkal Health Sub-Centre (HSC) - Coonoor block in the Nilgiris district received the award for the best performing HWC-HSC team in Tamil Nadu for 2021-2022. Darez Ahamed, Mission Director of the National Health Mission, Tamil Nadu and T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine received the awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-bags-awards-for-health-screenings-wellness-sessions/article37949106.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Proposal to form review panel sent to govt., HR&CE Dept. tells HC||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department on Monday told the Madras High Court that it has sent a proposal to the State government to constitute a committee under the chairmanship of a retired High Court judge to review the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act of 1959 and suggest amendments. The submission was made in a review application filed jointly by the Chief Secretary and the HR&CE Department to modify 32 out of the 75 directions issued by the court in June this year on preserving architectural heritage. The petition took objection to a direction to review the HR&CE Act once in three years by constituting a high-level committee.Stating that the power to enact or amend a law vests with the legislature, the petition stated that the court could always exercise its power to review any of the provisions of the Act. However, the department itself had now sent a proposal to the government to constitute a committee headed by a retired High Court judge to review the law. Therefore, the direction could be modified to state that a committee should be constituted to review the law whenever necessary and not specifically after every three years, the review petitioners said. ‘Modify directions’ The government also urged the court to modify the directions to constitute district-level and State-level expert committees to accord sanction for repairs and renovation of temples and archaeological sites. It reiterated that only the authorities prescribed under the statutory rules under the HR&CE Act could perform such function and not the non-statutory committees. Further, stating the HR&CE Department was in the process of finalising a conservation manual which prescribes conservation methodology as per international standards, the government said the existence of any committee could only be a stop-gap arrangement until the repair and renovation of temples could be undertaken as per the norms prescribed in the manual. Stating that the State archaeology department performs similar functions as the ASI, the government said it could be allowed to consult the State department instead of ASI while renovating ancient temples. It said over 5,000 ancient temples in the State would be graded based on their age, history and architectural features.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/proposal-to-form-review-panel-sent-to-govt-hrce-dept-tells-hc/article37949114.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Water heaters being installed at RGGGH||Paying heed to a patient’s suggestion, authorities at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) are installing water heaters in many wards and blocks. A total of 115 water heaters are being installed in the hospital. “We had installed suggestion boxes in the hospital. Following this, we received a suggestion from a patient to install water heaters so that they can have access to hot water for bathing. In the absence of such a facility, many had to use the regular water, while a few patient attendants purchased hot water from outside. We understood that hot water was essential for patients and took up work to install water heaters in various blocks,” E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH, said. The hospital kick-started work to install 115 water heaters. Work has been completed in Tower Blocks I, II and III, while work is nearing completion in the cardiology and neurology blocks. The work is in progress at the speciality, hepatology and rheumatology blocks. Tower I has 12 water heaters, while there are 14 and 26 water heaters at Tower II and III respectively. “The water will be available from 5 a.m. to 8 a.m. and from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. every day,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-heaters-being-installed-at-rgggh/article37949133.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Raghuram Rajan, Medha Patkar call on T.N. CM||Former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India, Raghuram Rajan, called on Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat on Monday. Mr. Rajan is a member of the economic advisory council to the Chief Minister. Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and senior officials were present. Social activist and national convener of the National Alliance of People’s Movement, Medha Patkar, also called on the Chief Minister. Environmental activists S.P. Udayakumar and G. Sundarrajan were among those who accompanied Ms. Patkar during the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raghuram-rajan-medha-patkar-call-on-tn-cm/article37949108.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former correspondent of The Hindu dies||N. Kalyanasundaram, 86, former political correspondent of The Hindu , died in California, United States of America, on Sunday, where he had been to attend a wedding in the family. He was to have left for Chicago on Sunday but suffered a heart attack at a hospital, where he had been taken by family members, said Aruna Ramchandran, his daughter. He is survived by two daughters, a son and wife Jayalakshmi Kalyanasundaram, a retired teacher. His last rites are expected to be held in Chicago. He was born in on April 16, 1935 in Madurai. His father, Natarajan, was a lawyer in Sivaganga. He had joined The Hindu in June 1961 after completing B.Sc. Mathematics (hon) from Annamalai University. He retired in April 2000. He had worked in Vellore and Salem before moving to the city where he covered the Congress party and Tamil Manila Congress, which was founded by G.K. Moopanar. He also had the opportunity to cover the Cauvery issue about which he was very passionate and the civil supplies department. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri in his condolence message, said he was deeply saddened by the passing of Mr. Kalyanasundaram, who was affectionately known as “Hindu Kalyanam.” He was very close to leaders including Kamarajar, Moopanar and Vazhapadi Ramamurthy, according to other political correspondents he had worked with. G.K. Vasan, chief of the Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar) and former Union Minister, described him as one of the most experienced journalists of Tamil Nadu who had moved closely with several political stalwarts of yesteryear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-political-correspondent-of-the-hindu-dies-at-86/article37949137.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man pushed to death during scuffle||A 38-year-old man was pushed down to death when he intervened in a quarrel between two drunken men at a village near Sunguvarchatram. A case has been registered in Sriperumbudur police station and a manhunt launched to nab the accused. The police said Dhakshinamurthy, 33, and Chandrasekar, 27, were consuming liquor at the entrance to their village Selaiyanur on Sunday night. They had a scuffle. Dhaskinamurthy, accompanied by his two relatives, went to Chandrasekar’s house. Suresh, a neighbour of Chandrasekar, intervened. He was pushed down and his head hit a stone. He was taken to a hospital where doctors declared him dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-pushed-to-death-during-scuffle/article37949123.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Diabetes awareness programme||Kauvery Hospital will be organising a one-day awareness expo on diabetes at its Kauvery Family Health Centre in Mylapore on Sunday. The expo, titled “Dishoom dishoom diabetes”, will include free checking of health parameters such as body mass index and blood pressure. K. Baraneedharan, senior consultant diabetologist, Kauvery Hospital, said that many people who were diabetic did not get timely diagnosis. The expo will happen from 10 a.m. till 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diabetes-awareness-programme/article37949124.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||324 held for ganja peddling||As many as 324 accused were arrested for smuggling and selling ganja in a crackdown across the State from December 6. Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu has ordered a month-long crackdown on the sale of ganja, gutkha and lottery tickets. A release from the office of DGP said about 520 kg of ganja worth Rs. 51.97 lakh and 19 vehicles used by the accused were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/324-held-for-ganja-peddling/article37949131.ece
14 December 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Pachaiyappa’s Trust Board needs special officer: AUT||Alleging nepotism and favouritism in the administration of the Pachaiyappa’s Trust Board (PTB) institutions, the Association of University Teachers (AUT) has urged the State Government to appoint a special officer under the Section 14A of the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges Regulation (Act), 1976, for the six colleges established by the trust. ‘HC order welcome’ The AUT, in a statement, welcomed the recent High Court order to conduct the elections for the trust board within three months. “This judgment paves way not only to constitute a democratically elected Trust Board but also provides scope for a legally accountable education agency to the six colleges,” the AUT said on Monday. Claiming that since June 2018, the colleges were being administered by those without experience in managing academic institutions, the AUT said a special officer should be appointed to manage the trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pachaiyappas-trust-board-needs-special-officer-aut/article37949144.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. must walk the talk on minority welfare’||Naam Tamilar Katchi chief coordinator Seeman on Sunday attacked the DMK Government in Tamil Nadu for its alleged inaction regarding the release of seven life convicts in former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination case. Speaking to reporters after organising a protest demanding the release of Muslims and Rajiv Gandhi case convicts in Chennai, Mr. Seeman said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who was vociferous as the Opposition leader on the issue, was largely silent now. “When it comes to the release of seven Tamil convicts, Mr. Stalin and former DMK president M. Karunanidhi said there was no need for the Governor’s consent, and they can be released using the powers vested in the State Government under Article 161 of the Constitution. The Supreme Court has said the State had powers to do it. Why are you not doing it,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-must-walk-the-talk-on-minority-welfare/article37949268.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Elderly couple found dead in Chennai||A sixty-year-old man and his wife were found dead at their residence in Kolathur on Sunday. According to the police, the deceased were identified as Govindharajalu and wife Bharathi, 59, of Balaji Nagar, Kolathur. The couple is survived by children Dinesh, 35, and Bhagyalakshmi, 42, who live with their families in the same house. On Saturday night, the four reportedly quarrelled over settling loans by disposing of a property. The next morning, Prakash, son-in-law of the couple, who returned from work, found them dead in the house. Bhagyalakshmi and Dinesh were missing. He immediately alerted the police. The police sent the bodies to the Government Stanley Hospital for a post-mortem examination. The police initially suspected that the children poisoned the couple and launched a search for them. However, the siblings were spotted at a private hospital in Periyar Nagar, and they had also consumed poison. Investigation revealed that on Saturday, all four had consumed poison after the quarrel. The duo left on a bike to die in another place, leaving their parents in their house.  ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-couple-found-dead-in-kolathur-after-a-spat-with-children-over-property/article37949138.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Organisational election in AIADMK starts||The first phase of the organisational poll in 35 district units of the AIADMK commenced on Monday with the distribution of nomination papers. The first phase would be completed on Tuesday and, if required, contests would be held. This would cover office-bearers at the levels of branch and ward for town panchayats, municipalities and municipal corporations. Approximately 60,000 posts would be covered in this phase, and about 80,000 in the second phase, slated for December 22 and 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/organisational-election-in-aiadmk-starts/article37949145.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘4 samples test positive for Delta variant’||Four samples, which were sent for genomic analysis, have tested positive for Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2. So far, no sample has tested positive for Omicron variant in Tamil Nadu, according to Health Minister Ma. Subramanian. Samples of travellers who tested positive for COVID-19 on arrival in Tamil Nadu were being sent for genomic sequencing. After analysing the samples at the State Public Health Laboratory’s genomic sequencing facility, the samples were sent to INSACOG’s laboratories in Bengaluru, Pune and Hyderabad for confirmation, he said. “We have so far received results of four samples. All four were found to be of the Delta variant,” he told reporters. Till 8 a.m. on Monday, a total of 10,710 travellers from countries at-risk were subjected to RT-PCR tests in the State. A total of 1,567 persons of the total 54,068 travellers from non-risk countries were tested as a part of random testing. “So far, 25 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 and were admitted to hospitals,” he said. The Minister said that 94 lakh persons were due for the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine in Tamil Nadu. The State currently had 76 lakh doses in hand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-samples-test-positive-for-delta-variant-in-tn/article37949148.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow normal seva at Kancheepuram temple’||The Madras High Court on Monday ordered notice, returnable by December 21, to the management of Sri Devarajaswamy temple on a public interest litigation plea filed by a lawyer complaining about non resumption of regular functioning of temple in Kancheepuram. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and J. Sathya Narayana Prasad passed the order on the petition filed by Anantha Desikan of Kolapakkam. The litigant complained that activities such as theertham, tirumanjanam or abhishekam, shataari, arandanam, archanai, puja, and prasadam distribution were not being conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-normal-seva-at-kancheepuram-temple/article37949134.ece
14 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||City police moot surveillance cameras in public buildings||Coimbatore City Police have urged owners of commercial establishments to install surveillance cameras, at least one facing the road, for crime prevention. City Police Commissioner Pradip Kumar has instructed all Assistant Commissioners of Police and Inspectors to sensitise owners of buildings situated on important roads to the importance of installing surveillance cameras. ACPs and Inspectors attached to all law and order police stations have been instructed to identify public buildings and the availability of road-facing cameras that are functional. The officers have been asked to report weekly progress of the installation of new surveillance cameras in public buildings. As per a Government Order (GO) issued by the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department on December 12, 2012, Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) units should be installed in all public buildings, commercial establishments and places where people congregate in large numbers, as a measure of crime prevention. Installation of CCTV units was made mandatory as a condition for issuing licence under relevant provisions of Municipal Corporation/Municipal Rules. As per the GO, public buildings include any building where public have an access for any purpose such as educational institutions, hostel where more than 100 persons reside, healthcare facilities like hospital, marriage hall, cinema theatre, amusement park, recreation centre, exhibition hall, museum, gymnasium, stadium, bar, market for the display and sale of merchandise, shop (either wholesale or retail having a floor area of 500 square metre and above), bank, ATM counter, mall, restaurants, fuel station, library, hotel, club and bus terminal. The police will appeal to owners of such public buildings, that do not have CCTV units, to install cameras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-police-moot-surveillance-cameras-in-public-buildings/article37949161.ece
14 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pistol found abandoned||A country-made pistol was found abandoned on the side of a road at Mahalingapuram in Pollachi on Monday. The police said that the pistol did not have live rounds and an investigation has been launched to find out the person who left it on roadside. According to the police, Vijayalakshmi (70) found the pistol along with a pair of gloves near Shanthi theatre at Mahalingapuram on Monday morning. She handed over the weapon, along with the gloves, to the Mahalingapuram police. The police examined the pistol and found that it was country-made. It did not have live bullets inside. Mahalingapuram Inspector R. Gowtham said that a case has been registered based on the complaint of the woman who found the weapon. “An investigation has been launched to trace the person who abandoned the pistol,” said Mr. Gowtham and added that the weapon would be subjected to a laboratory examination as part of the investigation. The laboratory examination is to check the possible presence of fingerprints of its user and residues of ammunition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pistol-found-abandoned-on-roadside-at-mahalingapuram/article37949164.ece
14 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||ATR dedicates December to gray slender loris, other primates||The gray slender loris (Loris lydekkerianus), a small nocturnal animal with large round eyes and long slender limbs, is undoubtedly one of the least studied of all primate species in the country. Now, the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) has dedicated the month of December to primates, including the gray slender loris, to shed more light on them for the common public. According to the ATR administration, the ‘Primate Festival’ organised by the Pollachi Division on December 18 and 19 and December 25 and 26 will highlight five of its primates namely gray slender loris, bonnet macaque, lion-tailed macaque, Nilgiri langur and common langur. “Gray slender loris is one of the lesser-known primates in India. This nocturnal primate is endemic to south India and parts of Sri Lanka. It is insectivorous (feeds on insects) and known as friends of farmers,” said J. Peter Prem Chakravarthy, biologist with ATR. Of the five primates seen in ATR, lion-tailed macaque is listed as ‘endangered’, Nilgiri langur as ‘vulnerable’ and gray slender loris as ‘near threatened’ by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) in its Red List of Threatened Species. ATR Field Director S. Ramasubramanian said the Forest Department was aiming to spread more scientific knowledge on these important species to the public through the Primate Festival. “The programme is more than a visit to forest areas. Experts will speak to the participants on all the five primates, their role in the ecosystem and the need to protect them,” he said. According to V. Selvam, Assistant Conservator of Forests, gray slender loris is mainly seen in Pollachi forest range of Pollachi division. Valparai and Manombolly forest have a considerable population of Lion-tailed macaque. Nilgiri langur and common langur are seen in all four ranges of Pollachi Division of ATR. For bookings and other details about the Primate Festival, contact atatrreception@gmail.comand 98425-95826.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atr-dedicates-december-to-gray-slender-loris-other-primates/article37949171.ece
14 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||District administration urged to allow conduct of jallikattu in Coimbatore||Members of Kovai Jallikattu Sangam on Monday urged the district administration to allow conduct of jallikattu in Coimbatore next year. In a petition submitted to Collector G.S. Sameeran at the weekly grievances redress meeting, the members sought permission for organising jallikattu in the land available in Vellore and Chettipalayam villages near Coimbatore bypass. The association claimed that all necessary arrangements to ensure the safety of bulls and tamers would be made. Residents oppose crematorium Residents of Karuppagoundampalayam in Tiruppur Corporation limits petitioned Collector S. Vineeth opposing the proposed electric crematorium at Ward No. 54. They alleged that the construction of crematorium would lead to environmental degradation. Man supports YouTuber Kandasamy (42) from Coimbatore district caused a stir at the Collectorate on Monday as he appeared with slogans written on his forehead and arms in support of YouTuber M. Maridhas, who was recently arrested in Madurai. Sources said that he was let off after an inquiry by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-administration-urged-to-allow-conduct-of-jallikattu-in-coimbatore/article37949155.ece
14 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||AICA calls for closure of industries on Dec. 20||All India Council of Association of MSMEs (AICA) has called for one-day closure of industries and a one-hour peaceful demonstration in front of the respective district collectorates on December 20 to register its protest against the spiralling price of raw materials. A press release said that it was a matter of concern to all MSMEs across the country that the prices of raw materials continue to rise for reasons not known. AICA has represented this alarming matter through a memorandums to the Prime Minister and various Ministers in the Union Cabinet with a request to control the raw material prices, but nothing has happened and the situation of the MSMEs has only worsened day by day. A comparison of prices in April 2020 and October 2021 showed that mild steel plate price has gone up by 82.22 %, aluminium alloy by 154.72 %, copper by 119.44 %, CRCA sheet by 95.96 per cent, pig iron by 37.50 %, MS scrap by 81.82 %, kraft paper by 110 % and engineering plastic by 100 %, the release said. AICA has called for protection against price escalation for one year period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aica-calls-for-closure-of-industries-on-december-20/article37949176.ece
14 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pollachi-Tiruchendur train services from Dec. 15||Southern Railway will operate fully reserved express train services between Pollachi and Tiruchendur Junctions via Dindigul, Madurai and Tirunelveli. A press release said that Train No. 16732 Tiruchendur – Pollachi Fully Reserved Daily Express will leave Tiruchendur at 12.05 p.m. and reach Pollachi Junction at 8.40 p.m. from December 15. Train No. 16731 Pollachi - Tiruchendur Fully Reserved Daily Express will leave Pollachi Junction at 6.40 a.m. and reach Tiruchendur at 3.45 p.m. from December 16. The stoppages for these train services will be at Gomangalam, Udumalpet ,Palani, Oddanchatram, Dindigul, Ambaturai, Kodaikkanal Road, Sholavandan, Madurai Junction, Thiruparankundram, Thirumangalam, Virudhunagar, Sattur, Kovilpatti, Kadambur, Vanchi Maniyachchi, Talaiyuthu, Tirunelveli, Palayamkottai, Alwar Tirunagar, Nazareth, Kanchanavillai, Kurumbur, Arumuganeri and Kayalpattinam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pollachi-tiruchendur-train-services-from-dec-15/article37949168.ece
14 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DRUCC meeting on Dec. 20||Salem Division of Southern Railway announced on Monday that the 23rd Divisional Railway Users’ Consultative Committee (DRUCC) meeting will be held online on December 20. According to a communication to the DRUCC members, a copy of which was accessed by The Hindu , Secretary of DRUCC, Salem Division and Senior Divisional Commerical Manager E. Harikrishnan wrote that the meeting was proposed to be held online at 10.30 a.m. on December 20 “as a precautionary measure in view of the prevailing [COVID-19] situation.” The members shall send two subjects each for discussion by December 17 to Salem Division either by post or e-mail atsrdcm@sa.railnet.gov.in. During this meeting, an election to nominate one member to Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee of Southern Railway will also be held, Mr. Harikrishnan wrote in the letter. This 23rd DRUCC meeting would be the first one for the two-year period of January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2021. Originally scheduled to be held as a physical meeting at Salem on December 10, the Salem Division postponed it citing the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drucc-meeting-on-dec-20/article37949156.ece
14 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for attempt to smuggle 700 kg ration rice||A special team comprising officials from the Civil Supplies and Revenue Departments arrested a man and a woman who attempted to smuggle 700 kg rice meant for Public Distribution System in a passenger autorickshaw near Madukkarai on Monday morning. The arrested were identified as Peter (56) of Thirumarai Nagar in Podanur, and Chellammal (48) of Rangasamuthiram near Pichanur. The autorickshaw that they were travelling in was intercepted by the team headed by Madukkarai taluk supply officer P. Ramesh Kumar and special revenue inspector S. Sasikumar. The vehicle had 25 bags of rice weighing 700 kg in total. The special team caught them while they were smuggling the rice to Kerala, officials said. The accused and the seized rice were handed over to the Civil Supplies CID wing of the police for further investigation. Woman robbed of chain Two unidentified persons snatched the chain of a 70-year-old woman while she was sleeping in her house near Annur late on Saturday. The woman, R. Jayalakshmi of Pasur village near Annur, in her complaint said that she went to bed around 10 p.m. on Saturday after locking the doors. Around 11.45 p.m., two men broke open the front door and entered the house. The woman woke up hearing sounds and went to the hall. The men snatched her chain and ran away. The woman fell down and suffered minor injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-attempt-to-smuggle-700-kg-ration-rice/article37949162.ece
14 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||101 new COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Monday reported 101 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 120 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,160 active cases on Monday. Tiruppur district reported 46 fresh cases on Monday. The Health Department reported one death and the overall toll went up to 1,005. The district had 603 active cases and 51 persons recovered on the day. Nineteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Monday and the overall tally rose to 34,274. A total of 153 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/101-new-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore/article37949165.ece
14 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Swab sample of Singapore returnee sent for genome sequencing||The Health Department in Coimbatore district has sent the swab sample of a person who returned from Singapore for genome sequencing to check the presence of Omicron variant of the COVID-19. The person, who returned from Singapore a few days ago, tested positive for COVID-19, following which the swab sample was sent to the State Public Health Laboratory, Teynampet, Health Department sources said. Confirming the development, Collector G.S. Sameeran said that the district administration was waiting for the report of the genome sequencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swab-sample-of-singapore-returnee-sent-for-genome-sequencing/article37949172.ece
14 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Changes in train timings||Southern Railway on Monday announced changes in the timings of Train No.06463 / 06462 Coimbatore – Palani – Coimbatore Daily Unreserved Express Special with effect from December 15. A release said that from December 15, Train No.06463 Coimbatore – Palani Daily Unreserved Express Special Train will leave Coimbatore Junction at 2 p.m. and will reach Palani at 4.30 p.m. Similarly, Train No. 06462 Palani – Coimbatore Daily Unreserved Express Special Train will leave Palani at 10.35 a.m. and will reach Coimbatore at 1.15 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37949157.ece
14 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco grievance day||Tangedco will conduct a grievance day meeting at the office of the Executive Engineer No 27, Abdul Rahim Road, Race Course, on December 15 at 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-grievance-day/article37949169.ece
14 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shut down||In view of the proposed monthly maintenance works to be carried out at the MG Road sub-station on December 15 (Wednesday), there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the following areas: SIHS Colony, Nethajipuram, JJ Nagar, Sakthi Nagar and Amman Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shut-down/article37949159.ece
14 December 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘Extend Rockfort Express up to Dindigul’||Appealing to Southern Railway to extend Chennai Egmore-Tiruchi Rockfort Express up to Dindigul railway junction, members of Tamil Nadu Consumer Protection Centre have suggested providing an exclusive space for selling horticulture products grown in Dindigul district at the station. Submitting a memorandum to General Manager John Thomas, who inspected some of the ongoing development works at the station along with senior officials from the Madurai division, forum office-bearers L. Nagarajan and H. Rajesh Kannan told reporters that Dindigul district produced many fruits, vegetables, Aavin products and the famous Palani panchamirtham , which could be displayed at the railway station as it would benefit both the rail passengers and the growers. Though there were express trains to Chennai via Dindigul, the long-pending demand of a direct train from Dindigul to Chennai had not been fulfilled. At least, the railway administration should earmark more reserved berths for commuters boarding at Dindigul and also extend Rockfort Express to Dindigul. They stressed the need for stoppages of trains at Ambathurai and Athur as many people from these locations came for work to Dindigul and Palani respectively. Express trains such as Pandyan, should have an unreserved coach exclusively for passengers boarding at Dindigul, they said. Later, Mr. John Thomas told reporters that safety of passengers and amenities for the public were accorded top priority. Senior officials and field staff in Madurai division worked exceedingly well and the works were progressing as per schedule. He hoped to see a transformation, especially in the signal and telecom department and the mechanical wing, at Dindigul junction soon. He also inspected some minor bridge and foot overbridge works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extend-rockfort-express-up-to-dindigul/article37949249.ece
14 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Jaggery manufacturers yet to get orders for Pongal festival||With one month left for Pongal festival, production of jaggery is yet to pick up at cottage units in the district as manufacturers feel the heat due to increase in sugarcane and labour cost whereas price offered by traders for their produce remains low. Jaggery or vellam made from sugarcane, an essential ingredient for sweet pongal, is produced in over 150 units in Mullamparappu, Vadapalani, Arachalur, Kavindapadi and Ammapettai areas in the district. These are run as cottage units where members of three to five families work throughout the year with a break of 15 days after Pongal. Most of the units produce jaggery and brown sugar and orders are placed by traders and the final products are taken by them for sale to various parts of the State. Sugarcane harvested from Bhavani and Ammapettai in the district and Jedarpalayam in Namakkal district are used in these units. Rajendran, a unit owner in Mullamparapu, said the COVID-19 pandemic had affected their production in the last two years and their business was yet to recover. “Usually, we are busy in production in December every year. But we are yet to receive any orders for Pongal,” he said. The cost of sugarcane was Rs. 2,500 per tonne while its cutting and transportation cost had gone up two fold in three years. He said a bag, weighing 30 kg, was sold for Rs. 1,250 and the demand for jaggery remained poor. R. Paramasivam, another producer of the same area, said incessant rain delayed harvesting of sugarcane that halted their production for two months. Due to rain, juice extracted from sugarcane had also dropped per tonne and we could make only 90 kg jaggery which used to be 100 kg earlier, he added. “We need to retain the workers and hence we are running the units despite loss,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jaggery-manufacturers-yet-to-get-orders-for-pongal-festival/article37949255.ece
14 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Villagers demand action against VAO, assistant||Claiming that the Village Administrative Officer of Kanagapuram in Modakkurichi Taluk is involved in irregularities, people of Kanagapuram village submitted a petition to the district administration demanding action, during the weekly grievances redress meeting on Monday. The villagers said about 1,500 families resided in 14 habitations that came under the jurisdiction of the Kanagapuram “A” VAO. They claimed that the VAO was allegedly demanding money for issuing various certificates and also for change of name in patta. The villagers said persons who paid the money were issued the certificates within a few days while poor people like them were not given the certificates for many months. They alleged that eligible elderly persons were not given certificates for receiving old age pension while rich people were given certificates and they received the pension. They also alleged that the assistant, who had retired from service, continued to be in the office and acted as a middleman for the VAO to receive money from people. They said people who refused to pay money were directed to obtain signatures from the Tahsildar office. “But when we approach the Tahsildar office at Modakkurichi, officials say that there are no such procedures,” they said and condemned the VAO for ill-treating them. They also demanded action against the assistant, who was in service at present, for supporting the irregularities of the VAO, and demanded transferring them from their village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-demand-action-against-vao-assistant/article37949258.ece
14 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||BJP functionaries protest inside temple||Upset over the Kodumudi Magudeswarar temple Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department officials denying permission for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to screen the inauguration of Kashi Vishwanath Dham corridor in Varanasi by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP functionaries and cadre staged a protest inside the temple premises on Monday. The party has been circulating posters in social media that pilgrims can watch the inauguration through live video streaming on the temple premises. At noon, when the temple was about to be closed, Modakkurichi BJP MLA C. Saraswathi, party’s Farmers’ Wing president G.K. Nagaraj along with functionaries and cadre came to the temple and wanted permission for screening. However, the temple Executive Officer and Superintendent said that prior permission was needed for screening. But, BJP functionaries staged a sit-in-protest condemning the officials. Prior permission Senior police officials said screening could not be permitted without prior permission and asked them to leave the premises as the temple had to be closed. Later, BJP functionaries left the temple and lodged a complaint with the Kodumudi police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-functionaries-protest-inside-temple/article37949251.ece
14 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Pension Adalat on December 22||The regional-level Pension Adalat of Western Region, Coimbatore, for the half-year ending June 30, 2021 will be conducted at 12 noon on December 22 through video conferencing. A release from Senior Superintendent of Posts, Erode Division, said that pensioners can send their grievances through post or email to the Accounts Officer (Budget), Office of the Post Master General, Coimbatore 641-002 super scribing the cover as “Pension Adalat”. The email can be sent tobgt.coimbatore@ indiapost.gov.inmentioning the subject as “Pension Adalat”. The last date to receive the letter or email is December 15. The pensioners may represent only the grievances which could not be settled at divisional level along with the reply given by the divisional heads, the release added. Cases involving purely legal points like succession cannot be taken up in Adalat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pension-adalat-on-december-22/article37949256.ece
14 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water level at Bhavanisagar dam||The water level at the Bhavanisagar dam stood at 104.72 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 105 feet on Monday. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the dam was 2,131 cusecs while the discharge was 2,000 cusecs into the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal, 500 cusecs into Arakkankottai and Thadapalli canals and 100 cusecs into River Bhavani. The storage was 32.56 thousand million cubic feet (tmc) against the capacity of 32.80 tmc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-at-bhavanisagar-dam/article37949259.ece
14 December 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||15 kg gutkha seized from bus||The police seized 15 kg of gutkha and pan masala products, which were being smuggled by a passenger in a KSRTC bus at Athipakkam near Manalurpettai in the district on Monday. Following a tip-off on the contraband, a special police team intercepted a Tirukovilur-bound KSRTC bus (Karnataka) and searched the vehicle. The team arrested K. Karthikeyan, 30, of Tiruvennainallur and said he will be remanded to custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gutkha-seized/article37949179.ece
14 December 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||Walayar case: HC directs CBI to furnish status of probe||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to furnish the status of investigation into the mysterious death of two minor girls at Walayar and the time required to submit the final report in the case.When a petition filed by accused Madhu, alias Valiya Madhu, and Shibu came up for hearing, Justice Gopinath P. orally observed that the CBI was yet to find out whether the suspicious death of the girls was suicide or murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/walayar-case-hc-directs-cbi-to-furnish-status-of-probe/article37948982.ece
14 December 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||TIIC issues loans worth Rs. 10.58 crore in Krishnagiri||District Collector V. Jayachandra Banu Reddy presented orders for business loans to the tune of Rs. 10.58 crore issued by Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC) Limited to 11 businesses here on Monday. In a release, the Collector said the State government was targeting to issue loans to the tune of of Rs. 2,500 crore this financial year through TIIC. Target The Hosur branch of TIIC was given a loan target of Rs. 200 crore and the branch had already issued loans to the tune of Rs. 110 crore. The Collector advised Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in Hosur to produce defence spare parts as Hosur was one of the node in the defence corridor announced by the Centre in Tamil Nadu. The loans were issued to production of rubber, medical equipment, generators and others, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiic-issues-loans-worth-rs-1058-crore-in-krishnagiri/article37949265.ece
14 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai junction to get major revamp||Madurai railway junction will get a major revamp with air concourses and expansion of all passenger amenities to take care of passengers for the next 40 years - this was explained to Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas in a presentation during his annual inspection on Monday. Mr. Thomas said Madurai was one of the stations selected for redevelopment and the final touches for the plan were being given. The tenders would be floated by January. As part of the station redevelopment plan, two air concourses would be constructed on the lines of facilities at airports to segregate passengers arriving and departing to avoid congestion. Basic functions such as ticketing and enquiry would be taken care of on the ground level. The first floor and the ground floor would have waiting hall and cloak rooms. Besides ramping up the multi-level two-wheeler parking facilities, multi-level car parking have also been planned. A pedestrian subway would be constructed to provide safe passage of passengers between Madurai junction and Periyar bus stand. The second floor would be kept ready for future expansion. Mr. Thomas said the new Pamban rail bridge work was scheduled for completion by March, and Madurai-Tirunelveli doubling project by June. With regard to restoring all passenger trains, Southern Railway was adopting a wait-and-watch approach in the wake of threat of Omicron variant of COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-junction-to-get-major-revamp/article37949445.ece
14 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Drunk men attack three persons||Four unidentified persons, who were drunk, assaulted three persons for questioning their conduct at Rajakoor near Othakadai on Sunday night. Police sources said that M. Nagarajan, 22, of Rajakoor Apartment, along with his wife, was standing in front of the apartment, when four persons came there and picked up a quarrel with him. When his wife questioned them, they abused her. Two others, P. Alagumari, 47, and his son A. Navaneetha Krishnan, 24, tried to pacify them. The four persons assaulted the two and Nagarajan with a sword. The injured have been admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital. Othakadai police are on the lookout for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drunk-men-attack-three-persons/article37949245.ece
14 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Consider plea seeking temple land to build school’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Commissioner of HR &CE Department to consider a representation made by villagers who sought a temple land to construct a high school in Dindigul. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan directed the HR & CE Department to consider the representation within four weeks. The petitioner, C. Arumugam of Sirankattupatti, said the government had sanctioned a high school for the village. There was a vacant land measuring 1.22.50 hectares, which belonged to Karuppasamy Temple, in the village. He said the land was suitable for the construction of the school. The lands called Kovil Maniyam were under the control of the temple priests, and when the villagers approached the priests requesting them to give the land for the construction of the school, they consented to it, he said. Then, a representation was made to the HR & CE Department seeking the transfer of the temple land to School Education Department authorities for the construction of the school. Since no orders were passed, the petition was filed, he said. The case was posted for reporting compliance to January 12, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consider-plea-seeking-temple-land-to-build-school/article37949246.ece
14 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Educationist Umayal Ramanathan is no more||Umayal Ramanathan, secretary emeritus of Alagappa Group of Educational Institutions and life-time syndicate member of Alagappa University, who was the daughter of RM. Alagappa Chettiar and wife of VE. Ramanathan Chettiar, passed away in Chennai on December 12 at the age of 93. Following the demise of her father in 1957, Umayal assumed the leadership role at the age of 29 and managed all the educational institutions that her father created. She realised that establishing a university in Karaikudi would contribute to the prosperity of the region and donated 450 acres of land with functioning schools and colleges to the Tamil Nadu government. And Alagappa University was formed in 1985 to fulfil the dream of her father. Women’s college She established a women’s college in Karaikudi in 2005 to empower women in this conservative region. She is survived by her daughter Unnamalai Ramanathan and son Ramanathan Vairavan. The final rites will be performed near the memorial of her father in Karaikudi on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/educationist-umayal-ramanathan-is-no-more/article37949244.ece
14 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ramakrishnan no more||Veteran Communist leader and writer N. Ramakrishnan died in Madurai on Sunday. He was 81. He is the younger brother of Communist Party of India (Marxist) stalwart N. Sankaraiah. Ramakrishnan’s affiliation with the Communist Party of India when he joined as a sub-editor in its mouthpiece Janasakthi in 1960. He later joined the CPI(M) and served at the Delhi office for 15 years and was among the important functionaries who launched the publication Theekathir in 1963. He was also the treasurer of the party Parliamentary office. Later, upon returning to Madurai, he again got involved with Theekathir . He has authored 76 books and translated over 25 books into Tamil. CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan and other leaders, including M.N.S. Venkataraman, A. Lasar, Madhukoor Ramalingam and K. Balabharathi, were among those who paid their last respects to Ramakrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramakrishnan-no-more/article37949443.ece
14 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Communist leader Ramakrishnan dies||Veteran Communist leader and writer, N. Ramakrishnan, died in Madurai on Sunday. He was 81. He is the younger brother of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) stalwart, N. Sankaraiah. Ramakrishnan’s affiliation with the Communist Party of India started as a sub-editor of its mouthpiece Janasakthi in 1960. He later joined the CPI(M) and served at the Delhi office for 15 years and was among the important functionaries who launched the publication Theekathir in 1963. He was also the treasurer of the party’s Parliamentary office. Later, upon returning to Madurai, he again got involved with Theekathir . He has authored 76 books and translated over 25 books into Tamil, and has written extensively about the Communist party in Tamil Nadu. CPI (M) State secretary, K. Balakrishnan, and other leaders, M.N.S. Venkataraman, A. Lasar, Madhukoor Ramalingam and K. Balabharathi, were among those who paid their respects to the departed leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/communist-leader-ramakrishnan-dies/article37949150.ece
14 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Veteran Communist leader passes away||Veteran Communist leader and writer N. Ramakrishnan died in Madurai on Sunday. He was 81. He is the younger brother of Communist Party of India (Marxist) stalwart, N. Sankaraiah. Ramakrishnan’s affiliation with the CPI started as a sub-editor of its mouthpiece Janasakthi in 1960. He later joined the CPI (M) and served at the Delhi office for 15 years and was among the important functionaries who launched the publication Theekathir in 1963. He was also the treasurer of the party Parliamentary office. Later, upon returning to Madurai, he again got involved with Theekathir . He has authored 76 books and translated over 25 books into Tamil and has extensively written about the Communist party in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veteran-communist-leader-passes-away/article37949185.ece
14 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks status report on custodial deaths case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday sought a report from the trial court in Madurai on the status of trial in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks. Justice K. Murali Shankar sought a report on the time required to complete the trial in the case. In March, the judge had directed to complete it in six months after J. Selvarani, wife of Jayaraj and mother of Benicks, had filed a petition. The petitioner had apprehended that since the accused in the custodial deaths case were police personnel, they could topple a fair trial. Therefore, the trial pending before Additional District and Sessions Judge I should be expedited and concluded within a stipulated period in the interest of justice, she had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sattankulam-case-hc-seeks-status-report/article37949440.ece
14 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Govt. opposes YouTuber plea in Madras HC||The State government on Monday opposed YouTuber Maridhas’ plea before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court to quash the FIR registered against him by the Madurai police following the tweet that questioned whether Tamil Nadu was turning into another Kashmir. Additional Advocate General Veera Kathiravan submitted before Justice G.R. Swaminathan that the tweet by Mr. Maridhas questioned the integrity of the State and made it look as if it was supporting divisive forces. Only through an investigation, the intention behind the tweet could be known. Further, the AAG submitted that the tweet was made following the death of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash near Coonoor. “What will others think? Will it not have repercussions as the crash took place in Tamil Nadu?” he asked. Advocate Anantha Padmanaban, representing Mr. Maridhas, submitted that the YouTuber had posted the tweet seeking action against those people posting smiling face or smile emojis on social media following the death of the General. The FIR against Mr. Maridhas was violation of fundamental rights. Justice G.R. Swaminathan adjourned the hearing till December 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-opposes-youtuber-plea-in-madras-hc/article37949115.ece
14 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Mullaperiyar dam on Monday stood at 141.95 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 1,146 cusecs and a discharge of 700 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 70.18 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 2,180 cusecs and a discharge of 2,176 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 11,108 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday was in (mm): Idayapatti 5, Sothupparai dam 2, Vaigai dam 1.2 and Madurai 1.      Expressing condolences to the bereaved family members of college student Manikandan, Lok Sabha MP K. Nawaz Kani said the State government would ensure a fair investigation and justice. Last week, the youth was picked up by police for alleged traffic violation. Later, they reportedly asked the boy’s mother to come to the station and sent him home along with her. However, early the following day, Manikandan died. The parents demanded a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37949243.ece
14 December 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Teachers demand safe work conditions||Teachers in the district staged a protest in front of the office of the Chief Education Officer here on Monday demand safe working conditions for them in the State. The teachers staged a sit-in protest condemning the recent arrest of Mathivannan, a teacher at the Namakkal Government Girls Higher Secondary School, based on a complaint of sexual harassment from a Class X student. They said action must against teachers on sexual harassment complaints only after inquiry by departmental authorities. The protesters demanded that a separate law must be enacted to protect the jobs of teachers in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-demand-safe-work-conditions/article37949261.ece
14 December 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Man resuscitates unconscious monkey, earns appreciation on social media||A car driver of Perambalur has earned widespread praise, especially on social media, for resuscitating a monkey which became unconscious after escaping from a pack of dogs recently. A video clip of his act has gone viral on social media. Pack of dogs M. Prabhu, a driver hailing from Othiyam Samathuvapuram in Kunnam, was going home with his nephew when he saw a monkey trying to climb a tree to save itself from a pack of five dogs. He immediately stopped by to rescue to it. Shaken by the attack, the monkey froze, refusing to move. Mr. Prabhu tried to call but it began to lose consciousness, he said. He then quickly bent the branch it was sitting on, took it in his hands and was on his way to the nearest veterinary hospital when he felt that simian’s breathing was becoming irregular. He stopped the vehicle on the roadside and attempted to perform Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) on the monkey. After about a minute of applying pressure on the chest and breathing into its mouth, the monkey woke up. “I felt it grab my shirt on my back. I was overcome with joy and began shouting,” Mr. Prabhu recollected. The incident occurred on December 9. The monkey was taken to the hospital soon after to tend to its injuries caused by the attack. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Prabhu said that he has undergone a one-day first-aid training programme in Thanjavur 10 years ago. He had never had to use CPR before, but while tending to the monkey he decided to make an attempt, and that saved it's life, he said. Mr. Prabhu is known to care for all living things and would usually pack extra food for the homeless, and animals he would see on the way as he went on trips. “We share the Earth, our home with all creatures and so we must treat all equally," he said. A video of the incident shot by Mr. Prabhu's nephew was uploaded to Twitter and has gone viral overnight. Actors like Suriya Sivakumar, senior officials of the forest department have all praised him for his work. "I did not even know a video was being recorded. Had I known I would not have shouted so much," he laughed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-resuscitates-unconscious-monkey-earns-appreciation-on-social-media/article37949182.ece
14 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Five-day training for women in beekeeping begins in Puducherry||The Puducherry Corporation for the Development of Women and Differently Abled Persons Limited has started a programme to train women in beekeeping. Minister for Agriculture C. Djeacoumar inaugurated the training programme at the Education Department office on Monday. To train 100 women The training programme would be held for a period of five days in association with the Agriculture Department, a release from the Puducherry Corporation said. The aim of the programme was to provide self-employment opportunity to economically weaker and differently abled women. The Puducherry Corporation planned to train at least 100 women in beekeeping, the release said. The inaugural function was attended by legislator Richards John Kumar and Secretary Udaya Kumar, the Corporation release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-day-training-for-women-in-beekeeping-begins-in-puducherry/article37949521.ece
14 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK flays DMK over privatisation||The AIADMK has criticised the DMK for its stand towards privatisation of power distribution in the Union Territory. Party secretary, west and former legislator, Om Sakthi Segar, in a statement on Monday, said the Opposition leader and DMK legislator R. Siva had no moral authority to question the privatisation of power distribution in the Union Territory. It was the Congress-DMK combine at the Centre that had initiated the privatisation of public sector units, he charged. The DMK was in allince with the Congress for years at the Centre. Several sectors were privatised during their regime. ‘Playing politics’ The DMK also failed to put pressure on the Centre then, to get Statehood for the Union Territory and remained mute to the anti-people policies of the Congress government in the Union Territory for the last five years. By opposing privatisation now, the DMK was only trying to play politics, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-flays-dmk-over-privatisation/article37949518.ece
14 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CBI probe sought for Class X student’s death||The Federation of People’s Rights on Monday urged the territorial administration to transfer the case related to the death of a Class X girl at Reddiayarpalayam to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). In a statement, the federation secretary G. Sugumaran said the girl’s mother had accused the school authorities of harassing her daughter. She had accused the headmaster and a teacher of scolding her daughter in front of her brother for being absent in the class due to illness. The headmaster had even asked the girl to apply for a transfer certificate to leave the school, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-probe-sought-for-class-x-students-death/article37949519.ece
14 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs seven new cases||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory as the active cases remained below the 200 mark with seven new cases being added to the tally. Puducherry accounted for three of the new cases, which were detected from 1,047 tests, followed by three in Karaikal and one in Mahe (1). No new case was reported from Yanam. With 32 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 183. Out of this, 45 patients were in hospital and 138 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 0.67%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.41%. The cumulative toll remained at 1,877, of which Puducherry logged 1,465, Karaikal 251, Yanam 109 and Mahe 52. The Union Territory has recorded 1,29,224 cases against 1,27,164 recoveries. Of an estimated 20 lakh tests conducted to date, over 17 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 1,521 persons took the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The total vaccine doses administered in the Union Territory to date stood at 13,08,227 doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-seven-new-covid-19-cases/article37949523.ece
14 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Dengue hits fishermen colonies in Rameswaram||A large number of people from fishermen colonies in Thangachimadam, Rameswaram and Pamban staged a demonstration at Thangachimadam on Monday, urging the government and the district administration to take proactive steps and fight the rising fever cases in the coastal belt. The demonstrators said the primary health centre at Rameswaram was not enough to serve about one lakh population in the fishermen colonies. Either the government should upgrade it or establish a new facility immediately. In the last week, the number of fever cases with dengue symptoms was on the rise, Jesu Raja, a fishermen leader, claimed. He said local body and health department officials distributed pamphlets advising the residents to keep the surroundings dry and clean. The dengue threat had severely affected the routine work of the fishermen community. The need of the hour was to screen all the residents as many suffered ailments silently. While a majority of the people here were daily workers, they ran a risk of losing their livelihood, he said and added that many of them rushed to Ramanathapuram Government Hospital and some among them were referred to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. Many fishermen, who had no financial resources, were suffering for want of proper treatment. The civic authorities had not intensified fogging activities. The district administration should immediately direct the Health Department to set up special camps in the colonies. Also, blood samples had to be tested. When contacted, a Health Department official said four cases of dengue had been reported from Rameswaram. Fogging operation was carried out in all the wards and streets periodically. The womenfolk in the colonies stored water in plastic cans and drums. As they were not closed, the containers seemed to be turning into mosquito breeding grounds. To effectively fight it out, many anti-dengue measures were being taken, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dengue-hits-fishermen-colonies/article37949242.ece
14 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DYFI, public protest against liquor outlet||Members of Democratic Youth Federation of India and the public protested near Meyannur here on Monday against a move to set up a Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited’s outlet in the area. The protesters raised slogans urging the district administration and authorities not to set up the Tasmac outlet on Itteri Road here as an outlet was already functioning in the area. They said a private hospital, various small industrial units, a crematorium and various government offices operated in the area and there were small residential colonies nearby. The protesters said establishing a new outlet in the area would pose risk to women and children travelling for work and other purposes. It would also cause inconvenience to the residents. Later, authorities pacified the protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dyfi-public-protest-against-liquor-outlet/article37949262.ece
14 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Five sentenced to life||The District Mahila Court sentenced five persons to life imprisonment for kidnapping a man and his mother in Yercaud. According to the police, in 2016, Ashok Kumar of Alagapuram in Yercaud had borrowed Rs. 1.5 lakh from Krishnamoorthi by pledging his land documents. Though Ashok Kumar repaid the amount with interest, Krishnamoorthi refused to return the land documents. Krishnamoorthi kidnapped Ashok and his mother Vasanthi with the help of four friends and tortured them. On a complaint, the Yercaud police registered a case and arrested the five persons. Hearing the case on Monday, the Mahila Court sentenced Krishnamoorthi, his friends Kalaivannan, Sakthi, Raja and Subesh to life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 1,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-sentenced-to-life/article37949263.ece
14 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Taxpayers’ meet||The Goods and Services Tax and Central Excise Department will organise a special interaction drive with taxpayers from December 14 to 17. In a release, A.S. Meenalochani, Commissioner, GST and Central Excise, said taxpayers may visit the GST Bhavan here to interact with senior level officers and clear their doubts. Taxpayers may contact slmgstseva@gmail.com or call 0427 – 2529109 to confirm the appointment. Ms. Meenalochani inaugurated new office buildings of the department here recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/taxpayers-meet/article37949264.ece
14 December 2021||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||Man duped of Rs. 43 lakh||A businessman, C. Rajkumar, 50, was duped of Rs. 43 lakh by two persons who promised him that they would get his daughter an MBBS seat in JIPMER, Puducherry, in 2019. Based on a direction by a judicial magistrate court, Sattur Taluk police registered a case of cheating, forgery and criminal intimidation against M. Mani of Sivakasi and Dileepanraj of Chennai. Dileepanraj said he could get a medical seat in JIMPER through his contacts on payment of Rs. 75 lakh. However, after payment when Rajkumar and his daughter enquired with officials in JIPMER, they were told that the admission process was over and the admit card and application form were fake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/businessman-duped-of-rs-43-lakh/article37949250.ece
14 December 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||New VC for Tamil University assumed charge||V.Thiruvalluvan of Centre for Advanced Studies in Linguistics, Annamalai University, assumed charge as the Vice-Chancellor of Tamil University, Thanjavur, on Monday. Having more than 25 years of experience in the teaching field, Prof.Thiruvalluvan had presented and published research papers and also organised academic/research events, according to the University sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-vc-for-tamil-university-assumed-charge/article37949227.ece
14 December 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Theni Collector, SP visit accident-prone stretches||Theni Collector K.V. Muralidharan and Superintendent of Police Praveen Umesh Dongre and officials from the Highways, Transport, Police, Revenue, Local Administration Departments inspected busy road stretches on highways and intersections which witnessed frequent accidents or posed a danger to vehicle users. The district administration had identified ‘accident spots’ and accident-prone zones recently under the Chief Minister’s ‘Innuyir Kappom Thittam’. Two-day inspection The officials said the Collector and others had on Sunday visited Theni-Madurai Road, LS Mill Road, Railway Gate Bypass, Nehru statue point, Theni-Boothipuram intersection, Theni-Chinnamanoor Highway (three points), Chinnamanoor-Uthamapalayam Highway and Cumbum-Kumuli Bypass. On Monday, they visited Theni Government Medical College Hospital Road, K. Vilakku, Muthammapatti, Pichampatti, Rangasamudram, Andipatti check post, Theni-Allinagaram and other areas. High-mast lamps Speaking to reporters, Mr. Muralidharan said after the inspection it had been proposed to install high-mast lamps at several places as poor visibility led to accidents. Similarly, it had been decided to relocate electric transformers and rectify road engineering deficiencies. Some stretches would have reflector tapes/bands (cat’s eye) apart from user-friendly speed breakers installed. The SP said they would involve volunteers to administer first-aid treatment and disseminate the features of road safety measures and the nuances of safe driving practices among the people. The district administration had planned to make road safety as a people’s movement with the help of educational institutions, Mr. Muralidharan said. Transport Department had also planned to provide counselling to bus crew to avoid talking on mobile phones while driving. There were many instances of negligence and rash driving which led to accidents, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-collector-sp-visit-accident-prone-stretches/article37949580.ece
14 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||P Jayachandran bags JC Daniel award this year||Veteran playback singer P Jayachandran on Monday bagged the prestigious J.C. Daniel Award, the Kerala Government's highest honour for lifetime contributions to Malayalam cinema. The annual honour, named after J. C. Daniel, who made the first silent movie in Mollywood, comprises a purse of Rs. 5 lakh, a citation and a plaque, Cultural Affairs Minister Saji Cheriyan said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will present the award on December 23, a release said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/p-jayachandran-bags-jc-daniel-award-this-year/article37948993.ece
14 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||No updation of ‘patta’ details in land records, say tsunami victims||Agitated by the inordinate delay in updating their ‘patta’ details in the land records and thereby denying them basic amenities, residents of Tsunami Colony near here submitted a petition at the weekly grievance redress meet held at the Collectorate on Monday. The petitioners said 202 houses were constructed through a non-governmental organisation in 2008 for tsunami victims and ‘patta’ for these houses were handed over two years later. However, details of the ‘patta’ were yet to be updated in the village land records. “Hence, there is no reference about the ‘patta’ given to the tsunami victims in the taluk office land records too. Consequently, no basic amenity has been created in our area for the past 11 years. Without road, drinking water, streetlight, etc., we are suffering a lot. The Collector should instruct Revenue officials to include the ‘patta’ details in the land records without delay,” said the petitioners, who also submitted a petition at the camp office of Lok Sabha MP Kanimozhi. Another group of people from Chairman Samy Temple Street in Eral submitted a petition for ‘patta’ for the land on which their houses had been constructed. They said they were living in their houses built 120 metres away from the Tamirabharani river for the past three generations. However, revenue officials, who gave ‘patta’ for a few houses in their colony, were asking them to move out stating that they were living on ‘watercourse poramboke’ land. The Collector should instruct the officials to give ‘patta’ for the left-out families, they said. A group of villagers from Therkku Veerapandiapuram submitted a petition seeking Rs. 6 lakh as compensation for an acre land acquired for SIPCOT Industrial Complex expansion in 2008. “Since the government has given compensation of Rs. 6 lakh per acre when 1,300 acres of land were acquired in 2010, the same compensation should be given to those who lost their lands in 2008 too,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-updation-of-patta-details-in-land-records-say-tsunami-victims/article37949571.ece
14 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Misconceptions about Sterlite plant due to wrong information’||Demand for reopening of Sterlite Copper unit became more vociferous as villagers from a few hamlets and fishermen submitted separate petitions during the weekly grievance redress meet held at the Collectorate on Monday. A group of members of the Country Boat Prawn Fishermen Welfare Association, led by its president Sanda, secretary Samsudeen and treasurer Yasir, submitted a petition. They said they had misconceptions about Sterlite Copper due to “wrong information” spread among the people. Since the fishers had now been enlightened that there was no pollution by the unit, which would accelerate the development of Thoothukudi by providing employment opportunities to the unemployed youth and through community development programmes, they wanted its reopening, they said. A group of villagers from Saminatham, Sillanatham, Madathur, Sankaraperi and Rajavinkovil too submitted separate petitions in support of the demand. “Besides giving our children employment, Sterlite Copper had bailed out our children by providing them scholarships to pursue their education. The three-and-a-half-year closure of the copper smelting unit has left hundreds of people from villages around the unit jobless, and their families are struggling to even feed their children. Hence, the State government should give permission for its reopening,” the villagers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopen-sterlite-plant/article37949269.ece
14 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Governor meets Collector||Governor R.N. Ravi held a brief discussion with Collector K. Senthil Raj and SP S. Jayakumar on Monday. The Governor was explained about the district, the measures taken so far to mitigate rain-related problems this year and the permanent solutions being put in place by the district administration to avoid flooding of the city. He also met ex-servicemen. While visiting VOC Port in the evening, Mr. Ravi had discussion with port trust Chairman T.K. Ramachandran and senior officials, after which the Governor was taken around the port in tug boat to see the operations, development works and future plans. Later, he left for Tiruchendur, where he would offer special prayers in Subramaniaswami Temple on Tuesday morning. In the forenoon, the Governor visited the memorial and the house of poet Subramania Bharathi at Ettaiyapuram in the district along with his wife Lakshmi, Dr. Senthil Raj and Mr. Jayakumar. As the Governor and his wife entered the memorial, children dressed up like Bharathi, carrying national flags, received them with the song, Manathil uruthi vendum of the poet. Complimenting the children for the reception they accorded to him, the Governor garlanded the statue of Bharathi and recorded his views in the visitors’ book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-meets-collector/article37949568.ece
14 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||2 police officers depose before panel||Two police officers appeared before the Justice Aruna Jegadeesan Commission on Monday to record their statements pertaining to the police firing during the anti-Sterlite protest in May 2018 in which 13 persons were killed. As the Commission started its 33rd sitting here on Monday, after inquiring 1,016 witnesses during the past 32 sessions of inquiry, retired ADSP Marimuthu, Police Inspector Vanitha Rani and constable Stalin appeared before the Commission on Monday to record their statements. Duration of sitting The current sitting of the Commission is likely to be conducted between December 13 and 18, and 27 and 30. Former Collectors Venkatesh, who was serving in Thoothukudi when the police firing took place, and Sandeep Nanduri, and former Superintendents of Police Mahendran and Murali Ramba and other senior police officers are expected to depose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-policemen-depose-before-commission/article37949175.ece
14 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||OFT to deliver 100 TriCa compact carbine weapon for NSG||Having witnessed a significant surge in demand for its indigenously-developed Tiruchi Assault Rifle (TAR) in recent years, Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, is poised to fulfil an order for 100 units of TriCa compact carbine weapon, also developed through in-house research and development, placed by the National Security Guards (NSG). States dealing with Naxals were keen on equipping their forces with the compact 7.72x39 mm carbine weapon, the shorter version of TAR, Officer-In-Charge of Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, Rajiv Jain, said on Monday on the sidelines of the local public exhibition of Defence Products. OFT, a unit of Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited (AWEIL), Kanpur, is hosting the exhibition as part of the commemoration of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ and India@75. Tiruchi is one of the 75 locations across the country where the Ministry of Defence has instructed conduct of the exhibition of the modern defence products till December 19. OFT, has, so far, completed deliveries for 30,000 TAR weapons, and will be completing the delivery of 42,000 to 45,000 units during this fiscal out of the orders for 78,000 weapons that have been placed collectively by the Central Reserve Police Force, Border Security Force, Sashastra Seema Bal, and police forces in various States, Mr. Rajiv Jain said. The exhibition started with a formal inaugural address through video-conference by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Defence Corridor projects in Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, conversion of Ordnance Factory Board into seven defence public sector undertakings were initiatives aimed at transforming India into a net exporter of defence equipment, the Minister said. Highlights among the exhibits included the Stabilised Remote Control Gun System, a lethal weapon enabling effective combat engagement while the operator remains safe below the deck, for which the OFT had developed expertise with technology transfer from Israel; and the powerful fire weapon NSV-T 12.7 mm Machine Gun AD, essentially an anti-aircraft gun developed with Russian technology, which can also be used in anti-armour and anti-personal roles, mounted on ajeyha (T-72) and T-90s tanks. The High Energy Projectile Factory, Tiruchi, a unit of Munitions India Limited, has put on display its products that included RGB-60 and its range of FSAPDS (Fin Stabilised Armour Piercing Discarding Sabot). Also on display are vintage weapons used in World War II constituting MG 15 - 7.92 mm machine gun (Germany), Fiat - Ravelli Modello 1935 Italian Medium Machine Gun, Bren .303 in MK Light Machine Gun, Berthier Light Machine Gun Mk3, Chatellerault M1924/ 29 Light Machine Gun, Vickers-Berther Light Machine Gun Mk3, Rifle No 5 MK 1, V.L. Pistol Signal 1, Luger Pistol 9mm, Welrod MK 11A 9mm Pistol, MP-40 carbine, and Sten 9mm MKS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oft-to-deliver-100-trica-compact-carbine-weapon-for-nsg/article37949226.ece
14 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mobile X-ray unit flagged off||A mobile digital X-ray unit, to screen people for tuberculosis in the district, was flagged off by Collector S. Sivarasu on Monday. The mobile unit has been deployed as part of the efforts of the Health Department to eradicate tuberculosis by the end of 2025. The unit would visit various parts of the district to screen people at their doorstep for possible infection. Those detected with the disease would be provided follow-up treatment. The unit will cover Tiruchi Corporation limits till Dec. 16; Manapparai, Vaiyampatti and Marungapurai taluks from Dec. 17 to 25 and Manikandam, Andhanallur, Tiruverumbur, Pullampadi, Lalgudi, Musiri, Thottiyam, Thuraiyur, Uppilliyapuram and Thathaiyengarpet taluks from December 27 to January 8, Mr. Sivarasu said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-x-ray-unit-flagged-off/article37949233.ece
14 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||59 COVID-19 cases in central region||The central region on Monday reported 59 fresh cases of COVID-19 and two deaths. One person each from Tiruchi and Pudukottai districts succumbed to the infection, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. Expect Tiruchi, Karur and Thanjavur which reported 15 cases each, all the other six districts in the region reported fresh cases in single digits. Five persons tested positive in Tiruvarur and three each in Nagapattinam and Pudukottai. One case each was reported in Ariyalur, Mayiladuthurai and Perambalur districts. Tiruchi had the maximum number of active cases with 198 patients under treatment including those under home treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/59-covid-19-cases-in-central-region/article37949234.ece
14 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Cancellation of fair disappoints exporters||Exporters of handloom textile made-ups from Karur district are disappointed over the cancellation of the annual international trade fair, Heimtextil 2022, which was to be held from January 11-14 in Frankfurt in Germany. Heimtextil, a major trade fair of international relevance, has been cancelled for the second consecutive year due to the pandemic. Retailers, wholesalers, designers, furniture and bedding stores, interior decorators, interior architects, architects, hotel outfitters and many other decision makers come to Heimtextil every year. The exhibition also gives an overview of the latest trends in the industry and popular designs.  There was lot of expectations as the fair was to be held after a gap of two years. We had also made payments to contractors for doing the interiors in our stalls P. Gopalakrishnan President, Karur Textile Manufacturers Exporters’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancellation-of-fair-disappoints-exporters/article37949183.ece
14 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Telangana CM offers prayers at Srirangam||Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao on Monday offered prayers at the Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple, on the eve of the opening of the Paramapadavasal, the highlight of the Vaikunda Ekadasi festival at the temple. Mr. Rao, along with his family members, arrived at the temple in the afternoon and worshipped at various sannidhis, which has been decked up for the festival. On the 10th day of the festival on Monday, the Lord in Mohini Alankaram was a major attraction for devotees. Mr. Rao flew down here from Hyderabad and later left for Chennai. He was received on arrival at the Tiruchi airport by Collector S. Sivarasu and other senior officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/telangana-cm-offers-prayers-at-srirangam/article37949184.ece
14 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||70 mobile phones restored to owners in Tirunelveli||Superintendent of Police P. Saravanan on Monday handed over to owners 70 stolen or lost mobile phones that were recovered by police between September last and December. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Saravanan said the district police on receiving complaints from the public about loss of their mobile phones recovered 245 communication gadgets worth about Rs. 39.74 lakh. Seventy mobile phones worth about Rs. 10.46 lakh were returned to their owners on Monday. In all, police recovered Rs. 50.21 lakh-worth mobile phones over the year. The SP said Rs. 1.77 lakh was recovered from online fraudsters, who had cheated the public under the pretext of getting them jobs or giving a hefty lottery prize money. Also,.Rs. 5.36 lakh of the fraudsters’ properties had been attached. “Police are repeatedly appealing to the public not to share details pertaining to ATM cards, one-time password, bank accounts etc. with anyone as it will always lead to siphoning of money from the account immediately by the fraudsters. Moreover, the public should not open the link being shared in the guise of giving prize money and reject video calls from strangers,” he added. Mr. Sara asked online fraud victims to file their complaints through 155260 orwww.cybercrime.gov.in He handed over tree saplings while handing over the recovered mobile phones. Additional Superintendent of Police (Cyber Crime) C. Sangu, Inspector of Police V. Raj and Sub-Inspector P. Rajarathnam were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/70-mobile-phones-restored-to-owners-in-tirunelveli/article37949577.ece
14 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||MSU to hold 28th convocation tomorrow||The 28th convocation of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University (MSU) at Abhishekapatti will be held on December 15 and 1,243 candidates will receive their degrees from Governor and Chancellor R.N. Ravi. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, Vice-Chancellor K. Pitchumani said the Governor, who was expected to arrive at the university at 2 p.m. on Tuesday (December 12), would interact with professors of various departments and students separately. He would take a look at the solar park created on the premises a couple of years ago. On Wednesday, Mr. Ravi, after offering special prayers at Nellaiyappar Temple in the morning, would chair the convocation ceremony in which 1,243 candidates would receive their degrees in person and 1,08,284 candidates in absentia. A total of 204 toppers would also receive medals from the Governor. “The reason for the sharp rise in the number of candidates receiving their degrees now is COVID-19 outbreak in 2019 that prevented MSU from conducting the ceremony for two years [2019–2020 and 2020–2021]. We have cleared the backlog as the situation has improved a lot,” he said. Director, CSIR– National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, A. Ajayaghosh, was the chief guest and would deliver the convocation address. Minister for Higher Education K. Ponmudi would felicitate the students. No Ph.D. was awarded during this academic year, while 554 M.Phil. candidates passed their exams. In 2020– 2021, 1,170 candidates — 1,039 in person and 131 in absentia — were awarded Ph.D. A total of 5,889 postgraduate candidates — 61 in person and 4,924 in absentia — wouuld also receive their degrees during this academic year. Apart from adhering to the regulations usually followed during the convocation, the candidates had been asked to produce COVID-19 vaccination certificate, he added. Registrar (in-charge) R. Maruthakutti and Controller of Examinations Suruliyandi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msu-to-hold-28th-convocation-tomorrow/article37949572.ece
14 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Whinchat sighted in Tiruppur district||Birdwatchers have sighted a Whinchat ( Saxicola rubetra), a migratory bird that breeds in Europe and winters in central Africa, near Dharapuram in Tiruppur district, making it the first recorded sighting in the State and perhaps the second recorded sighting in the country. A team of birders from Dharapuram Nature Society comprising R. Magesh, D. Sadhasivam, G. Ranganathan and S. Sivakumar spotted the lone bird at a grassland around 5 km south of Uppar Dam in Dharapuram on Sunday. “It was previously sighted in the Chambal region [in northern India], but there has not been any recorded sightings in southern India until now,” Mr. Magesh said. The team cross-checked the photograph of the adult female Whinchat with experts to ascertain its identity, he added. The appearance of a female Whinchat is quite similar to that of a female Siberian stonechat ( Saxicola maurus ), but the Whinchats can be distinguished by the prominent light-coloured stripe above its eyes, according to Mr. Magesh. President of the Coimbatore-based Environment Conservation Group R. Mohammed Saleem, who was a part of an expedition team that sighted a Whinchat at National Chambal Sanctuary in 2019, recalled that the sighting was “unexpected” as the bird is usually never seen in India. “It migrates to Africa through the Middle East [for wintering],” he said, adding that the bird could possibly be seen in Afghanistan or Pakistan. Prior to this, the Whinchat was reported to have been sighted in Sri Lanka, Mr. Saleem noted. P.B. Balaji, a core committee member of the Coimbatore Nature Society, said that despite Tamil Nadu having a sizeable number of birdwatchers, Whinchats have not been spotted before, indicating its rarity. “This [sighting] is a very important record for our State,” he said. Rigorous studies are required to ascertain why vagrant Whinchats are being spotted here as India is not a part of its migration route, according to Mr. Balaji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/whinchat-sighted-in-tiruppur-district/article37949152.ece
14 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Transman, wife seek police protection||A transman and his wife from Tiruppur recently sought police protection after their parents allegedly opposed their marriage. Police sources told The Hindu on Monday that the two persons, aged around 21, visited Tiruppur South police station on December 11. The two were employed in a private garment company in the city and were in a relationship. The transman recently underwent a female-to-male gender reassignment surgery at Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, following which the two got married. Fearing backlash from their parents, they visited the police station seeking protection, the police said. Inspector of Tiruppur South police station Pitchaiah summoned the parents of the couple and advised them. He also received a statement from them in the presence of lawyers from the District Legal Services Authority. No case was registered in this regard and police protection was not provided as there were no threats, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transman-wife-seek-police-protection/article37949153.ece
14 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murder||The police on Sunday arrested a man on charges of murder at Palladam in Tiruppur. The police said that Sundaramurthi (38) allegedly attacked Balasubramanian (47) with a wooden log at Sedapalayam on Sunday morning, after which the latter was hospitalised. Based on a complaint from Balasubramanian’s sister, the Palladam police arrested the accused on charges of attempt to murder. Balasubramanian died during treatment at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital late on Sunday, following which the police altered the case to murder. Investigations revealed that the accused was allegedly under the influence of alcohol and attacked the deceased due to previous enmity, the police said. Tobacco products seized The Tiruppur police on Monday arrested three men and seized around 515 kg of banned tobacco products from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-murder/article37949266.ece
14 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Army to adopt Nanjappa Sathiram, where copter crashed||Lieutenant General A. Arun, General Officer Commanding, Dakshin Bharat Area, felicitated the police, fire and rescue service personnel, forest staff and members of other government departments as well as Army personnel for their efforts in rescuing people from the wreckage of thehelicopter crash in Kattery, Coonoor, which resulted in the death of the Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat, and 12 others. Lt. Gen. Arun, who visited the Shrinagesh Barracks in Wellington, Coonoor on Monday, spoke at the event. “Such a calamity should never have to be witnessed by anyone, but unfortunately, these are events that sometimes happen,” he said. He praised the State Government and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin for immediately offering all possible assistance in the aftermath of the crash. Praise for villagers The Lieutenant General also had words of praise for the residents of Nanjappa Sathiram in Kattery. “These people were the first responders to the accident site, and brought their own household items to help douse the flames and carry the mortal remains of the officers from the wreckage as well as the officer who survived and is recuperating in a hospital,” he said. Mr. Arun felicitated personnel from the fire and rescue service; A.K. Nagarajan, Assistant District Fire Officer; the Forest Department; S.M. Sasikumar, Coonoor Forest Range Officer; L. Dinesh Kumar, tahsildar, Coonoor; A. Mohanraj, line inspector, Tangedco; and N. Manimegala, village health nurse, as well as officials from the Health Department, police and district administration, including Nilgiris Collector S.P. Amrith and Superintendent of Police Ashish Rawat. Cash reward Following the felicitation programme in Wellington, Lt. Gen. Arun visited the settlement of Nanjappa Sathiram in Kattery — the site of the crash. He spoke to residents and handed over a cash reward of Rs. 5,000 each to two persons who first witnessed the crash and immediately notified the police and the fire and rescue services. He also promised that the Army would send a doctor and a nurse to the village every month for regular health check-ups for locals, while residents from the settlement could also visit the military hospital in Wellington for consultation, which will be free of charge for them, he said. “The general officer distributed blankets, solar emergency lights and rations to the villagers, and announced the adoption of the villagers of Nanjappa Sathiram by Headquarters, Dakshin Bharat Area,” a press release from the Madras Regimental Centre said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/helicopter-crash-army-reaches-out-to-villagers/article37949120.ece
14 December 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Video of helicopter crash filmed from Nilgiri Mountain Railway line||Avideo that was filmed by a group of touriststhat was possibly of the last few moments of the helicopter carrying CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 12 other army personnel was filmed along the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) line. Though the tracks are off-limits to tourists, many people manage to make their way onto the tracks and walk across the line between Kattery and Coonoor railway stations. The most accessible point for the railway line is from the Kattery Park near Coonoor, while there are also other places near the Mettupalayam to Coonoor road, where people can access the tracks. The popularity of the NMR soared after the release of the song ‘Chaiyya, chaiyya’ in the movie ‘Dil Se’ in 1998. The iconic train sequence from the song, led to a boom in the number of passengers along the scenic route that starts from Mettupalayam and crosses Coonoor before reaching Udhagamandalam railway station. Over the last few weeks, train services were stopped between Mettupalayam and Coonoor due to heavy rainfall and landslips. The NMR track cuts through some of the most pristine forests in the Nilgiris, home to elephants, Indian gaur and leopards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/video-of-helicopter-crash-filmed-from-nilgiri-mountain-railway-line/article37949178.ece
14 December 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Management plan to be made for Kazhuveli sanctuary||With the Kazhuveli wetlands on Tamil Nadu’s east coast notified as the 16th bird sanctuary in Tamil Nadu, the Forest Department has now set in motion the process of preparing a management plan, with a thrust on conservation of biodiversity and natural resources within the sanctuary. The government, in an order on December 6, had declared the Kazhuveli wetlands as a bird sanctuary, a long-pending demand of conservationists. This is the second bird sanctuary in Villupuram district after the Oussudu sanctuary, which is jointly managed by both Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry. Located close to Marakkanam on the East Coast Road, the Kazhuveli wetlands, spread over an expanse of 670 square km of catchment area, are one of the major wetlands on the Coromandel Coast after the Pulicat Lake. The lake is connected to the Bay of Bengal by the Uppukalli Creek and the Edayanthittu estuary and is visited for nesting by migratory birds on the Central Asian flyway. The southern part of the wetland has been reserved land since 2001. Conserving biodiversity Speaking to The Hindu, District Forest Officer (DFO) Sumesh Soman, said that work on preparing the management plan has started. “The plan will give direction to conservation of biodiversity and natural resources within the sanctuary. The Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON) has already done a study on the flora and fauna in the wetlands and the management plan will have goals to conserve and protect the existing flora and fauna, for them to flourish.” “Kazhuveli has varied habitat including sloping wetlands preferred by shore birds, darters and waders, birds on floating vegetation, water fowls and open grasslands preferred by different species of birds and fauna. We will try to preserve the existing nature of the wetlands. The plan will also provide strategy for species management, anti-poaching, patrolling and curtailing of the illegal trade in wild animals and plant species,” he said. The Department will be holding consultations with various stakeholders including fishermen and farmers to sensitise them about the importance of Kazhuveli, provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act and the importance of an eco-sensitive zone in the surrounding areas, he said. The wetlands’ boundaries have already been demarcated, and about 455 boundary stones have been erected. Work on cattle-proof trenches has also been completed while further protective measures will also be taken up. The declaration of rights will be set in motion and an eco-sensitive zone will also be notified, the DFO said. ‘Strengthening habitats’ According to S. Vimalraj, a naturalist of the Indigenous Biodiversity Foundation (IBF), “The notification of the sanctuary is of immense significance not only from the conservation point of view, but also for strengthening the varied habitats that Kazhuveli supports. The wetland’s area is very vast and most the birds prefer shallow water for their food. During summer, Kazhuveli also acts as a grassland for other fauna.” For the past 15 years, members from the IBF, a non-profit organisation, led by founder K. Raman, Prabhu N. Ponmudi, Ratheesh Narayanan and Atma have documented the arrival of rare birds, including Short Eared Owl, White Stork, Booted Eagle, Greater Spotted Eagle, Pallid Harrier, Western Marsh Harrier, Temminck’s Stint, Ruff, Ruddy Turnerstone, Pied Avocet, Terek Sandpiper, Marsh Sandpiper, Eurasian Wigeon, Grey headed Lapwing and Garganey. “Creating protected areas remains crucial to preserving biodiversity both worldwide and in India. Kazhuveli is a very important coastal wetland for breeding waterfowl such as pelicans and herons but also for migrating and wintering waders and ducks. The status of a bird sanctuary will allow the authorities to implement a management plan in order to foster conditions for the preservation and development of the fauna and flora,” said Raphael Mathevet, wetland specialist at CNRS France and former head of the Ecology Department of the French Institute of Pondicherry (IFP). “Issues related to the hydrological flow, quantity and quality of water will have to be addressed in the coming years because they are critical for the proper functioning of the site as well as the integration of the needs of local populations,” he said. The IFP also supports the authorities so that the creation of this protected area is not done at the expense of the most deprived. “This new protection is a real opportunity to develop an effective collaboration with the inhabitants and users of the neighbouring settlements, naturalists, NGOs and the scientists,” Mr. Mathevet added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/management-plan-to-be-made-for-kazhuveli-sanctuary/article37949516.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A courtesy call||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-courtesy-call/article37949528.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Caution ahead||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/caution-ahead/article37948990.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Daily classes for students to resume from January 3||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy, Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu, Revenue Secretary Kumar Jayant, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Officer on Special Duty in the Health Department P. Senthil Kumar, Public Secretary D. Jagannathan and senior officials participated. The Government reiterated the need for adhering to COVID-19 safety protocols. Mr Stalin stressed on the theme ‘Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination-COVID-19 Appropriate Behaviour.’ In view of the forthcoming festival season, he appealed to the people to follow COVID norms and get themselves vaccinated at the camps being organised by the district administration and the Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-classes-for-students-to-resume-from-january-3/article37949121.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Laying cornerstone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/laying-cornerstone/article37949584.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 53 fresh COVID-19 cases||Erode district reported 53 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total cases to 1,07,016. While 68 persons were discharged, 621 persons continue to be under treatment. Three persons died, raising the toll to 705. In Salem, 43 COVID-19 cases were reported. In Namakkal, 47 new cases were reported. Krishnagiri saw 13 fresh cases and Dharmapuri nine cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-53-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37949252.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campus Connect - City||The PG and Research Department of Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College, in collaboration with Sri Meenakshi Government Arts College For Women; Sri S. Ramaswamy Naidu Memorial College, Sattur; Dr. Zakir Hussain College, Ilayangudi; and Theni Kammavar Sangam College of Arts and Science, Theni is conducting a three-day residential programme for postgraduate students, ‘Literature for millennium students’ from December 13 to 15. R. Perumalsamy, Pro Chancellor, Noorul Islam University, Nagercoil; S. Ganeshram, Principal, SRNM College, Sattur; S. Vanathi, Principal, Meenakshi College, Madurai; S. Armstrong of University of Madras; T. Marx of Pondicherry University; and R. Latha Nair of St. Teresa’s College of Kochi were the resource persons. K. Chellappan, Former Director, State Institute of English, in his address, talked about three kinds of feminism – Oppression, Suppression and Expression. He quoted Robert Frost, Shakespeare, John Keats, T. S. Eliot, A. U. Hope and Kishwar Naheed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect-city/article37949439.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||14-12-2021-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA AAA / BHARAT KALACHAR / TOM MEDIAAS - MARGAZHI NATYA MAHOTSAV 2021 TODAY AT SRI YGP AUDITORIUM, NO.17, THIRUMALAI ROAD, T. NAGAR, CHENNAI - 600 017. 5.30 PM (ALL ARE WELCOME) VARSHA J , Guru : Smt. M.LAKSHMIPRIYA RAJA , Artistic Director of MATHRIKA , , 7.15 PM (TICKETED) Smt.MEENAKSHI CHITTARANJAN , Bharathanatyam, RESERVATION AT HALL & WWW.BOOKMYSHOW.COM. ENTRY ONLY THIRUMALAI RD. PH: 28343045 / 9941907993 (ALL Govt. S.O.P's will be followed) Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, East Mada Street, Mylapore Chennai-600 004 Bhavan's Cultural Festival 2021, Live Programme : upto 15.12.2021 in association with South Zone Cultural Centre ( Ministry of Culture, Government of India ) at Bhavan's Main Auditorium, East Mada Street, Mylapore Chennai -600 004. Today 14th Dec: 5.00 pm: Sri Dushyanth Sridhar (Discourse) and 6.30 pm: Prince Rama Varma (Vocal), Sri S.Varadarajan (Violin), Sri B.Harikumar (Mridangam), Dr.S.Karthick (Ghatam).Tomorrow 15th Dec: 5.00 pm: Smt. B.Suchitra (Harikatha)and 6.30 pm: Priya Sisters (Vocal).Programme supported by : Apollo Pharmacies Ltd., Ramco Cements Ltd., Ramco Industries, Rajalakshmi Institutions, MGM Healthcare, Kauvery Hospitals, GRT Jewellers, Co-Optex, Nalli Silks, Aban Scientific, Larsen & Toubro, State Bank of India, AVA Cholayil, Dhanvantari Nano Aushadi, Sabari Foundations and Construction, Suryaans Paper, Star Health and Allied Insurance, SMK Fomra Institute of Technology, Indian Oil Corporation, NAC Jewellers,Sri Krishna Sweets. Watch Live(Courtesy - Bhavan's Kolkata Kendra). www.bhavanschennai.org Covid-19 S.O.P to be followed.All are Welcome. PUSHPAANJALI CULTURAL TRUST Today 5.30pm at R K Swamy Auditorium (Sir Sivaswamy Kalalaya), Mylapore. Bharathanatyam by Smt.Anuroopitha (Dis.of Dr. Shobana), Bharathnatyam by students of Dr.Divyasena Rasika Ranjani Sabha (Regd.) Mylapore, Ch - 4 December - 2021 "Music in Perpetuity" Today at 10.00 am "MADURAI MANI IYER" (Lec Dem) by Sri. Vishnuram Prasad. - 04.15 pm Smt. Uma Ranganathan -Vocal Haritha Narayanan - Violin, Indhalur Adharsh – Mridangam. 06.15 pm Tribute to "MADURAI MANI IYER" Sri. Surya Prakash - Vocal, Sri. L Ramakrishnan - Violin, Sri. Thanjavur Murugabhoopathi - Mridangam, Sri. K V Gopalakrishnan – Kanjira. Programme supported by Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Limited - AANMAJOTHI (Cultural wing of Saraswathi Vidyalaya Vadapalani). Ph. No: 86103 57987. Entry as per Govt. Covid SOP Guidelines. ALL ARE WELCOME. Our programs can be watched on https://www.rrsabha.org at later dates.  MISCELLANEOUS  Narada Gana Sabha(Regd), 24993201. Today - 6.30pm - Swami Haridhos Giri Hall ( Mini Hall-) - Sukla Ekadasi- Sengalipuram Bramasri Damodara Dikshitar- "Sri Guruvayurappan Mahimai." Smt.Sharada Vijay Madhavan endowment programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-12-2021-city-cinema/article37949128.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Jansons Institute of Technology: Energy conservation day celebrations, seminar hall, 10.30 a.m.  KPR College of Arts, Science and Research: Seminar on Understanding Financial Statement, 10.30 a.m.  KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: Inaugural ceremony of Virtusa - Center of Excellence, 1030 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women:  National Energy Conservation Day, 12.30 p.m.; Faculty Development programme on Bone Health, 2.30 p.m.  Adithya School of Business Management: Session on An entrepreneur journey, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37949158.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||ERODE   Nandha College of Technology: Department of Library, Awareness programme on Tobacco and Drug Abuse, Pandian Baskar Rao, Medical Oncologist, PSG Hospital and Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Coimbatore, resource person, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37949253.ece
14 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farmers urge Govt. to repeal amendments to APMC Act||Farmers held a protest seeking a repeal of the amendments to the APMC Act and the land reforms Act in front of the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi on Monday. They also want statutory guarantee for MSP, immediate release of flood loss relief, and payment of sugarcane arrears. Kodihalli Chandrashekar, KRRS president, addressed the farmers and asked them to prepare for a long fight against the amendments brought out by the Karnataka Government. “The State Government had amended the revenue and farm laws only to help the corporates. These are not meant to benefit the farmers at all. They are aimed at destroying the livelihood of small farmers. They will bring back the zamindari system and cause irreparable damage to the society and economy of India. They need to be opposed strongly,” he said. “The amendments to the land reforms Act that removed the upper limits to land purchase and permitted non farmers and non-residents of Karnataka to buy farm land would lead to a situation where all the land in the village would be owned by a single person, family, or a company. We would be pushed back by two centuries where there would be only one landowner in the village and all others would be his labourers in his farm,” he said. He said that the relentless fight by Punjab farmers against the Centre’s farm laws had sent a message to the country’s farmers that passive resistance would defeat all the anti-people moves of the government. “Why should Basavaraj Bommai continue to hold on to the laws, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi has repealed them?”, Mr. Chandrashekar said. He said that farmers will keep agitating till the State Government repealed all the amendments, The police took farmers into custody when they tried to storm the front gate of the Suvarna Soudha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-urge-govt-to-repeal-amendments-to-apmc-act/article37949278.ece
14 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||CLP meeting tomorrow||The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting will be held on Wednesday to draw up strategies to attack the ruling BJP in the ongoing Winter session here. Issue of floods The party is expected to raise issues pertaining to floods, bitcoin, and the allegation over collection of huge commission in infrastructure projects, among others, to corner the government. The CLP is being held a day after the Legislative Council poll results are announced, and the matter is also likely to come up for discussion. The CLP, to be chaired by Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, Siddaramaiah, will seek suggestions from legislators. Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council S.R. Patil and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar will participate in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/clp-meeting-tomorrow/article37949079.ece
14 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Over 5,000 manual scavengers identified so far in Karnataka||Minister for Social Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojari said the State Government was committed to stopping manual scavenging in the State and rehabilitating those in the job. The Minister was responding to the calling attention motion moved by Congress member B.K. Hariprasad on manual scavenging being practised in some places, even though it had been prohibited by law, in the Council on Monday. The State Government had taken up a survey of manual scavengers. So far, the survey had been completed in 12 districts and 5,080 manual scavengers had been identified. The survey in the remaining districts was still on. As per the Act, the government had been rehabilitating the workers by extending them financial help. During the debate on the issue, at one point, the Minister remarked that urban bodies like BBMP were not serious on prohibiting the practice. The local bodies had been provided with machinery to avoid hiring men for the job. Recently, he had chaired a meeting of officers. One more meeting would be held before January 10. Elected representatives would also be invited, he said. Mr. Hariprasad expressed disappointment over repeated incidents of manual scavenging in the State, despite strict laws to prohibit it. “We have acquired technology to reach Mars, but have failed miserably to stop the inhuman practice,” he said. Further referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s act of washing the feet of sanitary workers in Varanasi and calling scavenging work a “spiritual experience”, Mr. Hariprasad said glorification of manual scavenging was unacceptable. Reacting to this, Mr. Poojari said the gesture should be seen as aimed at upholding equality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-5000-manual-scavengers-identified-so-far-in-karnataka/article37949103.ece
14 December 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ensure equitable development of all districts: Siddaramaiah||Siddaramaiah, Leader of Opposition, Satish Jarkiholi, and other Congress leaders joined a padayatra by Anjali Nimbalkar, MLA, near the Suvarna Soudha on Monday. Dr. Nimbalkar began the padayatra from Khanapur on Sunday, against the alleged neglect of her constituency by the State Government. She passed through Yallur and other villages to reach the soudha in 24 hours. She was accompanied by her supporters and a Varkari Bhajana Mandali that sang devotional songs along the way. She alleged that the BJP Government had failed to focus on the overall development of the taluk and did not release enough funds or implement schemes and programmes in Khanapur. Mr. Siddaramaiah urged the Government to ensure equitable development of all districts and taluks and to release adequate funds for development and welfare activities. To a query, the former CM said that the BJP Government was bringing in a new anti-conversion Bill as part of its “agenda of hate politics”. “What is the need for such a law? It will only be misused by the police and other authorities who will target only one community. It will also enable fringe elements to commit violent acts on members of the minorities,” he said. Mr. Satish Jarkiholi, KPCC working president, criticised the plans as regressive and divisive. “Such laws are nothing but weapons to break up the society. These BJP leaders have nothing else in mind, other than dividing the society in the name of caste and religion. All their thought is regressive and divisive,” he said. “We don’t know in what format the BJP will bring in the law. BJP leaders speak of such issues only because they have neither the vision of development nor the power to get votes on the basis of development programmes or welfare schemes,” he said. “The BJP government is trying to bring a new law every six months. They have admitted that there are enough laws against conversion and that they are bringing in a new law to prohibit conversions. Are they saying that the existing laws have failed to stop conversion? If so, why? None of them are willing to answer such questions. All this is only to confuse the people and spread panic. But there is no need to take such things seriously,” he said. He also said that the new farm laws and amendments to revenue and agriculture laws in Karnataka were irrelevant after the Union Government had withdrawn the central farm laws. “These will become invalid over time, here in Karnataka,” he said. Yatindra Siddaramaiah, MLA, and others walked along with Dr. Nimbalkar for a short distance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-equitable-development-of-all-districts-siddaramaiah/article37949276.ece
14 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Kannada activists taken into custody in Belagavi||The police took some Kannada activists into custody after they threw ink on MES leaders in Belagavi on Monday. They were against the MES leaders trying to participate in a Maha Melava rally seeking merger of Belagavi with Maharashtra. The police stopped the rally and asked the MES leaders to leave the venue. However, they refused to leave the venue and picked up an argument with the police instead. Manohar Kinekar, Shubham Shelke, and other leaders argued with the police that they should be allowed to hold the rally, as peaceful protest was their fundamental right. However, the police did not relent, arguing that permission was not given for the rally. By this time, Kannada activists who barged into the venue, began shouting slogans against the MES leaders. Members of the Karnataka Nava Nirmana Vedike, who were carrying black ink, threw it on Deepak Dalvi, Mr. Kinekar and some other leaders. The city police took them into custody and dispersed the crowd. Mr. Dalvi told journalists that MES would call for a Belagavi bandh on Tuesday. Later, the police stopped at the inter-State border Vijay Devane, a Kolhapur-based Shiv Sena leader, who was scheduled to speak at the rally. On the first day of the session, Belagavi also witnessed farmers’ protest demanding repeal of amendments to APMC Act and land reforms Act and seeking statutory guarantee for MSP, immediate release of flood loss relief, and payment of sugarcane arrears.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-activists-taken-into-custody-in-belagavi/article37949090.ece
14 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Medical seat surrender: Minister promises action||Education Minister K. Sudhakar has said that the State Government will take strict measures to avoid private medical colleges benefiting from the surrender of medical seats after three rounds of counselling. Answering a question from BJP member N. Ravikumar in the Legislative Council, the Minister said exploiting a loophole in law, a few private medical colleges were benefiting from surrender of medical seats. In 2019-20 and 2020-21, a total of 1,227 seats were surrendered. “We will introduce heavy penalty in case of surrender of seats so that the problem does not continue in the coming years,” Mr. Sudhakar said. Earlier, Mr. Ravikumar said over 1.19 lakh students took the entrance examination for medical seats in the State. Of them, 89,539 were eligible to get seats. As many as 33,650 attended the interview. And, finally only 8,535 students got the seats. “When such is the competition to get medical seats, how come people surrender seats? It is a mafia involving some colleges and students. The colleges inform about the surrender of the seats only at the last hour of the counselling, so that nobody can take them. The government should conduct another round of counselling to fill all the seats,” he said.  The Minister responded that as per the Supreme Court’s ruling, only three rounds of counselling could be conducted. Vacancies in govt. hospitals Responding to a question on vacancies in government hospitals, raised by Mahantesh Kavatagimath of the BJP, Mr. Sudhakar said the government had revised the policy in recruitment of doctors. As many as 885 general duty doctors had been appointed. The second list of another 150 doctors would be released soon. Similarly, 692 specialists had been appointed. Among them, 343 had reported to duty. The second list of specialists would also be released soon, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medical-seat-surrender-minister-promises-action/article37949100.ece
14 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah stresses need for probe into chopper crash||Both Houses of the State Legislature on Monday paid rich tributes to General Bipin Rawat while Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah sought an inquiry into the reasons for the crash of the helicopter in which he was travelling. “People are anxious to know the reason as the helicopter was a sophisticated one,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said, while participating in a debate on obituary motion to pay tribute to prominent personalities who died recently. He made it clear that he did not suspect anyone, but that people were curious to know what led to crash. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai expressed shock over the incident by pointing out that it was a general belief that defence helicopters were the safest. He said that Gen. Rawat had close links with Karnataka as he was inspired by seniors General Cariappa and General Thimmaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-stresses-need-for-probe-into-chopper-crash/article37949094.ece
14 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Pension at doorstep promised||The State Government will make arrangements to provide old age pensions at the doorsteps for those unable to reach the nearest post office or bank. Revenue Minister R. Ashok announced in the Legislative Assembly that the system will be put in place soon to reduce inconvenience to beneficiaries. “A total of Rs. 7,899 crore is being disbursed as various pensions/financial assistance to about 69.08 lakh beneficiaries,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pension-at-doorstep-promised/article37949096.ece
14 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Love jihad’ law too in the offing: Minister||Amidst opposition to the proposed Anti-conversion Bill, Cabinet Ministers on Monday indicated that a separate legislation against “love jihad” too would follow. Ahead of the commencement of Winter session of the Legislature, Energy Minister Sunil Kumar, while defending the Anti-conversion bill, said the BJP Government would bring a separate law against “love jihad”. Later, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa also said such a law will be brought to “protect women”. “In the name of ‘love jihad’, women are being sold abroad and abandoned after marriage,” he said. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra confirmed to The Hindu that discussion in the government has started on bringing such a legislation. “However, it will take time since we want to bring legislation that will stand the test of law,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/love-jihad-law-too-in-the-offing-minister/article37949099.ece
14 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Power dues: Religious places owe Rs. 2.64 crore||Temples, mosques and churches owe over Rs. 2.64 crore to power supply companies, Minister for Energy V. Sunil Kumar said on Monday. He was answering a question raised by BJP member Muniraju Gowda in the Legislative Council. The total amount due from 10,840 temples is over Rs. 2.15 crore. The total due from 2,139 mosques is about Rs. 34.21 lakh and the amount due from 684 churches is about Rs. 15.24 lakh. When Mr. Gowda demanded that dues from temples be waived, the Minister said there was no such a proposal before the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-dues-religious-places-owe-rs-264-crore/article37949101.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 2,000 trees may make way for metro on ORR||Over 2,000 trees are likely to make way for the Namma Metro project on Outer Ring Road (ORR). The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL), which has already begun construction for the project, had received ‘permission’ from the offices of Deputy Conservator of Forest of BBMP and Bengaluru Urban District to remove 2,037 trees. The BMRCL had approached the tree officers (DCF) for removal of 2,115 trees to build elevated corridors, 13 metro stations, widening the road and shifting utilities. The identified trees are located on a stretch of 19.9 km from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram (some up to Baiyappanahalli depot). As per the three official memoranda issued by the DCFs, of the 2,115 trees, 1,257 will be felled, 780 will be translocated, 71 trees will be retained on the site and with regard to seven trees, decision on removal will be taken at a later stage. Translocation of trees The order states that the BMRCL has to carry out translocation of trees in Bagmane Tech park, CMP training centre and lake areas located near Bhoganahalli, Thubarahalli and Nallurahalli, among others. The translocation has to be done under the supervision of forest division of the BBMP and methodology suggested by the experts of University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS). The BMRCL should make sure that translocated trees are maintained for three years and should not be felled in future for any kind of construction works inside the tech park. The BMRCL should also take up compensatory afforestation work by planting 10 saplings for each removed tree. Compensatory afforestation has to be taken up within six months of removing trees, it says. Over 800 objections The public notices seeking objections and suggestions from the general public on removal of trees on ORR had received 800 responses. The highest number - 776 - was received when notices were issued for removal of trees identified between Central Silk Board to Kodibeesanahalli. Most of the objections were related to seeking extension of time for filing objections citing the pandemic, restricting the felling of trees, and increasing compensatory afforestation measures. Responses were also received on discrepancies in the number of trees identified during the preparation of the detailed project report, environmental impact assessment and those proposed to the tree officers. The BMRCL had maintained that reports were prepared in 2019 and 2020 respectively whereas enumeration of the list of trees was done in July 2021. The agency had also said that some saplings falling under the category of trees and changes in extent of land required for the project contributed to the number of trees identified for removal. Responding to the office memorandum issued by the tree officers, Anjum Parwez, MD, BMRCL said, “Based on the expert committee report, the Office Memoranda (OM) have been issued by the tree officers. These OMs will be placed before the Karnataka High Court. We will follow the High Court order on removal of trees and compensatory afforestation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-2000-trees-may-make-way-for-metro-on-orr/article37949068.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Special needs child killed||A man allegedly killed his 10-year-old differently-abled son by drowning him in a water sump at their residence in Sampangiramanagar and later ended his life in an abandoned shed in Seshadripuram on Monday. The child has been identified as Uday Sai who was mute and visually challenged. Sai was the only son of Suresh, 40, and Lakshmi, 35, residing in a rented house in Sampangiramanagar. Lakshmi was working as a teacher before but had to quit to take care of her son. Suresh was an autorickshaw driver. According to the police, the incident took place on Monday between 6.30 a.m. to 7 a.m. Suresh dropped his sleeping son into the sump before closing the lid and going away. Hethen went to an empty plot on Platform Road in Seshadripuram where he found an abandoned shed and ended his life inside. The police said that Suresh had a spinal cord injury and was advised to undergo an operation immediately. Due to the pandemic, his work had taken a hit and he was in a financial crises. Lakshmi told the police that he was very depressed after hearing about the operation and told her a couple of times that he and his son would end their lives so that she could live without them becoming a burden. “However, she had not taken it seriously and on Monday morning when she couldn’t find the father and son, she suspected something was amiss. She found her son’s body in the sump. As the boy was mute, no one in the building heard anything,” said an officer. Later in the evening, the public, who noticed Suresh’s body, informed the jurisdictional police. The Sampangiramanagar police have taken up a case of murder against Suresh while Seshadripuram police have registered a case of abetment to suicide.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-needs-child-killed/article37949081.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Crucial Legislative Council poll results to be out today||The much-anticipated results of the polls to 25 seats of Legislative Council from 20 Local Authorities constituencies will be announced on Tuesday. The biennial election results could propel the ruling BJP to majority in the Upper House for the first time and also bring in new members. However, the recomposition of the House will not have any bearing on the ongoing Assembly session as the tenure of new members will kick in only after January 5. The BJP and Congress are contesting in 20 seats each, and JD(S) is contesting in six seats in the South Karnataka region. The polls were held on December 10. Of the 25 members retiring on January 5, 2022, 14 are from Congress, six from BJP, four from JD(S), besides an Independent.  The BJP, which currently has 32 seats in the 75-member House, is hoping to wrest a majority that will help it pilot legislations independently without depending on the JS(S) that currently has 13 members (including the Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti). The BJP has to win 13 seats of the 25 that have gone for elections to gain a majority in the Upper House, and BJP sources said that the party was hoping to win at least 15. Among the prominent members of the House seeking re-election include Social Welfare Minister Kota Srinivasa Poojary, Deputy Chairman M.K. Pranesh, JD(S) Chief Whip Appaji Gowda, and BJP Chief Whip Mahantesh Kavathagimath. Curiously, being watched in political circle is the result for two seats from Belagavi Local Authorities constituency where Lakhan Jarkiholi from the politically influential Jarkiholi clan is in the fray as an Independent, pitted against Mr. Kavathagimath and Congress candidate Chennaraj Hattiholi, brother of Congress legislator Lakshmi Hebbalkar. Last session For senior leaders, including Leader of Opposition S.R. Patil, Congress Chief Whip M. Narayanaswamy and former Chairman Prathapchandra Shetty, the Belagavi Winter session that got underway on Monday is the last session as they are set to retire on January 5. While Mr. Shetty and Mr. Narayanaswamy had refused to contest the polls, Mr. Patil was denied ticket by the Congress from Vijayapura-Bagalkot duel constituency where it decided to field only Sunil Gouda Patil, brother of former Water Resources Minister M.B. Patil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crucial-legislative-council-poll-results-to-be-out-today/article37949097.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘40% cut’ charge: Contractors to hold mega rally in Jan. demanding action||Demanding that the government curb corrupt practices in various departments, the Karnataka State Contractors’ Association has decided to organise a mega protest rally in Bengaluru in January. The announcement came amidst the ongoing legislature session where the issue is expected to be raised by the Opposition. The association has alleged that 30% to 40% of the sanctioned amount for the projects go for bribes in various departments such as the Public Works Department, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, Water Resources, and Rural Development Department. The association had even written letters to the Prime Minister, the Governor, and the Chief Minister seeking intervention. On Monday, at a press conference, D. Kempanna, president of the association, said that over one lakh contractors of the State will take part in the protest rally. “Every year, corruption level is increasing. No government takes measures to curb the practices. Corruption is happening from the stage of tender process to clearance of bills. Due to corruption, the quality of works is being compromised. In addition, contractors of the State are being ignored while awarding contracts and people from outside the State are preferred,” he alleged. Mr. Kempanna said protests are being organised at the district level already. The association has demanded the government order an inquiry on corruption at the highest level. “The State Government should think about bringing more transparency in the tender process and payment of bills. A new system should be brought involving high end technology to end corrupt practices,” he said. The association has also asked the State Government to clear pending bills of Rs. 22,000 crore. The association said the PWD, Water Resources, and the BBMP are yet to clear pending bills of over Rs. 10,000 crore. The State Government was asked to abolish the package system in calling tender, instead of calling tender for each project. “The departments are clubbing multiple projects and announce it as a package to call tender. This is being done to favour contractors from neighbouring states. Package system should be stopped in coming days,” a press release from the association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/40-cut-charge-contractors-to-hold-mega-rally-in-jan-demanding-action/article37949095.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Survey on nutritional status of children who consumed eggs||The Department of Public Instruction (DPI) plans to conduct a survey of students in government schools who have consumed eggs in eight districts in the State. The survey will be conducted at the end of the month to check if there is any improvement in the nutritional status of children. The department had asked government schools to begin supply of eggs from December 1. Students who do not eat eggs were provided bananas. Sources in the department said that the survey would be conducted at the end of December. The survey will examine how many students are consuming eggs, if there is any improvement in their nutritional status and if there are adverse effects or allergies reported among these children. Currently, eggs are provided to students from Classes I to VIII in government schools in Bidar, Raichur, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Koppal, Ballari, Vijayapura and Vijayanagar. The objective of conducting the survey, officials said, is to learn the benefits of providing eggs to children. “We have currently asked schools to provide them eggs 12 times a month and Rs. 6 is provided for each child. If the malnourishment rates have come down, we can urge the State government to extend this project to all other districts,” a source said. The department has come under pressure from religious heads to stop distribution of eggs. Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh had even said that they are exploring other alternatives to eggs. However, department officials maintained that they were only looking at alternatives to bananas as they did not have protein. “We are looking at chikkis as an alternative to banana as peanuts have protein and they have jaggery and are not high in sugar content. We also are in talks with companies to avoid the use of plastic in packing these chikkis,” a source in the department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/survey-on-nutritional-status-of-children-who-consumed-eggs/article37949070.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kannada in UG courses: ‘Don’t precipitate process of admission’||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday directed both the State Government and the universities not to precipitate the process of admission of students when the issue of making making Kannada a compulsory language for undergraduate courses is pending for adjudication before the court. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, passed the interim order during the hearing of a PIL petition by Samskrita Bharati (Karnataka) Trust and other educational institutions, and another petition filed by a group of students. The petitioners had challenged the Government’s decision to make Kannada a compulsory subject “purportedly on the pretext of implementing the National Education Policy-2020”. The Bench passed the interim order when it was pointed out to the court that the universities were insisting that the colleges send the final list of admitted students for completing the admission process and such an action would prejudice the interest of students, who are forced to study Kannada though they wanted to pursue language other than Kannada. Earlier, Additional Solicitor-General of India M.B. Nargund, sought some time to clarify the stand of the Union Government on the issue of making Kannada a compulsory language for all students in UG courses. “The Union of India is in a Catch-22 situation and needs some time to clarify its stand on issues raised in these petitions,” Mr. Nargund said. Contending that making Kannada a compulsory language was contrary to the choice-based system promoted by the NEP-2020, it was argued on behalf of the petitioners that the Government’s decision was against Articles 14, 19, 21, 29 and 30 of the Constitution as they violated freedom of speech and expression, the right of minorities and linguistic minorities, and other students to chose languages of their choice for study. Further hearing was adjourned till December 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-in-ug-courses-dont-precipitate-process-of-admission/article37949064.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nine held for theft||The Halasuru Gate police have cracked a gold shop burglary case with the arrest of nine persons, including a gang from Jaipur that had come to the city a month ago. The accused are Sunil Mali, Rajendra, Dhiraj, Ravi, Devaraj, Dhawarlal, Vinod, Goverdhan, Ashok Kumar, Dinesh, and Sriram. The police recovered 440 g of gold biscuits, 1 kg silver, and cash of Rs. 1.5 lakh, totally worth Rs. 24 lakh from them. Two are on the run and efforts are on to track them down, Najma Farooqi, Assistant Commissioner of Police, said. Sunil used to work at Ganesh Gold Corp, a gold shop in Nagarathpet. The owner of the shop filed a complaint on October 6 that his shop had been burgled. The Halasuru Gate police took up investigation and arrested Sunil, who led them to arrest the other members. Sunil had worked at at the shop for sometime. He had taken huge loans and moneylenders were harassing him. He hatched a plan to rob the shop by roping in a professional gang from his home State of Rajasthan with a proposal to share the loot equally. He invited the gang and arranged accommodation and equipment. After closely monitoring the movement of the shopkeeper and his holiday plans, the accused struck and escaped with the valuables. The accused had even cut open the CCTV connection and destroyed the DVR. However, technical evidence gathered from the area helped the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-held-for-theft/article37949078.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. to constitute panel to address demands of guest lecturers||To address the issues of guest lecturers, the State Government has decided constitute a committee with ACS, Department of Higher Education, as the head of the committee. A press release from the Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan’s office stated that the secretaries of the Departments of Finance and Law, besides Commissioner, DCTE, will be members of the committee. The release from the Minister’s office also said that a meeting of MLCs from the graduates’ constituency and teachers’ constituency chaired by Basavaraj Horatti, Chairman of the Legislative Council, will be held in Belagavi on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-constitute-panel-to-address-demands-of-guest-lecturers/article37949080.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three arrested for murder||A 35-year-old Nigerian national was allegedly stabbed to death by a gang of three at Banaswadi on Sunday night. The police arrested the accused a few hours after the incident came to light. The deceased has been identified as Victor P., who was on a business visa, while the accused are Arun, Philip, and Neelakantha, residents of Kammanahalli. According to the police, the incident occurred around 9.30 p.m. when Victor had come to a shop at Kullappa Circle and picked a quarrel with the gang members who were under the influence of alcohol. In a fit of rage, they stabbed Victor and fled from the scene. Passersby shifted him to a nearby hospital where he succumbed. The Banasawadi police swung into action and arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-arrested-for-murder/article37949062.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New Rajahamsa service||Effective from December 15, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will be introducing new Rajahamsa services for the convenience of the travelling public/pilgrims on the Bengaluru to Pampa/Neelkal (Sabarimala) routes. According to a release, the Bengaluru-Pampa/Neelkal service will leave from Shanthinagar bus station at 1 p.m. and reach Neelkal (Pampa) at 8.15 p.m. In the return direction, it will leave Neelkal (Pampa) at 5 p.m. and arrive in Bengaluru at midnight. The fair per person is Rs. 950.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-rajahamsa-service/article37949072.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 236 new cases, 7 deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 236 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to over 30 lakh. Of these, 121 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With seven deaths, the toll rose to 38,268. Besides this, there were 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 321 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 29.55 lakh. The State now has 7,236 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.29 %, the CFR touched 2.96%. As many as 80,217 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 70,719 lakh RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-236-new-cases-7-deaths/article37949076.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NGO helps ironwallahs migrate from coal to LPG-powered boxes||Udhyam Vyapaar, a part of Udhyam Learning Foundation, a Bengaluru-based NGO founded by ex-Flipkart CPO Mekin Maheshwari, is trying to iron out the problems faced by ironwallahs by helping them migrate from coal to LPG-powered boxes. A study conducted by Udhyam Vyapaar revealed that the input fuel, coal, was the root cause of the challenges faced by istri entrepreneurs. From high and unregulated fuel costs to the wasted time spent on getting the fuel to the right temperature, to respiratory side effects of inhaling coal fumes for years on end, the list of burning issues was endless, as per the study. The NGO also identified a sustainable alternative, an LPG-based iron box. A pilot conducted involving istri entrepreneurs revealed that shifting from coal-powered iron boxes to LPG-powered ones resulted in increased productivity and earnings and reduced health issues. Time saved The pilot also revealed that entrepreneurs saved between 1.5-2 hours per day, which is otherwise spent on heating the coal to the right temperature. This productivity increase resulted in an overall income uplift of 27%, claimed the NGO in a statement. A collaboration Udhyam Vyapaar has collaborated with the CSR team of ThoughtWorks and LetsEndorse Development to create a subsidy possibility, to buy an LPG iron box, for a cohort of 250 istri entrepreneurs in Bengaluru. Quicker transformation After seeing the positive impact of this initiative on the livelihood and health of entrepreneurs, the NGO is now doing all it can to accelerate the transformation to LPG for more ironing service providers, as per the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ngo-helps-ironwallahs-migrate-from-coal-to-lpg-powered-boxes/article37949077.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC lifts curbs on declaring result of BULA constituency||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday lifted the restrictions imposed on the Election Commission of India (EC) on declaring the result of the elections held to the Legislative Council from Bangalore Urban Local Authorities (BULA) constituency. A Division Bench passed the order while disposing of an appeal filed by EC against a single judge order of December 9. The single judge had directed the EC to keep a separate ballot box for the 15 nominated members of the three town municipal councils of Bommasandra, Attibele, and Anekal coming under BULA constituency to caste their votes. Besides, the single judge had also directed EC not to announce the results of the poll without prior approval of the court pending consideration of the issue on whether 15 nominated members of the local authorities have the right to vote in the election to the Legislative Council when the Article 243R of the Constitution prohibits nominated members from voting in the council meetings of the respective municipal bodies. The interim order of December 9 was passed on a petition filed by Yousuf Sharif, who is contesting from BULA constituency as a Congress candidate. Though the division bench said that EC can announce the result of the election, it has clarified that the result from BULA constituency would be subject to the final outcome of the petition, filed by the Mr. Sharief pending before the single judge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-lifts-curbs-on-declaring-result-of-bula-constituency/article37949093.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rajasthan bags investment proposals worth Rs. 74,312 cr.||Rajasthan Government has bagged investment proposals (comprising four MoUs and 15 Letters of Intent) worth Rs. 74,312 crore at an investor connect programme conducted in Bengaluru, a precursor to Invest Rajasthan 2022, its investment exposition scheduled to be held between January 24 and 25, 2022 in Jaipur. These investment commitments came from technology-based industries such as robotics, EV, technical textile, and renewable energy along with conventional sectors of hospitality, healthcare and real estate. JSW Neo Energy made a proposal to develop a 1,000-MW hydro pump-based energy storage plant in Sirohi district at an estimated investment of Rs. 4,900 crore. Addverb Technologies has made a commitment to develop an industrial automation and robotics products manufacturing unit at Karoli EMC zone in Alwar district. The State bagged investment proposals worth Rs. 160 crore from Mysore. Shakuntla Rawat, Industries and Commerce Minister, Rajasthan, said, “Investor enthusiasm at the recent investor connect programme testifies to their confidence in the State's potential and policies of the State government. It has also raised our expectations of the success of Invest Rajasthan.” The Rajasthan government, in partnership with the Confederation of Indian Industry, hosted an investment roadshow in Bengaluru on Monday . Overwhelmed by the success of the roadshow, the State has raised the tally of total committed investment to over Rs. 5 lakh crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rajasthan-bags-investment-proposals-worth-rs-74312-cr/article37949065.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man, woman found dead||A woman and her male friend were found dead on the outskirts of the city on Sunday. They have been identified as Pushpalatha, 25, from Dasegoudanapalya and and Mohan Kumar, 24, from Magadi. Pushpalatha had separated from her husband and was living with her parents. Mohan who was also married, and worked in a chicken stall, was in a relationship with her. On Sunday, they had an argument, following which Pushpalatha ended her life. Mohan followed suit. The incident came to light when passersby saw the bodies and alerted the Kudur police.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-woman-found-dead/article37949063.ece
14 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||All set for counting of votes in Dharwad||All necessary arrangements have been made for the counting of votes for the election to Dharwad local authorities’ constituency of the Legislative Council at the University of Agricultural Sciences in Dharwad on Tuesday. Speaking to presspersons after reviewing the arrangements for counting, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad and Returning Officer Nitesh Patil said that the counting of votes would begin at 8 a.m. and the results are expected to be declared by 2 p.m. He said 14 tables had been set up for counting of votes and three counting personnel had been deployed to each table. In all 77 personnel had been deployed for counting of votes. And for ensuring adequate protection , 230 police personnel would be on duty, he said. Mr. Patil said that only those with valid pass issued by the State ECI including candidates, counting agents would be allowed and use of mobile inside the centre was strictly barred. He said that as there was preferential voting, requisite training had been given to the counting staff . The counting of votes was a tricky issue when compared to the counting of votes in other elections held through ballot papers. The staff would first sort the valid votes and then count the first preferential votes. As the election was held for two seats, the votes each candidate secured as first preference would be taken into consideration before counting the second preferential votes. If no candidates secured required votes in first preference, then second preferential votes would be counted, he said. In the dual seat constituency, sitting MLC Pradeep Shettar from BJP is seeking re-election while Saleem Ahmed is the Congress candidate. Apart from these two, Shivakumar Talawar, Fakkeereddi V Attigeri (both Janata Party), Irapppa Gubber, Basavaraj Kotagi, Mallikarjun Haveri, Mahesh Joshi, Manjunath Admani, and Virupaxagouda Patil (all Independents) are in fray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-set-for-counting-of-votes-in-dharwad/article37949287.ece
14 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Probe into ‘poor quality’ ROB work begins||Following a complaint about poor quality work being carried out in the construction of the road overbridge (ROB) on the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS), a dedicated bus corridor between Hubballi-Dharwad, a team of Lokayukta has begun its investigation into the issue. On Monday, a team of officials from Lokayukta visited the ROB at Navalur between Hubballi and Dharwad and questioned the officials of Karnataka Road Transport Development Corporation (KRDCL) over the issue. The team’s visit was in response to a complaint filed by resident Nagaraj Karennavar, who had complained to the Lokayukta about the alleged low quality work. In his complaint Mr. Karennavar had allegd that the ROBs at Navalur had turned weak within three years and the ROBs were often closed for taking up repair works. The Lokayukta team comprised Assistant Engineer Ravishanakar, KRDCL executive engineer Sunil Kumar and Assistant Engineer Rizwan Ahmed. They also inspected the ROB and also checked with the officials concerned. It might be recalled that there have been complaints about the ROB at Navalur from the beginning and a portion of the ROB started to crumble in September last year and several cement plates came off subsequently, forcing the administration to close the ROB for repair works. MLA Arvind Bellad who had raised the issue of BRTS being unscientifically executed, had later written to then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa complaining that it was due to poor quality work. Although Mr. Yediyurappa ordered for an inquiry into the issue, the team of inter-department officials gave a clean chit saying that there was sub standard work. The report had also said that there was no technical flaw in the project and said that it was due to waterlogging. It was after their report that Mr. Karennavar had filed complaint with the Lokayukta seeking thorough enquiry Meanwhile, strengthening of the ROB’s wall has been taken up by providing duffle protection. According to KRDCL executive engineer N.K. Kundakar the duffle protection wall would be completed in next two months after which a further development plan of the ROB would be initiated. He said a technical team from Bengaluru had suggested duffle protection and according the contractor who had bagged the work had been asked to provide the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/probe-into-poor-quality-rob-work-begins/article37949488.ece
14 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Get police protection for exams, KSLU tells principals||After having clarified to the protesting students that the offline examinations would be conducted as scheduled from December 15, the Karnataka State Law University (KSLU) has now asked principals of affiliated colleges to seek police protection to conduct the examination. Meanwhile the unrelenting law students have continued the protest at the KSLU campus in Hubballi and several others have reached the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi and staged a protest on Monday. In the wake of confusion among the students about the offline examination as still the protests have continued at Hubballi and Belagavi, the Registrar (Evaluation) has sent a circular to all affiliated colleges further clarifying that the examinations would be conducted from December 15 and asked the colleges to make necessary arrangements. In the circular, it is also mentioned that the examinations are being conducted in accordance with the order of the High Court of Karnataka in writ petition Nos. 0001245/2021, 1269/2021 and 1259/2021 and as per the timetable already announced. In the circular, the Registrar (Evaluation) has asked the colleges to get police protection from the nearest station. The principals of the colleges should submit a requisition to the police along with the court order copy and the timetable seeking security for conducting examination. And also the copies of the requisitions submitted to the police stations should be emailed to the examination section of the university, the Registrar (Evaluation) has said in the circular. Meanwhile, the protest seeking cancellation offline examination and conducting the same through other modes of examination continued at the KSLU campus in Hubballi. One of the students on fast, who was hospitalised after his condition deteriorated, rejoined the protest after treatment. A bigger group of law students staged protest in front of the Suvarana Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi with the same demands. Meanwhile two interlocutory applications have been filed: one at the principal bench of the High Court of Karnataka in Bengaluru and another at the Dharwad Bench. The students are hoping that the High Court may give some relief to them on Tuesday as the counsels of Bar Council of India have reportedly conveyed to the court that they had no qualms if the university conducted examination through other modes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/get-police-protection-for-exams-kslu-to-principals/article37949274.ece
14 December 2021||Hyderabad,KARNATAKA||Pushpa event: Mythri Movie Makers booked||A case was registered against Mythri Movie Makers, for allowing more than 15,000 people against the actual permission of 5,000 at Allu Arjun and Rashmika Mandanna starrer Pushpa movie pre-release event held at Telangana State Special Police Battalion grounds at Yousufguda, on Sunday. Jubilee Hills Inspector S. Rajashekar Reddy said that the management of Mythri Movie Makers was given permission to allow only 5,000 people. “But, they have violated the permission and sold over 15,000 passes and mobilised people, which resulted in massive traffic jams and disturbance to normal life in the area,” he said. “It was not like people came voluntarily, everyone who was in and around the premises was holding passes, which means they sold passes beyond granted permission. The crowd swelled and behaved in an unruly manner causing threat and endangered human life due to rash and negligent act by the organisers,” Mr. Reddy said. There was every likelihood of stampede and the organisers misled the police by giving false representation, he said. A case was booked and probe was launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pushpa-event-mythri-movie-makers-booked/article37949086.ece
14 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Ballari police nab robbers within an hour of crime||In a swift action in the early hours on Monday, the Brucepet police in Ballari city nabbed four persons who had allegedly robbed a jewellery shop employee of Rs. 41 lakh and recovered the money within an hour of the crime. As per information provided by Superintendent of Police Saidulu Adavath, four persons – Asad, 25, Venkatesh, 34, Rasool, 35, and Dharvesh Rahim, 28 – had allegedly robbed Mehabub Pasha, an employee of VK Jewellers in Ballari, of Rs. 41 lakh in cash outside the veterinary hospital near Moti Circle at about 5.15 a.m. Mr. Pasha was, he added, carrying the money to Bengaluru. The police registered a case under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. A team, headed by Deputy Superintendent of Police Ramesh H.B., managed to nab the accused within an hour of the crime and recovered the cash and a two-wheeler used for the crime. In a media note, Mr. Adavath commended the officers for the swift operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ballari-police-nab-robbers-within-an-hour-of-crime/article37949272.ece
14 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Deputy Commissioner inspects counting centre||Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna on Monday paid a visit to the Department of Mathematics on the Gulbarga University campus where the counting of votes for the Legislative Council elections will be held on Tuesday. “As many as 14 tables have been kept for the purpose. Each table will have a count supervisor, two count assistants, and a Group D staff. The ballot papers of 391 polling stations which have been kept in the strong room will be opened at 8 a.m. on Tuesday,” Ms. Jyothsna told mediapersons after taking stock of the preparations. Explaining the counting methodology, Ms. Jyothsna said that the ballot papers having preferential votes should be taken up for counting first and the counting of first preference votes would be completed in a single round. To a question, Ms. Jyothsna said that victory celebrations would not be allowed near the counting centre. “The Government has issued guidelines in view of the pandemic, as per which the victory celebrations are not allowed,” she said. There are three candidates in the fray – B.G. Patil from the BJP, Shivanand Patil from the Congress, and Independent candidate Mallikarjun Kodli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deputy-commissioner-inspects-counting-centre/article37949285.ece
14 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Hospital holds special session for doctors||As part of its continuing medical education initiatives, Devata Hospital organised a special session for young doctors on the basics of genetics and prenatal screening at a private hotel here on Sunday. After inaugurating the event, Emeritus Professor of Medicine Nadoja P.S. Shankar made a brief presentation on the contributions of the Federation of Obstetric and Gynecological Societies of India (FOGSI) with a special focus on its activities in Karnataka and appreciated the initiative of Devata Hospital for organising the session. “Many genetic diseases like Down’s Syndrome are preventable when proper prenatal tests are offered to the pregnant women. This would also drastically bring down the financial burden on the families and, in turn, the nation, by optimal antenatal care said,” Dr. Megha, a senior obstetrician and gynaecologist, from Devata Hospital said. The FOGSI ultrasound training certificate was given to three doctors – Sapna Shah, Mahevish, and Meeta Angadi. Around 80 doctors from different districts in the State and outside attended the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospital-holds-special-session-for-doctors/article37949270.ece
14 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Bowstring steel girder RoB to come up at Indrali||The National Highways Division of the Public Works Department (PWD) has proposed to build a 54m bowstring steel girder road overbridge atop the Mangaluru-Mumbai railway line on NH 169A at Indrali in Udupi. To be built at an estimated cost of Rs. 9 crore, the RoB provides the missing link for the four-lane project of Malpe-Tirthahalli NH 169A between Udupi and Manipal. “We have sent the proposal to the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways and awaiting its approval,” said a senior PWD engineer. While the four-lane work of the highway between Karavali Junction of Udupi (NH 66) and Parkala off Manipal is almost complete, the RoB at Indrali near Udupi railway station continues to remain two-lane. Road users were put to great hardship to negotiate the narrow stretch riddled with battered approach roads for long. The engineer said construction of an RoB entails many clearances from the Railways even as the PWD had planned a 33m RoB to match the existing width of the railway path. The department had also got approval for the project to be executed at an estimated cost of Rs. 6 crore from MoRTH. However, Konkan Railway Corporation wanted the RoB to cover the entire 48m width of its land so as to facilitate any future expansion of railway lines. Doubling of the railway track on KRCL network was already on the cards. Hence, the PWD proposed a 54m RoB, the engineer said. An estimated 476 tonnes of galvanised steel would be used to erect the bridge with prefabrication. The prefabrication would be done using submerged arc welding process at the workshop itself and the prefabricated material would be dragged 5 metres each day to the position every day once the approval was given. Concrete would be laid after dragging all the elements to their position parallel to the existing RoB. Abutment work to erect piles for the bridge on both the ends was already complete. All the plans and drawings were approved by the Railways, the engineer said. The two-lane steel RoB would be in addition to the existing RoB, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bowstring-steel-girder-rob-to-come-up-at-indrali/article37949450.ece
14 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Training in alternative building technologies held||The Mangaluru Centre of Gramavidya organised a two-day introductory course on alternative and energy efficient building technologies in Mangaluru on Friday and Saturday. As many as 12 participants attended the programme that included lectures, audio-visual presentations, hands-on training, and interactive open house discussions. The course covered themes, including universal heritage of earthen architecture, stabilised mud construction techniques, passive solar architecture, alternatives in foundation, alternatives in roofing systems, filler slabs, composite T-beam roofs, masonry vaults and domes, earthquake resistant masonry, and cultural approach to design. The participants included young engineers and architects, a mason, doctor, trader, farmer, and a software engineer. Gramavidya chairman and former civil engineering professor with the Indian Institute of Science K.S. Jagadish gave the keynote address. “The young professionals in this field should come forward to lead the alternative technology movement for a sustainable future and healthy livelihood,” he said. Subhas Chandra Basu, coordinator of Gramavidya Mangaluru Centre, introduced the programme. Engineers Harish Prasad and Pramod of Gramavidya Bengaluru Centre were the chief resource persons who led the hands-on demonstration and training, said a release. Gramavidya is a voluntary organization for research and dissemination of alternative technologies. It is promoted by a group of professionals, academicians, scientists, technologists, and sociologists with the dream of creating self-reliant and sustainable livelihoods through appropriate alternative environment friendly technologies. The promoters of Gramavidya have developed alternative and energy efficient construction technologies in the country. Over the last three decades, they have popularised these technologies throughout the country, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/training-in-alternative-building-technologies-held/article37949464.ece
14 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||CAMPCO releases two new products||Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative Ltd (CAMPCO), Mangaluru has released two new cocoa based products. They are ‘The Dairy Dream Fruit and Nut’, a slab chocolate, and ‘Winner with Jaggery’ which is a drinking chocolate. The ‘Dairy Dream Fruit and Nut’ is made out of milk powder, cocoa, badam and raisin. Its 40 gram slab has been priced at Rs. 40. The drinking chocolate has been made from cocoa and jaggery. It can be consumed both as a hot and a cold drink. Its 300 gram packet has been priced at Rs. 180, according to a release from the cooperative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/campco-releases-two-new-products/article37949461.ece
14 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Stir to be intensified if roads around Surathkal not improved’||The Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) on Monday staged a demonstration, protesting the pathetic condition of the road network in and around Surathkal and Kana and burnt the effigy of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC). Stating that residents would intensify their agitation if roads were not improved, DYFI warned of laying siege to the MLA’s office if works were not undertaken in a fortnight. Addressing the participants, DYFI State president Muneer Katipalla alleged Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty has miserably failed to execute development works in his constituency. The new road project that got sanctioned during the tenure of the previous MLA was cancelled because of Dr. Shetty’s inability. Work on Krishnapura Market too has come to a halt. Mr. Katipalla alleged having failed to usher in development works in the constituency, the MLA was inciting communal flare to cover up his failure. The MCC does not even have funds to undertake road patch work at a time when the BJP Government was allegedly involved in 40% commission scam in civil work projects. DYFI district president B.K. Imtiyaz said Dr. Shetty who had reaped political mileage using the pathetic condition of roads in Surathkal during the elections, was now ignoring infrastructure development. While crores of rupees were unnecessarily being spent in some parts of Mangaluru, Surathkal region was being denied of Smart City project benefits. Mr. Imtiyaz said the Surathkal-Kana main road was in disuse following movement of heavy vehicles to and from industries, including MRPL, MSEZ etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stir-to-be-intensified-if-roads-around-surathkal-not-improved/article37949453.ece
14 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Kashi Vishwanath corridor inauguration screened||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday arranged screening of the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor at the premises of Kadri Manjunatha and seven other temples in Dakshina Kannada. At the Kadri Manjunatha temple, Swami Ekagamyananda from Ramakrishna Mutt said the inauguration of the corrdior was a momentous occasion. State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel said with rejuvenation of places of worship like Kedarnath and Kashi Vishwanath Temples, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was strengthening the nation’s belief in these pilgrimage centres. “Governments in the past have used religion to divide society. Mr. Modi is working to strengthen places of worship and showcase the spiritual knowledge across the world,” he said. District BJP president Sudershan Moodbidri also attended the screening. A similar screening was held at Somanatha temple in Someshwar, Kateel Durgaparameshwari temple, Soutadka Mahaganapati temple in Belthangady taluk, Nandavara Vinayaka Shankaranarayana temple in Bantwal, Mahalingeshwara temple in Puttur, and Kukke Subrahamanya temple in Subrahmanya. In Udupi district, screening was arranged at Shri Samstana Gowdapadacharya Mutt in Atrady. At the screening in the premises of Pejawar Mutt in Udupi Car Street, Udupi district BJP president Kuilady Suresh Nayak said with the corridor, the Prime Minister has brought back the grandeur of popular pilgrimage places. Pejawar Mutt seer Vishwaprasanna Tirtha Swami, in his video message from Kashi, congratulated Mr. Modi for providing nation a grand Kashi temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kashi-vishwanath-corridor-inauguration-screened/article37949454.ece
14 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Minorities corpn. seeks Rs. 200 crore to clear Arivu loan scheme backlog||The Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation has sought about Rs. 200 crore from the State Government for renewal of the Arivu Education Loan scheme for students pursuing medical, engineering and other professional courses for academic years 2019-20 and earlier, said corporation chairman Mukhtar Hussain Pathan here on Monday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Pathan said the scheme from 2020-21 academic year was made applicable for students opting for government quota seats alone and it would not be available for students opting management quota. The KMDC released Rs. 10 crore to the Karnataka Examination Authority for the beneficiaries of 2020-21 academic year. For the beneficiaries of the scheme for 2019-20 and earlier academic years when scheme was open for management quota seats too, Mr. Pathan said the corporation was renewing it for the total duration of the course. “We have already cleared their dues that totals to Rs. 168 crore. We have sought grant of Rs. 196 crore for these beneficiaries,” Mr. Pathan said and added the corporation has sought a total grant of Rs. 500 crore from the Government for Arivu and other schemes of the corporation. Calling upon people from minority communities to apply for Arivu and other schemes namely Shramashakti loan, Micro COVID loan and Ganga Kalyana scheme, Mr. Pathan said whosoever facing hardship in getting the benefit can call KMDC helpline 8277799990 or the State Government grievance cell number 1902 for redressal. Mr. Pathan said the KMDC has proposed to the State Government for launch of a scheme to provide loan of Rs. 5 lakh to poor persons from minority communities towards construction of houses. It has also proposed providing Rs. 10 lakh business loan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minorities-corpn-seeks-rs-200-crore-to-clear-arivu-loan-scheme-backlog/article37949455.ece
14 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Derogatory posts on Bipin Rawat must be seriously investigated, says Khader||Social media posts derogating the former Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, who died following a helicopter crash, should be viewed seriously and the persons responsible should be brought to book at the earliest, said Mangaluru MLA and former Health Minister U.T. Khader here on Monday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Khader said merely registering FIRs on the three derogatory posts on Facebook does not help. The State police should seriously investigate these cases and find the accused. “People should know the persons who have done this,” he said and added the act of derogating person of the stature of Mr. Rawat was akin to sedition. These accused persons should undergo exemplary punishment for this act, he added. Mr. Khader said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh should give to nation the details of the crash in which Mr. Rawat and 12 others died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/derogatory-posts-on-bipin-rawat-must-be-seriously-investigated-says-khader/article37949465.ece
14 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Toll plaza security staff dies||A 44-year-old toll plaza security personnel died after being hit by a speeding car in Shiroor of Udupi district, on NH 66, on Monday. The Byndoor police gave the name of the deceased as Raghavendra Mestha. The police said Mr. Mestha was among the three security personnel working at the toll plaza. Mr. Mestha was posted on the lane number six, which is on the eastern side of the toll plaza. Around 2 a.m .a car came from Bhatkal and hit Mr. Mestha. The car driver Santosh and co-passenger Sharath in car were also injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/toll-plaza-security-staff-dies/article37949466.ece
14 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Federation comes down on proposed anti-conversion law||The All-India Christian Federation, Udupi district, on Monday said the sole aim of the proposed anti-conversion legislation was to spread animosity between people of different religions and nothing else. Speaking to reporters at Udupi, federation president Prashanth Jatthana said the Government was talking about tabling the Bill during the ongoing Belagavi session of the State legislature. Allegations against Christians of converting people to Christianity have been proved wrong time and again; yet the Government was targeting the community, he regretted. Mr. Jatthana said Christians will observe fasting in Belagavi on December 17 against the Government’s decision to pass the Bill. He said there was no proof that forcible conversion or conversion with inducement was being undertaken. No complaints against religious conversion were proved in any court of law, he said. Government’s move to pass the bill overrides the goal of the Constitution which states people are entitled to practice and propagate their religion. “We too oppose forcible religious conversion,” he said adding the Government should not pass the Bill in a hurry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/federation-comes-down-on-proposed-anti-conversion-law/article37949451.ece
14 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||22 new cases in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada reported 19 new COVID-19 cases on Monday. With 21 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 144. Test positivity rate was put at 0.34%. A fine totalling Rs. 1,09,39,570 has so far been collected in 90,453 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported three new cases. Two patients are from Udupi taluk and one is from Kundapura taluk. One patient is under home quarantine and two patients are in designated health care centre. With five patients discharged, there are 53 active cases. With 9,714 people vaccinated on Monday, the total number of people covered has gone up to 28,51,612 in Dakshina Kannada. Of these, 15,93,653 have received their first dose and 12,57,959 their second dose. In Udupi, 5,568 people were vaccinated taking the total number to 17,43,859. Of these, 9,52,963 have received their first dose and 7,90,896 their second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/22-new-cases-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada/article37949456.ece
14 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Approach roads to be repaired||The NH Division of State PWD will fix the battered approach roads to the railway overbridge (RoB) atop Konkan Railway’s Mangaluru-Mumbai railway line on NH 169A at Indrali in Udupi shortly. Sources in the PWD told The Hindu the department was aware of the inconveniences being suffered by road users because of the battered approach roads on both the ends for about 90 metres. It would be fixed as soon as the widening work at Parkala resumes, latest by within a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/approach-roads-to-be-repaired/article37949458.ece
14 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two students arrested||The Ullal police on Monday arrested a dental and a nursing student for alleged illegal possession of 220 grams of cannabis. The police said Adarsh Jothi, 22, hailing from Thrissur. and Yoyal Joys, 22, from Kottayam, were found carrying cannabis near Bagambila area. The two were booked under the provisions of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-students-arrested/article37949273.ece
14 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Study measures efficacy of Covishield, Covaxin||A study on vaccine effectiveness during the second wave of pandemic earlier this year has indicated an efficacy of 80% for Covishield and 69% for Covaxin for severe COVID-19 among individuals aged 45 and above. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR)-supported study, which is still on preprint with Lancet, has also shown that the vaccine effectiveness was highest for a gap of 6-8 weeks between two doses of Covishield and Covaxin. As part of the multi-centric, hospital-based, case-control study between May and July, 2021, 1,143 cases and 2,541 controls were enrolled. “Cases were severe COVID-19 patients and controls were COVID-19 negative individuals from 11 hospitals,” said an abstract of the study. “BBV152/Covaxin and AZD1222/Covishield were effective against severe COVID-19 among the Indian population during the period of dominance of highly transmissible Delta variant in second wave of pandemic. An escalation of two-dose coverage of COVID-19 vaccines is critical to control the pandemic in the country,” said the interpretation provided in the study’s abstract. “Most studies are limited to healthcare workers and policemen in smaller sub-national areas with small sample size, and none are population representative. As per these studies, the vaccine effectiveness ranges from 77% to 92% with wide confidence intervals. No study provided a vaccine effectiveness estimate specifically against the Delta strain of SARS-COV-2,” the study pointed out. “This multicentric hospital-based study across 11 cities represents vaccine effectiveness at the national level, covering India’s large expanse and during the period of dominance of the Delta strain of SARS-COV-2 in the country. The findings indicate an overall effectiveness of two doses of 80% with AZD1222/Covishield and 69% with BBV152/Covaxin against severe COVID-19. The VE (vaccine effectiveness) was highest for a 6-8 week interval between two doses of both the vaccines. Similar VE estimates were found against Delta strain and its sub-lineages. Our findings indicate a substantial reduction in the risk of severe COVID-19 and particularly against the Delta strain,” the study said. “Continued expansion of the two-dose vaccination coverage and stringent application of control measures remain warranted to prevent a surge in cases in the near future in the country,” the study said. A total of 11 institutions across the country including JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (JSSAHER) in Mysuru participated in the study. Though the study is still in preprint stage, it has been listed among the top 10 downloaded, said a source in JSSAHER. These preprints are early stage research papers that have not been peer-reviewed. The findings should not be used for clinical or public health decision making and should not be presented to a lay audience without highlighting that they are preliminary and have not been peer-reviewed. Meanwhile, a source who was part of the study said the number of individuals in the study, who were vaccinated with Covaxin were less than the individuals jabbed with Covishield. “Hence, the results may vary (between Covishield and Covaxin),” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/study-measures-efficacy-of-covishield-covaxin/article37949075.ece
14 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Copious rains minimise threat of summer fires in Bandipur||Heavy rains in south interior Karnataka during October and November have reduced the threat of forest fire in Bandipur and Nagarahole during the ensuing summer to a considerable extent. The region received the highest amount of rainfall between October 1 and December 9 when compared to the last few years and hence the moisture content is high. Normally, rains used to lash Bandipur during the south west monsoon between June and September. It used to benefit occasionally from the depression in the Bay of Bengal and the cyclonic impact leading to rains. However, by the last week of December the forests in Bandipur and to an extent in Nagarahole would turn dry. But this year Chamarajanagar district has received 439 mm of rains against a normal of 248.3 mm between October 1 and December 9. Hence the officials are confident that the scourge of forest fire during summer has been diminished to a great extent. Similarly, Mysuru has received 479.6 m of rainfall during the same period against a normal of 206.7 mm and Kodagu has recorded 542.9 mm against a normal of 277.8 mm between October 1 and December 9, increasing the moisture content and dampening the forests. A senior official in the Forest Department told The Hindu that notwithstanding the rains, the onset of winter is the time when they start burning fire lines and there will be no compromise on it. In Bandipur alone nearly 3,000 km of fire lines will be burnt so that it can act as a fire-breaker in case of a wild conflagration during summer. This is one of the traditional methods of preparing for summer fires and the preparation starts during winter. The official said the works will be completed by January and they will also rope in nearly 400 tribals as temporary fire watchers. “However, the burning of fire lines have started in areas where the vegetation is considerably dry and facilitates controlled burning’’, said the official. From the wildlife point of view the forthcoming summer is not expected to create any water scarcity. There are nearly 300 to 350 waterholes in Bandipur and all of them are full. Given the cloudy conditions and the onset of winter even the evaporation will be less this year and hence drinking water will not be a major issue, according to the officials. In the unlikely event of waterholes running dry, there are larger pools to cater to wildlife, according to the officials. Besides, solar-powered water pumps have been installed and they will be commissioned in case of necessity. Bandipur, Nagarahole and other forests in the region have a history of forest fires and the dry and scrub vegetation coupled with invasion of lantana lend themselves to burning. Repeated forest fires also tend to degrade the habitat as the area is taken over by hardy weeds that are not edible to the herbivores. But with copious rains this year, the authorities are confident that even in case of a severe summer the threat of forest fire is minimal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/copious-rains-minimise-threat-of-summer-fires-in-bandipur/article37949473.ece
14 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||DFRL prepares ready-to-eat menu for Gaganyaan mission||The Defence Food Research Laboratory (DFRL) in Mysuru has prepared a slew of ready-to-eat dishes tailor-made for India’s space programme Gaganyaan. The DFRL has prepared about 40 to 50 menus comprising both vegetarian and non-vegetarian items and the trials are in the preliminary stages. The items include potato-stuffed paratha, vegetable biriyani, dal chawal, sambar chawal, rajma chawal, kichdi, preserved chapatis, veg katti roll, chicken biriyani, chicken katti roll, egg katti roll, chikki, instant tea and coffee mix, sooji halwa, garlic and mango pickle, and tomato sauce. Some of the technologies developed by the DFRL were on display at the two-day exhibition of technologies and products to mark Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav which commenced here on Monday. A team of 40 scientists are working on the food menu and based on the feedback of the ISRO and astronauts the products will be finalised. “In space where there is zero gravity condition, the delivery mechanism should be different and poses a challenge and the scientists are also working on this aspect’’, said Mallesha and Madhukar of DFRL. In zero gravity conditions if juice or any liquid spills out it will keep floating and in case it comes into contact with any electrical systems it can cause problems. Hence there is a different mechanism of delivering the food intake developed by the DFRL, the scientists explained. Once the menu is finalised the DFRL will supply enough food to last the duration of the mission for three astronauts in addition to emergency stock, said Mr. Madhukar. The DFRL has developed an array of food products and technologies to cater to the strategic operational requirement of the defence forces and to provide logistical support to it in the area of food supplies. Over the years, more than 600 technology transfers have been carried out to about 320 firms. Life-saving device In addition to DFRL, the Defence Bioengineering and Electro Medical Laboratory (DEBEL), Bengaluru, was also showcasing some of the technologies and products developed by it at the exhibition. Among the slew of products, a life saving device for the benefit of defence personnel who can suffer High Altitude Pulmonary Oedema (HAPO) when deployed in high altitudes to guard the borders, drew attention. R.G.Revaiah, scientist of DEBEL, said when afflicted by HAPO, the solider has to be sent to lower altitudes but that may not be feasible given the nature and sensitivity of their job and hence on-site treatment has to be given. Inside the HAPO chamber the pressure is increased and this simulates the conditions and benefits that occurs when one is brought to sea level or lower altitudes and the emergency due to HAPO is addressed. Patented DEBEL’s product has been patented, it is easy-to-use and the technology has been transferred to six companies and is being bulk produced for the defence personnel, he added. DEBEL has also developed Mobile Tele Diagnosis System, Wearable Physical Efficiency Test Monitor, Air Sterilisation System for Biological Emergencies, and Advanced Microclimate Conditioning Suit for Battle Tanks and Submarines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dfrl-prepares-ready-to-eat-menu-for-gaganyaan-mission/article37949475.ece
14 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Many naval ships to be built in local dockyards’||Vice-Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command, said in Kodagu on Monday that a slew of naval ships will be built in Indian shipyards in the next few years and will give an impetus to Atmanirbhar Bharat or self-reliance. He was speaking after unveiling a model of naval ship INS Shivalik displayed at Sunnyside which houses General Thimayya Museum in Madikeri. The 24-ft.-long model was gifted to the museum by the Indian Navy The ship building activities will take place in the dockyards at Mumbai, Kolkata, Kochi, Vishakapatanam etc., and 31 ships will be added to the fleet to strengthen security of the country, he said. The Vice-Admiral called upon the youngsters to join the navy to serve the country and eulogised the people of Kodagu for their presence in high numbers in the armed forces and their love and affection for defence services. He also appreciated the efforts of General Thimayya and FMKM Cariappa Forum, and the Kodagu district administration for establishing the museum. Vice-Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta expressed confidence that the museum will motivate more number of youngsters to serve the country by joining the defence services. The museum is being embellished by including a few more contraptions and Rear Admiral I.B.Uttaiah unveiled a decommissioned submarine. The organisers recalled the contribution of India’s first Chief of Defence Staff late Gen.Bipin Rawat - who along with his wife and other soldiers died in a chopper crash in Tamil Nadu recently. A minute’s silence was also observed in their memory. Col (retd) K.C. Subbaiah, president of the forum, said the district administration and Indian Army, the Indian Navy and the Indian Air Force played a role in the establishment of the museum and thanked them for their support. Lt.General (retd) P.C.Thimmaiah, forum convenor Major (retd) Nanjappa, Deputy Commissoner B.C.Satheesha, Maj.Gen (retd) K.P.Nanjappa, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-naval-ships-to-be-built-in-local-dockyards/article37949468.ece
14 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Webinar series on specially-abled persons to be held on December 16||The 12th webinar in the series on “Amazing Abilities of Unstoppable Achievers” by Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement (SVYM), Mysuru, featuring specially-abled persons is scheduled to be held between 6.30 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. on December 16. As part of its initiatives, SVYM is presently running a “Comprehensive Care, Support and Treatment for Persons with Disabilities” (CCST-PWDs), an institution and community-based rehabilitation programme focussing on 21 types of disabilities in Mysuru and Kodagu districts of Karnataka in collaboration with community, various government departments and like-minded NGOs and corporates. While 22 lakh people had been sensitised about specially-abled persons so far, nearly 40,000 persons with disabilities have directly benefited, said a statement by SVYM. The webinar series by SVYM is aimed at creating awareness about the “amazing ability” of the specially-abled persons and creating a ‘welcoming’ environment for them in the community. The monthly webinar series began about a year ago on December 3, 2020. Sharing experiences Of the several issues that people with disability faced, a few prominent ones include accessibility, the choice of leading a barrier-free life and inclusion. “This webinar is an attempt to bring some of these ‘celebrities’ onto a platform where they can share their journey, their grit, determination and the fire that burns within them that has made them into role models for all of us,” said the press statement. The 12th webinarfeatures achiever Adithi Varma. “Adithi has not allowed Down’s syndrome to affect her, she runs Aditi’s corner snack junction in addition to living life with purpose & joy. She also presented a paper at the 1st Indian International Down Syndrome Conference 2017 in Delhi about “Journey Towards Empowerment of Persons with Intellectual and Development Disabilities in India”, said the press statement by SVYM. Link Those interested can register on this link: https://forms.gle/rLsgNvHTwGYX7Sxo8 while the Youtube live streaming is available on https://tinyurl.com/amazing-ability More details can be obtained by contacting 9590091177, e-mail : ccst-pwds@svym.org.in  Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement is running an institution and community-based rehabilitation programme focussing on 21 types of disabilities in Mysuru and Kodagu districts  This is done in collaboration with community, various government departments and like-minded NGOs and corporates  Nearly 40,000 persons with disabilities have directly benefited||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/webinar-series-on-specially-abled-persons-to-be-held-on-december-16/article37949476.ece
14 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Two express trains to run with conventional coaches||The authorities have decided to revise the composition of Chamundi Express and Rajya Rani Express which will revert to conventional rakes with effect from December 20. It was operating as a MEMU service since the last few months following the graded resumption of train services. According to the railway authorities, Chamundi Express and Rajya Rani Express used to run as a 16-car MEMU and the revised rake composition entails 21 coaches including two sleeper class coaches. It will also operate its conventional numbers as mentioned in the railway timetable from December 20. A section of regular commuters and passengers had expressed their ire over what they described as ‘downgrading’ of Chamundi Express. The crux of the issue was that MEMU services don’t have reservation facility as all the coaches are general. K.N. Krishna Prasad, frequent traveller and railway activist, said reverting to conventional coaches is a welcome development. “A sizeable number of passengers tend to be senior citizens and they were denied the benefit of reservation which will now be restored,” he added. The MEMU had limited seating capacity compared to a 21-coach rake and hence, the former would always be crowded. However, the railway passengers are still awaiting a word from the authorities on restoration of concessions. The railways in the pre-pandemic times had extended concessions to about 50 category of people ranging from cancer and kidney patients to students on educational trips, sportspersons, delegates attending all-India level conferences etc., apart from concessions to the senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-express-trains-to-run-with-conventional-coaches/article37949477.ece
14 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘First part of compensation for COVID-19 victims released’||R. Ragapriya, Deputy Commissioner, has said that the State government has released the first part of compensation of Rs. 52 lakh to be distributed to the members of 52 families of BPL cardsholders, who have died owing to COVID-19 in Yadgir district. The district administration has prepared the cheques and will distribute it to the families after the poll code ends, she said at a press conference in Yadgir on Monday. Dr. Ragapriya said that the district administration has taken all available steps to vaccinate the people. So far, 93% vaccination of the first doze and 59% of the second dose were achieved. She added that 83 villages out of the 527 in the district have achieved 100% vaccination. The DC said that unseasonal rain during November has caused extensive damage in the district. According to a survey, crops on 4,569 hectares were destroyed and the loss was assessed at Rs. 6,789.38 lakh. Compensation of Rs. 50,000 for each house was released as 796 houses suffered damages in the heavy rains in 2021-22 and details about beneficiaries have been entered into the data of Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Limited. The NITI Ayog has released Rs. 8 crore to the district since it was selected as an aspirational district in the country. Of that amount, Rs. 3 crore was released in July 2020 followed by Rs. 2 crore in November 2020, and Rs. 3 crore in July 2021 respectively. The district administration has sent a proposal for Rs. 4.53 crore to take up various projects. The rest of Rs. 3.2 crore was earmarked for the renovation of the five Nada Kacheri buildings (Revenue Department) and Rs. 21.5 lakh was earmarked for the Animal Husbandry Department to purchase liquid nitrogen containers in order to strengthen the artificial insemination programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/first-part-of-compensation-for-covid-19-victims-released/article37949283.ece
14 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘All measures taken for smooth conduct of counting in Raichur’||Avinash Rajendran Menon, Deputy Commissioner of Raichur, has said that all necessary action has been taken to count the votes for the Legislative Council election scheduled to be held on Tuesday. He was speaking at a press conference in Raichur on Monday. Dr. Menon said that the counting will be start from 7.30 a.m. at SRPS college in the city and 14 counting tables have been established for the purpose. Only the counting officials concerned and staff will be allowed in the counting centre, he added. “The result will be declared after completion of the counting process and it is difficult to say what time,” he said. Adequate security arrangements have been made at the counting centre and prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC have been imposed within 100 metres from the centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-measures-taken-for-smooth-conduct-of-counting-in-raichur/article37949288.ece
14 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Home Guards lauded||Nikhil B., Superintendent of Police, inaugurated the annual day of Akhila Bharat Home Guards in Raichur on Sunday. He said that the service of home guards in the difficult times was praiseworthy. The Home Guards have coordinated with the district administration and the police department to maintain law and order during special events and amidst the pandemic.  Basavaraj Peerapur, Director of Raichur Institute of Medical Science (RIMS), said that around 105 Home Guards provided round-the-clock service during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/home-guards-lauded/article37949289.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Over 150-year-old school building demolished in Puttur||While committee members were removing roof tiles for maintenance on Sunday, a wooden plank fell on another ensuing a chain of action. The roof collapsed while weakened walls built of latterite stone with mud masonry too gave in, he said. Mr. Panchakshari said SDMC had been pressing for building restoration since a year as the dilapidated structure was a threat to students of the school and an anganwadi. Journalist Gopalakrishna Kuntini in his social media post expressed anguish over the manner in which the 156-year-old heritage building came down and recalled efforts by him and others to preserve the building. The government could have easily restored the building, he said. S.N. Amrith, doctor and writer from Puttur, said the demolition was a criminal act of the SDMC while the Education Department and the MLA too were responsible. He had been pursuing building restoration plans for eight years with the authorities concerned. G.S. Shashidhara, who was the Block Education Officer in Puttur, said he was pained on hearing the demolition. He recalled efforts to get the building restored. He was told by his elders that Mr.. Karanth had been conducting theatre activities in the building and had also spoke at the Puttur Dasara event, Mr. Shashidhara said. On the complaint by Dr. Amrith, the Deputy Director of Public Instructions, Dakshina Kannada, on Monday directed the Puttur BEO to conduct an inquiry and initiate suitable legal action against the headmaster and SDMC committee members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-150-year-old-school-building-demolished-in-puttur/article37949459.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||South African national’s escape: Four arrested||Four persons, including two lab employees, were arrested by the High Grounds police on Sunday night for allegedly helping a South African national, who tested positive for Omicron, escape from a star hotel where he was quarantined. The accused have been identified as Ranesh and Ravindra, techies with an IT firm at Bommanahalli here, where the accused South African national was working, and lab employees Manoj and Prashanth. India’s first two Omicron patients were reported from Karnataka, and the first patient — a 66-year-old foreign national — left the country even before his genome sequencing reports arrived after securing a negative report from a private lab within three days of testing positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/south-african-nationals-escape-four-arrested/article37949082.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Necessary step||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/necessary-step/article37949281.ece
14 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Row over closing of shutters of barrage||The Irrigation Department has begun closing down shutters of the Thanneermukkom barrage to prevent intrusion of seawater into Kuttanad. Though District Collector A. Alexander on Sunday directed to close 60 shutters and regulate the functioning of the rest 30 gates, the Irrigation Department could only close 15 shutters as of Monday evening. Fishermen under the aegis of Dheevara Sabha have come out against the decision and blocked the lowering of shutters stating the salinity level had not increased in the lake and downing the shutters would impact the fish wealth. The decision to close the shutters was taken following a rise in water level, caused by the intrusion of seawater into Vembanad Lake through the Thanneermukkom barrage due to high tide, in Kuttanad. “There is a strong protest against lowering the shutters of the barrage. Besides, there is a good flow of water to the sea during low tide. A decision on closing the rest of the shutters will be taken in a meeting of the advisory committee to be held on Wednesday,” said an Irrigation Department official As sowing for the ‘puncha’ (first crop) season is progressing in Kuttanad, an increase in salinity in Vembanad Lake will be detrimental to paddy cultivation in the region. The rise in water level has adversely affected field preparation activities in several places. Farmers fear the sudden increase in water level in the mornings due to high tide and a fall in the level of water in evenings in low tide would result in bund breaches. Outer bunds of a number of fields are in a weakened state. Outer bunds of at least two paddy polders in Kuttanad were breached in recent days. Apart from threatening rice cultivation, water entered a number of houses and inundated parts of the Alappuzha-Changanassery road and rural roads in the region in recent days.  As sowing is progressing in Kuttanad, an increase in salinity in Vembanad Lake will be detrimental to paddy cultivation in the region||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-over-closing-of-shutters-of-barrage/article37949433.ece
14 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Case against cop for attacking medico||The Ambalapuzha police have registered a case against a policeman who allegedly manhandled a female house surgeon at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha. The accused has been identified as Aneesh Mon, 40 of Chengannur. He is the gunman of Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian. Aneesh Mon's father who was undergoing treatment at the MCH died on Saturday night. The health of his father Kunjukunju deteriorated around 11 p.m and he was shifted to a room to perform resuscitation. Aneesh Mon forcibly entered the room and shoved the house surgeon to the ground alleging negligence. According to the statement, he also threatened other medical staff there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-against-cop-for-attacking-medico/article37949434.ece
14 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Man gets life term for killing woman||The Alappuzha Additional District Court-III on Monday sentenced Pradeepkumar of Kainady to life imprisonment for murdering a 60-year-old woman. Judge P.N. Seetha ordered the convict to pay a fine of Rs. 1 lakh. The prosecution case was that Sarasamma of Kainday was hacked to death by her neighbour Pradeepkumar for questioning his use of filthy language, on May 10, 2004. During the trial of the case, Sarasamma’s son, his wife and the brother of her spouse turned hostile. The court registered suo moto case against the trio. Additional Public Prosecutor P.P. Geetha represented the prosecution side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-gets-life-term-for-killing-woman/article37949427.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,KERALA||IIT-M sees record high offers in campus placements||As many as 1,085 job offers were made by 226 companies during phase 1 of the campus placements at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M). The institution said that this was a historic high and that 73% of the students who had registered for placements received the offers. The first phase of campus placements ended on December 10 and the second phase is scheduled to commence from mid-January in 2022. As many as 1,500 students had registered for the first phase of placements. The placement includes 45 international offers from 14 companies, which is also a new record high, the institution said. As many as 62 start-up companies made 186 offers during the first phase. The total number of offers, combined with the 231 pre-placement offers which came from internships and were made before the first phase, were 1,316. About 42% of the students were placed in the core engineering and technology sectors followed by 19% of students in Data Science and Analytics. “The quality of academic training and the overall development of students during their programme at IIT Madras are reflected in this year’s exceptional phase I placements. The institute placement team thanks companies which have made offers to our students and looks forward to working with more companies in phase II,” said C.S. Shankar Ram, advisor (placement), IIT Madras. The top recruiters in terms of the number of job offers included American Express and Microsoft India Pvt. Limited which made 16 offers. Bajaj Auto Limited and EXL Service made 15 offers each. Among the international recruiters, 11 offers came from Rakuten Mobile Inc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/record-offers-in-campus-placements-at-iit-madras/article37949135.ece
14 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Healthy storage in Idukki dam||Strict adherence to the rule curve level fixed by the Central Water Commission (CWC) helped in tiding over a situation of a sudden release of heavy volume of water to the Periyar while keeping a very healthy storage for summer season in Idukki reservoir. The largest hydroelectric project in the State is mainly reserved for power generation during the peak summer season when the demand escalates. A healthy storage during the end of the northeast monsoon would also mean a safe power generation in the coming summer when the State has to purchase power at a high prices from outside the State. The dam meets around 40% the power generation in the State. Compared to the previous year, the present storage was over 10 ft. As per the data available with the Dam Monitoring and Research Station, the water level on Monday was 2400.42 ft and it was 2,391.84 ft on the same day last year. A dam safety official said that the extra storage would be capable of generating 225 mu of additional power. The rule curve for the dams in the State was decided by the CWC following the heavy release of water to the Periyar from Idukki dam in August 2018 resulting in flooding of large areas of Idukki and Ernakulam districts. This year, the rule committee decided to keep the water much below the upper rule level and the shutters of the Cheruthoni dam were raised four times to regulate the water level, said a KSEB official. The Moolamattom power plant of Idukki reservoir witnessed the highest power generation in October, November and in the two weeks of December, said the official. The power generation has also turned to a normal level now, the official said adding that it was maximum in November. However, the annual maintenance works of the generators which were done during the monsoon season has been delayed. Presently, one of the six generators has been put on annual maintenance. Maintenance With the power generation further falling, there will be slot for taking up the maintenance if any, added the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/healthy-storage-in-idukki-dam/article37949429.ece
14 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Women’s panel sitting||Ten complaints were setted at a regional-level sitting of the Kerala State Women’s Commission (SWC) at Thodupuzha on Monday .Of the 30 complaints considered, two were sent for inquiry reports and the others were postponed for next sitting. Most of the complaints related to family disputes and disputes between neighbours. The complaints were considered dividing the district into four regional areas, said a release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womens-panel-sitting/article37949430.ece
14 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Youth Congress workers wave black flags at CM||Youth Congress workers waved black flags at Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in protest against the reappointment of Gopinath Ravindran as the Vice Chancellor of Kannur University. The flags were waved at Mambaram on Thalassery Road, when the Chief Minister was on his way to the Kannur airport. The protest was led by Youth Congress activists Sudeep James, Kamaljit, Vinesh Chullyan, Prinil Mathukoth, Rijin Raj, Muhsin Keezhattally and Imran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-congress-workers-wave-black-flags-at-cm/article37949357.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Glitches bother users of Kochi-1 card, app||With no immediate solution in sight for the teething technical and procedural issues associated with the Kochi-1 pre-paid card and app for travelling in the Kochi metro, commuters and Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) are in a catch-22 situation. The situation has reached a point where commuters are taking to social media highlighting the innumerable hassles faced by card users. M. Abhijit, a research scholar at Cusat, said he had to change four cards — twice for faulty chip — in the past four years. “It caused much inconvenience, since the reader device card would not read the card at the ticket gate. In addition, I had to shell out Rs. 225 each time I changed the card. “Axis Bank would not waive off the charge, despite it being a problem with the chip. The open-loop system in the card [whereby one could get discounts after shopping in select shops] too is not of much use,” he added. “The Kochi-1 app too is of little use, since it has very few utilities other than what the card can be used for. There is no need to generate a QR code if one has the card. The ‘travel planner’ in the app is also not as reliable. Briefly put, the card and the app are very cumbersome and confusing, especially since there are hassles while opting for automatic recharge. KMRL must learn from other metros where they do not insist on such procedures and pre-conditions,” he said. Binu Karunakaran, another commuter, spoke of how he was unable to recharge the card through the app, although an amount was debited. “A similar problem persisted, as an attempt was made through the UPI mode. It must be said that the app has a very low user rating in Playstore. The app also needs to be updated, while the insistence on KYC documents must be done away with, as in other metros,” he said. KYC papers  The bank is insisting on KYC documents, since it is an open-loop card and not a travel card that most other metros have. The RBI insists on it, it is learnt. Incidentally, KMRL, which has targeted a daily footfall of one lakh by the month-end, had directed Axis Bank to rectify all issues that had been plaguing the Kochi-1 card and app, so that the primary purpose of providing commuters a seamless ride in the metro is fulfilled. That most card users are regular commuters has prompted the metro agency to give additional emphasis on it, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/glitches-bother-users-of-kochi-1-card-app/article37949381.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to make autopsy the domain of forensic experts||The Health Ministry’s recent notification permitting post-mortem after sunset to promote organ donation and facilitate mourning of the deceased hardly effects any change in the State, it is being pointed out. For, the notification comes with the rider that it is applicable to hospitals with adequate infrastructure to ensure that there is no dilution of evidentiary value, besides putting the additional onus of video-recording all autopsies conducted in the night. It further states that night autopsy should not be done in cases such as homicide, suicide, rape, decomposed bodies, and where foul play is suspected. “Autopsies are now conducted in the State during night time for organ harvesting and cases involving mass casualties, including natural disasters and accidents. The condition in the notification that infrastructure should be ensured for night autopsies is also in sync with our long-standing demand,” said P.B. Gujaral, president, Kerala Medico Legal Society (KMLS). The State government has also admitted to the lack of infrastructure in five medical college hospitals in the State — Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Thrissur and Kozhikode — and General Hospital, Kasaragod, in a counter-affidavit filed by the Joint Secretary of Health and Family Welfare in the High Court on December 1 on a petition filed by KMLS against a 2015 Government Order for conducting night autopsy in these six institutions. “We have been demanding extension of time for conducting autopsies by an hour in the morning and evening from the existing 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. This coupled with the appointment of at least two additional forensic surgeons in district hospitals and medical colleges will rule out even the need for night autopsies. Besides, releasing bodies during the night will only burden the kin, as they will have to source mobile freezers since funerals are hardly conducted late at night. Rather than round-the-clock autopsies, the government and the judiciary should focus on ensuring that only qualified forensic experts conduct autopsies, which is critical in terms of evidentiary value in the criminal justice system,” said Dr. Gujaral. Corresponding changes Unmesh A.K., Additional Professor and Police Surgeon, Government Medical College (GMC), Ernakulam, pointed out that there was no need for night autopsies, which anyway, would not be possible without corresponding changes in the inquest proceedings of the police. “Postponing the autopsy of a body brought in the evening to the next morning hardly impacts the investigation provided the body is properly preserved,” he said. With inquest of bodies not permitted after sunset as per the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), the police often retain the body at the scene of crime exposing it to potential decomposition. “It is an archaic restriction having no place in the modern age. In fact, we have for long been demanding the Union government to amend the CrPC drawn up for British India,” said C.R. Biju, State general secretary, Kerala Police Officers Association.  The government has admitted to lack of infrastructure in five medical college hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-rife-for-making-autopsy-the-domain-of-forensic-experts/article37949391.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. Medical College made referral centre for autopsies||Conducting regular autopsies during night time at the Government Medical College (GMC), Ernakulam, in keeping with the Health Ministry’s recent notification, calls for doubling the current strength of its forensic experts, besides incorporating additional infrastructure. The forensic medicine wing was set up at the GMC by a two-member team led by Meena K.S., Professor and head of the department, and assisted by Unmesh A.K., Additional Professor and Police Surgeon, in July 2016. Unlike other medical colleges in the State, which record more than double its number of autopsies, GMC, Ernakulam, has been converted into a referral centre having a say on the cases it takes up. It has restricted autopsies to cases where either the police or relatives raise suspicion about the death, leaving the rest to peripheral centres. About 35% to 40% of autopsy cases continue to be road accidents of which GMC, Ernakulam, mostly takes up the unwitnessed and hit-and-run cases, which may turn out to be criminal acts in the future. Restricting the number of autopsies is to help forensic experts, who are also faculty members, to focus on their primary duty of teaching. “Strengthening peripheral centres and extending the time for receiving requisitions from the police for conducting autopsies will help do away with the need for conducting autopsies during the night altogether. It will de-congest service delivery and spare relatives of the trauma of waiting to get their dear ones’ bodies released after having come from far. Anyway, we do conduct autopsies beyond the sanctioned time if it so warrants, including for harvesting organs,” said Dr. Unmesh. Notwithstanding self-imposed restrictions, the number of autopsies conducted at the GMC has increased progressively except last year, which is attributed to the COVID-19 outbreak. From over 250 in 2016, the number rose to around 700 the year after and nearly 1,000 in 2019 before dropping to around 700 last year. The number has again risen to nearly 1,000. The GMC now has a forensic team and a support staff team of four members each. “Regular autopsies call for three shifts, which require increasing the strength of the forensic team by double and that of the support staff team by two or three times. Besides, additional infrastructure will have to be arranged, including resting space for those doing night shift,” said Dr. Unmesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-medical-college-made-referral-centre-for-autopsies/article37949387.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||One more arrested in ganja case||The Ernakulam rural police on Monday arrested one more person in connection with the seizure of around 225 kgs of ganja from Karukutty in Angamaly last month. The arrested was identified as Muneer aka Kaattaalan Muneer, 30, of Nooranad, Alapuzha. A special investigation team formed by the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthick to probe the case nabbed the accused from Nooranad. The police had arrested three persons, including a couple, with the huge cache of drugs hidden inside two cars on November 8. They are still in judicial custody. According to the investigators, Muneer was the financier of the racket and had funded the other accused on multiple occasions to procure ganja. The accused used to communicate among each other over social media of which the police had reportedly collected the details. Muneer had gone into hiding soon after the smuggling bid was foiled by the police and his accomplices were arrested. The police had concluded that the accused were attempting to smuggle the contraband procured from Paderu in Andhra Pradesh when they were nabbed. The consignment was found packed in 123 tightly sealed packages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-arrested-in-ganja-case/article37949386.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Naval NCC cadets clean Fort Kochi beach||As part of their month-long nationwide drive to promote the importance of clean shores and beaches, the NCC cadets of 7 Kerala Naval Unit under the Ernakulam Group Headquarters conducted a cleaning drive on the Fort Kochi beach on Sunday. They removed about 100 kgs of plastic waste from the beach and sent them off for disposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/naval-ncc-cadets-clean-fort-kochi-beach/article37949377.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC gives green light for sample survey||The Kerala High Court on Monday allowed the State government to go ahead with the sample survey among the forward communities in view of the government submission that it was being undertaken to identify families for providing other benefits except the 10% reservation earmarked for economically weaker sections among the forward communities. Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan, however, directed the government to take a decision on the recommendations of the A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai Commission that a socio-economic-community survey of all the communities in the State and population census of all the communities in the State be undertaken. The court also asked the government to file an affidavit in this regard by January 31, 2022. The court made it clear that the government should take a specific stand on the recommendations of the commission. Writ plea by NSS The court issued the directives on a writ petition filed by the Nair Service Society (NSS) challenging the government’s plan for a random sample survey among the forward communities. NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair said in his petition that the NSS opposed the survey as it would bring out only a sketchy picture of economically weaker sections of forward communities. There was a chance of the government acting on such data to the detriment of forward communities in future as well. Mr. Nair said if the socio-economic-community survey of all the communities was held, it would provide a databank for the implementation of reservation and other welfare measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-gives-green-light-for-sample-survey/article37949393.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ensure safety of minor survivor of rape: HC||The Kerala High Court has directed the Alappuza District Police Chief to ensure that the survivor in a rape case who has been admitted to a school near her residence at Mavelikara is able to pursue her education without harm or harassment from any quarters. Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan passed the order on a petition filed by the mother of the survivor. Counsel for the petitioner submitted that the girl was facing threats from the accused and his friends through social media. The accused is now out on bail. The court ordered that if she is threatened, the petitioner shall file a complaint with the District Police Chief. If so, protection must be granted to the petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-safety-of-minor-survivor-of-rape-hc/article37949395.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lok adalat settles over 80,000 cases in single day||Over 80,000 cases were settled during the one-day Lok Adalat organised by the Kerala State Legal Services Authority across the State on December 11. Over Rs. 111 crore was awarded as compensation to victims of road accidents in 4,007 claims. The highest number of cases considered on the day pertained to compoundable offences, including those booked under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Act. Of the 12,121 cases in the category, as many as 6,460 were settled. Compoundable offences saw Rs. 79.92 lakh being collected as compounding fee, said K.T. Nizar Ahamad, member secretary of the authority. The State government received Rs. 6.43 crore on the day in terms of fine charged during a special drive to settle 62,726 petty cases. Pre-litigation cases numbering 6,860, and 11,109 pending cases involving a total value of Rs. 370 crore were settled. As many as 89 land acquisition cases pending in various district courts and the High Court were settled, and an amount of Rs. 67.09 crore was disbursed. Besides clearing the backlog of cases in courts, the adalat offered speedy justice to parties involved, said Mr. Ahamad. The next sitting will be held on March 12, 2022, he informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lok-adalat-settles-over-80000-cases-in-a-single-day/article37949376.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Maldivian businessman dies in Kochi||Renowned Maldivian businessman, Ibrahim Zahir, and husband of Aishath Mohamed Didi, Minister for Gender, Family and Social Service of the Republic of Maldives, died here on Monday afternoon. Ms. Didi had served as High Commissioner of the Maldives to India for a year. Mr. Zahir was undergoing long term treatment at Rajagiri Hospital here, for interstitial lung disease. His health condition deteriorated on Monday morning. Ahmed Zuhair, Minister of State for Transport and Civil Aviation of Maldives, is his brother. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Zuhair said Mr. Zahir’s funeral would be held at Thottumugham East Juma Masjid, off Kochi, on Tuesday after afternoon prayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maldivian-businessman-dies-in-kochi/article37949373.ece
14 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Appointment of KUFOS VC challenged||A petition was filed in the Kerala High Court on Monday challenging the appointment of K. Riji John as Vice Chancellor of the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS), Kochi. The petition was filed by K.K. Vijayan from Kochi. He said UGC regulations required a candidate for Vice Chancellor to have 10 years of experience as professor. He alleged that Mr. John had faced disciplinary proceedings for financial irregularities during his stint at another university. He said the selection panel which was to submit a panel of names with remarks had recommended Mr. John alone for appointment. The Chancellor had later notified his appointment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/appointment-of-kufos-vc-challenged/article37949394.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cong. conclave against SilverLine||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan inaugurated a convention organised by the Ernakulam District Congress Committee (DCC) here on Monday, to embark on an agitation against the SilverLine semi-high-speed railway project. The project will seal the fate of development projects in the State, since attempts are being made to implement it without doing a proper financial, environmental and social-impact study. The State government is not even able to provide welfare pensions to the needy. People’s conclaves that are apolitical in nature will be formed in all districts and at the village level, to oppose the project, Mr. Satheesan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conclaves-against-silverline/article37949382.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held for bike theft bid||The Aluva East police tracked down within hours two youngsters, who allegedly attempted to steal a motorcycle but fled after being noticed by people. The arrested were identified as Aashwin, 24, of Mukundapuram, and Binumon, 23, of Idukki. They were allegedly trying to steal a motorcycle in the parking area of a residence complex opposite Karothukuzhy. They dropped the plan and fled on seeing people, the police said. In the ensuing search launched by the police, the accused were nabbed from beneath the Manappuram footbridge within hours. They were allegedly accused in multiple cases. A team led by Inspector Saiju K. Paul, sub inspectors K.V. Joy and Sivas, civil police officers Mahin Sha, Abubacker, Muhammed Ameer, and Niyas made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-bid-to-steal-motorbike/article37949383.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Kochi Ithile’ shows the way||‘Kochi Ithile’, a project for setting up a way-finding signage system, was launched on Monday. The project is based on the ‘Re-imagining Fort Kochi Proposal and Transport Strategy’ document prepared under the SMART-Sustainable Urban Transport project for West Kochi. It is implemented by the Kochi Corporation, Centre for Heritage, Environment and Development (C-HED), World Resources Institute India (WRI-India), and the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development. Physical panels showing location, way to nearest landmarks, and maps showing one’s location with all attractions and facilities in the vicinity and in a walkable circle have been set up. Digital signage panels with touchscreen facility are also in place. Besides, a website (https://kochiithile.com/#/home), mobile application, and digital signage with additional information on navigation, tourist attractions, and events were launched as part of the Rs. 1-crore project. The Corporation also launched the KAVAKI initiative, which focuses on expanding the city’s green cover by developing urban grooves of native trees in the most heat-stressed and vulnerable regions, on the day. The initiative is supported by the World Cities4Forests movement, a collaboration of over 80 cities across the world. The greening programme was launched at the Edward Memorial Government School ground, Veli, Fort Kochi. A KAWAKI site will have up to 100 trees belonging to around 30 varieties of native species. In addition, 400 trees will be planted at Cothalango brothers care home for differently abled people at Palluruthy and another 100 at SRV Higher Secondary School. More sites have been identified at Vaduthala, Thoppumpady, Edappally, and other locations, which were identified as having heat stress. The trees thus planted will also be geo-tagged and provided with information tags containing QR codes to create awareness about native tree species. WRI-India and C-HED jointly offer technical support to the initiative in identifying vulnerable localities and implementing tree planting. The Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI) and One Tree Planted foundation support in identifying site-specific tree species, identifying planting patterns, procurement of saplings, and the planting process, said a communication. The saplings will be planted and maintained at select sites with the support of local stakeholders, including ward councillors, residents’ associations, institutions, and youth clubs in each neighbourhood. Both the KAWAKI initiative and the Kochi Ithile project were inaugurated by K.J. Maxy, MLA. Mayor M. Anilkumar presided over the function.  The Kochi Corporation has launched KAVAKI initiative, which focuses on expanding the city’s green cover by developing urban grooves of native trees||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-ithile-shows-the-way/article37949375.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Naval officer takes charge||Commodore Rajesh Kumar Yadav has assumed charge as the Naval Officer-in-Charge (Kerala). Commissioned into the Navy in 1992, he has commanded INS Kozhikode, INS Vinash, and Base Depot Ship Jarawa. The officer is an alumnus of the prestigious Defence Services Staff College, Wellington. Prior to his present appointment, the officer was Commodore (Safety and Security) at the Southern Naval Command headquarters. The Naval Officer-in-Charge (Kerala) (NOIK) is responsible for the defence of Kochi and coastal areas of Kerala and Mahe and coordinates all coastal security aspects on behalf of the C-in-C, Coastal Defence, South. The Naval Officer-in-Charge (Kerala) also represents the Navy in all State level meetings. NOIK is also a member of the Kerala Maritime Board and board of trustees of the Cochin Port Trust, a pressnote issued here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/naval-officer-in-charge-takes-over/article37949385.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||4,400 from high-risk places passed via Kochi airport||Ernakulam is set to ready 250 beds, including 150 in the private sector, after the Omicron variant of the coronavirus was reported in the district on Sunday. Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve said the district was prepared to meet any challenge. He was chairing a meeting to take stock of the situation on Monday. Over 100 beds will be arranged at the COVID hospital at Ambalamugal, and they will be placed in cubicles. 10 positive cases Mr. Rajeeve said as many as 4,407 passengers from 12 countries designated as high-risk category had passed through the Kochi airport so far. Of them, 10 have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, among whom one was confirmed to have the Omicron variant. Screening Arrangements are in place at the Kochi airport for screening passengers from high-risk countries. Four teams of 24 members each under the supervision of the Health Department have been deployed for the purpose. Another 12 persons will also be put on duty. This is in addition to the eight airport staffers. Passengers arriving at the airport are either put through rapid test or RT-PCR. While the result of the rapid test is known in 40 minutes, that of RT-PCR takes three hours. Passengers will be let outside the airport only on getting the results. Testing procedures Those testing positive will be shifted to hospitals, and those returning negative result will be asked to go into home isolation. They will have to undergo testing yet again after eight days. The Minister said testing would be made mandatory at ports too. Vaccination campaign An intense vaccination campaign will be held for three days from December 18 in panchayats that are lagging behind. A meeting of panchayat presidents will be held on Wednesday. So far, 82.67% of the overall population in the district have been vaccinated, while it is 99.88% among those aged 60 years and above. District Collector Jafar Malik, District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, Additional District Medical Officer S. Sreedevi, Vaccination Nodal Officer M.G. Sivadas, National Health Mission District Programme Manager Sajith John, Deputy Collector (Disaster Management) N.R. Vrinda Devi, and Panchayat Deputy Director K.J. Joy attended the meeting.  A special campaign will be held for three days from December 18 in panchayats that are lagging behind in vaccination||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-4400-passengers-from-high-risk-nations-passed-through-kochi-airport/article37949388.ece
14 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Rubber plantations across State go green to arrest fall in yield||Bogged down by the vagaries of weather and leaf blights, the interminable network of rubber plantations in Kerala are turning ‘evergreen’ by sporting thickets of bright canopy. As the changing climate begin to exert its toll in natural rubber production, the Rubber Board has launched a major drive to promote crown budding technique for bringing the disease-causing microbes under control. The project is being initiated as the rising costs, labour shortage and environmental concerns are preventing growers from adopting chemical control measures in rubber holdings. According to Shaji Philip, principal scientist, Pathology wing of the Rubber Research Institute of India, healthy and disease-free leaves of rubber trees is a necessary condition for better yield. “Leaf diseases are leaping from one plantation to another and the problem has been severe after 2015 with the weather becoming more unpredictable. In the absence of any successful measures to counter this trend, it may delay the maturity period of trees and cause up to 30% fall in annual output,” he explained . Among the various types of leaf diseases, colletotrichum circular leaf spot is the most prevalent leaf blight reported across the State. Crown budding, according to Mr. Philip, is a technique applied on the stem of a high yielding rubber clone at a height of 2.5 to 3 meters using a disease-resistant clone. “It can be done both at nurseries and on the field. The budded trees help the growers save about Rs. 10,000 per hectare as they do not require spraying and are resilient to climate change,” added Mr. Shaji||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rubber-plantations-across-state-go-green-to-arrest-fall-in-yield/article37949564.ece
14 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Cat found shot||In a shocking incident, an eight month old pet cat was shot at and injured with an airgun in Thalayazham near Vaikom. The cat, called Chinnu, was rushed to the Government Veterinary hospital for treatment. The cat’s owners blamed neighbours for the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cat-found-shot/article37949436.ece
14 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||House surgeons’ strike affects Kozhikode MCH functioning||The 24-hour State-wide strike by house surgeons boycotting non-emergency services hit the functioning of the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Monday. The strike is in support of the ongoing indefinite agitation by postgraduate medical students seeking fast-tracking of NEET-PG allotment, among other things. According to sources, only the casualty department had some semblance of normalcy. Many patients had not been coming to the medical college hospital for the past few days ever since the postgraduate students began keeping off emergency services. The outpatient department had very few patients. The indefinite strike entered the 13th day on Monday. The house surgeons claim that the indefinite strike by the postgraduate medical students had increased their workload, and they were under immense pressure. The students’ union of the medical college also gave a call to boycott classes on Monday expressing solidarity with the house surgeons and postgraduate doctors. Members of the Kerala Government Postgraduate Medical Teachers Association too observed a three-hour strike from 8 a.m. Apart from supporting the indefinite strike, the teachers also flagged the wage disparities for assistant professors in medical colleges. A section of the striking postgraduate students went to the State capital to participate in the Secretariat march on Monday. Meanwhile, the process to appoint Non-Academic Junior Resident Doctors, which was one of the demands put forward by the students, has reportedly begun at the medical college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/house-surgeons-strike-affects-kozhikode-mch-functioning/article37949356.ece
14 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Chakkittappara tops e-Shram drive||Chakkittappara grama panchayat has secured the title of being the first local body in the State to complete the Union government’s e-Shram portal registrations for workers in the unorganised sector to help them claim the benefits of various social security schemes. The panchayat has enrolled 4,011 members within a few months of the official registration drive being launched in the State. Labour Minister V. Sivankutty, who declared the achievement at an online event on Monday, said about 12 lakh workers were enrolled from Kerala as part of the ongoing special drive with the support of district administrations, Labour department, and trade unions. The Chakkittappara panchayat’s achievement was a model for all, he added. “We have taken all efforts to organise special registration drives for differently abled workers, transgender people, and migrant workers so as to ensure the benefits to all eligible people,” said Mr. Sivankutty. He said all enrolled workers would be able to use their identity cards to claim benefits. Grama panchayat president K. Sunil said the enrolment drive was completed with the support of about 150 trained volunteers in just 18 days. Assistant Labour Officer L.N. Anooj said over 40 grama panchayats in Kozhikode district had crossed 50% of the total targeted registrations on the portal. “Kozhikode district is maintaining the lead in total enrolment in Kerala. There will be special district-level camps for facilitating the enrolment of more lottery workers and transgender persons,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chakkittappara-tops-e-shram-drive/article37949363.ece
14 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Controversies dog LDF govt.||Six months into governance, the second Pinarayi Vijayan Ministry seems to be caught in a vortex of controversies, right from the formation of the Cabinet and allotment of portfolios to the latest face-off between the State government and Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on the alleged political appointments and interference in the functioning of universities. The tug of war between the Governor and the government is not new as he had come out against the Left Democratic Front passing a resolution against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) during its previous tenure. However, the rift has now reached a whole new level with the Governor stating that he wants to quit as Chancellor of universities in the light of issues such as the reappointment of Vice Chancellor of Kannur University, selection of faculty at Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, appointments at Sree Narayanaguru Open University, and the rampant nepotism in the higher education sector. For the new government, the first controversy reared its head when the Chief Minister took over the minority welfare portfolio during the Cabinet formation. Then came the illegal felling of centuries-old rosewood trees at Muttil South village in Wayanad. The order by the Forest department granting permission to Tamil Nadu to fell 15 trees downstream of the baby dam at the Mullaperiyar reservoir too raised an uproar. The order was later revoked. COVID death data The fudging of COVID-19 death data has been haunting the government right from the beginning. Later, the Health department admitted that the number of deaths had crossed 42,000, with Kerala figuring second on the list of States. The controversy over Kitex Garments deciding to go back on its proposal to invest Rs. 3,500 crore in the State grabbed national headlines. The CPI(M) leadership was forced to ask M.C. Josephine, the then Women’s Commission Chairperson, to quit her post when her remark in a Malayalam TV channel sparked a row. Adoption row The government then struggled to find a solution to an adoption controversy when Anupama S. Chandran took to the streets recently to get her baby back. Only after weeks of tough legal battle and protests did her ordeal end. An order of the Supreme Court rejecting the government plea to withdraw prosecution against six members of the LDF in the Assembly ruckus case of 2015 as well as dismissing the government appeal against the High Court’s decision to transfer investigation in the Periye twin murder case to the CBI also dealt a serious blow to the Pinarayi government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/controversies-dog-ldf-govt/article37949392.ece
14 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Coastal patrol under way to shut smugglers’ corridors||Noticing suspected attempts to smuggle in Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and drugs misusing fishing boats, the Coastal Police have stepped up their round-the-clock patrol activities along the coastline of Kozhikode district. The surprise inspections are also part of the ongoing surveillance activities initiated by Excise Department squads with the support of other enforcement wings in view of the New Year and Christmas season. Unlike in the past, the support of local fishers has also been ensured at all possible levels to intensify the vigil. Arrangements are also in place at the harbours in Beypore, Vellayil, Puthiyappa, Koyilandy, and Chombal to track suspicious boats and labourers. The squads will also act tough on the operators of unlicensed boats. According to police sources, there are suspected carriers who misuse the waterway between Kannur and Kozhikode to ship illegally procured IMFL from Mahe. There is also suspicion that a few local fishermen are colluding with such carriers. Excise Department officials say they have been keeping an eye on the movement of fishing boats during the festival seasons for over three years. Patrol boats of the Coastal Police and marine enforcement squad will be used for coordinating the special drive. The Vadakara Excise Range and the Vadakara Coastal Police station will play the major role in the drive with their proximity to Mahe. All major roads and checkposts between Kannur and Vadakara are under the close surveillance of special squads. Motorbike squads are also in the field to cover interior roads and carry out flash vehicle inspections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coastal-patrol-under-way-to-shut-smugglers-corridors/article37949360.ece
14 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Jala Yatra’ assesses tourism possibilities of Mampuzha||The Mampuzha Samrakshana Samithi has identified several spots on the banks of the river that can be developed into tourist destinations. The ‘Jala Yatra’ organised by the Samithi on Monday from Keezhmadu to Kaduppini, where the Mampuzha merges with the Kallai, saw the participation of not just the organisation’s volunteers but also of officials and people’s representatives from Peruvayal, Perumanna and Olavanna panchayats, through which the river flows. Samithi chairman T.K.A. Aziz said there was a lot of poramboke land on the banks of the Mampuzha that could be developed into parks, boating centres and walkways. “We plan to prepare a report and submit it to the authorities concerned immediately,” he added. However, a few low bridges in parts of the river may be a hurdle to launching boating services. “We plan to bring out projects to modify them to suit the purpose,” said Mr. Aziz. The Samithi had organised a few clean-up drives to rid the river of plastic bags and bottles in the previous years. On Monday, the participants did not detect much waste during the Jala Yatra. Though a tributary of the Kallai river, the Mampuzha is not as polluted or encroached upon as the former. “However, there are some places where drains from houses have opened into the river. The authorities have taken note of them during the ride,” said Mr. Aziz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jala-yatra-assesses-tourism-possibilities-of-mampuzha/article37949366.ece
14 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Special postal cover released to mark NIT-C diamond jubilee||On the occasion of the diamond jubilee of the National Institute of Technology-Calicut (NIT-C), the Department of Posts released a special postal cover on Monday. Prof. Prasad Krishna, Director, NIT-C, and T. Nirmala Devi, Postmaster General, Northern Region, Kerala, jointly released the special postal cover, a press release said. Ms. Nirmala lauded the efforts of the NIT-C for moulding the students into multifaceted personalities. The Department of Post began a two-day special postal mela at the NIT-C campus on Monday. A counter on “My Stamps” where the staff and students could print their names and photos on stamps was also opened. An exhibition of philatelic items, including old stamps, was arranged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-postal-cover-released-to-mark-nit-c-diamond-jubilee/article37949364.ece
14 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||COVID case at camp leaves teachers worried||The training for the lower primary section of a State camp for Guide captains – women school teachers who are part of the Bharat Scouts and Guides – has been suspended after a participant tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Sessions for teachers from upper primary and high school sections will continue in the online mode from Tuesday. According to sources, the seven-day camp began at an aided school at Kodenchery in Kozhikode district on December 10. As many as 84 teachers from schools across the State are attending it. The participants got a WhatsApp message on Monday morning saying that the camp has been postponed because one of the teachers had tested positive for the virus. Some of the organisers reportedly directed the participants through a voice clip to hide information about the infection from the media and the authorities. Later, the clip was deleted from the WhatsApp group. Sources said some of the teachers were worried because the identity of the infected person was yet to be revealed to them. A few of the participants were going home after the camp, and if they were infected, it would have spread among their family members too. The hall where the camp is being held is reportedly congested. Feels uneasy Sreeja Kumari, State Training Commissioner, Bharat Scouts and Guides, Kerala, told The Hindu that vaccination certificate and RT-PCR negative result were mandatory for those attending the camp. The infected person had felt uneasiness after the registration process on the first day. She left the camp premises within an hour. Since some of her school colleagues had tested positive for the virus, she sent her samples again. The next day, she informed the organisers that the test result was positive. “Nineteen persons are attending the camp in the LP section. It has been suspended for now,” she said. The other sessions were being held in line with COVID protocol, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-case-at-guide-captains-camp-leaves-teachers-worried/article37949354.ece
14 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Enforcement Directorate acting on behalf of RSS’||The Popular Front of India (PFI) has alleged that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has become an official agency for parroting the lies spread by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). At a press conference here on Monday, PFI State general secretary A. Abdul Sathar said the statement of the ED based on the raids conducted at the residences of PFI State committee member M.K. Ashraf and two other activists was aimed at maligning the organisation. Mr. Sathar said that since 2018, the ED has been conducting investigations against the PFI in the name of black money. He said the ED was constantly trying to hunt down the organisation based on the interest of the RSS and the BJP-led government at the Centre. The false allegations were made to cover up the fact that the ED had been unable to prove any allegations against the PFI in the previous raid, said Mr. Sathar. He alleged that the lies, spread from the RSS office, were officially released through the ED’s letterhead. After the raids, the persons concerned were given a written account of what was found there. The statements had said that no irregularities were found, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/enforcement-directorate-acting-on-behalf-of-rss/article37949358.ece
14 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||529 inducted into largest IIM-K batch||The record-breaking induction ceremony of 14th batch of Executive Post Graduate Programme (EPGP) of the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode (IIM-K), was organised online here on Monday. For a second consecutive time, the IIM-K enrolled 500-plus candidates (529 students in total) after registering an impressive count of 501 students last year. A press release said that the students were from diverse backgrounds in IT, banking, consulting, telecommunications, e-commerce, biotechnology, public sector units and healthcare. More than 200 candidates were from the Information Technology related sector with women candidates accounting for 20% of the total incoming EPGP cohort. Sreedevi Raghaven, founder and CEO of Tattvamassi Coaching and Consultancy (OPC) Pvt. Ltd. and member of the IIMK Board of Governors, in her inaugural address to the vastly experienced batch, recounted her journey at the IIMK and guided the latest group to overcome conditioned beliefs and to prioritise tasks to achieve their personal as well professional objectives. Ms. Raghavanm, herself an alumna of the third batch of this programme, also motivated the candidates to discover the golden opportunities that change brought in, in their pursuit of learning at an institution which was now known globally for the richness of its values and thought leadership. In his address, Debashis Chatterjee, Director, IIMK, said that the largest ever incoming batch of the programme, emphasised the culture of values and also the conscious responsibility of the learners to contribute to society once they acquired knowledge from the institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/529-inducted-into-largest-iim-k-batch/article37949352.ece
14 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Painting exhibition||The department of mural painting of Pookkad Kalalayam will organise ‘Sagaraneelima’, an exhibition of paintings, at Simon Britto Art Gallery at Kappad from December 27 to January 3. As many as 26 artists of the department, led by artist Sathish Thayat, are part of the exhibition. The Kalalayam has claimed that the exhibition breaks many conventions of the Kerala style of mural painting. Noted artists such as U.K. Raghavan, Suresh Unni, and A.K. Ramesh guided the participating artists as part of the project that was conceived more than a year ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/painting-exhibition/article37949353.ece
14 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Norms eased at Sabarimala||In view of the opening of the traditional trekking path to Sabarimala, the authorities have decided to permit the overnight stay of pilgrims at the Sannidhanam by laying ‘viri.’ As part of it, the space atop the Annadana Mandapam, where about 5,000 persons can be accommodated at a time, will be opened to devotees from December 14. A decision to this effect was taken at a high-level meeting convened by Sabarimala Additional District Magistrate Arjun Pandian. Distribution of snacks The meeting also decided to keep the emergency medical centres of the Health department on the traditional route open during night and continue with the distribution of medicinal water. The distribution of snacks to the devotees on the traditional route will continue in the absence of temporary shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norms-eased-at-sabarimala/article37949397.ece
14 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Institute at Ranni to boost tourism in Pathanamthitta||In a major boost to the tourism prospects of Pathanamthitta, the State government on Monday announced plans to establish the Kerala Institute of Tourism and Travel Studies (KITTS) in Ranni. The declaration in this regard was made by the Tourism and Public Works minister P. A. Mohamed Riyas, while inaugurating the construction of a new building complex at the Government Polytechnic College in Vechoochira. Novel systems Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said the State government was working on transforming the educational institutions into centres of career-oriented excellence and developing novel education systems with focus on technology. The Minister also lauded the Knowledge Village project proposed by the Ranni legislator Pramod Narayan and said the Polytechnic college would hold a special role in realizing the project. Innovative role “The institution can play a major role in innovative trainings, entrepreneurship and start-ups,” noted Mr.Riyas. Later in the day, the Minister also inaugurated the restoration works of the Murinjakal-Koodal Rajagiri, Thanithodu-Karimanthodu and Kaipattoor-Vallikodu roads in Konni. Speaking on the occasion, Mr.Riyas said the working calendar prepared by the Public Works Department for various projects under it would soon be released. Flyover works Works on the flyover at Aban Junction in Pathanamthitta, which is being constructed at a cost of Rs. 46.8 crore , was also launched on the day. Works on the 611-meter-long flyover with 90-meter-long approach roads on both sides is slated to be completed in 18 months. The flyover, which crosses the Thiruvalla-Kozhencherry Road, begins from the Pathanamthitta Ring Road near the private bus stand and ends near the Muthoot hospital.  Public Works Minister inaugurates construction of new building complex||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-institute-to-be-set-up-in-ranni/article37949435.ece
14 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Woman arrested for killing infant||The Ranni police on Monday arrested a 21-year-old woman who allegedly killed her 27-day-old baby by slamming its head against a wall. The accused was identified as Blessy P. Michael, a native of Pazhavangad,i near here. The incident took place a few a days ago when the accused allegedly killed the baby boy while trying to stop it from crying. The incident came to light when the infant was taken to a hospital. Though the woman had told that the baby had been injured after falling off the bed, a detailed medical examination later confirmed the assault. During a police interrogation, the accused confessed to killing the baby as it would not stop crying. The accused will be produced before a magistrate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-arrested-for-killing-infant/article37949437.ece
14 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation steps up efforts to clear pending files||The city Corporation is moving towards the culmination of a massive exercise to dispose of pending files. In September this year, the civic body had initiated measures to assess the number of pending files under each wing and to take action on each of them. Although the controversies regarding tax collection had slowed down the process, action has been taken on all the pending files in two of the 11 zonal offices of the Corporation, according to official sources. When the file clearance measures began, it was found that there were 8,200 files pending across various sections. This included files regarding birth and death registrations, building permits, complaints filed by people regarding issues due to trees in neighbouring plots, as well as every other kind of application submitted to the civic body. Out of these, close to 6,000 files have now been cleared. All of the pending files in Vattiyurkavu and Thiruvallam zonal offices have now been disposed of. Objections “The Corporation will be publicising this so that the public can raise their objections, if any. For instance, if we are saying that all pending files in a particular zonal office are disposed of, and someone feels that no action has been taken on their application, they can come forward and raise the issue. We will be taking necessary action on those. There are exceptions in these, as files in which there are court cases and those in which the action does not come under the powers of the Corporation will still remain pending,” said a Corporation official. A large number of complaints are those filed by residents regarding trees in the neighbouring plots or even the problem created by pets kept by neighbours. In many such cases, the issue drags on even after a settlement is arrived at, as one of the aggrieved parties will raise further complaints, leading to a never-ending process. Following the controversies regarding the tax payments, with complaints of payments not getting recorded in the online platform, the civic body had focussed on ironing out issues in the tax database. This had taken away the focus from the measures to clear pending files. Yet, the Corporation authorities hope that the whole process will be completed by the end of December.  A large number of complaints are those regarding trees in neighbouring plots or the problem created by pets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-steps-up-efforts-to-clear-pending-files/article37949555.ece
14 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bindu has crossed a line: Cong.||The Congress seems to have issued an ultimatum demanding the resignation of Higher Education Minister R. Bindu. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said Ms. Bindu had crossed a line by insisting that Governor Arif Mohammed Khan disband the search committee constituted to find a suitable academic as Vice Chancellor for Kannur University. The Minister had brazenly demanded that Mr. Khan extend the tenure of the current Vice Chancellor, who was due for retirement. Brandishing the letter, Mr. Chennithala said Ms. Bindu had violated the oath of office. She had indulged in corruption and nepotism. Mr. Chennithala said he would move the Lok Ayukta against Ms. Bindu’s maladministration. “She should quit by Tuesday,” he said. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said Ms. Bindu’s continuation in office was legally untenable. The government should brace for street protests to protect the autonomy of varsities. Meanwhile, the stand-off between Mr. Khan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over ‘political cronyism’ in university appointments seems to have entered an intractable zone. Mr. Khan indicated to reporters in New Delhi that he was loath to continue as Chancellor. “I find it difficult to continue as Chancellor because there is too much political interference in university matters. The autonomy of universities should be respected,” he said. Pinarayi meets AG On Monday, Mr. Vijayan held a closed-door meeting with the Advocate General. Mr. Khan had alleged that the Chief Minister had sought the AG’s opinion to overrule his counsel that extending the term of the Kannur University Vice Chancellor was against university norms. Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan seemed to suggest that Mr. Khan’s position appeared politically motivated. “There is something mysterious. The government wants no confrontation with the Governor. The Chief Minister has said that the administration is open for discussions with Mr. Khan. The government wants Mr. Khan to continue as Chancellor,” he said. Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary Kanam Rajendran asked Mr. Khan not to force the government’s hand to remove him from the Chancellor’s post. He said the Assembly had appointed him as Chancellor. It could easily withdraw its pleasure, he said. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran demanded a judicial inquiry into the university appointments since Mr. Vijayan came to power in 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bindu-has-crossed-a-line-cong/article37949402.ece
14 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Longing to belong to their own homeland||To be faced with questions of one’s identity and origins at the fag of end of life, when one is losing grip of memory and physical health, can be quite devastating. Two documentaries from Assam, screened at the 13th International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala (IDSFFK), deal with individuals who are faced with such daunting questions following the publication of the National Register of Citizens (NRC), thus highlighting the plight of lakhs of others. Monjul Baruah’s Xenophobia , screened in the short documentary competition category, is based on the much-reported story of 65-year-old Dulal Paul, who was declared a foreigner by a tribunal in 2017 and died while he was lodged in a detention camp. A protest staged by his family, who refused to accept his dead body until he was confirmed as an Indian citizen, had hit the headlines back in 2019, and had led even the Assam Chief Minister to intervene to pacify the family. The fact that a person who was declared as a foreigner, despite having documents, suddenly became an Indian citizen after his death, so that the authorities could get rid of the body quickly, was not something the family could accept. Their protest was about regaining the dignity that was denied to him while he was alive. Monologues Baruah concentrates much of the documentary on the monologues of Paul’s son. He narrates the whole ordeal, right from the beginning, when two plain-clothes men on a motorcycle took him away, promising to bring him back soon. But he never returned home until his death, being shifted between detention homes and hospitals. The son speaks of the gradually deteriorating condition of his father in every successive visit to the detention centre. In comparison, Devshree Nath takes a much more detached view in Noor Islam , screened in the Focus: Short Documentary category. Noor Islam’s plight has much to do with a clerical error, with a slight mistake in his father’s name entered in the documents. Yet, that one spelling mistake was enough to turn Islam and his sons into foreigners. We see him speaking to his son over the phone, and promising to get a favourable order at least from the Supreme Court. But, seeing the frail man, who is also struggling with his memory, trying to make sense of what has hit him, one can only wonder at where he draws that confidence from. The documentary spends a considerable amount of time at the government offices where hundreds of people, mostly from economically weak backgrounds, queue up to present their papers to prove their citizenship. For many of them, it is a harrowing process that costs money, entails loss of their daily wages and involves high levels of uncertainty, with everything depending upon the official who is going through the papers. In their own different ways, the makers of both the documentaries manage to convey the helplessness of the people who are forced into this situation. It also raises questions on the need for such policy moves, which pile on the agony of people who are already going through hardships, rather than prioritise policies that would alleviate sufferings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/longing-to-belong-to-their-own-homeland/article37949514.ece
14 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF not to take sides in spat between CM, Governor||Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan hinted that the United Democratic Front (UDF) would not take sides in the spat between Governor Arif Mohammed Khan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over ‘political cronyism’ in varsity appointments. He said both leaders have sparred in the past and patched up at the behest of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) national leadership. However, the illegal appointments in varsities and service extension for favourites remained a severe public interest issue the UDF could not ignore. The CPI(M) had incrementally usurped the academic and administrative power of varsities by populating its statutory councils with compliant party apparatchiks. UGC norms ignored The Sree Narayana Guru Open University was a classic example. The government had given UGC norms the go-by in appointments. It extended the service of the Kannur University Vice Chancellor illegally. Mr. Khan had acquiesced in the decision by affixing his imprimatur. He should now redeem the wrong decision. The Governor was not above criticism, he said. The government rendered the ‘search committee’ an impotent witness in the appointment of the Sanskrit university Vice Chancellor. It has reserved university posts for the next of kin of CPI(M) leaders. Mr. Satheesan said Mr. Vijayan was a pale imitation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Both were authoritarians. Sangh Parivar minded officers dominated the Kerala police. It explained why the Aluva police cast Congress workers protesting the suicide of Mofiya Praveen as ‘terrorists.’ Mr. Vijayan had allowed the police to wrongfully accuse two young CPI(M) men, both students, of Maoist links. Mr. Vijayan and CPI(M) shared a Sangh Parivar mentality, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-not-to-take-sides-in-spat-between-cm-governor/article37949400.ece
14 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||P. Jayachandran selected for J.C. Daniel Award||Playback singer P. Jayachandran has been chosen for the prestigious J.C. Daniel Award for 2020. The award, conferred by the State government annually in recognition to an individual’s contributions to Malayalam cinema, carries a purse of Rs. 5 lakh, a plaque, and a citation. He has been chosen for the award by a jury chaired by filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan, with scriptwriter and actor Renji Panicker, actor Seema, Chalachitra Academy Chairperson Kamal and Culture Department Principal Secretary Rani George as members. The jury observed that Mr. Jayachandran had been a constant presence in Malayalam playback singing for over five decades and had carved a niche for himself. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will present the award at a function to be held at the Secretariat Durbar Hall on December 23. In 1965 Mr. Jayachandran entered Malayalam cinema by singing the song Oru Mullappoomaalayumaayi... written by P. Bhaskaran and composed by Chidambaranath for the 1965 film Kunjali Marakkar . Over the past 56 years, he has sung more than 10,000 songs in various languages. In 1985, he won the National Film Award for the best singer. He has also won the State Film Award five times. He is the 28th individual to be chosen for the award, instituted in 1992.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/p-jayachandran-selected-for-jc-daniel-award/article37949404.ece
14 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Attack on family: one detained||The Neyyattinkara police have registered a case in connection with the attack on an autorickshaw driver and his family members late Sunday. One person has been taken into custody. Sunil Kumar of Aralumoodu came under attack after a four-member gang barged into his house around 11 p.m. on Sunday. The perpetrators hacked Sunil using sharp objects. His wife and daughter also sustained minor injuries. The gang also vandalised Sunil Kumar’s house and autorickshaw. Complaint The attack is suspected to be linked to a complaint raised by Sunil and his younger brother Sudheesh against the gang which allegedly ran a drug business in the area. Sreeraj, who was allegedly involved in the attack, has been apprehended by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attack-on-family-one-detained/article37949547.ece
14 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM wants vaccine coverage expedited||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has directed the Health department to expedite COVID-19 vaccination coverage and give special focus on districts where the coverage has not been progressing well. At the COVID-19 review meeting on Monday, Mr. Vijayan directed district collectors to give special attention to Palakkad, Malappuram and Kozhikode where the vaccination rate has been low. The State has fully vaccinated 70% of the eligible population (above 18 years of age), which leaves behind 70 lakh persons who have to be administered the second dose. This should be completed fast, he said. The first dose coverage has now reached 97%. Upping surveillance With the presence of Omicron virus variant confirmed in the State, it is important to enhance surveillance so that case clusters can be identified and samples sent for genetic sequencing. At present, 36 persons linked to the first confirmed case of Omicron variant at Ernakulam are in isolation. The identification of the new variant also means that the State would not be able to allow any more relaxations in civil life. Everyone should take care to wear N95 masks or three-layered masks. The government is not considering the full reopening of schools at this point in time, Mr. Vijayan clarified. Children who are now coming to schools should be provided immediate care if at all they display signs and symptoms of COVID-19. Schoolteachers need to be made aware of the post-COVID conditions that should be expected, he said. Public functions Performance of ritual art forms would be allowed in connection with festivals. All public functions, including festivals, socio-political and cultural events, may have a maximum of 300 participants if conducted in open spaces and a maximum of 150 persons in closed halls. For weddings and funerals, a maximum of 200 persons may be allowed in open spaces and a maximum of 100 persons in closed spaces. These numbers would have to be in proportion to the space where the function is held. In Sabarimala, the government has allowed certain relaxations but this should not lead to a laxity in vigil, Mr. Vijayan cautioned. He also directed district collectors to complete the distribution of COVID-19 financial assistance in a time-bound manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-wants-vaccine-coverage-expedited/article37949379.ece
14 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three more arrested in Pothencode murder case||The Pothencode police have taken into custody three more people in connection with the murder of Kalloor native Sudheesh. They were identified as Arun of Vengode, Sachin of Chemboor, and Sooraj of Kanyakulangara. Their arrests are yet to be recorded. The trio, along with the three youths who were arrested a day earlier, were allegedly directly involved in the murder. Those arrested have been remanded to judicial custody. Their custody will be soon sought to collect further evidence, the police said. With this, the number of people apprehended in the case has gone to six. While 11 people are believed to have direct role in the crime, many more who abetted the murder and aided the perpetrators could be brought to book in the case, Pothencode inspector station house officer K. Shyam said. The prime accused persons, Unni and Rajesh alias Ottakam Rajesh, were yet to be apprehended. An attack on Unni’s mother by Sudheesh is suspected to have led to the retaliatory incident. Besides, a gang led by the deceased was also involved in an attack on the members of a rival gang led by Rajesh in Mangattumoola early this month, the police said. Notably, Sudheesh’s wife’s brother Shyam is also an accused in the murder case. He is known to have tipped the perpetrators on the whereabouts of Sudheesh who had gone into hiding following the incident in Mangattumoola. The duo were at odds following an altercation that cropped up regarding the sale of drugs in the region.  With this, the number of people apprehended in the case has gone to six.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-more-arrested-in-pothencode-murder-case/article37949554.ece
14 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man arrested over an attack a year ago||The Nemom police on Monday arrested a youth in connection with an attack on two people a year ago. The police identified the accused as Nikhil C. Radha, 26, of Kakkammoola. He was allegedly part of a five-member gang that had assaulted Kakkammoola native Ratnadas and his uncle in December 2020. Two others had been arrested in the case earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-over-an-attack-a-year-ago/article37949546.ece
14 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Traffic diversion for 15 days||Traffic diversions will be enforced along various routes for 15 days starting Tuesday on account of the laying of interlocking tiles along the Kallattumukku road (Attakulangara-Thiruvallam route). According to a release issued by the City traffic police, vehicles coming from Thiruvallam and headed for East Fort must divert towards NH-66 bypass and proceed along Paruthikuzhy and Eenchakkal. Route Heavy vehicles headed for Thiruvallam from East Fort will be required to proceed along Kothalam road in Attakulangara and divert at Eenchakkal. Light motor vehicles proceeding in the same direction will have to turn left at Maharani junction and proceed through Attukal road to reach Thiruvallam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-diversion-for-15-days/article37949548.ece
14 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Active case pool dropping steadily||The State reported 2,434 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday when 50,446 samples were tested in 24 hours. Kerala added 203 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on the day. The State’s active case pool is dropping steadily and had 36,281 patients on Monday. A total of 4,308 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases on Monday with 525 cases, Thiruvananthapuram 428, Kozhikode 315, Kannur 224, Kollam 163, Kottayam 147, Thrissur 136, Alappuzha 83, Malappuram 83, Pathanamthitta 76, Palakkad 68, Idukki 63, Kasaragod 54, and Wayanad 39 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-case-pool-dropping-steadily/article37949399.ece
14 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Police social media cell bags award||The social media cell of Kerala Police has bagged the Central government’s national e-governance award for innovative practices that were adopted in sensitising the public on COVID-19. The social media cell, which is headed by Additional Director General of Police (Headquarters) Manoj Abraham, will receive the award at a ceremony that is scheduled to be held in Hyderabad on January 7 and 8. Awareness The police force had put its social media wing to good use during the lockdowns to create awareness on preventing the COVID-19 spread.  The social media cell also played an active role in busting fake news regarding the COVID-19 pandemic that threatened to create panic among the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-police-social-media-cell-bags-award/article37949378.ece
14 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Guruvayur Keshavan remembered||Guruvayur Keshavan, a legendary elephant of the Guruvayur Devaswom, was remembered in a colourful ceremony on Monday. Elephant Indrasen carried the portrait of Keshavan and 10 other jumbos followed it in a procession. Elephant Balram carried Guruvayurappan’s photo, while elephant Gopi Kannan carried that of goddess Mahalakshmi. The elephants garlanded a statue of Guruvayur Keshavan installed on the premises of Sree Valsam guest house. Scores of elephant lovers and devotees bore witness to the ceremony. Keshavan figures prominently in Guruvayur’s bhakthi lore. Devaswom chairman K.B. Mohandas and others paid floral tributes to the jumbo at the statue. Meanwhile, musicians rendered pancharatna keerthanas of Thygaraja Swamikal in connection with Ekadasi festival of the Sree Krishna temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guruvayur-kesavan-remembered/article37949550.ece
14 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Cyclist fatally hit by lorry||A 71-year-old man, N.V. Balagopal, on cycle was fatally hit by a container lorry at Marathakkara in Thrissur district on Monday. The police arrested the lorry driver who fled the scene after the accident. The lorry, which conducts courier service, was later taken into custody from Kalamassery. The body of Balagopal, who was an engineer in Kuwait, was handed over to the Thrissur Medical College.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cyclist-fatally-hit-by-lorry/article37949557.ece
14 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Radha Unni is independent director of SIB||Radha Unni, former Chief General Manager, State Bank of India (SBI), Kerala Circle, has been appointed as the independent director of South Indian Bank (SIB). She has 36 years of banking experience. During her tenure at the SBI, Ms. Unni had handled corporate credit and project appraisal of small and medium enterprises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/radha-unni-is-independent-director-of-sib/article37949559.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Road to the future||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-to-the-future/article37949371.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Red-letter day||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/red-letter-day/article37949390.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Marking a milestone||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marking-a-milestone/article37949362.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Being prepared||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/being-prepared/article37949432.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||People’s movement||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/peoples-movement/article37949561.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Greener pastures||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greener-pastures/article37949563.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Bindu recommended reappointment||Highlighting the university’s achievements with Prof. Ravindran at its helm in her communication, Dr. Bindu had also requested the Chancellor to cancel a notification that appointed a search-cum-selection committee to identify the next Vice Chancellor. She also informed the Chancellor that steps had been taken to withdraw another notification that invited applications for the post. Calling the academic an asset to Kannur University, the Minister said he had taken the establishment to greater heights. During his term, the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) upgraded the university’s status from B to B++. It is alleged that Dr. Bindu was not within her rights to make the recommendation, despite she being the Pro Chancellor of the Kannur University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bindu-recommended-reappointment/article37949405.ece
14 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen plant inaugurated in Dhone||Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy on Monday inaugurated a Pressure Swing Absorption oxygen generation unit at the Dhone Community Health Centre. The Minister said that the aim of the State government was to bring quality healthcare within every citizen’s reach. “The oxygen plant has a capacity of producing 500 litres per minute. “The oxygen plant was sponsored by Dr. Reddy’s Foundation, which funded Rs. 60 lakh, while Rs. 18 lakh was granted from the COVID-19 Fund for the establishment of the generator,” Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said. The Minister also inaugurated a water plant built for Rs. 5 lakh and inspected the work on a new municipal office complex and vegetable market complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-plant-inaugurated-in-dhone/article37949489.ece
14 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special postal cover marks JNTUA’s 75th anniversary||Ahead of the 75th anniversary celebrations of the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University College of Engineering, Anantapur, the university authorities on Monday released a special postal cover to commemorate the anniversary celebrations scheduled for December 18. India Posts Superintendent Basha along with JNTUA Vice-Chancellor G. Ranga Janardhana on Monday released a special postal cover to commemorate the anniversary in the presence of Rector M. Vijay Kumar, Registrar C. Shashidhar, and Principal P. Sujatha. Prof. Janardhan said that the college, established in 1946 at Guindy in Chennai, had undergone several changes with affiliations to several universities and emerged as JNTUA University College. “We are fortunate to be part of this historic event, which is a precursor to the anniversary events to be held on December 16, 17, and 18,” the Vice-Chancellor said. The First Special Postal Cover with a Rs. 5 postal stamp of Subhas Chandra Bose was franked by Mr. Basha at the auditorium. The Special Cover has the photograph of the JNTUA CE college and ‘75 Years’ written on it along with the college emblem. The ‘75 Years - Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ logo also has been printed on the front side, while a brief history of the college is printed at the back in English and Hindi. The India Posts Superintendent said it was an honour for the department to deliver the special cover within one month and be part of the historical event. He welcomed and congratulated the alumni of the college and present students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-postal-cover-marks-jntuas-75th-anniversary/article37949491.ece
14 December 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nod must for conversion: Karnataka||Karnataka is likely to insist that a person who wishes to convert to another religious faith must file an application before the Deputy Commissioner two months prior. Approval from the official will be made mandatory. Further, the person, who wishes to convert to another religion but receiving reservation benefits in the religion that he is practising, will stand to lose that benefit and receive the benefit as per what he/she is entitled to in the religion he converts to. Mostly modelled on the existing anti-conversion legislations in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, the Karnataka Government is also adding penal provisions for fine and imprisonment. Review applications Providing some details of the much-debated and opposed anti-conversion Bill, Home Ministry sources told The Hindu that any person wishing to convert will have to submit an application before the Deputy Commissioner while the person assisting in the conversion will also have to apply to the DC about a month before the process. “The DC will then review the applications and approve the conversion,” sources said. “The Bill is being fine tuned by the Law Department and will be ready in a day to be placed before the Cabinet. We will move the Bill in this session,” Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said. He said that the government had studied the existing law in eight States and several Supreme Court decisions to draft the Bill. Defending the Bill, Mr. Jnanendra said it was being brought to prevent law and order problems in the State. “While Constitution provides freedom to practise any religion, it prohibits conversion by force or inducement. However, it has not prescribed penal provisions. We will be adding penal provision in the Bill.” He insisted that the proposed legislation will help all religions.  Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai also told reporters that the draft of the proposed Bill is being studied by the Law Department. “Any law will obviously witness opinions for and against. However, the government would have to enact laws in public interest and the issue would be debated,” he said, reacting to the opposition to the Bill by Opposition leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nod-must-for-conversion-karnataka/article37948981.ece
14 December 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Law against ‘love jihad’ coming, say Ministers||Amidst opposition to the proposed anti-conversion Bill, Karnataka Cabinet Ministers indicated on Monday that separate legislation against “love jihad” would follow. Ahead of the commencement of the winter session of the State Legislature, Energy Minister Sunil Kumar defended the anti-conversion Bill. He said the BJP Government would bring a separate law against “love jihad.” ‘A step ahead’ “We had been stating from the beginning that the BJP Government will bring in anti-cow slaughter and anti-conversion law, we are committed to it. I will go a step ahead and say that in the days to come we will bring a law against ‘love jihad’,” Mr. Kumar said. Later, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa also said such a law would be brought to protect women. “In the name of love jihad, women are being sold abroad or abandoned after marriage,” he said. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra confirmed toThe Hinduthat discussions in the Government had started on bringing such a legislation. “However, it will take time, since we want to bring legislation that will stand the test of law,” he said.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/law-against-love-jihad-coming-say-ministers/article37948994.ece
14 December 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||State to recommend Padma award for Puneet||The Karnataka Government will recommend to the Centre to confer Padma Shri award on the late actor Puneeth Rajkumar, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday. Announcing this while speaking on the obituary motion in the Assembly to pay tributes to various personalities who died recently, the Chief Minister said the government would also honour the late actor with Karnataka Ratna award as announced earlier. Rich praises Showering rich praises on Puneeth for his achievement at a young age, Mr. Bommai said the huge crowd that came to pay their last respects to the actor indicated his popularity. He said the family members and the general public co-operated in preventing the recurrence of violent episodes that were witnessed during the last rites of Dr. Rajkumar. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said that Puneeth had inherited all the good qualities from his father Dr. Rajkumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-to-recommend-padma-award-for-puneet/article37948978.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four held for ‘helping’ S. African national escape||Four persons, including two laboratory employees, were arrested by the High Grounds police on Sunday for allegedly helping a South African national who had tested positive for Omicron escape from a hotel where he was quarantined. The accused have been identified as Ranesh and Ravindra, techies with an IT firm at Bommanahalli here, where the South African national was working, and Manoj and Prashanth, employees of a private laboratory. India’s first two Omicron patients were reported from Karnataka, and the first patient was a 66-year-old foreign national. According to the police, the South African national landed at the airport on November 20, and the authorities directed him to quarantine himself at Shangri-La Hotel until further orders after he tested positive. The accused obtained a COVID-19 negative report with the help of Ranesh and Ravindra from the laboratory on HAL Airport Road and used it to check out from the hotel on November 27, before his genome sequencing reports arrived. He used the report to leave India. The police are now investigating if the laboratory had issued similar certificates in the recent past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-held-for-helping-s-african-national-escape/article37948979.ece
14 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||OTS beneficiaries can get registered title deeds by paying Rs. 10, says Collector||As many as 2.3 lakh beneficiaries have availed themselves of the benefit of One Time Settlement during the years 2000-2014 by paying only the principal amount and the interest was waived, said District Collector Vivek Yadav. The original documents, the D-form Pattas and possession certificates were returned by the AP State Housing Corporation to the beneficiaries. However, registered title deeds were not issued to them. Similarly, from 2014 to 2019, 43,776 beneficiaries (category-2) had paid both principal and interest amounts to the tune of Rs. 15.4 crore when there was no OTS. They had also taken back their original documents, but registered title deeds were not given to them also. Now, under the present OTS scheme of “Jagananna Sampoorna Gruha Hakku Pathakamu”, the government had taken a decision on these two categories of beneficiaries who would be given registered title deeds under the OTS scheme on payment of Rs. 10 since they had paid the principal amount. For all such beneficiaries, a registered title deed would be paid on payment of a nominal amount of Rs. 10 . The beneficiaries could approach the nearest village/ward secretariats with details/clearance certificates issued by APSPHCL of the house constructed and the amount paid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ots-beneficiaries-can-get-registered-title-deeds-by-paying-rs-10-says-collector/article37949041.ece
14 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CJ lays stone for new building of High Court||Chief Justice of A.P. High Court Prasanth Kumar Mishra on Monday laid the foundation stone for an additional building of the High Court in Thullur mandal. The G+3 structure is set to be completed within six months at a cost of Rs. 33.50 crore providing an additional 76,300 square feet. The building is being designed in such a way that the ground floor will house the library, record room, two flexible office spaces. There will be six court halls on ground and the first floor and two court halls on the third floor. A meeting hall of judges and three office chambers are also planned on the third floor. Parking facilities A spacious parking lot accommodating 60 cars is being planned. Advocate General S. Sriram, Bar Council chairman Ganta Rama Rao, judges, Special Chief Secretary, Municipal Administration, Y. Srilakshmi and CRDA Commissioner Vijaya Krishnan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cj-lays-stone-for-new-building-of-high-court/article37949498.ece
14 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganta Subba Rao arrested||Former MD and CEO of AP State Skill Development Corporation Ganta Subba Rao was arrested on Monday by a Special Investigation Team of the CID in connection with the alleged financial scam involving crores of rupees by Siemens Industry Software India Ltd and Design tech Systems Pvt Ltd., involving APSSDC funds. Several persons, including the then director of APPSSDC K. Lakshminarayana, OSD and special officer to secretary, skill development, Nimmagadda Venkata Krishna and directors of Design Tech Systems Pvt Ltd were charged under various sections and sent to judicial remand. Mr. Lakshminarayana was given an interim bail by the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganta-subba-rao-arrested/article37949499.ece
14 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Peddling of liquid ganja has police on their toes||Consumption of Cannabis, known as weed or ganja, has been on the rise in the State. People of all age groups, more so, students have been allegedly found to be addicted to the weed, but law enforcing agencies are a bit surprised at the ease in which the substance is being shipped and delivered at multiple points. Ganja has been banned under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. The NDPS Act defines Cannabis or weed or ganja the flowering or fruiting top, that excludes seeds and leaves which do not form part of the top, any mixture or drink made out of charas or ganja or charas, crude or purified, is a separated resin obtained from the cannabis plant and includes concentrated preparation or resin called liquid or hashish oil. Andhra Pradesh is now waging an all-out war on the banned substance. Director-General of Police Gautam Sawang has launched Operation Parivartan to weed out drugs across the State. Measures have been taken to strike at the roots of the trade, including burning of ganja crops in the Agency areas. Special police teams have been formed and a massive crackdown on cultivation of weed has been ordered in the Paderu Agency area in Visakhapatnam district. Even as the police are grappling with the peddling of dry ganja, the rampant smuggling of liquid ganja also known as hash oil has caught the police by surprise. Though there is no major difference in the making of dry ganja and liquid ganja, it is the packing which makes the peddling of liquid ganja easier. Packed in bottles and concealed in small quantities, the peddling of liquid ganja has emerged as a major challenge. Liquid ganja is made by boiling a mixture of dry ganja powder and vegetable glycerine. The concoction is then allowed to dry and packed into small bottles. “The Guntur Urban Police busted a massive racket where 50 kg of liquid ganja stock worth Rs. 10 lakh has been seized at Nagarampalem. The liquid ganja has been packed in 100 bottles of 5 ml each. The police have intensified the drive against peddling of ganja,'' said SP, Guntur Urban, K. Arif Hafeez. The main accused in the case, Siddha Bathula Vinay Kumar alias Pandu, is a student who completed engineering and later started to trade in ganja. While he was in judicial remand, he reportedly came across friends who put him to Isac Vaman Shaik and Md. Ishaan from Kerala. Later the duo sent Abu Backar alias Akbar to Guntur. Vinay allegedly struck a deal with Ishaan and Issac for handing over ganja in large quantities and headed to Paderu, where he purchased ganja worth Rs. 5 lakh. They packed the ganja in bottles and were getting ready to hand it over to Ishaan and Issac when the police, acting on a tip off, raided the house and arrested all of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/peddling-of-liquid-ganja-has-police-on-their-toes/article37949502.ece
14 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vidya Deevena sum should be deposited in college accounts’||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has struck down a review petition filed by the State government on the Jagananna Vidya Deevena scheme. Justice Kongara Vijaya Lakshmi struck down the review petition seeking review of earlier judgment of the High Court in ordering the government to deposit the money in lieu of fees reimbursement directly in the accounts of colleges. Advocate-General S. Sriram presented his arguments on behalf of the government. After hearing the arguments, Justice Vijaya Lakshmi passed the orders upholding the earlier judgment. The A.P. government, as part of Jagananna Vidya Deevena, had begun to deposit the money directly into accounts of mothers of students and this was opposed by several college managements who filed petition in the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vidya-deevena-sum-should-be-deposited-in-college-accounts/article37949500.ece
14 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vignan varsity releases admission notification||The admission notification of the Vignan Deemed to be University for the academic year 2022-23 for admission into B. Tech programmes, B. Pharmacy and B.Sc (Hons) Agriculture and all other undergraduate, postgraduate and Ph.D programmes was released on Monday. In-charge Vice-Chancellor Y. Krishna Kishore said Agriculture, Automobile, Biotechnology, Bioinformatics, Biomedical, Chemical, Civil, CSE, CSE-AI & ML, CS-CS, CS-BS, ECE, EEE, Food Technology, IT, Mechanical, Robotics and Automation, Petroleum Engineering, Textile Technology were offered as part of B.Tech programme. In addition, B. Pharmacy, B.A(LLB) and B.B.A(LLB) courses were offered. Admissions into B. Tech, B. Pharmacy and B.Sc (Hons) Agriculture programmes would be based on the performance in the “Vignan’s Scholastic Aptitude Test (V- SAT)”, an online examination conducted across 36 test centers on all India basis in 2022. The Vice-Chancellor informed that innovative stream oriented courses such as Cloud Computing, Internet of Things (IOT), Scripting Languages, Artificial Intelligence, Rapid Prototyping, Nanotechnology, Biotechnology – Immunology, Immunoinformatics were carefully designed and implemented in the curriculum of appropriate programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vignan-varsity-releases-admission-notification/article37949042.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana police begin search for missing jawan||The Siddipet police have formed three teams to trace B. Sai Kiran Reddy, an Army personnel and native of Pothireddypalli village of Cheriyal mandal of Siddipet district. Police have also registered a Zero FIR based on the complaint lodged by B. Patel Reddy, father of Sai Kiran Reddy. Mr. Sai Kiran was selected for the Army about 15 months ago and is currently posted at Faridkot in Punjab. He came home on November 17, and started back on December 5 to rejoin duty. He boarded a flight at Shamshabad Airport at 9 p.m. on the same day and landed at New Delhi Rajiv Gandhi International Airport. This was recorded in CC footage at the airport. Later Mr. Kiran along with another jawan and a local doctor Manish were recorded to have taken a train from New Delhi to Faridkot. Mr. Kiran was expected to report to Captain Nikhil Sharma. According to the information available, both jawans landed at Bathinda in Punjab, however, Sai Kiran has been missing since then. Call received Mr. Reddy received a call from his son on December 5, from Shamshabad Airport and after that the phone was switched off. Efforts by Mr. Reddy failed to yield any result and on December 10 he registered a Zero FIR with the Cheriyal police. Disclosing these details at Siddipet on Monday, DCP (Administration) Srinivasulu said that last location of Mr. Kiran was traced to Jakan Mandi in Haryana and FIR was transferred to Indira Gandhi International Airport and Faridkot police stations. He said three teams were formed to trace Mr. Kiran and this was communicated to Captain Nikhil Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-police-begin-search-for-missing-jawan/article37948976.ece
14 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD’s decision on ‘Annamayya Margam’ triggers debate||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) trust board according permission to consider developing ‘Annamayya Margam’ (the trekking route used by the saint poet Annamacharya to reach the Tirumala hills nearly 630 years ago) into an 18-km motorable road from Kukkaladoddi, has triggered a debate among various sections. Though it is hailed as ‘recognition’ of the ‘padayatra’ route taken by the people from Kadapa for nearly two decades, some feel that the decision could stir a hornet’s nest on various sensitive issues involving Tirumala. Rajampet ex-MLA and Kadapa Zilla Parishad Chairman Akepati Amarnatha Reddy was successful in convincing the TTD board to give a thought over his fervent pleas made for 18 years. He cited historical evidences on Avvathala Gutta, Sukravaram Banda, Yerrigunthalu, Ethakaya Mandapam, Chavidi, Paruveta Mandapam, Papavinasanam and Gogarbha Theertham to buttress his claim over the existence of such a path in the past. Picturesque route “There are 20 konas (water falls/ponds) like Thumburukona, Vagetikona, Kalivetikona and Panasamana Kona. The picturesque route, when developed, will not only give a pleasing experience but also reduce the travel distance by 40 km for people visiting from Kadapa and northern areas,” he told The Hindu . He was the first to represent to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy early in July to consider this project. “I told him his father the late Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had supported the project,” he added. However, Rayalaseema Porata Samithi convener and former Tirupati municipal councillor P. Naveen Kumar Reddy urged the TTD to first weigh its pros and cons. “The temple city developed over centuries by depending on pilgrims. The third road will take away their livelihood sources,” he cautioned. He also hinted at the inherent risk in opening an ‘insecure’ path to the red sanders-rich Seshachalam forest. “We cannot simply go for a third option just because of landslides witnessed on the existing roads,” he opined. CPI(M) district secretary V. Nagaraju also faulted the TTD for giving administrative sanction to a project without even discussing its fallout, recalling that YSR had to shelve the same bucking to criticism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttds-decision-on-annamayya-margam-triggers-debate/article37949504.ece
14 December 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Viveka’s secy. fears threat to his life||Slain Member of Parliament Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy’s personal secretary Krishna Reddy perceived a threat to his life from persons in close proximity. He had been working for close to three decades with the Y.S. Viveka family till the latter’s demise. Mr. Reddy, who has been named a suspect in the Viveka murder case, met the Superintendent of Police (Kadapa) K.K.N. Anburajan on Monday and submitted a representation to him, stating the sequence of situations that made him feel threatened. He also reportedly explained the pressure being mounted on him on some facts pertaining to the case. When requested by the media for his version, he, however, declined to comment. Mr. Anburajan told reporters that the former personal secretary felt a threat to his life from Viveka’s daughter N. Sunitha, son-in-law N. Rajasekhar Reddy and other family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vivekas-secy-fears-threat-to-his-life/article37949505.ece
14 December 2021||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||State to hand over 20 new sand reaches to JPVL||The State government is set to hand over 20 more new sand reaches of river Godavari to Jayaprakash Power Ventures Limited (JPVL) by December-end to achieve the targeted sand supply of 30 metric tonnes per day. On Monday, Governing Council of District Level Sand Committee Chairman and District Collector Ch. Hari Kiran directed the officials concerned to hand over the 20 new sand reaches to the JPVL by December-end during the council’s meet held here. The Mines and Geology authorities have also applied for environmental clearances for 10 more new sand reaches in the East Godavari district. “There is a need for supply of 30 MTs of sand per day from January as the construction activity is expected to be speeded up. The demand for the sand should be met without impacting the construction activity from January,” said Mr. Hari Kiran. Presently, the total supply per day is not exceeding 12 MT in the East Godavari district. The officials from the Revenue, Mines and Geology, Special Enforcement Bureau (Sand and Liquor) were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-to-hand-over-20-new-sand-reaches-to-jpvl/article37949532.ece
14 December 2021||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 new Rythu Bazaars to come up in E. Godavari||The State government has sanctioned 13 new Rythu Bazaars for the East Godavari district to provide better market connectivity for vegetables and other commodities. A few of the new Rythu Bazaars would be coming up in Kakinada and Rajamahendravaram cities. Presently, the district has 18 Rythu Bazaars. In Zilla Parishad General body meeting held on Sunday, Marketing Department Assistant Director K. Surya Prakash Reddy said that the tenders have been invited for the proposed new 13 Rythu Bazaars. The new Rythu Bazaars will come up at Toorangi, Ramanayyapeta, Etimoga, Rajiv Gruha Kalpa, Lala Cheruvu point, Dowleswaram, Kadiyam, Yeleswaram, Jaggampeta, Karapa, Kirlampudi, Tuni and Ramachandrapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-new-rythu-bazaars-to-come-up-in-e-godavari/article37949537.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why are you ashamed of PM, asks HC||Slamming a petitioner who sought a directive to remove the photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from paid COVID-19 vaccine certificates, the Kerala High Court on Monday asked whether the petitioner was ashamed of the Prime Minister who has come to power with the people’s mandate. When the petition came up for hearing, Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan asked, “Why you are ashamed of your Prime Minister? Why you are making such a complaint when around 150 crore people have not raised a voice in this regard.”  ‘Proud of PM’ “You might have political differences. Everyone has different political opinions, but he is still the Prime Minister,” he said. When the counsel for the petitioner said that the vaccination certificates by other countries did not carry the photo of their prime ministers, the court orally observed that “they may not be proud of their Prime Minister, but we are proud of ours”. You should be “proud of your vaccination certificate which carried the photograph of your PM.” Pointing out that the petitioner was the State-level master coach of the Jawaharlal Nehru Leadership Institute of New Delhi, the court asked “You work at an institute named after a Prime Minister. Why don’t you ask the university to take that down as well?” Petitioner’s stance Petitioner Peter Mayaliparambil from Kottayam contended that the Union government had no right to take the credit for the vaccination by inserting a photograph of the Prime Minister in the certificate issued to a paid vaccine recipient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-are-you-ashamed-of-pm-asks-hc/article37948983.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC puts off Krishna water dispute hearing till 2022||The Supreme Court on Monday adjourned to next year the hearing of the dispute among the neighbouring States of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka on the allocation of Krishna water. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud scheduled the case for hearing on January 10. In the previous hearing in November, Telangana had submitted that there was no information forthcoming from Karnataka for the past 14 years about how much Krishna water it had diverted. In turn, Karnataka had argued that a lot water was going to waste, “flowing down into the ocean” and there was a need to harness it for irrigation and to replenish dry regions. Karnataka had sought the vacation of a November 16, 2011 order of the Supreme Court which stopped the Centre from publishing in the Official Gazette the final order of the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-puts-off-krishna-water-dispute-hearing-till-2022/article37948992.ece
14 December 2021||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many hurt in SFI-ABVP clash at college||Several students were injured in a clash between the Students Federation of India (SFI) and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) at Government Victoria College men’s hostel in the early hours of Monday. The SFI alleged that they were attacked by a 50-member gang of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) men who had barged into the hostel rooms with weapons around 3 a.m. Five SFI men, including college unit joint secretary Abhimanyu, were admitted to the district hospital with injuries. The others injured were Afthab, Vibeesh, Nithin and Sibin. The SFI alleged that the attack was led by a Yuva Morcha leader. A Kerala Students Union (KSU) worker also sustained injuries in the clash. The attackers reportedly vandalised the hostel and destroyed furniture. ABVP workers did not leave leave the town after a State meeting they had held here on Sunday. The RSS-ABVP men also had a heated exchange with the police at the district hospital. Tight security A strong police force was deployed in the town, especially on the college premises, following the student clash. The SFI and KSU workers later took out demonstrations in the town condemning the attack. However, the ABVP alleged that it was the SFI workers who had attacked them. ABVP district secretary M. Drishyak and other student leaders R. Vighnesh and Sudhish were injured. According to them, the SFI attacked ABVP workers who were removing their flags and posters put up in front of the college. SFI workers attacked the ABVP activists when the latter questioned the SFI men about burning their flags. ‘Planned attack’ The SFI, however, alleged that some former students of the college were also among the gang that attacked them at the hostel. SFI district secretary Dinanath said it was a well-planned attack by the RSS and ABVP men with the intention of creating tension on the campus. The police have registered cases on the basis of complaints by both groups. However, none was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-hurt-in-sfi-abvp-clash-at-college/article37949026.ece
14 December 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sarada Peetham seer performs Maha Chandi homam||Visakha Sarada Peetham founder Swami Swaroopanandendra Saraswati on Monday said the Peetham had been fighting against religious conversions. He said that the Sarada Peetham had been trying to bring those people to Hindu religion fold with the special programme taken up from Kakinada to Srikakulam. Along with Swatmanandendra Saraswati of the Peeth, he offered prayers at Arasavilli Sri Suryanarayana Swamy temple. Later, Swami Swaroopanandendra Saraswati performed Maha Chandi Homam in P.N. Colony of Srikakulam. The Sarada Peetham seer said Hindu religion was a way of life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sarada-peetham-seer-performs-maha-chandi-homam/article37949535.ece
14 December 2021||TADEPALLIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||51 batteries, 21 inverters seized, one arrested||The Pentapadu police arrested Tejavath Venkat Rao alias Abraham, who allegedly stole batteries and inverters on the National Highway. The accused, a native of Pondugula village in Krishna district, committed thefts along the National Highway 216, and had stolen the batteries and inverters fixed to the solar lights and electric poles, said West Godavari district Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma. The team led by Kovvur Deputy Superintendent of Police B. Srinath and Tadepalligudem Rural CI V. Ravi Kumar seized the batteries and inverters, worth about Rs. 8.19 lakh, in Tadepalligudem town and arrested the accused, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/51-batteries-21-inverters-seized-one-arrested/article37949587.ece
14 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medicos’ stir hits Kerala health services||With the strike by postgraduate medical students throwing the functioning of all medical colleges in Kerala in disarray and derailing patient care, the State Government has expressed willingness to hold another round of talks with them, it is learnt. Though it is yet to receive a formal communication, the Kerala Medical Postgraduates’ Association said it was a welcome move. The Association hoped the Government would put forth positive suggestions to resolve the issues of acute staff shortage in medical college hospitals (MCHs) — aggravated by the delay in NEET-PG 2021 allotment — and a stipend hike, which it had highlighted through the strike. On Monday, with the house surgeons also joining the 13-day strike by the students , chaos prevailed at MCHs, with many patients turned away as authorities struggled to cope. Later in the day, the Health Minister’s office held discussions with the house surgeons, who had joined the strike after they were left to handle all emergency services in MCHs on their own. They also demanded the stipend hike that they had been promised. Act against police officer Another main demand was that the police officer responsible for the assault on a woman house surgeon at the Alappuzha MCH on Saturday be brought to book immediately. Meanwhile, the Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association has written to the Government that it will be forced to stop all academic activities in medical colleges and restrict patient care to just emergency services if no steps were taken to end the strike by PG doctors amicably. It condemned the Government’s refusal to take note of the serious issues of staff shortage in medical colleges and the long hours of work that PG doctors have been serving, especially since medical college hospitals were made exclusive COVID hospitals. In a strongly worded letter addressed to the Health Secretary, the KGMCTA also pointed out that instead of creating sufficient posts of faculty and staff to run new medical colleges, the shortcuts adopted by the Government of redeploying or diverting faculty was disrupting patient care as well as academic activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pg-medicos-stir-hits-kerala-health-services/article37948988.ece
14 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Documents validate Kerala Governor’s claim||Kerala Higher Education Minister R. Bindu had recommended the reappointment of Gopinath Ravindran as Vice-Chancellor of the Kannur University, official documents accessed by The Hindu prove. ‘Dissolve committee’ The documents which validate Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan’s claims of the Government’s involvement also show Dr. Bindu had requested him to cancel the selection process that was then underway and dissolve the search-cum-selection committee formed to find a new Vice-Chancellor. In letters that were sent to the Chancellor on November 22, the Minister who is the Pro Chancellor of Kannur University, proposed Prof. Ravindran’s name for a second continuous term as Vice-Chancellor. She also informed the Chancellor that the provisions of the Kannur University Act enabled the re-appointment of an incumbent Vice-Chancellor for a second term and did not stipulate any age restriction. The reappointment had raised eyebrows, with certain quarters claiming the University Act did not permit the appointment of a person aged above 60 years to the post. Prof. Ravindran had completed 60 years in December 2020. Highlighting the university’s achievements with Prof. Ravindran at its helm in her communication, Dr. Bindu had also requested the Chancellor to cancel a notification that appointed a search-cum-selection committee to identify the next Vice-Chancellor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/documents-validate-kerala-governors-claim/article37948984.ece
14 December 2021||Tiruchi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srirangam temple official lodges plaint||The Joint Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment-cum- Executive Officer of Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple, Srirangam, S. Marimuthu, has lodged a complaint against Rangarajan Narasimhan, an activist in Srirangam, seeking criminal action against him for forcing Bharatanatyam dancer A. Zakir Hussain to exit the temple. Ulterior motive In the complaint lodged with the Srirangam police station, Mr. Marimuthu said that Mr. Rangarajan Narasimhan, with an ulterior motive, had made Mr. Hussain to exit the temple when he visited the temple on December 10. Mr. Hussain, who had faith in Lord Ranganathar, had visited the temple on several occasions. As per the custom of the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple, there was no bar for the people of other faiths to visit the temple if they believed in Lord Ranganathar. Spreading falsehood Anyone, who wore dress as per the Hindu tradition and culture sporting symbols of Hinduism, could offer prayer to the deities, Mr. Marimuthu said and added that Mr. Narasimhan had a habit of spreading falsehood against the temple administration and the government to create trouble and bring disrepute. Mr. Marimuthu also sent a report to the Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment about the incident.  As per the custom of the temple, there was no bar for the people of other faiths to visit the temple S. MarimuthuExecutive Officer of Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple, Srirangam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srirangam-temple-official-lodges-complaint/article37949088.ece
14 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress lends support to Amaravati padayatra||The Congress on Friday reiterated the need to retain Amaravati as the sole capital of the State and expressed solidarity with the farmers who were on a ‘padayatra’ over the issue. Welcoming the farmers at the Railway Carriage Repair Shop in Renigunta amid incessant showers on Monday, the party’s city unit members led by president Mangati Gopal Reddy and senior leader Naveen Reddy said it was unfortunate for Andhra Pradesh to be the only State in the country to be without a capital. Several women offered ‘Harathi’ to the farmers taking part in the padayatra. “The State should unite for the cause and understand that the affected farmers are not undertaking the padayatra with a political motive, but merely to demand the setting up of the capital city. If farmers are unhappy, it does not augur well for the State,” said Mr. Gopal Reddy, who is also the president of the Federation of Farmers Associations (FFA). Earlier, Guntur MP Galla Jayadev participated in the padayatra with the slogan ‘One State, one capital’. Meanwhile, former Minister and TDP leader Kollu Ravindra and former MP K. Narayana presented Rs. 12.69 lakh to the farmers, which was collected by way of public donations. The members reached Rama Naidu Kalyana Mandapam on the city outskirts for their night stay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-lends-support-to-amaravati-padayatra/article37949493.ece
14 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSPDCL submits revenue requirement||Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (APSPDCL) has submitted its Annual Revenue Requirement (ARR) to the A.P. Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) for the 2022-23 financial year on Monday. The net revenue deficit has been mentioned as ‘0’ in the report, which has made some modifications in the process by dividing the consumers into two groups. The average supply cost of power was pegged at Rs. 6.97 per unit. The company has uploaded the report on its website www.apspdcl.in for public scrutiny.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apspdcl-submits-revenue-requirement/article37949494.ece
14 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete two doses of vaccination by January, Jagan tells officials||The State government has set a target of completing the two doses of vaccination to all the prescribed age groups in the State by January 2022. The Chief Minister held a review meeting on the prevailing COVID-19 situation, progress of vaccination and Nadu Nedu (health) works on Monday. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials to coordinate with the Central government and ensure that the two doses of vaccination were completed to all the prescribed age groups by January. Completing the vaccination process at the earliest was the best way to prevent the spread of COVID. The officials informed the Chief Minister that RT-PCR tests were being conducted in airports in the wake of the Omicron variant. A genome sequencing lab would be set up in a week. The 32nd Fever Survey was being continued. Oxygen generation plants would be set up in 100-bed private hospitals across the State. As many as 23,457 oxygen concentrators and 27,311 D-type cylinders were made available and 144 PSA plants would be available in the Government hospitals by the end of December, they said. There were 1,912 active cases at present with 99.21% recovery rate and 0.52% positivity rate. Diagnostic facilities Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy approved the proposals to set up MRI in Visakhapatnam, MRI and CathLab in Kakinada, CathLab in Kurnool and anesthesia, ophthalmology and ENT facilities in Araku and Paderu hospitals. The State government would have to spend Rs. 37.03 crore for providing these facilities.  Aarogyasri awareness Directing the officials to expedite the construction of new medical colleges, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked them to create awareness among people on Aarogyasri empanelled hospitals and that hoardings should be displayed at all village secretariats in this regard. The Village Clinics should be made referral points and ANMs in village secretariats should take up the responsibility till village clinics are made available. An app was being developed for effective implementation of Aarogyasri services. It would be used by Aarogya Mitras. The government would provide mobiles to them, he said. Deputy Chief Minister (Health) Alla Krishna Srinivas, Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma, Health Principal Secretary Anil Kumar Singhal, Transportation Principal Secretary M.T. Krishna Babu, Health Principal Secretary (Vaccination and COVID management) M. Ravi Chandra, Health Commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar, 104 Call Center in-charge A. Babu, Health Special Secretary G.S. Naveen Kumar, APMSIDC VC and MD Muralidhar Reddy, Health Director (Drugs) Ravi Shankar, A.P.V.V.P. Commissioner Dr V. Vinod Kumar and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-two-doses-of-vaccination-by-january-jagan-tells-officials/article37949509.ece
14 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Allow us to continue in Police department’||Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarshulu (Women Protection Secretaries) met Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang at the Police Headquarters in Guntur on Monday. They said that some persons were against Mahila Police system and clarified that they wanted to continue in the police department. About 15,000 Mahila Police are working in grama and ward secretariats in State, they said. Mr. Sawang said that Mahila Police would continue in Police Department and that the government would bring out a specific GO with more clarity on Mahila Police system soon. The DGP asked the women protection secretaries to work with more dedication and extend services to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allow-us-to-continue-in-police-department/article37949586.ece
14 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC Judges express displeasure over Justice Chandru’s remarks||Judges of the Andhra Pradesh High Court have reacted bitterly to the comments made by former Judge of Madras High Court Justice K. Chandru. Expressing concerns over the remarks, Justice B Devanand of the Andhra Pradesh High Court Judge on Monday felt that it was not proper to blame the entire High Court if Justice Chandru had objections and reservations over some judges and incidents. His comments were unfortunate and amounted to tarnishing the image of the High Court. Justice Chandru should have travelled to Visakhapatnam and battled for the human rights of a doctor who had been assaulted by the police. He further said that he planned to write a letter to the Chief Justice of the High Court to consider the comments as criminal contempt of court and take up a suo motu case. But, the idea was withdrawn keeping in view the services of Justice Chandru to the society, he said. It may be recalled that Justice Chandru commented on the A.P. High Court, claiming that the court was overstepping its bounds. He also stated that the elected administration in A.P. was battling for its survival with the court rather than its political opponents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-judges-express-displeasure-over-justice-chandrus-remarks/article37949511.ece
14 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. filed case against ABN MD illegally: Naidu||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has accused the State Government of ‘illegally filing’ a zero FIR against ABN managing director Vemuri Radhakrishna and three other ABN staff ‘with total disrespect for the laws and the rules’. Mr. Naidu said ‘this false case’ was evidence of how the Government’s ‘irrational and vengeful actions’ were rising to new peaks. All along, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had been running his rule solely aimed at targeting and suppressing all voices of dissent and opposition. The welfare of the people was set aside and all sections were being subjected to suppression, he said. In a statement on Monday, the TDP chief said the State Government’s ‘conspiracy’ stood exposed as the zero FIR was filed against Mr. Radhakrishna over 30 hours after his visit. ‘Vengeful act’ “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was bearing a grudge and obviously taking revenge just because the ABN institutions have been uncovering the YSRCP regime’s failures and its leaders’ corruption at every level. The CM is intolerant about the media informing people about the illegalities and irregularities,” he alleged.   ‘Whats’s wrong?’ The TDP chief asked whether it was a crime on the part of Mr. Radhakrishna to pay a visit after the raids were conducted on the residence of his friend and retired IAS officer K. Lakshminarayana. “Mr. Radhakrishna spoke to Lakshminarayana in the presence of the CID officers. How could zero FIR be filed?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-govts-case-against-abn-chief-illegal-says-naidu/article37948986.ece
14 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Notorious temple burglar arrested||The West Zone police arrested an alleged notorious temple burglar, A. Ramulu Naik, who was reportedly wanted in 18 cases. The accused allegedly committed offences in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Police recovered gold and silver ornaments, valued about Rs. 60.09 lakh, said Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata. Addressing presspersons here on Monday, he said Ramulu, a native of Tukaram Gate in Secunderabad, allegedly committed thefts in temples in Chebrole, Tanuku Rural and Akiveedu in West Godavari district, Nagarampalem, Tenali, Piduguralla, Sattenapalli, Nakirekal, Kollipara and Vinukonda in Guntur, Vijayawada and Prakasam districts since 2018. The modus operandi of the accused was to attend pujas in temples, conduct ‘recce’ and strike at the shrines which don’t have security guards during night. Ramulu would hide the booty in the vicinity and escape from the spot. A few days later, he used to take the stolen property and sell it in a phased manner, Mr. Kanthi Rana said. West Zone Assistant Commissioner of Police K. Hanumantha Rao said the accused committed theft in Kusuma Harinath Mandiram on November 26, 2021. After identifying the accused in the CCTV footages, the offender was taken into custody, Mr. Rao said. The accused committed theft in the same temple in December 2020. Police seized 80.256 kg of silver ornaments and 224 gm of gold jewellery, a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/notorious-temple-burglar-arrested/article37949039.ece
14 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMC signs pact with UMC||The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation on Monday signed an MoU with the Urban Management Centre (UMC), Ahmedabad, for implementation of the Deendayal Antyodya Yojana-National Urban Livelihood Mission (DAY NULM) programme for strengthening of Self-Helf Groups (SHGs) and to engage the members in sustainable livelihood options. The MoU was exchanged virtually in a video conference in the presence of VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh, Additional Commissioner U. Sarada, UCD project officer Sudhakar, UMC director Manvita, deputy director Meghna Malhotra, UMC, Urban Planning head Xerxes Rao and others. According to a release, the UMC will act as the technical support unit to VMC for strengthening systems for identification and nurturing self-help groups. The programme will be supported till March 2023,” the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vmc-signs-pact-with-umc/article37949040.ece
14 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP to protest for ‘free OTS’||A meeting of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders, presided over by party national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, on Monday resolved to step up the agitation against the ‘forcible collections’ from poor families in the name of One-Time Settlement (OTS) by the YSRCP government. Describing the OTS collections as a ‘noose’ around the necks of the poor beneficiaries, the TDP decided to hold State-wide protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-to-protest-for-free-ots/article37949510.ece
14 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Order for Fleet Support Ships can be a game-changer for HSL: CMD||The order for the construction of five Fleet Support Ships for the Indian Navy could be a game-changer for the Visakhapatnam-based Hindustan Shipyard Limited. Speaking to the media here on Monday, the Chairman and Managing Director of HSL Commodore Hemant Khatri said that negotiation is on with the Union Government and the contract is on the verge of finalisation. The order is worth over Rs. 22,000 crore and once finalised HSL will have to deliver all the five ships in about eight years, with the construction beginning next year. Each ship will be about 45,000 mt displacement and once the ship building begins the annual turnover of HSL would shoot up from Rs. 500 crore to Rs. 900 crore in 2021-22 and to Rs. 1,500 crore from thereafter for the next five years. Basing on the fact that the order will come to the HSL, the oldest shipyard in the country is planning to invest about Rs. 1,000 crore on infrastructure development. “We have plans to extend out existing slipways from 190 metres to 235 metres, for which expression of interest already has been floated,” said Cmde Khatri. “The FSS project will also boost up the employment and if things fall in place our employee strength should shoot up from 2,600 to over 4,000 in no time. This will include permanent, contract and outsourcing components,” he said.Speaking about the journey of HSL from 1941, the CMD said that so far it has built about 200 ships, which includes both commercial and naval vessels, and has repaired and retro-fitted over 2,000 ships and submarines. The shipyard was founded by industrialist Walchand Hirachand as Scindia Shipyard in 1941 and was nationalised in 1961 as Hindustan Shipyard Limited. It was transferred to the Ministry of Defence in 2010. Bigger projects Referring to a question on the capability of the shipyard, Mr. Khatri said that HSL has the experience and facility for bigger projects and once the FSS project is completed, the shipyard can be considered for building destroyers and frigates. “Our first submarine retro-fit project was in 1972, when we retro-fitted two Egyptian submarines. Thereafter, we had conducted refit on many Indian submarines and our latest was INS Sindhuvir, which was completed before the scheduled delivery time. Ship and submarine repair is one of our forte,” he said. On the status of the country’s first missile tracking ship, he said that the project comes under classified projects and it has been completed and delivered to the client. Cmde Khatri also said that HSL is looking for expanding its product range and negotiations are on with various other countries to build cruise liners and vessels for river tourism. Earlier in the day, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh virtually inaugurated exhibition at GV Nilayam Auditorium in HSL Colony. The exhibition showcases the models of various ships that HSL has built since 1941 and is open to all till December 19. As part of the ongoing Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav, the Defence Minister simultaneously launched the exhibition in 75 defence PSUs, across 75 locations, on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/order-for-fleet-support-ships-can-be-a-game-changer-for-hsl-cmd/article37949589.ece
14 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Omicron variant is causing only mild infections, say doctors||The detection of the first case of Omicron variant of COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh, in a patient from Vizianagaram district, is causing concern among the people of Visakhapatnam as also those from North Andhra districts. The 34-year-old man has travelled from Ireland to India through Mumbai and Vizag airports. The patient is in home isolation at his relative’s house at Madhurawada, on the outskirts of the city. “There is no cause for panic as all his contacts have tested negative,” District Medical and Health Officer (DM & HO) S. Tirupathi Rao said. Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar says though there is no cause for panic as Omicron is causing only mild infections, the worrying factor is its rapid spread. The doctors are unanimous in their call for 100% vaccination to minimise the risk of serious infection. They also emphasise the need to be vigilant and adhere to all COVID-19 protocols to check the spread of Omicron. Doctors from India and the USA, who participated in the 100th webinar on COVID-19, organised by Andhra Medical College (AMC) on Sunday, expressed the view that though Omicron seems to be spreading rapidly, its virulence was comparatively much lower than the Delta variant and the incidence of death due to Omicron is rare. “Omicron is causing mild infections but the virus is able to escape immunity. Vaccination plays an important role in reducing the severity of the infection. India has vaccine stocks, and it should ensure that everyone takes both the doses. Later, the booster dose could be given,” says Dr. Sridhar Chilimuri, physician-in-chief, Bronxcare Hospital Center, New York, who spoke on the topic: “COVID-19: The next phase” in the webinar. “The Delta variant is rising in several States in the US. We haven’t achieved the desired levels of vaccination. The strategy in the US is to give booster doses to everyone. No deaths due to Omicron have been reported, so far, in the USA and the UK. About 86% of patients admitted to hospitals in South Africa were unvaccinated. About 13% of the population in South Africa is HIV positive and it will take a longer time (about 200 days) for them to clear the virus,” he says. Sharing the findings of a study in the USA, Dr. Chilimuri says: “Once the ICU capacity in hospitals reached 75%, deaths showed an upward trend. The bed strength is compromised .”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/omicron-variant-is-causing-only-mild-infections-say-doctors/article37949596.ece
14 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP terms Pawan Kalyan’s protest on VSP a political stunt||YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) official spokesman and MLA Gudivada Amarnath has termed Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan’s protest at the JSP office in Managalagiri in protest against the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant as a political stunt. Speaking to the media here on Monday, Mr. Amarnath alleged that Mr. Pawan Kalyan was reading the script of his ‘political partner’ and Telugu Desam Party(TDP) president N. Chandrababu Naidu. Mr. Amarnath wondered as to what was the point in organising the protest at Mangalagiri. The YSRCP spokesman said that Mr. Pawan Kalyan should know that it was the BJP government at the Centre that had decided to privatise the VSP. But, instead of questioning the BJP, with which his party has an alliance, Mr. Pawan Kalyan was targeting the YSR Congress Party government, Mr. Amarnath said. He claims that the BJP government has done nothing wrong but wants the YSRCP government to fight against it, Mr. Amarnath said. The JSP chief has even supported the farm laws, even after they were repealed by the BJP government, the YSRCP leader alleged. Mr. Amarnath alleged that the JSP chief has no principles and had a tacit understanding with the TDP in the 2019 general elections. Mr. Naidu had said that he would not campaign for his party in Gajuwaka and Bhimavaram constituencies as Mr. Pawan Kalyan was contesting from those two seats, Mr. Amarnath alleged. Mr. Pawan Kalyan had not campaigned in Mangalagiri as Mr. Naidu’s son Lokesh had contested from there, he alleged. The YSRCP leader alleged that the tacit understanding between them was continuing and it would be out in the open before the 2024 general elections. He also alleged that the JSP president’s only task was to indulge in mudslinging against the YSRCP, irrespective of whether it was in the Opposition or in power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-terms-pawan-kalyans-protest-on-vsp-a-political-stunt/article37949593.ece
14 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pharma company illegally laid pipeline, allege villagers, HRF||Villagers of Rayayyapeta of Nakkapalli mandal in Visakhapatnam district and the Human Rights Forum (HRF) demanded that the authorities concerned take immediate action against the Hetero Drugs Limited, a pharmaceutical industry near Rajayyapeta village, for laying a three-foot diameter pipeline without allegedly obtaining the requisite clearances. Holding a meeting on Sunday at the village, they pointed out that the pipeline intended to carry effluents from the plant to sea was illegal. According to V.S. Krishna of the HRF, Hetero Drugs had laid the pipeline for a distance of about 4 km before local fisherfolk could notice it about 12 days ago. After the locals started to stage a protest, the work was stopped.The villagers pointed out that it was brought to the notice of the Narsipatnam RDO, who visited the area subsequently, and had said that the pipeline laying was improper and that no clearance was obtained for the same. However, no action has been initiated against the company for this, said K. Anuradha, HRF Vizag district general secretary. It has been seen over the years that the toxins that are being let out by the company into the sea has had a deleterious effect on human health and marine ecosystems, alleged Jaha Aara, HRF Vizag district executive committee member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pharma-company-illegally-laid-pipeline-allege-villagers-hrf/article37949595.ece
14 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalits seek fresh probe into Darlapudi case||Representatives of Dalit sanghams staged a protest at the Collectorate, here, on Monday demanding suspension of the Investigating Officer (IO) and conduct of a ‘re-inquiry’ into the Darlapudi atrocity case. They alleged that the IO was threatening the victims with false cases. The leaders of Dalit Sanghams from Visakhapatnam district expressed doubts about the sincerity of the police in doing justice to the Dalit youths, who were beaten up during a festival at Darlapudi of S. Rayavaram mandal in the last month. They lodged a complaint with the District Collector on Monday demanding change of the IO. Dalit Sangham leader Venkata Rao said that a clash had occurred between youths of the two groups at the village festival. He alleged that the upper caste people of the village, incited the villagers to attack the SC Colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dalits-seek-fresh-probe-into-darlapudi-case/article37949597.ece
14 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||32-year-old drowns in Gadhigumma waterfalls||A 32-year-old man, who went to Gadhigumma waterfalls in Koyyuru Mandal in Vizag Agency for sightseeing, drowned on Sunday. The incident happened when he reportedly slipped off a rock while taking a selfie on his mobile phone. The deceased was identified as S. Ramana, a native of Pedamakaram village under Koyyuru Mandal. The police said that Ramana came to Gadhigumma to attend the wedding ceremony of his relative and he went to the waterfalls at around 2 p.m. for taking selfie. Based on the information from a few visitors, the police had launched a search operation to trace the missing person. They retrieved the body on Monday. The locals say that the waterfalls have turned into a death trap for the visitors, as over 20 people had died at the spot in the past four years and most of them slipped off the rocks into the waters while taking selfies. Despite the warnings from the locals, the visitors have been ignoring them and losing their lives over the craze for selfies, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/32-year-old-drowns-in-gadhigumma-waterfalls/article37949601.ece
14 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deputy Tahsildar in ACB trap||A Deputy Tahsildar was caught red-handed by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths, while he was allegedly receiving a bribe for issue of a ‘family member certificate’, on Monday evening. The accused, B. Ravi Kumar, is a Deputy Tahsildar at Maharanipeta in the city. He allegedly demanded Rs. 3,00,000 as bribe for issue of the family member certificate to N. Annapurna of Visakhapatnam. He was trapped by the ACB sleuths, while he was receiving Rs. 60,000 as part payment for the bribe amount demanded by him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deputy-tahsildar-in-acb-trap/article37949600.ece
14 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,064 students take part in painting competition||A total of 1,064 students, from various schools in the State, participated in the State-level painting competition, organised by NTPC Simhadri, as part of the Energy Conservation Week, being observed by the Ministry of Power, under Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav from December 1 to 7. The State-level winners in Group A: Md. Nashwa Nazneen (7th class, Little Flower School, Machilipatnam, Dipika Mondal (7th class BBPS-NTPC Simhadri), and Ch. Bhavagnya (5th class, Sri Prakash Vidyaniketan, Vizag) won the first prize of Rs. 50,000, second prize of Rs. 30,000 and third prize of Rs. 20,000 respectively. In Group B: M. Mahidhar (10th class of NSM Public School, Vijayawada), Amna Kola (10th class, VPS School, Vijayawada) and Reneshna Malik (9th class, Depaul School, Ukkunagaram) won the first, second and third prizes respectively. Prizes were given away to the winners at a function held at NTPC Deepanjalinagar Township recently. NTPC Simhadri CGM Diwakar Kaushik, GM (Operations) R.K. Jha, GM (C & M) RR Parida and GM (PPG) SK Pradhan were among those who participated in the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1064-students-take-part-in-painting-competition/article37949590.ece
14 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanjeeva expresses solidarity with VSP employees||Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) national president G. Sanjeeva Reddy visited the relay hunger strike, being organised under the aegis of the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee (VUPPC) against the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), and expressed his solidarity with the workers on the 305th day of the strike on Monday. VUPPC leaders Mantri Rajasekhar, D. Adinarayana, Varasala Srinivas, Y. Mastanappa and V. Prasad appealed to the Central trade unions to turn the VSP agitation as a national-level agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sanjeeva-expresses-solidarity-with-vsp-employees/article37949594.ece
14 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discom submits ARR application to APERC||AP Eastern Power Distribution Company (APEPDCL) has submitted the Aggregate Revenue Requirement (ARR) application for the financial year 2022-23 to the AP Electricity Regulatory Commission(APERC), Hyderabad, on Monday. The net financial deficit for 2022-23 fiscal was shown as zero. Some changes were proposed in customer groupings and the average cost of supply is Rs. 6.58/kWh. The APERC to soon display it on their website:www.aperc.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/discom-submits-arr-application-to-aperc/article37949592.ece
14 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||K.N.P. Chakravarthy appointed to SCIL Board||BJP leader K.N.P. Chakravarthy has been appointed as an Independent Director on the Board of the Shipping Corporation of India Limited, a Navaratna Company for a period of three years. The Board at its recent meeting appointed five directors from different parts of the country and he is one of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/knp-chakravarthy-appointed-to-scil-board/article37949599.ece
14 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘200 foreign returnees tested for COVID-19’||Vizianagaram Collector A. Surya Kumari on Monday said that the district administration was closely tracking foreign arrivals in the backdrop of an Omicron case being identified in the district. Speaking to The Hindu , she said that nearly 200 persons arrived from foreign countries in the district in the last couple of weeks, and COVID-19 tests were conducted on all of them. “With the support of the Air Suvidha portal, we are immediately getting travel details of the foreign returnees. Local officials have been directed to ensure that those arriving from abroad quarantine themselves at home until their COVID-19 test reports are collected. Most of them have arrived from the U.S. or the Middle-East which are relatively free from the Omicron threat,” she said. “The person who came from Ireland had initially tested positive for the Omicron variant of COVID-19, and has now tested negative. The foreign returnee who stayed for a brief period in his native village of Boddam in Kothavalasa constituency left for Visakhapatnam immediately. Those who were in close contact with him tested negative for COVID-19,” the Collector added. The district administration is giving top priority to COVID-19 vaccination in the backdrop of the Omicron threat, she said. The government has administered the first dose of vaccine to 18,47,239 persons and the second dose to 12,57,254 people. As many are ignoring the importance of the second dose, she directed Vizianagaram District Medical and Health Officer S.V. Ramana Kumari to create awareness among people on the significance of full vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/200-foreign-returnees-tested-for-covid-19/article37949534.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to announce PRC decision in 72 hours||A fitment of 23.5% would result in an additional burden of Rs. 10,773 crore if HRA and aditional quantum of pension as per Central pay commission are implemented. In scenario 6, with a fitment of 27%, the burden would be Rs. 11,413 crore. Similarly, the 30% fitment would be a burden of Rs. 12,736 crore, he said. Mr. Sharma said that further, it was observed that in comparison to other States, the HR expenditure as percentage of overall expenditure in Andhra Pradesh was consistently very high. The HR expenditure was 32% in 2018-19 and increased to 35% in 2019-20 and 36% in 2020-21. The HR expenditure in Telangana was 21% in 2020-21, while it was 23% in Haryana. In other States it was Chattisgarh (32%), Maharashtra (31%), West Bengal (31%), Odisha (29%), Madhya Pradesh (28%), he said. The Chief Secretary said the fitment sanctioned over the past few years had been consistently high in the State. In the 9th PRC, a 39% fitment was sanctioned against the recommendation of 27%. In the 10th PRC, a fitment of 43% was sanctioned against the recommended 29%. Thus, the fitment sanctioned to the State government employees was 82%, whereas the fitment sanctioned to the Central government employees for a period of 10 years (7th Central Pay commission) was only 14.29%, he pointed out. Mr. Sharma said the strain of finances was compounded by the COVID pandemic. It had caused an additional burden of Rs. 20,000 crore on account of loss of anticipated revenues and additional expenditure towards mitigation measures. The government had already sanctioned 27% interim relief. The government paid an IR to the tune of Rs. 11,270.21 crore for employees and Rs. 4,569 crore for pensioners totalling to Rs. 15,839.99 crore from July 1, 2019 till date, he said, adding, the Chief Minister was expected to make an announcement in 72 hours. Special Chief Secretary (Revenue) Rajat Bhargav, Principal Secretary SS Rawat and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-announce-prc-decision-in-72-hours/article37949507.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Risking young lives||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/risking-young-lives/article37949496.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Falling income forces students towards government colleges||The pandemic-induced falling incomes of people seem to have impacted the education sector and this reflects in the increased admissions in the government colleges in the last two years compared to private colleges that were generally sought-after. According to the Telangana State Council of Higher Education Chairman, R. Limbadri, this year the intake in government degree colleges has shot up to 54,758 from 49,165 in 2020-21 academic year. This is an increase of over 5,000 students. On the other hand, private colleges have been losing students and their intake capacity has shrunk due to poor response from students. For example, 184 colleges recorded less than 30% of the intake capacity, and of these, only four are in the government sector and 180 in the private sector. Similarly, 247 colleges secured admissions between 30% to 49% of the capacity and among these government colleges were just 31. The Degree Online Services of Telangana (DOST) through which degree college admissions are made also reveals that many private colleges could not attract even one student. Figures show that 46 private degree colleges have registered zero admissions and of these, 19 are under Mahatma Gandhi University, Nalgonda; 10 under the Osmania University and 9 affiliated to Kakatiya University, Warangal. Falling incomes of people is surely one reason for more students opting for government colleges where the education is almost free. “Parents feel physical classes in private colleges may get hampered if the COVID19 raises its ugly head again. So there is no point in paying the fee and sitting at home,” reasoned a senior official.  Introduction of new courses and new combinations in degree colleges like private institutions also is attracting students as it serves their purpose of job-oriented courses at affordable fee. Quality and infrastructure have also improved with RUSA funds from the Central government for the colleges willing to adapt to new technologies in teaching methodology and improving learning capacities, Prof. Limbadri said. The grades given by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) for quality improvement have seen a rise in the government colleges in the last few years. While there were just 15 government colleges with NAAC grades in 2014-15, the number has increased to around 80 now. This year 4,17,740 seats were on offer in 962 degree colleges. Osmania University that had 1.54 lakh seats in 350 colleges affiliated to it saw 90,000 odd candidates opting for OU colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/falling-income-forces-students-towards-government-colleges/article37949313.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Decks cleared for power plant expansion||Decks have been cleared for expansion of the 19.8 megawatt capacity refuse derived fuel (RDF)-based waste-to-energy power plant at Jawaharnagar here to 48 MW with an expert appraisal committee of the Ministry of Environment and Forests recommending environmental clearance to the proposal. While recommending the proposal for EC, the expert panel has specified several conditions to safeguard environment. The expansion of the project is set to be taken up at its existing site of 31.5 acres out of 351.12 acres of the Integrated Solid Waste Management Project by Hyderabad MSW Energy Solutions P. Ltd, a subsidiary of Ramky Enviro Engineers Ltd. During the course of operation of the existing 19.8 MW plant the generation potential has been found to be peak up to 24 MW. Accordingly, it is being planned to augment the capacity to 24 MW without any additional use of water, fuel and without causing any additional impact of any kind and to construct another 24 MW waste to energy module adjacent to the plant in operation. The proposed expansion consists of two steam generators cable to burn 600 tonnes per day (TPD) segregated municipal solid waste (MSW) in each boiler. The power generated would be evacuated by TS-Transco. Green belt The expert appraisal panel has laid down certain conditions for recommending EC for expansion of the project including development of a green belt with Miyawaki plantation (three-row plantation) along the plant boundary with plant species having more than 90% survival rate and that one-third of the project area is kept under green cover. Further, the expert committee has stipulated carrying out epidemiological study among population within 5 km radius of the project every two years. Establishment of a 24×7 online monitoring system for ambient air quality by linking it with the State and Central Pollution Control Boards, provision of sludge disposal system, proper handling of leachate and fly ash, monitoring of surface and groundwater quality on regular basis and others are among the conditions stipulated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/decks-cleared-for-power-plant-expansion/article37949325.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court refuses to intervene in shifting of fruit market||Gaddiannaram fruit market is being shifted to Batasingaram temporarily and later permanently to Koheda for a larger and better public purpose of building a super-speciality hospital. Making this observation, Telangana High Court on Monday declined to interfere in the matter of shifting the market and handing over the market land to the government to construct super-speciality hospital. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy, disposing of a batch of writ appeals and writ petitions, hoped that the State government would make all necessary arrangements at the make-shift market at Batasingaram for the convenience of all stakeholders like fruit sellers and commission agents. The bench permitted members of the Wholesale Fruit Commission Agents Association, other licence holders and the petitioners to continue their operations from the present Gaddiannaram market for a month. During this time the authorities should expedite works like shifting the cold storages, set up primary health centre with medical doctor, canteen and toilets, the bench said. The bench took a serious note of the authorities not permitting the traders to continue their operations at Gaddiannaram market for two days despite the HC order passed in a batch of writ petitions. “Once this court passed an order to permit them to do business, the authorities are bound to obey unless modified or set aside by the superior court,” the bench said. The bench noted that not complying with the HC strikes at the very root of the rule of law on which the judicial system rests. Disobedience of court orders would not only disturb individual litigants but also brings disrepute to administration of justice, the bench observed. Despite the court adjourning the contempt of court matter filed by the petitioners, the Commissioner and Director of Agricultural Marketing and the Selection Grade Secretary of Gaddiannaram Agricultural Marketing Committee did not file any counter affidavits. Fine imposed This “is nothing short of wilful violation of the orders passed by this court,” the bench said. The bench imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000 on both the officials, warning them not to repeat such mistakes in the future. Referring to the objections raised by the petitioners on different grounds like lack of facilities at the make shift market at Batasingaram, the bench remarked that during the pandemic period dearth of hospitals (especially those run by the State) was felt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-court-refuses-to-intervene-in-shifting-of-fruit-market/article37949299.ece
14 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||In 8 days, over 1.66 lakh motorists booked||In just eight days, the Hyderabad police issued over 60,000 tickets to the motorists for riding their two-wheeler ‘without helmet’. Sharing the data of traffic violators, Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said that 1,66,010 motorists were booked during a special drive conducted between December 6 and December 11, for 22 different violations. While 2,399 people were booked for driving under the influence of alcohol, a slightly low 2,397 were booked for over speeding or dangerous driving. Mr.Kumar said that as many as 27,306 violation tickets were issued to two-wheelers for ‘not wearing helmet by pillion rider’, 9,912 challans were issued to the different vehicles for wrong or unauthorised parking and 5,942 tickets for parking on service roads. The number of people driving without a licence was also high. As many as 5,710 people were caught without a driving license and 3,367 for improper/irregular number plates. According to Mr. Kumar, 2,080 people were booked for not wearing a face mask in public places or wearing masks inappropriately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-8-days-over-166-lakh-motorists-booked/article37949311.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Health Profile pilot project behind schedule||The pilot project of Telangana Health Profile did not take off on the expected date. Health Minister T Harish Rao on November 22 had directed the officials to launch the project in December first week. It was supposed to start in Mulugu and Rajanna-Sircilla districts. On Monday (December 13), Mr Harish Rao said that the project would start after Vakati Karuna, Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare, Dr G Srinivasa Rao, Director of Public Health, submit a report after visiting the two districts on Tuesday. Sources in the department said that a few days after the meeting on November 22 when the earlier deadline was set, the top priority of the health department was on COVID-19 vaccination. The fears about Omicron started to spread from end of November. “It is the Auxiliary Nursing Midwives (ANM) who administer the vaccines to people. They are the ones who have to collect details for the Health Profile,” said sources. Health details of every person in the districts would be collected for the profiling, such as blood pressure readings, sugar levels, weight, diseases one is suffering from. Besides this, Aadhaar number, demographic details too will be gathered. It was earlier stated that the health information of people who undergo tests would be stored in digital form in a cloud which would be assessed through the cloud storage when a person visits hospitals, or if anyone who met with accidents is in need of medical attention. The data might also help to know if a health ailment or complication is being reported the most in any part of the State, the kind of medical services needed in a region, medicines, specialist doctors and medical devices needed there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/health-profile-pilot-project-behind-schedule/article37949324.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No problems in paddy procurement, says Minister||Minister for Civil Supplies Gangula Kamalakar said that there was no problem in procurement of paddy and the procurement this year so far was 30 % higher than previous year. He has also stated that there was no problem in making payment. “Paddy procurement is going unabated across the State and so far more than 11 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was procured comparing with previous year by the same day. As many as 1,280 procurement centres in 13 districts were already closed as procurement was over. So far Rs. 5,547 crore was credited in the accounts of farmers,” Mr. Kamalakar said in a review meeting held here on Monday with the officials. He said that there was a problem in stocking of paddy as the godowns of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) were not vacant in Suryapet, Siddipet, Sangareddy, Medak, Mahabubnagar and Nirmal districts. The FCI was not ready to hire godowns, he said adding that despite repeated appeals there was no response. “So far 42.22 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was procured worth Rs. 8,268 crore. Payment was completed for 3.75 lakh farmers out of the total 4.5 lakh farmers from whom paddy was procured,” said the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-problems-in-paddy-procurement-says-minister/article37949332.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Power production up by 10,000 MW’||Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy and Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao said that huge investments were made in power sector by the government resulting in production of 10,000 MW power in the State in addition to expanding the power lines. Participating in a review meeting held BRK Bhavan on Monday, the Ministers said that as against the forecast of former chief minister of erstwhile undivided Andhra Pradesh N. Kiran Kumar Reddy that Telangana after its formation into a separate State would witness power shortage, the contracted capacity was increased from the existing 7,778 MW to 16,623 MW and an amount of Rs. 33,722 crore was spent on the power sector. “In 2014, power cuts used to be norm of the day for farmers, industries and households. Every day there used to be protests demanding power supply. Farmers used to commit suicide as bores dried up. But Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao addressed these problems by buying power from other States as well as establishment of new power plants. Power shut down ended within six months of formation of Telangana State,” said Mr. Jagadish Reddy adding that the production capacity was increased by 2,570 MW. Better PLF The peak load factor (PLF) in Telangana stood at 75.5 % whereas it was 69.8 at NTPC, national average 57.5 % and South India average 51.7 %, he added. Similarly the number of agriculture connections have increased to 25.9 lakh from 19.03 lakh and the length of power lines has increased to 6.25 lakh kilometres from 4.89 lakh kilometres, the Minister for Energy pointed out. The ministers have also discussed about the steps that need to be put in place to reduce the gap between income and expenditure. Energy Secretary Sunil Sharma, Transco and Genco CMD D. Prabhakar Rao, TSSPDCL CMD Raghuma Reddy, Transco JMD Srinivas Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-production-up-by-10000-mw-ministers/article37949335.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR to meet Stalin today||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will meet his Tamil Nadu counterpart M.K. Stalin at the latter’s residence in Chennai on Tuesday evening. Mr. Rao who left for Tiruchirapalli to visit Ranganathaswami temple at Srirangam proceeded to Chennai for night stay after offering prayers. At the temple the Telangana Chief Minister was received with temple honours in the presence of Trichi Collector Srinivasu and a Minister Arun Nehru. Common ground The meeting of the two Chief Ministers assumed significance in the background of the refusal by BJP-led government at Centre to procure paddy produced in Telangana in the present rabi. Earlier in the day, Chairman of Rythu Samakhya and Member Legislative Council Palla Rajeswara Reddy said the TRS will join hands with any party to pull down the BJP government at the Centre. Mr. Rao planned to mobilise the support of other regional parties to expose the Centre on the paddy controversy and mount pressure on the government to enact a law on minimum support price for farm produce. It is also expected that Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao will discuss with Mr. Stalin measures to forge an anti-BJP alliance, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-to-meet-stalin-today/article37949341.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Teacher unions seek uniform guidelines for fixing seniority across State||A score of teacher unions on Monday submitted memoranda to Minister for Education P. Sabita Indra Reddy raising concerns over the re-allotment of government employees to new districts which would be to the disadvantage of junior staff. The unions emphasised that the service conditions of employees and teachers were different and, hence, the same yardstick of re-allotment could not be applied. They demanded that the teachers be retained at the present places of posting. Ms. Reddy was informed that the transfer of 1.02 lakh teachers as part of re-allotment of government employees would have serious consequences. The guidelines for fixing seniority of teachers should be uniform for all districts. Meanwhile, the State government has prepared the seniority list of employees for four of the nine erstwhile districts and invited options till December 15. The lists of the remaining five districts — Medak, Khammam, Adilabad, Karimnagar and Nalgonda — where the model code for elections to the Legislative Council was in force will be released after the code ceased. About 24,000 employees had given options for transfer in Warangal, Nizamabad, Rangareddy and Mahbubnagar districts where the seniority lists were prepared. There were a total of 30,000 employees working in these district on ‘order to serve’ basis. Barring 6,000 of them, all the others had opted to work in their native places falling in new districts. The seniority medium considered by government has drawn flak from junior employees and teachers because the seniors will opt for district headquarters towns as there were better facilities there and will also be eligible for higher house rent allowance. The juniors not only stood less chance of being considered in their native districts but faced the danger of becoming non-locals where they were re-allotted. If seniority was the only criterion, the unions argued that the employees structure in Hyderabad and surrounding districts will be top heavy with seniors. The balance between senior and junior employees will be lost. Hence, the unions have demanded that nativity along with seniority also be considered in reallotment. The nativity should be determined on the basis of their birth, education and domicile of their parents. Interestingly, seniors in erstwhile Mahbubnagar district can opt for five new districts carved out of the old one — Narayanpet, Gadwal, Nagarkurnool, Wanaparthy and Mahbunagar — beside the headquarters of Rangareddy and Vikarabad where a few mandals of the erstwhile district were included in the reorganisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teacher-unions-seek-uniform-guidelines-for-fixing-seniority/article37949343.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Honour for NGRI scientists||CSIR-National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI)’s chief scientist Vineet Gahalaut has been awarded the prestigious fellowship of Indian National Science Academy (INSA) in the field of Earth Sciences. Dr Gahalaut has contributed immensely to the development of Global Positioning System (GPS) based Tectonic Geodesy in India both by enhancing the GPS networks across India and providing objective assessment of the seismic hazard. This has led to a better understanding of the basic earthquake occurrence processes and helped in constraining ruptures of previous large earthquakes. His research provides quantitative estimates on the velocity of the Indian plate, internal deformation and rate of convergence across the major plate boundaries and has definitive impact on the future earthquake potential of various regions. Another scientist from the same organisation, Dr. Prakash Kumar, working as the senior principal scientist has been elected as ‘Fellow of the National Academy of Sciences, India (NASI) - 2021’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prestigious-fellowship-for-csir-ngri-scientist/article37949319.ece
14 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Hyderabad Book Fair from Saturday||There is a 30% drop in the number of book stalls that will come up at the 34th edition of Hyderabad Book Fair set to begin from December 18. “Last year there was no book fair. This year we wanted to keep the number of stalls low to adhere to COVID-19 norms,” informed K. Chandramohan of Hyderabad Book Fair organising committee. In 2019, there were 360 stalls spread over the 11-acre area known as NTR Stadium. This year, there will be 250 stalls. “The book fair will be between Dec.18-27 between 2 p.m. and 9 p.m. On holidays and weekends, it will begin at 1 p.m. and end at 9 p.m.,” informed Mr. Chandramohan. There was no book fair in 2020 due to COVID-19 lockdown and stringent COVID-19 protocol in the State. The city will host another book fair between Dec. 24 and Jan. 2 at Vasavi Kalyana Mandapam near Lakdi-ka-pul. Unlike a regular book fair, buyers pay for a box and are allowed to fill as many books that they can fill them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-book-fair-from-saturday/article37949320.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CBI’s charges based on pendrive information: Dalmia counsel||The CBI’s contention that Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy received money relating to sale proceeds of Dalmia Cements share was based on the content of a pen-drive. But charges cannot be framed on the basis of information contained in a pen-drive, counsel for Dalmia Cements managing director Puneeth Dalmia said before the bench of Justice Ujjal Bhuyan of Telangana High Court on Monday. Supreme Court senior counsel P.V. Kapoor, appearing for Mr. Dalmia, said the CBI had contended that they had stumbled upon information relating to transfer of money during raids conducted by Income Tax authorities on Dalmia employee Jaydeep Basu. He was presenting arguments in a petition filed by Mr. Dalmia seeking a direction to set aside the First Information Report issued by the CBI against him in quid pro quo cases involving Mr. Jaganmohan Reddy. The lawyer said that the CBI had claimed that a pen-drive recovered from Mr. Basu contained information about transferring Rs. 55 crore to Mr. Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy. CBI accused Mr. Reddy of making money using the position of his father late Y.S. Rajashekhar Reddy the then Chief Minister of undivided Andhra Pradesh. The CBI also stated that transferring of remaining Rs. 84 crore was stopped following a PIL petition in the HC. A petition by Member of Parliament Raghurama Krishnam Raju seeking to cancel bail order issued to Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy was adjourned for two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cbis-charges-based-on-pendrive-information/article37949328.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘We will dethrone BJP at Centre’||Rytu Bandhu Samithi Chairman and MLC Palla Rajeswar Reddy came down heavily on the BJP government at the Centre stating that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) will not rest till the government was pulled down. He said that party president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will join hands with those fighting against the BJP at the Centre. “We do not want a government that is against the interests of farmers. Our support will be to those who can buy our paddy,” said Mr. Rajeswar Reddy while speaking to reporters at Telangana Bhavan on Monday. He has stated that Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao will hold discussions with those fighting against the BJP and take a crucial decision at a right time and right opportunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/we-will-dethrone-bjp-at-centre/article37949330.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MLA gives money to bereaved ryot family||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) working president and Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy met the family of Ramulu, a farmer who recently died of cardiac arrest that he suffered while packing the paddy in gunny bags at Baddipadaga village in Nanganoor mandal of Siddipet district. The MLA extended a financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakh to the family. “Both the Centre and State are behaving irresponsibly in the case of farmers. Ramulu had worked for several months and cultivated paddy. He was unable to sell it and the State government had failed to provide even gunny bags on time to farmers. It was never like this in the past,” said Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy while speaking to reporters after meeting the family. “The death of Ramulu took place in the constituency being represented by Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao. Why has he not responded?” asked the Congress MLA. He has demanded that the government pay a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh to the family of Ramulu. He has also appealed the farmers not to end their life. Earlier in the day, the TPCC working president admitted a number of new members into the party in Nanganoor mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mla-gives-money-to-bereaved-ryot-family/article37949334.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||26th battalion Madras Regiment celebrates golden jubilee of battle||The 26th Battalion ‘Madras Regiment’ celebrated its golden jubilee of Battle Honour ‘Siramani’ and Theatre Honour ‘East Pakistan’ to mark the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ of the victory of Indian armed forces in Indo-Pak war of 1971 between Dec. 11-14 at the Secunderabad Military Station. The battalion raised on January 1, 1967 commanded by Lieutenant Colonel VK Singh (Later Lieutenant General), had its baptism of fire in East Pakistan when it was assigned to press home an attack on the Siramani defences on Dec.13 1971. In spite of enemy resistance from fortified defences, the battalion succeeded in capturing Siramani through display of bravery and professionalism by gallant ‘Thambis’. For its exemplary performance, the Battalion was conferred with Battle Honour ‘Siramani’ and Theatre Honour ‘East Pakistan’. The unit has outstanding laurels in its last 54 years with the reputation of being one of the most decorated battalions of the Indian Army to have earned one Ashoka Chakra, three Kirti Chakras, 2 Vir Chakras and 4 Sena Medals in various operations till date, said a press release on Monday. The event commenced with the wreath laying ceremony to commemorate the victory and pay homage to the supreme sacrifices of martyrs in the service of the nation. A first day cover was released on this occasion by Lt Gen VK Singh, PVSM (Retd), followed by a special address by him and sharing of first-hand experiences by the officers and junior commissioned officers, who participated in the Battle of Siramani. A performance of ‘Kalaripayattu’, renowned martial art of Kerala, a war documentary and band display on the martial tunes played by the pipe band of the battalion were the highlights on the occasion. Veterans, senior officers, serving personnel and their families and widows of martyrs were specially invited and felicitated during the ceremony, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/golden-jubilee-of-indo-pak-war-held/article37949315.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Monthly targets for Niloufer doctors||Doctors at Niloufer Hospital were directed to set monthly targets for treatment under Aarogyasri health insurance. Health Minister T Harish Rao, who has issued the directions on Monday, said that the progress would be reviewed every month. Professors and Heads of Departments were instructed to attend out-patient cases. Sources in the hospital said that the focus of the monthly targets was to aid the hospital in getting funds. This can be used for development of the hospital which registers heavy footfall. While any form of medical services are provided free of cost at government hospitals, some of the procedures fall under the Aarogyasri scheme. Regardless of the situation, patients will get free treatment. Whenever a case is attended under the insurance scheme, 45% of the package goes to the hospital’s administration, 35% to the treating doctor and staff, and the remaining 20% will be with the Aarogyasri Health Care Trust. “The funds which the hospital administration gets can be used for development of our health facility,” sources in the hospital said. Currently, the hospital gets around Rs. 10 crore per annum under the scheme. After inaugurating a CT Scan machine and Neonatal Skill Lab at the health facility on Monday, the Minister held meetings with Heads of eight departments. He has directed Director of Medical Education Dr K Ramesh Reddy to hold review meetings every month. Any discussion about monthly targets will bring to fore issues which impede efficient medical services. It was learnt that the Health Minister was informed about requirement of nurses, staff and equipment to provide more and better services. The 1,400 bedded Niloufer Hospital is always in high demand as poor patients from across the State prefer to admit their children there rather than at the local Area or District Hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/monthly-targets-for-niloufer-doctors/article37949322.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Allegations on Martyrs Memorial baseless’||The officials of the Roads and Buildings (R&B) Department have rebuffed the allegations made by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy on the construction of Telangana Martyrs Memorial stating that they are baseless. Mr. Reddy along with several other party leaders visited the ongoing construction of site of Telangana Martyrs Memorial and alleged that the cost of was escalated to benefit a few. Responding to this, Engineer- in-Chief of R&B stated: “The allegations that cost enhanced with ulterior motives are baseless. The government is taking all care in optimising the cost and to complete the project at the earliest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/allegations-on-martyrs-memorial-baseless/article37949306.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ordnance Factory Medak developing new combat vehicles for Army||The Ordnance Factory Medak (OFMK) is developing two modern command and control modern vehicles for both the artillery and the infantry wings of the Indian Army with the CCPTV or Command Control Post Tracked Vehicle for the former already undergoing trials and is likely to be inducted within a few months, said General Manager Alok Prasad on Monday. The Command Combat Vehicle for the infantry is in the developing stage as also a special Armed Vehicle Track - Night Recovery for the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME) wing. The upgradation of the BMP armoured vehicle too is underway, he said, while talking to the media to announce the launch of the exhibition of the factory products. The GM and additional GM Naga Babu said that OFMK is already self-reliant with ‘98.5% indigenisation’ of the machinery with “just two or three imported goods”.  But, within a couple of years, the factory is planning for cent per cent indigenisation which will allow the country to go in for exports putting a halt to all imports in this sector. Earlier, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had virtually launched the exhibition of infantry combat vehicles as part of 75 years of Indian Independence “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav”. OFMK infantry combat vehicles like the Armoured Engineer Reconnaissance Vehicle (AERV), Sarath Vehicle (BMP) and mine protected vehicle and variants are going to be displayed. “We started in 1987 with Russian machinery and gradually over the years, we have upgraded our machinery, products and processes with the help of other public sector units and also the local industry. We have a link for a skill development programme with top educational institutions and labs to improve the defence goods to keep improve our equipment profile and resolve the problems,” said the officials. OFMK is geared for making the ‘Namica’ - launch vehicle for Nag, futuristic combat vehicles and vehicles with night vision capabilities, armed engineering reconnaissance vehicles and the likes. The launch vehicle for the Pinaki missile is also manufactured here.   Vendor meets are being conducted every month to further improve the indigenisation efforts, the OFMK officials said. IIT-Hyderabad Director B.S. Murthy, who was also present, said the institute will be collaborating with the factory for various projects and employees too could upgrade their skills by taking up online courses made available by the institute. The exhibition is open for general public till Dec.19 and students have been especially encouraged to visit the display.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ordnance-factory-medak-developing-new-combat-vehicles-for-army/article37949308.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PG College alumni plans slew of activities on 75th anniversary||The alumni of Post Graduate College, Secunderabad, has planned a slew of activities coinciding with the 75th anniversary of the reputed institution next year. A decision to organise a series of programmes in connection with the anniversary was taken at the alumni meet held here on Saturday. PGC Alumni organising committee member Samala Venu said the past students have decided to identify the deserving poor students of under graduation course in the college and provide them financial support. A request would be made to the college authorities to shortlist the needy students for support. This apart, plans are afoot to approach the Osmania University authorities with a request to consider their proposal to institute three gold medals for toppers of the B.Sc, B.Com and BA. Also on the anvil is to hold cultural, literary and sports competitions. In order to provide an opportunity to the undergraduate students to improve their communication skills and personality development, career guidance programmes with the past students, who hold key positions in different organisations, would be organised. The alumni would like to act as a bridge between the industry and the institute, Mr. Samala Venu said adding that the students wanted to give back their best to the reputed institution. Earlier, the alumni meet saw the past students union leaders – Balraj, E. Ravi Shanker Reddy, M. Amarnath, Samala Venu being felicitated. Police officers – Vasusena, Anand Bhaskar, Santosh Kiran, Sreeram Gonella and Venugopal Reddy, former students of PG College, were felicitated on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pg-college-alumni-plans-slew-of-activities-on-75th-anniversary/article37949304.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Farmer attempts self-immolation at Collectorate||A young farmer from Alair constituency, vexed with the delay in government’s recognition of his land holding, attempted self-immolation at the Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri Collectorate on Monday. Timed with the Monday’s grievance meet, B. Mahesh from Kolanupaka village who approached officials for a resolution was instead directed to move the court. He poured an inflammable material over self and the police and others in the vicinity foiled his bid just in time. Later speaking to a few media persons, Mr. Mahesh said his family owns eight acres on the outskirts of Kolanupaka, but official records recognised only four acres and passbook issued only for that extent. The remaining extent was registered in others’ names. He said, for years, the family had approached the local patwari, the tahsildar and the RDO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ryot-attempts-self-immolation-at-collectorate/article37949085.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ACC opens GBC at Karimnagar||Cement producer ACC has established a Green Building Centre (GBC) in Karimnagar district. The aim is to create a positive social, environmental and financial impact in developing cities, the company said. Located in Cherlabutkur village, the GBC will support Karimnagar, Warangal and its neighbouring rural areas. It will impart training to local manpower to produce various types of cement bricks using sustainable construction practices. The GBCs will also support micro-entrepreneurs to make and distribute affordable cement-based home building components and pre-fabricated materials such as fly ash bricks, concrete blocks, tiles, pavers and sanitation units. “ACC’s GBC business model benefits thousands of small scale construction workers by giving them employment and training,” MD and CEO Sridhar Balakrishnan said in a release on Monday. The facility in Karimnagar has been equipped with high capacity curing chambers and a quality control laboratory. Mayor of Karimnagar Municipal Corporation Y Sunil Rao inaugurated the GBC in the presence of Chairman of Police Housing Corporation Koleti Damodar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/acc-opens-gbc-at-karimnagar/article37949329.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Take employees’ consent first, demands BJP||Telangana BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Monday accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of dividing the employees between “seniors and juniors” to gain political benefit with the latest orders issued on zonal transfers instead of adhering to the Presidential Order. Strongly criticising the recent government orders, he claimed that it has led to locals being forcibly moved out of their native districts. The employees are already feeling the heat due to lack of promotions and this new issue has only created more problems for them by the government deliberately. “This is a political drama by Mr. Rao to create confusion among the employees. These orders should be immediately stopped and fresh orders should be issued only after holding discussions with the employees unions and taking their consent,” he said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/take-employees-consent-first-demands-bjp/article37949337.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NephroPlus raises $24 million||Dialysis chain NephroPlus on Monday said it has raised $24 million from IIFL Asset Management (IIFL AMC) and existing investors InvestCorp and Bessemer Venture Partners (BVP). Founder and CEO Vikram Vuppala said “we look forward to not only driving organic and inorganic growth in India and overseas with this capital, but also invest in building a unique digital health solution targeted at dialysis patients.” Though the company had faced a few challenges during the COVID waves, its scale, diversified presence, customer connect along with strong backward integration on costs helped it emerge stronger overall, he said in a release. NephroPlus,which operates 275 dialysis centres in more than 170 cities across 23 States, had raised a prior round of funding from InvestCorp in 2019. Besides signing up with 200 hospitals as partners for operating dialysis centres, the company has also set up PPP centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nephroplus-raises-24-million/article37949541.ece
14 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three youths wounded in car accident||In yet another case of suspected drunk-driving accident, three youngsters were injured when the car they were travelling in rammed a road median on the National Highway No. 44 at Kompally on Sunday night. The youngsters, Sai Srinivas (26), Srikanth (25) and Pawan (26), all residents of Armoor, were coming to Hyderabad for some work and all the three were under the influence of alcohol. When tested, the Blood Alcohol Concentration of Srinivas, who was behind the steering wheel, was recorded at 180 mg/100 ml, while the BAC of Srikant and Pawan, was 30 mg/100 ml and 40 mg/100 ml, respectively. Pet-Basheerabad police said that the accident took place around 11.30 p.m. and the trio escaped with minor injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-youths-wounded-in-car-accident/article37949301.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four-pronged strategy helped SMEs navigate pandemic||Decline in revenue and profit, an increase in employee retention cost and the business getting hit due to shutdown/slowdown had major impact for the small and medium enterprises (SMEs) on account of the pandemic. The enterprises however were able to navigate by adopting four strategies – trust-building among stakeholders, including employees, suppliers and buyers; re-engineering the business model; developing a COVID-appropriate ecosystem in the organisation; and by providing a support system, in the form of work from home option, to boost productivity. Additionally, the government's extension of the credit lines helped SMEs meet working capital needs, according to the report of a joint study by the Institute of Management Technology (IMT), Hyderabad, and the Confederation of Indian Industry-Telangana. The report was released on Monday by Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan at a conference on ‘SMEs: Navigating through Turbulence’ organised by the IMT, CII said in a release. Appreciating the efforts of IMT and CII-TS for capturing perspectives of SMEs, Mr. Ranjan agreed with the findings that trust building, re-engineering the business model and providing COVID-appropriate eco-system helped SMEs to survive the crisis. He also highlighted that Telangana was the only State which ensured minimum disruption due to lockdown for the manufacturing activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-pronged-strategy-helped-smes-navigate-pandemic/article37949305.ece
14 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three drug peddlers held, 62 kg ganja seized||In a joint operation, Medchal police and Special Operations Team of Balanagar zone arrested three members, of a drug-peddling gang and seized 62.3 kg of ganja.The gang, according to police, was trying to smuggle the contraband to Akola in Maharashtra from Vishakapatnam. The arrested, Karan Nana Jadhav (25), Devki Chouhan (37) and Indu Mohithe (45), are daily wagers from Akola district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-drug-peddlers-held-62-kg-ganja-seized/article37949309.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Officials told to speed up railway work||Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao has directed the officials to speed up Manoharabad – Kothapally railway works in Siddipet and Medak districts. In a review meeting held here on Monday evening, Mr. Harish Rao said that the State government has been acquiring land and handing it over to railways at free of cost. The officials told the Minister that 1,315 acres as against the requirement of 1,421 acres in Siddipet district and 172 acres out of the total 174 acres was acquired in Medak district and government has spent about Rs. 400 crore for the land acquisition in Siddipet district alone. The Minister has requested the railway authorities to bring the railway services available to the public by January 2022 and directed the State government officials to extend all the required support to complete the works. District Collector M. Hanumantha Rao, Railway Deputy Chief Engineer (Construction) Sadarma Devarayalu and others participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/officials-told-to-speed-up-railway-work/article37949336.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New fleet of Swacch auto tippers||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao, along with Ministers Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Talasani Srinivas Yadav, flagged off a new fleet of Swacch auto tippers, at an event held at Sanathnagar, here on Tuesday. With the new addition of 1,350 garbage carriers, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s fleet strength, including 750 private vehicles, is 5,250. The new vehicles are equipped with a partition for separate dry and wet waste collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-fleet-of-swacch-auto-tippers/article37949321.ece
14 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two test negative for Omicron||Genome sequencing results of two more samples which were sent from Telangana have tested negative for Omicron. The variant was not detected in the State till Monday night. Altogether, 5,316 people have come from at-risk countries to Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), Shamshabad. Of them, 18 fliers have tested positive in RT-PCR test, including one passenger, on Monday. Samples collected from them were sent for genome sequencing. Of the 18 COVID positive patients, 15 have tested negative for Omicron. The sequencing results of three more passengers were awaited. 190 COVID cases The State has registered 190 COVID cases on Monday taking the total to 6,78,478. Meanwhile, one more COVID patient died. The new 190 infections includes 70 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits and 10 from Suryapet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-test-negative-for-omicron/article37949540.ece
14 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Excise Minister reviews illicit arrack issue||The distillation of arrack in Mahabubabad, Mulugu, Thorrur and Maripeda of erstwhile Warangal district was discussed at a review meeting held by Telangana Excise Minister V Srinivas Goud here on Monday. The meeting was held based on information that the contraband production has resumed in the localities after lock down. A few places in Achampet, Kollapur too were identified where the menace is prevalent. The Minister directed officials to curb the menace. Measures to contain sale and supply of ganja, policy on Neera, too has come up for discussion. Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao, Director of Prohibition and Excise department Sarfaraz Ahmad were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/excise-minister-reviews-illicit-arrack-issue/article37949327.ece
14 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Application booth opened for SCR Employees CCS||South Central Railway Employees’ Cooperative Credit Society (SCRECCS) has opened a new branch in Mahabubnagar on platform number 1 to ease the submission of loan applications and cater to the needs of the shareholders. It was opened by its president K. Muralikrishna and secretary Bheem Sen on Monday. Monthly savings schemes and loans for purchase of two-wheelers and four-wheelers have been introduced for the benefit of the members at low interest rates, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/application-booth-opened-for-scr-employees-ccs/article37949339.ece
14 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SERB research project to GITAM professor||Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Department of Science and Technology, has sanctioned a research project to Dr. Vamsi Krishna Narla, as a principal investigator, Department of Mathematics, School of Science, GITAM Deemed-to-be University, Hyderabad, in collaboration with Prof. Kirti Chandra Sahu, Department of Chemical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad. The project is titled, Modeling of Active Membrance Micro Pumps. SERB funds under Teachers Associateship for Research Excellence (TARE) for a period of three years with a grant of Rs. 18.30 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/serb-research-project-to-gitam-professor/article37949542.ece
14 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MIDHANI exhibition||Mishra Dhatu Nigam Limited (MIDHANI)’s exhibition, where it will display its capabilities and the products developed for various strategic programmes like defence, space and energy sectors in the country, was opened here at Kanchanbagh and is open for public from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. between Dec.13-19. Products like bullet proof jackets, vests, composite armour for mine protected vehicles, titanium valves and others will be on display, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/midhani-exhibition/article37949316.ece
14 December 2021||JAGTIAL,TELANGANA||Family feud: man stabs son-in-law’s mother||In a gruesome incident, a man allegedly attacked his son-in-law’s mother with a knife injuring her seriously over a family feud in Jagtial town on Monday. The middle-aged man identified as Mahesh barged into the house of his son-in-law Kiran at Beat Bazar to enquire the reasons for the latter’s alleged refusal to take his daughter home following strained relations between them. He allegedly picked up an argument with Kiran’s mother on not finding Kiran at home. In a fit of rage, he allegedly attacked her with a knife inflicting grievous injuries on her, sources said. He fled from the spot immediately after the incident. The neighbours rushed the injured woman to the local hospital. Her condition is stated to be serious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/family-feud-man-stabs-son-in-laws-mother/article37949544.ece
14 December 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||All set for vote counting in MLC elections for LAC seats||Counting of votes polled in Friday’s Legislative Council election to the Local Authorities Constituency (LAC) will begin at 8 a.m. on Tuesday. In Karimnagar, Returning Officer of the Karimnagar LAC and Collector R. V. Karnan on Monday visited the counting centre at SRR Government Degree and P G College in the town to review the arrangements for smooth conduct of counting of votes scheduled to be held on Tuesday. Karimnagar LAC saw a voter turnout of 99.70% in Friday’s election with as many as 1320 voters of the total 1324 electors exercising their franchise to elect two Members to Legislative Council. As many as 10 candidates contested the election and their electoral fate is expected to be known by Tuesday late afternoon, when the election result is expected to be announced. Additional Collector Shyam Prasad Lal, Karimnagar RDO Anand Kumar and others accompanied the Collector. In Nalgonda, Returning Officer and District Collector Prashant J Patil said the counting process will be conducted observing strict COVID-19 preventive measures. Only candidates, counting staff and media persons who are carry certificate for two doses of COVID-19 vaccine will be allowed into the counting centre. A separate counter to test participating members, in the absence of a certificate, will also be arranged. Counting process involves first round of counting, arriving at the quota and elimination rounds. A total four tables are set up to count the 1,233 votes polled, of the total 1,271 votes, recorded at the eight polling stations in the composite district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-set-for-vote-counting-in-mlc-elections/article37949346.ece
14 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘Solar hamam’ taking care of heating in cold Himalayan regions||Aimed at providing clean energy solutions to households in the cold mountainous regions for heating purposes and also to achieve forest conservation, a solar water-heating system, ‘solar hamam’, is proving popular among the villagers in Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh and Uttarakhand. In the higher Himalayan region, 50% of fuelwood is consumed for the purpose of heating and is one of the major reasons for forests degradation and also the main cause of drudgery of women. Scientists at the Himalayan Research Group, an NGO, which is a part of the Government of India’s Department of Science and Technology Core Support Programme of Science for Equity Empowerment and Development (SEED) Division realised that technology interventions to conserve forests was required, and hence they devised a customized solar water and space heating system for the region. “It was in 2004 that with an aim to reduce dependence on fuelwood and women drudgery that we started research and development for designing a simple and cost-effective solar water and space heating system for rural households. In 2008, we developed a prototype of thesolar water-heating system, and it was put for evaluation. It was found to be cost-effective, providing 15 to18 litres of hot water within the first solar illumination of 30–35 minutes in the morning. Successive batches of hot water are available in 15–20 minutes gap. After its encouraging results we started installing the system from 2014 onwards. We have so far installed over 1,200 such systems in Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh and Uttarakhand,” said Dr. Lal Singh, Director at the Himlayan Research Group. Harish Chander (49), a resident of village Oli in Mandi district installed the solar system in 2018 and is very happy with its results. “After I installed it (solar hamam) in my house I urged other people to use it. It is wonderful,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/solar-hamam-taking-care-of-heating-in-cold-himalayan-regions/article37949419.ece
14 December 2021||JAIPUR,||Trade associations seek new measures in Rajasthan Budget||The trade and industry bodies in Rajasthan have sought new measures and concessions in the State Budget for 2022-23 and urged the Gehlot Government to examine the scope for connecting the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee (MGNREGA) works with the industry. A reference was also made to the hardships faced during the pandemic. At a pre-Budget consultation with the officials of the Finance and Commercial Taxes Department here, the trade and industry representatives said the stamp duty and district-level committee rates should be rationalised for the real estate operators and builders. The reduction in electricity duty and fire cess were among the other demands raised at the interaction. The textiles associations pointed out the benefits of connecting the flagship employment scheme with the industry in order to make the workforce available to different sectors and provide livelihood opportunities to the villagers. The State Government had recently reached out to the mill owners to resolve the issues of electricity duty on captive power plants and wheeling charges on power purchased from open access. The officials of the two departments, led by Principal Finance Secretary Akhil Arora, interacted with the representatives of industry bodies as part of a series of consultations with different sectors till the State Budget's formulation. The iron and steel manufacturers demanded that the reverse charge mechanism for goods and services tax be applied to the scrap and priority be given in the purchases made by the State Government. The agriculture, food and oilseed trade associations sought measures to compensate for the losses incurred during the pandemic through exemption from mandi duty and tax on raw material.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/trade-associations-seek-new-measures-in-rajasthan-budget/article37949416.ece
14 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Uttar Pradesh extends free ration scheme till Holi||Prior to 2017, ration meant for the poor would land into the hands of the “ration mafia” and be sent to a different country from Uttar Pradesh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said as he extended the Government’s free ration distribution scheme till March 2022 when the Assembly election is due. Packets of salt, dal and edible oil with images of the CM and Prime Minister Narendra Modi printed on them were distributed to beneficiaries at an event in Lucknow on Sunday. Free ration — salt, edible oil, dal and sugar (packets of 1 kg each) — would be distributed to 15 crore people across the State through 80,000 ration shops, said the government. The extended scheme of the Government fits into its multi-pronged campaign pitch of Hindutva and welfarism. Free ration was distributed to the poor from April to November 2021 as part of the PM Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana to tackle the economic crisis brought about by the second wave of COVID-19. The State Government had also distributed free ration from April to June. The scheme is now extended from Diwali to Holi, said the U.P. CM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/uttar-pradesh-extends-free-ration-scheme-till-holi/article37949221.ece
14 December 2021||Mumbai,||Mamata’s Mumbai visit warms Sena-Cong. ties||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee’s attack on the Congress during her Mumbai visit last week, has brought Shiv Sena and Congress closer than before. The partners in the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government are exchanging political happenings so much that Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, during her recent meeting with Sena’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut, is said to have shared how her husband received 69 notices from the Income Tax Department when she visited Lakhimpur-Kheri, where some farmers were run over by a car allegedly with a Union Minister’s son in it. Meeting in Delhi Mr. Rautheld a meeting with both Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi in Delhi last week. Despite close relations between Mr. Thackeray and Ms. Banerjee, it was the Sena which first opposed the idea of excluding Congress from the opposition front in its mouthpiece Saamna . On Sunday, he wrote extensively and emotionally about how this brother-sister duo are fighting against the BJP. Ms. Banerjee’s flak on Congress was seen as an attempt to bring the opposition parties under one roof while claiming that the United Progressive Alliance (UPA), led by the Congress, does not exist anymore. But even as she blasted the Gandhis, without naming anyone, in front of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, the latter too chose his words carefully and maintained that the opposition unity is about taking everyone along and not omitting any anti-BJP party. Primarily, the growing closeness between the Sena and the Congress and the NCP’s reluctance to join anti-Congress tirade has roots in ensuring stability of the MVA government in the State. The animosity between the BJP and the Sena, the former allies, has reached to the point of no return. Right equation Politically, the Sena and the Congress, a combination of regional and national party respectively, can compliment each other in a vast State like Maharashtra. Both parties enjoy dominance in different geographical regions, barring Mumbai. Both have a different voter-base too. One of the first tests of co-operation between two parties will be local body polls in the State as well as the Goa Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mamatas-mumbai-visit-warms-sena-cong-ties/article37949420.ece
14 December 2021||Mumbai,||Climate change in school curriculum||The Maharashtra Government will introduce a ‘Majhi Vasundhara’ curriculum to create awareness about climate change and instil responsibility towards the planet among the students.The curriculum, developed with the help of UNICEF, will be for students of Classe I to VIII. It will include biodiversity conservation, solid waste management, water Resources management, checking pollution and Climate Change. The coursework comprises activity-based lessons. “In this hour of climate emergency, the survival of the human race on the earth entirely depends on our actions. Introducing this curriculum is our attempt at getting the next generation to start with a green thumb and be proactively involved in a pro-earth lifestyle,” said State’s Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray. Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said that it will be implemented in a time-bound manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/climate-change-in-school-curriculum/article37949417.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||BJP to launch mega campaign against new excise policy||From Tuesday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will hit the streets to mobilise public opinion against the Delhi Government’s new excise policy. A public gathering involving individuals from civil society and citizens’ groups — either at Rajghat or Jantar Mantar — is part of the party’s ongoing movement against the opening of new liquor vends in the Capital. With Delhi’s three municipal corporations – North, South and East – coming down heavily on the opening of liquor vends, under the city’s new excise policy, at residential and mixed land areas, Mayors of the South and East civic bodies said that the ongoing surveys of the liquor vends “will be further intensified” in the coming days. While the BJP’s campaign against the new excise policy is not recent, party sources said fuelling citizens’ opposition to the opening of new liquor vends had emerged as a significant strategy to counter AAP’s bid to wrest control of the city’s three civic bodies with municipal elections around the corner. Stiff opposition “There is evidently a lot of public anger against new liquor vends springing up in the city. Not only have our leaders got representations from citizens, but also have learnt that AAP MLAs too have written against these shops to the Chief Minister,” a party source said. “The party has decided to utilise the opportunity as part of its campaign for the municipal corporation elections so much so that a programme has been chalked out around it under Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, who is its convener,” the source added. According to the Delhi Government’s new policy that came into effect on November 17, a total of 849 liquor vends – including five super-premium vends (SPV) – were to be opened. While the SPVs are yet to take shape, 810 of the remaining 844 vends fall under the corporation areas, which has led to a strong opposition from the BJP-led corporations and councillors from the Congress. East Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said the civic body has issued “verification notices to 65 liquor vends” under its area of jurisdiction and that “three of these vends have been sealed”. “These surveys are not limited to residential and mixed land areas. If we find discrepancies regarding the building by-laws and conversion charges in the commercial areas, those shops will also be sealed. The Delhi Government’s new excise policy is aimed at causing nuisance. We will seal the vends even if we find a minor violation,” said Mr. Aggarwal. Responding to the notion of a larger survey to be conducted, after Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta wrote a letter to the three civic body Mayors directing them to ensure that the newly opened vends do not violate norms, Mr. Aggarwal said that he had seen no development regarding this matter. However, South Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Mukesh Suryan said that a larger survey with the assistance of workers from the Delhi BJP is set to commence on December 14. Fund generating ploy Mr. Bidhuri accused the Delhi Government of opening new liquor vends “illegally” under the garb of making alcohol more accessible to citizens. “There is a reason behind the fact that over 80 municipal wards did not have liquor shops — it was against multiple norms both in the Master Plan as well as several court orders,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “AAP merely wants to generate funds for the Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Delhi civic body elections in the garb of making alcohol readings available through the policy,” he added. Amendments to existing provisions under the Master Plan for Delhi (MPD) 2021, the LoP said, were necessary before allowing any new vends to open. These, however, were not put in place even as new liquor shops had begun springing up across the Capital, Mr. Bidhuri said. “It is clearly mentioned in Section 15.6.2 of the MPD that liquor vends cannot open in mixed land areas. You cannot open them in residential areas as well, so this is a violation of the norms and the survey and verification of these vends is a necessary exercise,” said Mr. Suryan. Previously, Mr. Suryan said that the civic body had started conducting surveys “in full swing” from December 6 to verify completion certificates, licencing forms, building by-laws and conversion charges of the newly opened liquor stores. B.K. Oberoi, SDMC’s Standing Committee Chairman and BJP leader, said “only one liquor vend has shut” under the south civic body’s jurisdiction and that most shop owners “are now refraining from opening their stores because of the surveys”. “We are committed to ensuring that the liquor vends that violate the norms will be shut and the work is already in motion. However, I have no knowledge about the larger surveys that are to be held in sync with the BJP’s Delhi office,” Jogi Ram Jain, North civic body’s Standing Committee Chairman, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-to-launch-mega-campaign-against-new-excise-policy/article37949205.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||School reopening: Govt. sends proposal to CAQM||A proposal for reopening of schools and colleges by the Education Department has been sent to the Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and adjoining areas (CAQM), said Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Monday. The Education Department has proposed an immediate reopening of colleges, schools for Classes VI and above and reopening of primary classes up to Class V from December 20. The Delhi Government will act according to the commission’s decision, he said. The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has also sent a letter to the CAQM urging the commission to reopen schools. “Hundreds of parents have now written to us advocating for immediate opening of the schools. We sincerely believe that the policy of continued school closure is harming the students and therefore is a bad policy not supported by any evidence or facts,” the letter sent by DCPCR chairman Anurag Kundu, read. Mr. Rai also said that a ban on entry of trucks into the city, except for essential services, will continue. Construction activities Mr. Rai further stated that the various agencies requesting to ease the ban on construction and demolition activities have been directed to submit written applications. These applications would be forwarded to the CAQM. The anti-dust campaign, anti-open burning campaign and checking of PUC (Pollution Under Control) certificates of vehicles will continue till further orders, the Minister said. A total of 6,953 sites have been inspected by teams under the anti-dust campaign and out of these 597 have been issued notices and fines amounting to a total of Rs. 1.65 crore, as per the Delhi Government. Mr. Rai said that 16,580 sites have been visited under the anti-open burning campaign till now and of these, 2,490 have been issued notices and fines amounting to Rs. 46.96 lakh. Also, through the Green Delhi app, the Government has received 6,975 complaints since October, out of which 81% of the complaints have been solved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/school-reopening-govt-sends-proposal-to-caqm/article37949210.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘COVID-19 compensation given to 21,235’||A one-time compensation of Rs. 50,000 each to the families of those who have died of COVID-19 has been given to 21,235 people in the city so far, Social Welfare Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said on Monday. In September, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Ministry of Home Affairs had issued orders for an ex gratia payment of Rs. 50,000 to the next of kin of those who succumbed to the virus. Cause of death On October 4, the Supreme Court had said that the State Governments should not deny the ex gratia compensation on the grounds that death certificates do not show COVID-19 as the cause of death. Even before the court directions, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on July 6 announced the ‘Mukhyamantri COVID-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojna’ under which Rs. 50,000 would be given as a one-time compensation to all families who lost someone to the virus. On Monday, Mr. Gautam said that the Delhi Government had reached out to 25,100 families for the compensation, including those who did not apply for the scheme, but whose family members died of COVID-19 as per Government records. “Of them, the money has been paid to 21,235 applicants till now. There are about 2,000 such cases who refused to take the assistance. A major part of the refusals came from families that were financially well-off. Apart from this, most of the applications are in the finalisation stages barring a few that have met some technical problems which are being worked upon. About 1,500 applicants will soon receive the aid,” the Minister said. As part of the scheme, children who were orphaned because of COVID-19 will also get Rs. 2,500 every month till they turn 25 years old and a similar amount per month is also to be paid to other selected categories of people. Under verification “As for the monthly aid  programme under the scheme, where Rs. 2,500 is given every month to the dependents and widows, 12,668 applications have been received. Of them, 9,484 cases have been approved and 7,955 applicants have started receiving the assistance. A total of 1,120 applications are under verification. Aid has been extended to 1,529 people on the (online) portals and will be remitted to their bank accounts in three to four days,” Mr. Gautam said. He said the Government is trying to clear all applications soon and there are some cases where queries have been raised by the authorities and will be cleared once they are resolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-19-compensation-given-to-21235/article37949219.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Name judicial officers who are not conducting hybrid hearings’||The Delhi High Court on Monday called for a report detailing names of judicial officers in subordinate courts who are not complying with its direction to conduct hybrid or virtual proceedings at the request of parties. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh gave the direction after it was informed that some of the judicial officers in district courts were not permitting hybrid hearings despite the directions of the High Court. It has listed the matter for hearing on January 20 next year. The court was hearing an application filed by lawyer Anil Kumar Hajelay seeking hybrid hearings in district courts on physical hearing days because of the COVID-19 threat. The lawyer submitted that despite sending email, messages and requests to the staff of trial court for hybrid hearing, it was neither considered nor responded to. The case was dismissed for want of prosecution. Direction-bound The court had on November 17 said that subordinate courts are bound to adhere to its directions permitting trial courts to hold hybrid or videoconference hearings at the request of parties. The High Court had earlier noted that there was an apprehension about a rise in COVID-19 cases and the infrastructure for hybrid hearings in district courts and other quasi-judicial bodies must be in place. Feasible or not? In October, the High Court had asked its Registrar General to find out if the Delhi Government’s revised estimate of Rs. 79.48 crore from an earlier projection of over Rs. 220 crore for setting up infrastructure for hybrid hearings in the district courts was feasible. “It appears that the revised estimate of Rs. 79,48 crore has been approved without obtaining the technical approval of the IT Department with revised specifications,” the High Court had then said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/name-judicial-officers-who-are-not-conducting-hybrid-hearings/article37949200.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||Notice to CBSE over ‘anti-women’ question in Class X board exam||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) issued a notice to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday over a ‘regressive anti-women’ comprehension passage question in the Class X board exam and asked for an action-taken report from the education body within 72 hours. Takes cognisance DCW chief Swati Maliwal said, “The Delhi Commission for Women took cognisance of the objectionable comprehension passage in which the writer has stated that indiscipline and disobedience in children have increased due to increase in freedom and equality among women.” “The objectionable passage claims that teenagers are going astray due to a lack of parental authority at home, which according to him depended more than a century ago upon the convention of the husband being the master in his house,” the notice further read. ‘Sexist stereotypes’ Taking note of the contents in the passage which, according to the DCW, consist of ‘sexist stereotypes’, the Commission has asked the CBSE to provide details related to the writer and the persons involved in publishing the contents. “The CBSE has been given 72 hours by the Commission for providing a detailed action-taken report in this regard,” the notice said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/notice-to-cbse-over-anti-women-question-in-class-x-board-exam/article37949202.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||JNU rules out bias against PhD aspirants||Jawaharlal Nehru University on Monday said that there was no discrimination against PhD aspirants belonging to marginalised sections of society in its admission process. Viva voce The university responded a day after several students’ groups said that candidates who appeared for viva voce had said that they were given very low marks, especially in cases where students were from marginalised sections, in violation of the constitutionally mandated reservation policy. The university said that members of the PhD selection committee are not provided with any information about the categories of students to ensure no bias in the process. It added that according to the admission policy adopted by the university, every SC/PwD candidate who qualifies the entrance examination for the PhD admission is called for viva voice irrespective of the number of seats available for admission in their respective categories. “The university follows a fair, transparent and inclusive admission policy which is the foundation of its proven academic excellence,” the university said. It added that observers belonging to reserved categories are appointed invariably to ensure that no discrimination is done to the candidates during the viva voce. JNU Students’ Union president Aishe Ghosh said that students coming from marginalised sections are being marked 1 or 2 out of 30 in their viva voce and asked candidates who have faced such a problem to contact the students’ union as it was in violation of the constitutionally mandated reservation policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jnu-rules-out-bias-against-phd-aspirants/article37949213.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi residents to get free yoga services at their doorstep||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched the ‘Dilli Ki Yogshala’ programme under which all Delhi citizens can get free yoga training at their doorstep six days a week. The Delhi Government will provide classes and teachers free of cost to the residents. All they need to do is just get together a group of 25 people who are willing to learn yoga and register themselves through a missed call on the number — 9013585858. Citizens can also register themselves on dillikiyogshala.com. The participants also need to decide on an open space like a park or a community hall. The launch event of ‘Dilli Ki Yogshala’ was held at the Delhi Secretariat auditorium where Mr. Kejriwal was present as the chief guest. He met students and yoga instructors, congratulating them on their progress and excellence in the field of yoga. He also presented award certificates to meritorious yoga instructors of Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research University (DPSRU). Mass movement The concept behind ‘Dilli Ki Yogshala’, according to the Government, is to make yoga reach every household and to transform it into a mass movement by providing a certified yoga instructor to the public. “I believe people will enthusiastically take part in this programme. We conceptualised the Yogshala programme in February 2021, passed a budget as well,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “I assumed that after this it would take us two-three years before we implement the programme, to train teachers and manage other logistics. But we are here, launching this monumental programme today, for which I would like to extend my heartfelt gratitude and congratulations to the DPSRU Vice-Chancellor and the entire TTE team,” he said. The Government, he said, is ready with a force of 400 yoga teachers available to teach any group that avails of the programme and official classes will begin in January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-residents-to-get-free-yoga-services-at-their-doorstep/article37949216.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||BJP instals LED screens to show Kashi temple corridor inauguration||The Delhi BJP on Monday made arrangements for live telecast of the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Mandir corridor under the ‘Divya Kashi Bhavya Kashi’ project through LED screens at 295 locations across the Capital. According to the party, it had been making preparations for the programme for the last week during which temples in the city were also cleaned. Saints and priests Saints, priests, and social workers besides party leaders were present to watch the inauguration. At the Laxminarayan temple at Mandir Marg, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta received Union Minister Piyush Goel, BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, party’s national organiser V. Satish and Minister of State Prahlad Singh Patel. “It is not Kashi Vishwanath Mandir which has been reconstructed but the restoration of the whole of Kashi has been done. The form of Kashi has totally changed which had been waited for thousands of years,” Mr. Gupta said. Restoration “Even in Delhi we could see this as the whole programme was shown live on giant screens. There are several other important religious places which need revamp and restoration and we are hopeful this too will be done under the Modi Government,” Mr. Gupta added. BJP organisational general secretary Siddharthan, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, MP Ramesh Bidhuri, general secretary and programme convener Kuljeet Singh Chahal, and general secretaries Harsh Malhotra and Dinesh Pratap Singh also watched the live telecast.  It is not Kashi Vishwanath Mandir which has been reconstructed but the restoration of the whole of Kashi has been doneAdesh Gupta Delhi BJP president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-instals-led-screens-to-show-kashi-temple-corridor-inauguration/article37949217.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||Man held for running over slum dweller||A man was arrested for allegedly running over a man in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri on Monday, the police said. The victim succumbed to his injuries in the hospital. DCP (West) Urvija Goel said they received a PCR call regarding an accident at a camp. On reaching the spot, the offending car was found in a damaged condition. The DCP said statements of eyewitnesses have been recorded and the accused driver, identified as Rishabh, a resident of Vikaspuri, has been arrested. The accused was heading to his gym when six-year-old Nisha, another slum dweller, came in front of his car while playing. In a bid to save her, he steered the vehicle to the other side and hit Ranjeet, who works as a draftsman. The victim was drinking water at the time of the incident, Ms. Goel said. Nisha also sustained minor injuries and is currently admitted to a hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-held-for-running-over-slum-dweller/article37949208.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||BJP playing with lives of people around landfills: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Monday alleged that a massive fire broke out at Bhalswa landfill, which is under the control of the BJP-governed municipal corporation, on Sunday and piles of trash fell endangering passers-by. “The three life threatening mountains of garbage are the only gifts of the BJP’s 15-year rule of the municipal corporations to Delhi. The plight of those living around the garbage mountains has never been relieved and the BJP is carelessly playing with their lives,” Durgesh Pathak, AAP in-charge of corporations, said. He said that fires have broken out in the past also, but the corporations seem to have never taken action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-playing-with-lives-of-people-around-landfills-aap/article37949218.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘JNU admission policy not discriminatory’||The Jawaharlal Nehru University on Monday said that there was no discrimination against PhD aspirants from marginalised sections of the society in its admission policy. The university responded a day after several students groups of the university said that candidates who appeared for viva voce had said they were given very low marks, especially in cases where students are from marginalised sections. The university said that members of the PhD selection committee are not provided information about the categories of students to ensure that there is no bias.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jnu-admission-policy-not-discriminatory/article37949413.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||Minor cases, major delays||The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, was brought in with the purpose of conducting criminal trials of minors or children in conflict with law (CCLs) who are accused of petty or serious offences before the Juvenile Justice Boards (JJBs). However, according to data recently provided by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) before the High Court, as many as 1,903 cases of petty offences — those between six months and one year and more than a year old — were pending before six JJBs in the city till June this year, which the court noted was an increase of 44% in just the last six months. Till December last year, 1,320 such cases were pending. The Delhi Government had submitted before the Division Bench that 3,965 cases involving petty offences were registered since March last year. In such cases, 2,857 juveniles were apprehended. As many as 2,443 out of 2,857 children were directly handed over to their parents or guardians. Noting that the pendency was “certainly stigmatic” and affected the “dignity of the child”, the court ordered termination of all cases pertaining to petty offences, which were pending for more than six months, with immediate effect. Further observing that the figures were confusing and that “everybody was singing a tune of their own” the court also pulled up the Delhi Police for not having data for over 400 juveniles who were not handed over to their parents. It stated that children alleged to be involved in petty crimes may not be required to be sent to observation homes at all. The Juvenile Justice Act states that inquiry pertaining to minors involved in petty offences, for which imprisonment is a maximum of three years, shall stand terminated if it remains inconclusive till six months. The Delhi Government had later informed the Bench that it had closed nearly 900 such cases pending before the JJBs.  The Hindu spoke to several lawyers and stakeholders to understand what caused such high pendency, how COVID-19 added to the woes and why a long-drawn legal process deterred the child’s rehabilitation process. Advocate Manish Jain, who has handled several juvenile cases, said the foremost problem that causes long delays is ascertaining the minor’s age. “Due to several legal technicalities, age verification itself takes around two to three years... Even the JJB’s infrastructure is not well-equipped to deal with such issues,” he said. The lawyer added that often the age of a child, who in most cases is a vagabond, cannot be verified due to lack of identity documents, which further delays the case. “The juvenile might have different age in different documents or might not even have one... Because of this the trial in petty cases stretches for years,” the lawyer said. The JJB is supposed to verify the child’s age within a period of 30 days from the first production. Mr. Jain also pointed out that unequal distribution of cases among JJBs is another reason for the increasing delay. “They (JJBs) are heavily overburdened. More such boards should be set up so that there is an equal police station-wise distribution of matters.” Reluctant kin “Age verification becomes even more difficultwhen a juvenile might not have parents or kin to show the required identity documents. Even the ones they have, step back and refuse to identify them because of the stigma...if there is a discrepancy in age, the child is tried as an adult court but we further challenge the same and it takes more time,” said Advocate Ashok Verma. The lawyer said that while such technical issues drag the cases for years, COVID-19 further restricted the JJB’s functioning, much like several adult courts. Petty offences can be classified as anything from chain snatching and vehicle theft to burglaries and drug trafficking or distribution. Another lawyer, requesting anonymity, said when COVID-19 struck, the JJBs stopped functioning and minors were not presented before the Magistrate within 24 hours of being apprehended, neither through videoconferencing nor in-person. “During the COVID lockdown, due to restricted functioning of courts, police simply lodged cases and did not formally apprehend the juveniles, so they were not presented before the Magistrate. Most cases were held up because the formal procedure begins only after first production of the juvenile and that did not happen,” the lawyer explained. He said that this affects the child’s rehabilitation process as the criminal proceedings keep lingering despite the law stating otherwise. ‘Police laxity’ “The entire approach of the JJ Act is rehabilitation and reformation of the child, but due to police laxity and the JJB’s failure to pull them up for not going by the book, the minor’s after-care plan, which includes educational and vocational training, takes a back seat as the child still has a criminal case to fight,” the lawyer added. “Workload imbalance among JJBs also adds to the delay as some jurisdictions see more petty juvenile cases than others.” Advocate Sayema Mobin, who has been representing juveniles for six years, also pointed out that often a child is apprehended on a certain day but is presented before the Magistrate two to three days later. “Sometimes, the Social Investigation Report of the child, which contains the family background, takes time, apart from frequent adjournments... These procedures take way more than six months and defeat the rehabilitation process,” she said. After being presented before the board, the juveniles, especially those involved in petty offences, are generally granted bail and handed over to their parents. They are sent to an observation home only when the family is untraceable or on the court's discretion. DCPCR chairperson Anurag Kundu said the JJBs should issue orders reprimanding the police for failure in producing juveniles before the board within time. “The cases have been pending much before COVID struck so that cannot be attributed as the primary reason... The Magistrates should come down heavily on police officers and make them follow the law,” Mr. Kundu said. He added: “According to the Act, the JJB can also ascertain the child’s age from physical appearance but in most cases the juveniles were not being presented, so one had to rely on identity documents which delay the trial... It is a self-inflicted injury.” He said the tag of being a criminal, especially for petty offences, has a negative psychological impact on the child’s mind, which hangs like a sword until the case is disposed of. “Even though the process of rehabilitation begins right after the first production of the child, the criminal proceedings that unfortunately go on for years affect the child’s mental health and ostracise him from society,” said Mr. Kundu. In an enquiry report earlier this year, the DCPCR had stated that pursuing the proceedings in such offences beyond the legally permissible period amounted to “encroachment on the personal liberty” of the children. “The stigma faced by the children and the tag of ‘criminal’ when cases are being pursued in Juvenile Justice Boards not only adversely affects the mental health of the children, but also denies them their familial love if kept in an institution, and personal freedom duly enshrined in the Constitution,” the report said. A Delhi Police spokesperson said that all officers dealing with juvenile cases are adequately trained and sensitised to handle such cases with any shortcomings being strictly dealt with. “In cases involving minors, we maintain a pink file and produce the child before the JJB within the stipulated time,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/minor-cases-major-delays/article37949207.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘No new COVID deaths’||The city reported no new COVID-19-related death in the last 24 hours and the total number of deaths stood at 25,100, the Delhi government said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-new-covid-deaths/article37949421.ece
14 December 2021||Panaji,||It is up to Cong. to join TMC-led anti-BJP bloc in Goa: Mamata||Giving a new poll slogan of ‘Khel Zatlo’ in Goa, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said an anti-BJP alliance has already taken shape in the coastal State under the banner of her party Trinamool Congress (TMC) and now it is for the Congress to decide whether it wants to join the grouping ahead of elections to take on the BJP. Addressing a public meeting at Benaulim in South Goa, Ms. Banerjee said the TMC will not allow the ruling BJP to win the elections in Goa, due in early 2022, this time. At a separate event, Ms. Banerjee, who is on a two-day visit to the State, said there will be “Khel Zatlo” in Goa (’Zatlo’ is a Konkani term to mean ‘will happen’). She had earlier raised the ‘Khela Hobe' (game is on) slogan during the West Bengal Assembly poll campaign earlier this year. At the public meeting, she said the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) has already joined her anti-BJP alliance and now the NCP’s lone MLA in the State, Churchill Alemao, has merged the party’s state legislative unit with the TMC. “If the Congress thinks they want to defeat the BJP, we have no objection. We already have the MGP on board. If you want to join, join us. We have already formed the alliance,” the Bengal CM said after inducting Mr. Alemao into her party. Alternative to BJP Talking about the anti-BJP alliance, Ms. Banerjee, who is also the chairperson of the TMC, claimed her party has already become an alternative to the BJP in the State. “The MGP has joined the alliance, the NCP has merged its legislature unit (with TMC). If anyone wants not to divide votes, come and join us,” she said in a message directed at the Congress. Seeking to strike a chord with the Christian community, which has a sizeable presence in Goa, Ms. Banerjee said she has been attending Christmas midnight masses since the last 20 years without a break. “After our government was formed, we celebrate Christmas in Kolkata in a big way. I am going to inaugurate a function (on occasion of the upcoming festival) on 20th of this month,” she said. She also spoke out her closeness to Mother Teresa due to which she said she was even invited to the Vatican. Earlier, while addressing local TMC leaders, she said her party has entered the poll fray not to control the State, but to use its experience to help Goans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/it-is-up-to-cong-to-join-tmc-led-anti-bjp-bloc-in-goa-mamata/article37949424.ece
14 December 2021||Pune,||VBA allies with RJD, IUML||Snubbing Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) chief Prakash Ambedkar on Monday announced an alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) for the crucial Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) election to be held in February next year. Mr. Ambedkar, the grandson of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar, projected his alliance as an alternative to the BJP and the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi. The VBA chief said doors were open for an alliance with both the Congress and the Shiv Sena if they so wished. “We held discussions with the leaders of the IUML and the RJD. Seat sharing will be by mid-January,” Mr. Ambedkar said. Neither the VBA nor its one-time ally, the AIMIM, has any significant presence in BMC. Mr. Ambedkar also rebuked the AIMIM for not contesting on a secular plank during the 2019 Lok Sabha election. “The OBCs within our party are not willing for an alliance with the AIMIM,” he said. The VBA’s alliance with the AIMIM had queered the pitch for the Opposition Congress and the NCP in at least 10 of the 48 Lok Sabha seats during the 2019 general election by eating into the traditional Dalit-minority vote bank of the two parties. However, the alliance was split wide open immediately after the general election following bickering over seat-sharing before the Maharashtra Assembly election in October 2019. Remarking that BMC polls would be fought on development plank, Mr. Ambedkar said the plight of the employees of the MSRTC and the long strike by its workers would be a critical factor in determining the outcome of the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/vba-allies-with-rjd-iuml/article37949222.ece
14 December 2021||Pune,||MVA Govt. behaving arrogantly towards MSRTC staff, says Raj||Targeting the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) Government for its failure to handle the protracted strike of transport staffers, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray said that the State Government should not behave in an arrogant manner towards the employees of the cash-strapped Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). The MSRTC workers’ strike, which intensified throughout November, has been dragging on for over 40 days now, paralysing commute in the State’s rural hinterland. Targeting State Transport Minister Anil Parab over his ‘ultimatum’ to the MSRTC staffers to resume duties, Mr. Thackeray, speaking in Nashik on Monday, said that the people had not voted for the MVA for them to “behave in an arrogant and insensitive fashion.” “The government needs to look seriously into this matter…All MSRTC employees have come together to urge the government to fulfil their long-pending demands…these employees have not been paid regularly. The Government must understand their problems as their very lives are at stake…instead, the Government is behaving in a high-handed fashion,” said Mr. Thackeray, adding that he would write to his cousin, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in this regard. The MNS chief said that the MSRTC was something to be admired and not privatised. “Unless the corruption within the MSRTC is stopped, the employees will continue to suffer…the government ought to appoint a firm to manage the company better rather than privatise it,” he said. 10,000 suspended So far, the MSRTC has suspended more than 10,000 workers and terminated the services of more than 2,000 staffers for participating in the strike. Most of the 250 bus depots of the MSRTC have remained shut for the better part of November as the strike gathered momentum. Since then, some buses have resumed operation and a number of employees have reported for duty. However, a majority of the MSRTC staffers have not budged from their strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mva-govt-behaving-arrogantly-towards-msrtc-staff-says-raj/article37949415.ece
14 December 2021||Pune,||Two more Omicron cases in Maharashtra||Two new cases of Omicron were detected from Maharashtra on Monday, with Pune and Latur districts reporting one case each, taking the total number of the infection in the State to 20, said health authorities. Of these cases, nine have already been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test. According to a report by the city-based National Institute of Virology (NIV), both cases — a 39-year-old female from Pune and a 33-year-old male from Latur — were asymptomatic. Authorities said that both patients had a travel history to Dubai and that the close contacts of both these patients had been traced and found negative. Meanwhile, the State reported 569 new COVID-19 cases on Monday as against just 498 new recoveries. Five fatalities were reported taking the total death toll to 1,41,264.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-more-omicron-cases-in-maharashtra/article37949412.ece
14 December 2021||Srinagar,||Shutdown in Ladakh||Ladakh on Monday observed a shutdown to press for the demands of Statehood, constitutional guarantees on protecting local interests and increase in number of Parliament seats. The bandh was also supported by the Apex Body of Leh. The shutdown affected normal life in Kargil and Leh. Most shops remained shut and very less traffic was seen on the roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/shutdown-in-ladakh/article37949223.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Mouths to feed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mouths-to-feed/article37949215.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Prayers after victory||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/prayers-after-victory/article37949426.ece
14 December 2021||Brussels,||EU slaps sanctions on Russian military firm||The European Union imposed sanctions on Russian private military contractor Wagner Group on Monday as well as on eight individuals and three other energy companies in Syria accused of helping to finance the mercenaries in Ukraine, Libya and Syria. The EU accused the Wagner Group, whose members are mostly ex-service personnel, of human rights abuses and said they carried out clandestine operations on the Kremlin’s behalf. “The Wagner Group is responsible for serious human rights abuses in Ukraine, Syria, Libya, the Central African Republic, Sudan and Mozambique,” the EU said in its official journal, listing torture and extrajudicial executions. Russia denies any wrongdoing. President Vladimir Putin has said private military contractors have the right to work and pursue their interests anywhere in the world as long as they do not break Russian law. Mr. Putin has said the Wagner Group neither represented the Russia state nor was paid by the Russian state. The travel bans and asset freezes — designed to limit any governments from working with the Wagner Group — are unlikely to have a big impact in Moscow, but they mark a further hardening of EU foreign policy towards Russia, diplomats said. Among those targeted, the EU blacklisted Dimitriy Utkin, a former Russian military intelligence (GRU) officer, saying he was the founder of the Wagner Group and responsible for “coordinating and planning operations for the deployment of Wagner Group mercenaries in Ukraine”. Two others, Denis Kharitonov and Sergey Shcherbakov, were a part of a group of alleged Wagner mercenaries who were briefly detained in Belarus last year and sent back to Russia, according to Belarus state news agency Belta. The EU also said that Mr. Kharitonov had fought as for Russia in eastern Ukraine, “personally shot down a Ukrainian helicopter” in the region and “received the Russian Federation’s Order of Merit for the Fatherland”. Three Russian-based entities linked to the Wagner Group that the EU said were involved in oil and gas production in Syria were also hit with sanctions. The sanctions follow an EU travel ban and asset freeze in October 2020 on one-time Russian caterer Yevgeny Prigozhin, dubbed “Putin’s cook” for his close links to the Kremlin, who the bloc said had close ties to the Wagner Group. “The Wagner Group is financed by Yevgeny Prigozhin,” the EU said on Monday in its official journal. Mr. Prigozhin denied any such links in a statement on Friday. Separately, the EU adopted on Monday a sanctions regime relating to Mali, although no names were added. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has said the company has a “legitimate” right to be in Mali because it was invited by the transitional government, and he insisted the Russian government is not involved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-to-press-economic-sanctions-on-russia/article37948768.ece
14 December 2021||Eilat,||India’s Harnaaz Sandhu crowned Miss Universe 2021||Punjab’s Harnaaz Sandhu on Monday won the Miss Universe 2021 pageant, beating contestants from 79 countries to bring the title back to India after 21 years. Only two Indians before Sandhu, just 21 and an actor as well as a model, have been crowned Miss Universe earlier — actors Sushmita Sen in 1994 and Lara Dutta in 2000. The win, being seen as a fillip for the beauty pageant industry, led to celebrations at her home and congratulatory messages from all quarters. The 70th edition of the event was held in Israel’s resort town of Eilat. Sandhu will move to New York City where she will live during her ‘reign’ and become a spokesperson for various causes alongside the Miss Universe Organisation. During the final question and answer round, Sandhu was asked what advice she would give young women on how to deal with the pressure they face today. “The biggest pressure the youth of today is facing is to believe in themselves, to know that you are unique and that’s what makes you beautiful. Stop comparing yourselves with others and let’s talk about more important things that’s happening worldwide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/indias-harnaaz-sandhu-crowned-miss-universe-2021/article37948774.ece
14 December 2021||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong court sentences Jimmy Lai to 13 months in jail||A Hong Kong court on Monday sentenced activist and business tycoon Jimmy Lai to 13 months in jail for urging participation in last year’s banned Tiananmen vigil, amid a crackdown by Chinese authorities that has rolled back the semi-autonomous city's civil liberties. The District Court convicted seven others on similar charges and handed out sentences of up to 14 months. Hong Kong’s government has banned the candlelight vigil for the past two years on pandemic control grounds, although it is widely believed the ban is intended to be permanent to quell pro-democracy movement. Mr. Lai, the founder of the now-shuttered pro-democracy newspaper Apple Daily , has already been jailed for taking part in pro-democracy protests for which he will serve a total of 20 months. In the latest case, he was convicted on Thursday of inciting others to take part in the unauthorised assembly to memorialise those killed in the army’s crackdown on student-led protests that centered on Beijing’s Tiananmen Square in 1989.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-court-sentences-jimmy-lai-to-13-months-in-jail/article37948772.ece
14 December 2021||Kabul,||Taliban: committed to giving education, jobs to girls, women||Afghanistan’s new Taliban rulers are committed in principle to education and jobs for girls and women, a marked departure from their previous time in power, and they seek the world’s “mercy and compassion” to help millions of Afghans in desperate need, a top Taliban leader said in a rare interview. Afghan Foreign Minister Amir Khan Muttaqi also told The Associated Press that the Taliban government wants good relations with all countries and has no issue with the United States. He urged Washington and other nations to release upward of $10 billion in funds that were frozen when the Taliban took power August 15, following a rapid military sweep across Afghanistan and the sudden, secret flight of U.S.-backed President Ashraf Ghani. “Sanctions against Afghanistan would ... not have any benefit,” Mr. Muttaqi said in Kabul. “Making Afghanistan unstable or having a weak Afghan government is not in the interest of anyone,” said Muttaqi, whose aides include employees of the previous government as well as those recruited from the ranks of the Taliban. Mr. Muttaqi acknowledged the world’s outrage at the Taliban-imposed limitations on girls’ education and on women in the workforce. In many parts of Afghanistan, women students between grades 7 and 12 have not been allowed to go to school since the Taliban took over, and many female civil servants have been told to stay home. Taliban officials have said they need time to create gender-segregated arrangements in schools and the workplace to meet their severe interpretation of Islam.  But Mr. Muttaqi said the Taliban have changed since they last ruled. “We have have made progress in administration and in politics ... in interaction with the nation and the world. With each passing day, we will gain more experience and make more progress,” he said. Mr. Muttaqi said that under the new Taliban government, girls are going to school through grade 12 in 10 of the country’s 34 provinces, private schools and universities are operating unhindered, and 100% of women who had previously worked in the health sector are back on the job. “This shows that we are committed in principle to women participation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-committed-to-giving-education-jobs-to-girls-women/article37948777.ece
14 December 2021||Stockholm,||Danish, U.K. ships collide in Sweden, two arrested||Sweden on Monday arrested two people after a fatal early morning collision between a Danish and a British ship off the southern Swedish coast, prosecutors said. Sweden’s Prosecution Service said in a statement that an investigation into “aggravated drunkenness at sea,” “gross negligence in sea traffic,” and “gross causing of death by negligence” had been opened. One of those arrested was a British citizen born in 1991 and the other a Croatian citizen born in 1965, the Prosecution Service said. Nine boats and a rescue helicopter scoured for two missing crewmembers for hours following the early morning collision in the waters between the Swedish city of Ystad and the Danish island of Bornholm, the media spokesman at the Swedish Maritime Administration said. Shortly after 3 p.m., authorities decided to cancel the rescue operation, after divers had found a body in the wreck. “The person is deceased, but the next of kin have not yet been informed yet,” police spokeswoman Evelina Olsson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/danish-uk-ships-collide-in-sweden-two-arrested/article37948780.ece
14 December 2021||Johannesburg,||South African President gets COVID-19||South African President Cyril Ramaphosa tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday and was receiving treatment for mild symptoms, the presidency said in a statement. Mr. Ramaphosa, who is fully vaccinated, began feeling unwell after leaving a state memorial service for former President FW de Klerk in Cape Town earlier in the day, it said. The Omicron variant was first detected in South Africa last month and sparked global panic over fears that it is more contagious than other variants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/south-african-president-gets-covid-19/article37948775.ece
14 December 2021||Washington,||Elon Musk named Time magazine person of the year||Time magazine on Monday named Tesla founder and space entrepreneur Elon Musk as person of the year, capping a roller-coaster 2021 for the technology magnate. “Person of the Year is a marker of influence, and few individuals have had more influence than @elonmusk on life on Earth, and potentially life off Earth too,” tweeted Time editor-in-chief Edward Felsenthal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/elon-musk-named-time-magazine-person-of-the-year/article37948770.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Home truths on climate change||At the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP26) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the developed countries, which continue to be the most responsible for the destruction of the biosphere, resorted to their usual tactics of bullying the less developed world to accept higher targets for controlling greenhouse emissions when they haven’t done so themselves. In fact, they have failed to even implement their earlier commitments towards funds and technology transfer. The reasons for the climate crisis affecting the world can be found in the reckless drive for profit maximisation by global capitalism led by the U.S. and its developed country allies. This has resulted in ecological destruction in the name of development. The effort in Glasgow was to push ‘net zero’ emissions by 2050 as a standard across countries, without taking into account the cumulative emissions for which the Global North is mainly responsible. The effort by some to equate India and other developing countries with the U.S. and Europe as the worst “emitters” is also misplaced precisely for this reason of cumulative emissions. In its model of country-wise cumulative emissions, carbonbrief.org uses population as a factor in its report of October 5, 2021. It finds that “the U.S., Russia, the U.K., Japan and Canada account for 10% of the world’s population, but 39% of cumulative emissions”, while China, India, Brazil and Indonesia account for 42% of the world’s population but just 23% of cumulative emissions. Looking inward To find sustainable solutions, in addition to resisting the imperialist mindset of the developed world, we have to also look at the internal policies of the governments of developing countries. Most of these governments are committed to capitalist appropriation of natural and national resources. For example, the official delegation from India may have fought hard to protect sovereign decisions on the use of fossil-based energy requirements from the hypocritical demands of the Global North for additional commitments against use of coal. But in India, the government’s coal use policy is driven by its determination to hand over mineral resources, including coal, to the corporate sector. Even as India boasts of switching to solar energy to meet its emission control targets, it is privatising the coal industry, auctioning coal mines and encouraging open cast mines without the guarantee of end use, but for commercialisation and export. Thus, on the Glasgow stage, India’s ruling regime wears the crown of a developing country fighting against the aggression of developed countries on climate change responsibilities, but policies at home reflect the interests of domestic and foreign capital — coal is used as a commodity for profit, not necessarily for any development purposes. It is a similar story on the declaration signed by over 140 countries to “halt and reverse forest loss and land degradation by 2030.” India did not sign the agreement on the ground that the declaration linked trade to land use and trade falls under the purview of the World Trade Organization. However, within India, the promotion of policies towards corporatisation of agriculture and the encouragement to contract farming on conditions set by big agri-businesses undermines food security. The pursuit of such policies domestically damages the credibility of India’s stand on international platforms. The same declaration has important commitments to “recognise and (extend) support to smallholders, indigenous peoples and local communities.” It was convenient for the government not to sign this since it is following policies that are opposed to these commitments. In a slew of amendments proposed to existing laws and policies, the government has moved to monetise, privatise, commercialise and even militarise forests, trampling over the recognised rights of forest communities and specifically tribal communities. These measures are reflected in the proposed Forest Policy of 2018, the suggested amendments to the Forest Act of 1927, the amendments to the Forest (Conservation) Act of 1980, amendments to the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act of 1957, the changes proposed to the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act of 1957, and the adoption of the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Rules. All these changes strip the Gram Sabhas of any voice in decision-making processes, even though they are affected directly, and make it easier to handover forests to the private sector. These policies have accentuated the diversion of forests for a variety of projects. From 2013-2019, it is estimated that 96% of tree cover loss occurred in natural forests. On the other hand, the Forest Rights Act of 2006, which recognises the rights and duties of Adivasis and traditional forest-dwelling communities, is being diluted with a high rejection of claims.  Setting an example In the 2015 COP in Paris, the Government of India had promised that it would develop carbon sinks to the equivalent of 2 billion to 3 billion tonnes of CO2 by 2030. The government set up a Green Mission for the regeneration of forests, afforestation, additional forest and tree cover, and so on. The Estimates Committee of Parliament in its 2018-2019 report on progress towards these goals slammed the government stating that it “deplores the way that an issue pertaining to the existence of the earth is being handled.” The report stated that to fulfil the promise of sequestering the CO2 target, 30 million hectares of land are required to plant indigenous trees, not monocultures or plantations as is being done at present. Where will this land come from? Planting trees along national highways or along railway tracks as is being planned will be a very small component of the required target. At present, the lands of forest-dwelling communities are being forcibly taken away and used for plantations. The Gram Sabhas are not being consulted. The method of making those communities which have the least responsibility for carbon emissions pay with their lands and livelihoods is embedded in India’s climate change strategies as far as forest policies are concerned. The clear gap between what is portrayed as a nationalist fight on the international stage and what is followed at home is even more stark with the present regime. The government must reverse its pro-corporate policies reflected in privatisation. It needs to call off its undeclared war on the Forest Rights Act and constitutional provisions that protect Adivasi communities. It is only with the cooperation of those who have protected forests that India can make a real contribution in the efforts to control climate change and be an example to the rest of the world. Brinda Karat is a member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) Polit Bureau and a former Rajya Sabha MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/home-truths-on-climate-change/article37948763.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Fathoming the new world disorder||The year 2021 will most likely go down in history as one of the pivotal years in the post-Cold War period. It may be too early to say how the American withdrawal from Afghanistan would shape regional geopolitics in Asia and the great power contest between the United States and its competitors. But it is certainly one of those developments that will have a far-reaching impact on global politics. There are two dominant narratives about the American withdrawal. One is that the U.S. exited the country on its own will as it is undertaking a larger realignment in its foreign policy. This argument rejects any comparison between the American pull-back from Vietnam in 1975 and its retreat from Afghanistan this year. The other one is that the U.S. failed to win the war in Afghanistan and, like in the case of Vietnam, was forced to withdraw from the country. This writer, who wrote in these pages in February 2019 that “America has lost the Afghan war”, shares the second view. The reorientation that is under way in American foreign policy, focused on China, certainly played a role in the Afghan withdrawal. But that does not obscure the fact that the world’s most powerful military and economic power failed to win the war in Afghanistan against the Taliban even after fighting them for 20 years. Examples from history Superpowers suffering military setbacks at the hands of weaker forces would create a perception of great power fatigue, if not weakness, that would prompt both their allies and rivals to rethink their strategic assessments. There are ample examples in history. Take the post-War world. Britain, whose imperial glory came to an end with the Second World War, took time to come to terms with that reality. Joined by France, it backed Israel’s misadventure in the Suez in 1956, only to be repudiated by the U.S. and the Soviet Union. Despite making military advances, the Anglo-French-Israeli troops had to withdraw from the Suez and Sinai of Egypt — a development that many historians believe marked the end of British influence in the region. Britain has never got West Asia back. In the 1970s, the U.S. withdrawal from Vietnam was read in Moscow as a weak moment for the Western bloc in the Cold War. It prompted the Soviets to act more aggressively. In 1978, communists, backed by the Soviet Union, seized power in Kabul and a year later, Moscow sent troops to Afghanistan, orchestrated a coup and installed an ally in Kabul’s presidential palace. The Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan in February 1989, after failing to defeat the Mujahideen and Islamist guerillas who were backed by the U.S., Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, dealt a fatal blow to the Soviet power. Within months, communist regimes in Eastern Europe started crumbling, eventually leading to the disintegration of the Soviet Union. This is not to argue that the U.S. is facing an immediate threat to its superpower status. With seamless access to the world’s two vast oceans and definite borders and a continent under its command, the U.S. is far more powerful and agile than the U.K. of 1956 and the Soviet Union of 1989. But the gradual erosion of the U.S.’s ability in shaping geopolitical outcomes in faraway regions has already shaken up the structures of American unipolarity. The Afghan withdrawal was not an isolated incident. In Iraq and Libya, it failed to establish political stability and order after invasions. It could not stop Russia taking Crimea from Ukraine in 2014. In Syria, it was outmanoeuvred by Vladimir Putin. Finally, the way American troops were withdrawn from Afghanistan and the return of the Taliban to power strengthened this perception of great power fatigue and emboldened America’s rivals to openly challenge the U.S.-centric “rules-based order.” The three challengers Almost four months after its withdrawal from Afghanistan, the U.S. is already facing intense geopolitical competition from three of its rivals. Russia has amassed about 175,000 troops on its border with Ukraine. Western intelligence agencies claim that Russian President Vladimir Putin could order an invasion of Ukraine, which the Kremlin sees, as scholars at Carnegie observed, “as a Western aircraft carrier parked just across southern Russia”. Mr. Putin has also backed Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko over the refugee crisis on the Polish border of the European Union. From the migrant crisis in Belarus to the troop mobilisation in Ukraine, Mr. Putin is unmistakably sending a message to the West that the region stretching from the Baltic Sea to the Black Sea, the eastern flank of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, is a Russian sphere of influence. Cut to West Asia. Iran, which has stepped up its nuclear programme after the Trump administration unilaterally withdrew the U.S. from the 2015 nuclear deal, has refused to hold direct talks with the U.S. The Biden administration has promised to lift nuclear sanctions on Iran if the Islamic Republic returns to the deal. But Iran insists that the U.S. should first remove the sanctions and give assurance that a future President would not violate the terms of the agreement. As both sides stick to their positions, the attempts to revive the agreement through talks in Vienna have hit a stone wall, with risks of a collapse. Enter the South China Sea. China is sending dozens of fighter jets into the so-called Taiwan Air Defence Identification Zone almost on a weekly basis, triggering speculation on whether Beijing was considering taking the self-ruled island by force. As the U.S. is trying to shift its focus to the Indo-Pacific region to tackle China’s rise (Mr. Biden announced the AUKUS partnership — trilateral security pact between Australia, the United Kingdom and the U.S. — within two weeks of America’s Afghan pull-out), China is becoming more and more assertive in its periphery, seeking strategic depth. Tough choices The U.S. is facing tough choices. The pivot to Asia has limited America’s options elsewhere. For example, what could the U.S. do to deter Mr. Putin from making the next military move in Europe. Mr. Biden has understandably ruled out a military confrontation with Russia over Ukraine. What the U.S. and its European allies could possibly do is to impose harsher sanctions on Russia. But sanctions slapped on Russia after the Crimean annexation in 2014 did little to deter Mr. Putin from taking more military steps. Economic sanctions will also drive Russia further into the Chinese embrace, strengthening the Eurasian partnership, which the U.S., during the Cold War, saw as a critical challenge to American interests. With regard to Iran, if the U.S. blinks first and lifts the sanctions, it could be read as another sign of weakness. If it does not and if the Vienna talks collapse, Iran could continue to enrich uranium to a higher purity, attaining a de facto nuclear power status without a bomb (like Japan), which would be against America’s declared goals in West Asia. The Afghan withdrawal and the downsizing in West Asia suggest that America’s strategic focus has shifted towards China. Ideally, the U.S. would not prefer to get involved in another conflict as the structures of the new Cold War are taking shape — this explains the reluctance to use hard power. But the inconclusive wars the U.S. fought in recent years and the associated great power fatigue have opened up space for its regional rivals, who are trying to maximise their influence, even at the risk of triggering more conflicts. This transition, from American unipolarity into something that is still unknown, has put America in a strategic dilemma: Should it stay focused on China, preparing itself for the next bipolar contest; or continue to act as a global policeman of the liberal order that is under attack from multiple fronts? stanly.johny@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fathoming-the-new-world-disorder/article37948756.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A global gateway to creating links, not dependencies||In May this year at the Leader’s Meeting in Porto, the European Union (EU) and India adopted the Connectivity Partnership, expanding our cooperation across the digital, energy, transport, and people-to-people sectors. Our partnership is centred on transparency, sustainability, equity and inclusivity for the benefit of both regions, in order to create links, not dependencies. What exists and more With India, we already have a strong ongoing collaboration on sustainable infrastructure. For instance, the European Investment Bank (EIB) has financed over €4.31 billion in the country since 1993, including significant connectivity projects. New operations are in the pipeline, such as further EIB investments in urban metro systems. The EU is working in the same spirit across the world. Earlier this year, the EU and Brazil inaugurated a new fibre-optic cable to carry terabytes of data faster and more securely between our two continents. This helps scientists in Europe and Latin America to work together, on issues from climate modelling to disaster mitigation. The cable starts in the EU, where the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) became the gold standard of data protection, and ends in Brazil, which recently introduced a similar law. The cable links two continents together building a data economy that respects the privacy of its citizens’ data. This is how Europe approaches connectivity — bringing partners together without creating unwanted dependencies. In Africa Last week, the EIB and the cooperation agencies of France, Spain and Germany joined the European Commission in Togo to identify projects to finance in the energy, transport and digital sectors. During the mission, the EIB signed a €100 million credit line to support African small and medium businesses to recover from the pandemic and to seize growth opportunities from the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). These are just examples of what we call Team Europe, bringing together all those who work with our partners to support the green and digital transition. Since the start of the von der Leyen Commission, the twin transitions of green and digital in Europe have been at the forefront. With the new Global Gateway strategy, the EU continues to promote the green and digital transition at the global level. In a world of interdependence, where supply chains are showing their fragility, we know how important connectivity is. We have also seen how the links that connect us can also be weaponised. Data flows, energy supplies, rare earths, vaccines and semi-conductors are all instruments of power in today’s world. Which is why we need to ensure that global connectivity and access to these flows is based on rules and international standards. While flows in goods may be ideologically neutral, the rules which govern them are intertwined with political values. Particularly in the digital domain, Europe and other democracies must ensure that the standards of the future reflect our core values. No ‘debt traps’ Europe wants to reduce excessive dependencies and be more autonomous in areas such as the production of computer chips. Our autonomy is reinforced if all our partners have alternatives when making their investment decisions. Europe’s calling card and offer to our partner countries to address infrastructure investment needs is financially, socially, and environmentally sustainable connectivity. No ‘white elephants’ and no ‘debt traps’, but projects that are sustainable and serve the needs of local populations. For Europe to master the connectivity challenge, it needs not only principles and frameworks but also adequate resources and clear priorities. First, we will use the resources of Team Europe, the EU and its Member States in a smarter, more efficient way. The Global Gateway will mobilise investments of more than €300 billion in public and private funds for global infrastructure development between 2021 and 2027, financing the climate and digital transition, as well as health, education and research. We will mobilise half of the investments with the help of the EU budget and the other half indicates the planned investments from European financial institutions and Member States’ development finance institutions. We have remodelled our financial tools to provide the firepower that can blend loans and grants and provide the guarantees needed today. We put in place mechanisms to filter out abnormally low tenders and protect against offers that benefit from distortive foreign subsidies, which undermine the level playing field. We will also ensure that EU internal programmes — InvestEU, our research programme, Horizon Europe and the Connecting Europe Facility — will support Global Gateway, alongside Member States’ development banks, national promotional banks and export credit agencies. An export credit facility Of course, capital from the private sector will remain the biggest source of investment in infrastructure. That is why we are exploring the possibility of establishing a European Export Credit Facility to complement the existing export credit arrangements at the Member State level. This would help ensure a more level-playing field for EU businesses in third country markets, where they increasingly have to compete with foreign competitors that receive large support from their governments. Second, on the priorities, Global Gateway has identified a number of flagship projects. These includes the extension to the BELLA (Building the Europe Link to Latin America) cable to the rest of the Latin America, as part of the EU-LAC Digital Alliance; the expansion of the Trans-European Network to improve transport links with the Eastern Partnership and Western Balkan countries and scaled-up funding for the Erasmus+ student exchange programme worldwide. In Africa, along with support for new strategic transport corridors, the EU will mobilise €2.4 billion grants for Sub-Saharan Africa and over €1 billion for North Africa to support renewable energy and the production of renewable hydrogen, which can help meet the EU’s projected demand for clean energy and help partners to do the same. At heart, the Global Gateway is about demonstrating how democratic values offer certainty and fairness for investors, sustainability for partners and long-term benefits for people around the world. The EU and India can be leaders in this endeavour. Josep Borrell Fontelles is High Representative of the EU for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy/VP of the European Commission. Jutta Urpilainen is European Commissioner for International Partnerships||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-global-gateway-to-creating-links-not-dependencies/article37948759.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Principles over profit||It is rare for a sports governing body to place the interests of its athletes before financial gain; to show that principles matter more than its own annual purse. But the Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) has set a powerful precedent. In suspending tournaments in China and Hong Kong due to ongoing concerns about one of its own former stars, Peng Shuai, it has taken a bold stance against the face of an authoritarian regime. WTA CEO Steve Simon said, “If powerful people can suppress the voices of women and sweep allegations of sexual assault under the rug, then the basis on which the WTA was founded — equality for women — would suffer an immense setback.” It feels like the WTA has listened to women everywhere. It feels like a victory beyond the 36ft baseline. Displaying true leadership On November 2, Ms. Peng, a Grand Slam doubles champion from China, accused a former government official there of sexual assault. Her social media post detailing the assault disappeared within minutes. And soon after, so did Ms. Peng. Ms. Peng is part of ‘Golden Flowers’ — the vanguard of Chinese players in the top ranks of world tennis. Many athletes including Naomi Osaka, Serena Williams, Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer have spoken out in support of Ms. Peng, albeit in varying degrees. Most hoped for her well-being, but only a few openly mentioned “censorship” or “sexual assault.” This is significant: most players, who are global brands themselves, would not want to jeopardise their commercial interests in China. This is why the WTA’s move to pull out completely is unprecedented. China is a growing market for sports and a developing frontier for women’s tennis. In 2018, the WTA signed a magnum deal to host its prestigious year-end Tour Finals in Shenzhen for 10 years. The buy-in was estimated to bring about a billion dollars in revenue for a sport that is now struggling financially. It was Mr. Simon who negotiated the deal with China, seen as a crowning jewel in his six years as WTA chief. Orchestrating this exit must have come at a cost of personal pride too, upending years of his work expanding into the Asia-Pacific landscape. In placing principles above profit, he has shown extraordinary commitment and concern for players’ and their rights. In 2015, he brokered the return of Ms. Williams to the Indian Wells, a tournament she boycotted for more than a decade. Ms. Williams noted then that Mr. Simon “cares about the opinions of the players”. In demanding not only assurances from China that Ms. Peng was safe, but also a transparent and uncensored investigation into her allegations, he has proven to be arguably the bravest administrator in tennis. There are little chances of either of these demands being met. But when confronted with uncertainty and pushback, Mr. Simon displayed true leadership. “We have to start, as a world, making decisions that are based upon right and wrong — period,” he said. Being late to the game This is in stark contrast to other sporting organisations. The men’s tour, the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP), while backing the WTA’s stance, is yet to announce any suspension of tennis in China. Its statement did not even mention the country’s name. As former World No. 1 Andy Roddick pointed out, it was a classic example of “How to say a lot of words and say nothing.” Indeed, the ATP has a track record of being late to the game — it took a year to launch investigations into accusations of domestic violence against a star player, Alexander Zverev. It only recently introduced a policy on sexual misconduct. Another sporting federation, the International Olympic Committee (IOC), has been pursuing its own form of ‘quiet diplomacy’, releasing photos of video calls with Ms. Peng which showed her to be in good spirits. With barely weeks to go before the torch is lit at Beijing for the Winter Olympics, this seemed like a poor publicity stunt. The IOC has failed to realise that it is not quiet diplomacy that is the need of the hour, but loud calls for action. For the WTA, it is a moment of crisis but also a moment of reckoning and opportunity. Ten events were scheduled to be played in China in 2022. The challenge now will be to find new markets. The Tour Finals were held in Mexico this year due to COVID-19 restrictions. The dividends will be far smaller. But the WTA must continue to believe in its players. It must continue to keep players rights as its core objective and prioritise values over revenue. Ms. Peng in her note said, “Even if it is like an egg hitting a rock, or if I am like a moth drawn to the flame, inviting self-destruction, I will tell the truth about you.” The WTA must continue to give its players the voice they deserve. preethi.r@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/principles-over-profit/article37948767.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Stalin’s west side story||Soon after leading the DMK front to victory in the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections in May, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced that the DMK government’s work would not only make people who voted for it happy, but also push others to ponder why they did not vote for the alliance. Since the party had won a landslide in the north and central regions and put up a decent show in the south, it was quite clear that the “others” that Mr. Stalin was referring to were voters in the western belt, where the AIADMK retained most seats. In fact, had it not been for the endorsement of voters of Coimbatore, Salem, Tiruppur, Erode, Namakkal and Dharmapuri, the AIADMK would not have been able to return to power in 2016 even under Jayalalithaa. The DMK had focused its energies on penetrating the AIADMK fortress much earlier but the success that it enjoyed in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls could not be replicated in the Assembly elections for many reasons. Therefore, Mr. Stalin accommodated five MLAs from the western region in his first Cabinet. He then launched the Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam (health care at doorsteps) scheme from Krishnagiri and conducted an investors’ meet in Coimbatore last month. A few days ago, while addressing a meeting to induct AIADMK cadres from Dharmapuri, Mr. Stalin said that the district was no longer a weak turf for the DMK. The cadres were supporters of former AIADMK Minister, P. Palaniappan, who joined the DMK post-polls. In fact, the marginal shift in favour of the DMK in the Kongu belt has been possible largely by inducting AIADMK leaders into the DMK’s ranks. It began a decade ago with the arrival of S. Muthusamy, a Minister in the M.G. Ramachandran cabinet who was retained by Jayalalithaa in her ministry. The big catch in recent times is V. Senthil Balaji, who hails from Karur, a central district that is contiguous with the Kongu belt. His inclusion in the DMK and later in the government with a plum portfolio raised many eyebrows since Mr. Stalin had earlier spearheaded a campaign against Mr. Senthil Balaji when the latter was Transport Minister in the Jayalalithaa cabinet. The party’s previous strongman in Karur, K.C. Pallani Shamy, proved ineffective, so the party had to cast aside its prejudices against Mr. Senthil Balaji, a Gounder, and induct him. The Minister started delivering from the word go. The DMK also roped in Karthikeya Sivasenapathy, a well-known face in the Kongu region, but he could not win the election. But the challenges remain manifold for the DMK. For the socially and economically empowered Gounders who control many industries in the Kongu region, AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami is a son of the soil. He had risen to the position of Chief Minister — the second from the community after P. Subbarayan, the premier of Madras Presidency. It was probably the same caste factor that favoured the AIADMK even when there were serious corruption allegations against former Minister S.P. Velumani. The Kongu region is also gravitating towards the BJP, a process that started in a small way after the Coimbatore bomb blasts in 1998. Even though Arunthathiyars, a section of Dalits, are at loggerheads with the Gounders, both communities remain a strong base of the AIADMK and the BJP. The BJP did what was unthinkable, first by appointing L. Murugan, an Arunthathiyar, the party State president and later inducting him into the Union Cabinet. Former IPS officer, K. Annamalai, a Gounder, is now his successor in the party. The DMK, however, is confident that a “proactive” Mr. Stalin will tilt the fortunes in its favour. Industrialists who are upset with the increase in GST are happy that the industrial climate in the State is improving. The next urban local body polls could shed more light on the voters’ pulse. kolappan.b@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/stalins-west-side-story/article37948765.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Sanctions and rights||The U.S. move to sanction a paramilitary unit in Bangladesh, the Rapid Action Battalion (RAB), has apparently caught the administration in Dhaka off-guard, prompting a diplomatic pushback including Bangladesh Foreign Secretary Masud Bin Momen summoning U.S. Ambassador to Dhaka Earl Miller to protest the action. Fresh on the heels of the U.S. President Joe Biden’s Democracy Summit, which Dhaka was not invited to attend, the U.S. Treasury said that as per the allegations made by various NGOs, the RAB and other Bangladeshi law enforcement units were responsible for “more than 600 disappearances since 2009, nearly 600 extrajudicial killings since 2018, and torture”; there were also reports suggesting that the targets of these actions were Opposition party members, journalists, and human rights activists. The sanctions were invoked under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act. The RAB is a joint task force founded in 2004. Under the RAB’s mandate of ensuring internal security, intelligence-gathering on criminal activities, and government-directed investigations, principally relating to Bangladesh’s war on drugs, there have been “widespread allegations of serious human rights abuse” by the RAB, to the extent that they threaten U.S. national security interests by undermining the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, according to the U.S. Treasury. The broader picture of the U.S.’s application of sanctions to alleged human rights violators across the globe is that the latest list of allegations includes not just the RAB, but also government officials and administrators in the Xinjiang region of China, where the minority Uighur community is reported to have faced rights violations; citizens of North Korea suspected to be engaged in earning illicit incomes abroad to support the country’s arms trade and Russian institutions that have aided them; two military officials from Sri Lanka alleged to have committed gross rights violations against ethnic Tamils; and Chief Ministers of States in Myanmar who are alleged to have facilitated “ongoing brutal crackdowns against the people of Burma, including children and members of ethnic minority groups.…” A knee-jerk response to such sweeping sanctions is to either question their effectiveness or challenge their moral authority given that minorities in the U.S., such as African-Americans, are also periodically at the receiving end of rights violations. However, given the rampant degree of such violations worldwide, there is a case to be made for any policy by any country that highlights the role of specific individuals alleged to be involved. Especially across South Asia, it might be salutary for the broader cause of human rights if there is a ripple effect of the sanctions on the RAB. Indeed, if this action gives pause for thought to overzealous law enforcement agents who violently act out their prejudices against ethnic or religious minorities, that would be welcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/sanctions-and-rights/article37948751.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Last lap||In what was one of the most closely fought Formula One World Championships for the drivers’ title, 24-year-old Max Verstappen from the Netherlands became the sport’s latest champion in a breathtaking season finale at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix on Sunday. The Dutchman driving for Red Bull Racing achieved the feat by overtaking his title-rival, Mercedes driver Lewis Hamilton, on the last lap of the last race of the year in controversial circumstances. Going into the weekend, both drivers had exactly 369.5 points, meaning whoever finished ahead would take the title, a scenario last seen in 1974. Ever since he made his debut as a 17-year-old in 2015, the youngest in the sport’s history, Verstappen has been tipped as a champion in waiting. Widely seen as a generational talent, in his sixth year in the sport, he finally had a car that could compete against Hamilton who has won the last four titles. This season, Verstappen was brutally consistent with 10 race wins and eight second-place finishes out of 22 races. Meanwhile, Hamilton was going for a record eighth drivers’ title, a feat that would have put him ahead of the great Michael Schumacher. For the first 54 laps, it seemed the British driver had the eighth title in his bag after beating pole-sitter Verstappen at the start and controlling the race with almost a 10-second lead. Four laps from the end, a crash for Williams driver Nicholas Latifi, brought in the safety car that nullified Hamilton’s lead. On the penultimate lap of a 58-lap race, officials from the sport’s governing body, Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile (FIA), made two decisions that worked to Verstappen’s advantage. Racing resumed for the last lap allowing Verstappen, now on Hamilton’s tail, to attack his rival and pass him to seal the win. The Mercedes team protested the classification of results arguing right procedures were not followed before the race was resumed on the last lap. But in a late-night decision, race stewards dismissed the team’s protests, formally confirming the Dutchman’s first world title. Mercedes has lodged an intent to appeal the stewards’ decision and has three days to decide whether it wants to take it to the FIA’s International Court of Appeal. The controversy has cast a long shadow over what has been one of the closest seasons in recent times with both Verstappen and Hamilton evenly matched. The ad hoc manner in which race officials conducted the final moments of the race has left a sour note, with the final result being decided behind closed doors and still subject to change. The governing body desperately needs to address these inconsistencies before the next year lest it loses the trust of fans as a fair arbiter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/last-lap/article37948752.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Third country transfers of U.S. arms?||New York, Dec. 13: There are indications that President Nixon and his principal adviser Dr. Henry Kissinger have been contemplating permitting third country transfers of United States arms to help Pakistan, the New York Times reported from Washington to-day. According to the paper, Pakistan is known to have asked in recent days for immediate arms help, but not troops, from friendly countries like Iran, Turkey, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Libya. The first four countries have extensive inventories of U.S. furnished weapons. Normally U.S. arms provided to foreign countries may not be transferred to third countries without specific U.S. agreement. Congressional sources in Washington are quoted as saying that such transfers may be authorised by the President without notifying Congress. State and Defence Departments spokesmen declined to comment on the possibility of such arms transfers to Pakistan. They said all policy decisions were being made by the Washington special action group headed by Dr. Kissinger and made up of senior representatives of State and Defence Departments, the Joint Chief of Staff and the Central Intelligence Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/third-country-transfers-of-us-arms/article37948760.ece
14 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Business activity reaches a high despite Omicron fears: Nomura||Despite fears of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, business activity touched an all-time high since the onset of the pandemic for the week ended December 12, a Japanese brokerage said on Monday. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI), which compares the activity for a particular week as against the one before the onset of the pandemic, rose to 115.8 from the 112.9 for the previous week. “Despite Omicron risks, neither policy restrictions nor public fear factor appear to have had any impact on mobility so far, which is supporting a further normalisation in services,” it said in a statement. Mobility indicators rose for the week, led by a 4 percentage point (pp) uptick in the Google mobility index, 2 pp increase in the retail and recreation index, while the Apple driving index climbed 2.9 pp. The labour participation rate picked up to 41.4% from 40.5% — its highest in eight weeks — and power demand reversed last week’s fall with a 3.7% gain, it added. ‘Pace plateauing’ After supply-constraint induced declines in August and September, industrial output grew sequentially in October, although the pace of growth appears to be plateauing. India remains at risk of virus setbacks since those fully vaccinated account for only 37.5% of the overall population, the brokerage said, adding that data thus far suggested that incremental growth momentum in Q4 may be driven more by services and re-opening and less by industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/business-activity-reaches-a-high-despite-omicron-fears-nomura/article37948724.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Balancing service to poor, spectrum revenue is key’||Hinting at a possible reduction in spectrum prices, Telecom Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said with ‘public good’ element in spectrum pricing now recognised, consultation process is on in the country to strike a balance between maximising revenue and maximising services to the poor. Addressing the CII Partnership Summit 2021, Mr. Vaishnaw, who is also the Minister for Electronics and IT, added that there was a need for a new world order to govern the impact of big tech on democracy and user safety. Replying to a question, the Minister said, “on the spectrum side, we as a nation and the entire society have today recognised that there is a public good element in spectrum pricing.” “Earlier, spectrum was seen as a resource that should maximise revenue. Today, there is a balance in thought process that between maximising revenue and providing maximising service to the poor… somewhere the balance should be struck… that balance is today in a consultation process in the country.” He added that the regulatory authority would come up with the final document based on which the Centre would take a decision, “but the thought process is that we have to make it affordable. COVID made us realise the importance of telecom when everything went digital.” To a question on cyber safety, the Minister said, “The time has come when we should all have a new thought process… the way the United Nations came up, the way a new global order emerged in 1940s after the second world war.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/balancing-service-to-poor-spectrum-revenue-is-key/article37948734.ece
14 December 2021||Mumbai,||Three Shriram group companies to merge||Shriram City Union Finance Ltd. (SCUF) and Shriram Capital Ltd. (SCL) on Monday announced their merger with group firm Shriram Transport Finance Co. (STFC), with an aim to form India’s largest retail financing NBFC. The merged entity will be named Shriram Finance Ltd. Before merging with Shriram Transport Finance, SCL will demerge all other businesses of the group — namely, life insurance, general insurance and all non-lending and non-insurance activities and these will be held outside the listed firm. The boards of directors of STFC, SCUF and SCL, at their respective board meetings held on Monday, approved the merger plan. Shriram Transport will issue 1.55 shares for 1 share of SCUF and 0.09783305 share for every share of SCL. This translates into SCL shareholders getting one share of STFC for every share held by SCL in STFC. SCL shareholders will get 1.55 STFC shares for every share of SCUF held by SCL. Shriram Capital is the promoter of STFC and SCUF. “The merger would help the group bring together all its lending products — commercial vehicles loan, two-wheeler loan, gold loan, personal loan, auto loan and small enterprise finance — under a single roof, thereby creating a financial powerhouse which would end up being a market leader in all the product and consumer segments that it operates in,” the firms said in a joint statement. “The intent is also to create a comprehensive cross-sell programme combining insurance, broking and the AMC businesses, including their depositors, backed by a state-of-the-art technology platform.” ‘To enhance footprint’ D.V. Ravi, MD, SCL, said: “The merger will enhance our distribution footprint across all business lines without incurring any incremental capex. This merger will also simplify our holding structure eliminating multiple layers.” Umesh Revankar, executive vice chairman and CEO of STFC, will be the vice chairman of the merged entity. Y.S. Chakravarti, the MD and CEO of Shriram City, will be the MD and CEO.  The intent is also to create a cross-sell programme combining broking, insurance, and the AMC businesses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/three-shriram-group-companies-to-merge/article37948732.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SEBI’s algo-trading plan can hit growth: brokers||Markets regulator SEBI’s proposal of treating all orders emanating from application programming interface (API) as algorithmic — or algo — orders can restrict growth of such trading in India, brokerage houses said. In market parlance, algo trading refers to any order that is generated using automated execution logic. Vikas Singhania, CEO, TradeSmart, said that regulating the nascent algo market is the need of the hour, especially since the media has reported a number of cases of retail clients losing money based on false promises made by vendors. “However, in its attempt to weed a few bad cases, SEBI is putting in hurdles that can restrict the growth of algo trading in India. It will be difficult for brokers to provide APIs if the conditions mentioned in the consultation paper are implemented.” However, Rahul Shah, co-head, research, Equitymaster, said the proposal would go some way in ensuring nobody is able to game the system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebis-algo-trading-plan-can-hit-growth-brokers/article37948726.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,||TVS Motor floats entity to focus on e-mobility||TVS Motor Company on Monday floated a wholly owned subsidiary named TVS Electric Mobility Ltd. (TVSEM) which will focus on the electric mobility business. The new unit is yet to commence operations, the company said in a statement. The two-wheeler manufacturer also said that along with Zoho Corp., TVS Motor had invested in Bengaluru-based start-up Ultraviolette Automotive Pvt. Ltd., which is setting up its manufacturing and assembling facility in Electronics City, Bengaluru. The start-up will use the funds for the production and commercial introduction of its high-performance electric motorcycle, the F77, the first batch of which will roll out in the first half of 2022. “EVs are a huge focus area for us and we have invested in this area for over a decade,” said Sudarshan Venu, JMD, TVS Motor. “TVS... has always believed that EV development has to be ground-up for us to make that quantum leap into the global EV revolution,” he added.  Ultraviolette will use the funds to produce its high-performance e- motorcycle, titled F77||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-motor-floats-entity-to-focus-on-e-mobility/article37948740.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||MF association pitches for debt-linked savings plans||Ahead of the Union Budget, industry body AMFI has asked the government to bring uniformity in taxation on listed debt securities and debt mutual fund (MFs) and bring parity in tax treatment between MFs and unit-linked insurance plans (ULIPs). Both MFs and ULIPs invest in securities. In its Budget recommendation for 2022-23 to the Finance Ministry, the industry body has requested that mutual funds should be allowed to introduce low-cost, lower-risk, tax-exemption-linked debt-linked savings schemes (DLSS) on the lines of equity-linked saving schemes (ELSS). It has been further proposed that investment of up to Rs. 1.5 lakh underDLSS be eligible for tax benefit, subject to a lock-in period of 5 years (as in the case of tax-saving bank deposits). Currently, ELSS qualify for tax benefits under Section 80 CCC of the Income Tax Act for an investment limit of up to Rs. 1.5 lakh in a fiscal year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mf-association-pitches-for-debt-linked-savings-plans/article37948736.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Investments in realty resilient, says Colliers||Investments in the Indian real estate sector have remained resilient despite the headwinds triggered by the pandemic, adversely impacting the economy and business climate. Indian real estate has seen investments of $3.5 billion in the nine months ended September, almost 75% of the quantum seen in the year-earlier period, said Colliers, professional services and investment management firm. Residential and industrial and warehousing sectors have emerged as major beneficiaries this year, garnering 36% of the investments, as per Colliers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/investments-in-realty-resilient-says-colliers/article37948727.ece
14 December 2021||hyderabad,||‘Dues to PSBs by 13 firms cost Rs. 2.85 lakh cr.’||Public sector banks (PSBs) have lost almost Rs. 2.85 lakh crore on account of loan dues of 13 corporates even as the banks are used to bail out ailing financial institutions such as Yes Bank and IL&FS, United Forum of Bank Unions alleged. According to the statistics given by the UFBU, the 13 corporates’ outstanding dues were at Rs. 4,86,800 crore and it was resolved at Rs. 1,61,820 crore, resulting in a loss of Rs. 2,84,980 crore. “It is also a matter of reality that time and again public sector banks have been used to bail out ailing private sector banks such as Global Trust Bank.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dues-to-psbs-by-13-firms-cost-rs-285-lakh-cr/article37948728.ece
14 December 2021||MUMBAI,||LIC introduces insurance plan with savings||Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) has introduced Dhan Rekha, a new, non-linked, non-participating, individual savings life insurance plan offering ‘various benefits and unique features.’ “The unique benefit of this plan is that on maturity, the policyholder receives full sum assured without deduction of the money-back amount received along with accrued guaranteed additions,” LIC said in a statement. This plan provides financial support to the family in case of death of the policyholder during the policy term, LIC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lic-introduces-insurance-plan-with-savings/article37948730.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vegetable oil imports rose 6% in Nov. : SEA||Import of vegetable oils rose by 6% to about 11.73 lakh tonnes in November on higher shipments of crude soyabean oil, according to industry data. Vegetable oils comprise edible and non-edible oil. “Importof vegetable oils during November 2021 is reported at 11,73,747 tonnes compared to 10,60,549 tonnes in October 2021 and 11,02,899 tonnes during November 2020,” Solvent Extractors’ Association of India (SEA) said. Edible oil imports rose to 11,38,323 tonnes last month from 10,83,329 tonnes a year earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vegetable-oil-imports-rose-6-in-nov-sea/article37948729.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Ninjacart raises $145 mn from Flipkart-Walmart||Flipkart India and Walmart on Monday announced a fresh round of joint strategic investment worth $145 million in Ninjacart, a fresh produce supply chain firm. This would accelerate Ninjacart’s journey towards building technology and infrastructure, said Flipkart.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ninjacart-raises-145-mn-from-flipkart-walmart/article37948738.ece
14 December 2021||Chennai,||Equitas SFB, Chola unveil health cover for women||Equitas Small Finance Bank Ltd. has partnered Cholamandalam MS General Insurance to introduce the Chola Sarva Shakti Policy, a women-specific health insurance policy. The benefits include insurance in case of personal accidents or health crisis, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/equitas-sfb-chola-unveil-health-cover-for-women/article37948739.ece
14 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Sijomon proves his worth||The lockdown gave Sijomon Joseph plenty of time to work on his cricket. There was one area, he felt, he could focus particularly on: hitting sixes. The work he did on that aspect of his batting is coming in handy for Kerala at the on-going Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament in Rajkot. A more aggressive Sijomon helped Kerala pull off a stunning victory against Maharashtra. From 120 for six, his unbroken seventh-wicket of 174 stand with Vishnu Vinod gave Kerala a most unlikely win. It was a new record, too. “I was delighted to learn that we had broken the record set by M.S. Dhoni and Shahbaz Nadeem (four years ago),” Sijomon told The Hindu from Rajkot on Monday. “It felt great to pull off that chase along with Vishnu.” Confidence He said the innings gave him a lot of confidence in his batting. “These days you need to have multiple skills as a cricketer,” he said. “So I have been focussing hard on my batting. I have been working with former Kerala captain Sreekumar Nair. Like me, he is a left-handed batter and left-arm spinner, and that matters.” Looking back at his best innings — 71 not out off 70 balls — yet in white-ball cricket, he said he had little hope of a Kerala win when he walked out to bat. Something he shared with the Maharashtra team, he found out when he reached the middle. “I could hear Ruturaj Gaikwad (Maharashtra’s captain) telling his teammates that it was the last Kerala wicket that they needed for winning the match,” said Sijomon. “But once I started hitting a couple of sixes and saw that I was connecting the ball well, I felt we could do it. Vishnu was batting brilliantly at the other end.” The following day, Sijomon took five wickets against Chhattisgarh to star in another win for Kerala. “It felt nice to be amongst the wickets on a track that gave little assistance to the bowlers,” he said. “I am happy that I am doing well both with bat and ball in white-ball cricket; I hadn’t got this many opportunities before.” Looking ahead to Kerala’s last match on Tuesday, against Uttarakhand, he said the team was confident of winning. “We want to top the group and qualify for the knock-out stage,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sijomon-proves-his-worth/article37949348.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Super Max’ reaps the reward for his incredible consistency||To win your first World title with a last lap overtake at the final race of the season is the stuff of dreams. Max Verstappen did just that when he passed rival Lewis Hamilton to win the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix and the 2021 Drivers’ title. However, the way the race ended was marred by how the Safety Car period that started on lap 54 and ended on lap 57 was handled, allowing Verstappen a chance to attack Hamilton after having been nearly 10 seconds behind his rival. Unfortunately, what was one of the most closely contested championships in recent times finished in controversial circumstances with the final race being decided inside the stewards’ room. Verstappen constructed a flawless first championship bid and was pushed by a determined Hamilton who almost had one hand on his eighth crown. The 24-year-old Dutchman produced one of the most consistent season-long performances in recent times. To illustrate, in races that he finished, he was either first or second in all but one race with 10 wins and eight second-place finishes. What this showed was that on the day when he had a chance to win, he did and managed to come second even when his rival had a better overall package. Flawless season Verstappen produced an almost near-perfect season and it was hard to find a race in which he left points on the table. Without the tyre failure at the Azerbaijan GP, a race he was on course to win with six laps to go, Verstappen would have banked 25 points. He was also an innocent victim in the crash in Hungary triggered by Valtteri Bottas, which damaged his car heavily and he could only finish ninth when he had the pace to fight for at least third if not second. In contrast, the defending champion will be the first to admit that he did not get the maximum out of the package despite the rub of the green going his way a few times. In Baku, Hamilton out-braked himself and went off-track on the last lap when fighting for the lead, had sub-par performances in Monaco, Austria and Turkey where he was not forceful enough while coming through the pack. Champion stuff But Hamilton also showed why he is a seven-time champion as he fought back strongly in the second half of the year, winning three races on the bounce before Abu Dhabi and was able to best his rival in wheel-to-wheel battles in Brazil and Saudi Arabia. He was on course for his fourth straight victory only for lady luck to ditch him when it mattered the most. It will be a travesty if the 2021 season is remembered for the last lap shenanigans and not the generational fight between the young upstart and the grizzled veteran. Once the dust settles on the controversy, F1 should consider itself lucky to have a seven-time champion who will be more determined to right the wrongs of 2021 going against Verstappen, who has now tasted what it is to be a World champion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/super-max-reaps-the-reward-for-his-consistency-and-class/article37949003.ece
14 December 2021||New Delhi,||Rohit sets sights on a world title||India’s new limited-overs captain Rohit Sharma said he hopes to win a world title for the cricket-crazy nation, an achievement that eluded his predecessor Virat Kohli. During Kohli’s five-year tenure India rose in the ODIs, Twenty20s and Test rankings but missed out on securing a single international tournament. India, which last won a world crown — the Champions Trophy — in 2013, failed to make the semifinals in this year’s T20 World Cup and was knocked out in the last-four stage of the 2019 50-over showpiece event. The team also lost the inaugural World Test Championship final to New Zealand in June. Long gap “The last ICC Trophy we won was in 2013; since then we haven’t won, but I don’t think we did anything wrong after that,” Rohit, 34, said in a video on the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s official website on Sunday. “We played as a team, we performed as a team, it’s just that we couldn’t get that extra inch that we look forward to,” he said. “There is a lot of World Cup coming up. India will definitely be eyeing to do well in all those World Cups.” Rohit praised Kohli for his leadership since he took over the limited-overs job from M.S. Dhoni in 2017. “He has put the team in a position where there is no looking back. Those five years that he has led the team, he led from the front every time we stepped onto the field,” Rohit said in the BCCI video. “There was clear grit, determination to win every game. That was the message to the entire squad and we had a great time playing under him.” Rohit has led his Indian Premier League side Mumbai Indians to a record five titles and captained India to an Asia Cup triumph in the absence of Kohli. Good communication Rohit said he and new coach Rahul Dravid, who took over from Ravi Shastri last month, aimed to have good communication with the players in the three ODIs in South Africa starting January 19. “I have had very little opportunities to lead Team India, but whenever I have gotten an opportunity, I have tried to keep one thing in common, which is clear communication to the players,” said Rohit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-sets-sights-on-a-world-title/article37949188.ece
14 December 2021||Cape Town,||Ngidi wants team to start well||Fast bowler Lungi Ngidi reckons the upcoming home series against India can set the “ball rolling” in the right direction for South African cricket, which has been going through a transition phase and facing upheavals over the past few years. Ngidi is part of the Test squad announced for the three-match series against Virat Kohli’s men, starting on December 26. Seeking perfect start This will be South Africa’s first series in the 2021-23 World Test Championship (WTC) cycle and the fast bowler wants his team to start on a perfect note. “A tour like this can really get the ball rolling in the right direction,” Ngidi told ESPNCricinfo . “The processes we are following now are putting us in a good position to compete in this Test Championship (cycle). We’ve been speaking about a rebuilding phase, but I think it’s coming together,” he said. South Africa has a handful of fast bowlers to pick from and Ngidi knows that the competition is stiff. “We’ve got very good competition and I am really looking forward to it,” Ngidi says. “It pushes players. I don’t think anyone can be comfortable in their spot at the moment.” Life in a bio-bubble can be tough and Ngidi “respects” anyone who would want to pull out of the controlled environment. “I have full respect for anybody who pulls out of a tour because mentally they feel like they cannot handle it. I probably have felt that at some stage but it didn’t get to the point where I was ready to go home. It does affect you a bit. We find different ways to release the pressure,” he said. Paying dividends South Africa bowling coach Charl Langeveldt feels that some brave decisions taken in the recent past and experimentations carried out have put the team in a good place. “We’ve a good crop of players now and we are experimenting a bit with different combinations for different conditions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ngidi-wants-team-to-start-well/article37949047.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Panchal replaces injured Rohit for SA Tests||India’s Test vice-captain Rohit Sharma, who sustained a left hamstring injury during a training session in Mumbai on Sunday, has been ruled out of the three-Test series against South Africa beginning at Centurion on December 26. Priyank Panchal has been named as Rohit’s replacement. As of now, the extent of Rohit’s injury is not clear. It is not known whether it’s a strain, which is a less serious injury, or a tear, which will have to be graded.  India’s Test squad for South Africa series: Virat Kohli (Capt.), K.L. Rahul, Mayank Agarwal, Cheteshwar Pujara, Ajinkya Rahane, Priyank Panchal, Shreyas Iyer, Hanuma Vihari, Rishabh Pant (wk), Wriddhiman Saha (wk), R. Ashwin, Jayant Yadav, Ishant Sharma, Mohd. Shami, Umesh Yadav, Jasprit Bumrah, Shardul Thakur, and Md. Siraj.   The schedule:   First Test: Dec. 26 to 30, Centurion (1.30 p.m. IST).   Second Test: Jan. 3 to 7, Johannesburg (1.30 p.m.).   Third Test: January 11 to 15, Cape Town (2 p.m.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/panchal-replaces-injured-rohit-for-sa-tests/article37949017.ece
14 December 2021||Dhaka,||India takes on Korea today||Olympic hockey bronze medallist India will start its new cycle with a bunch of youngsters aiming to prove their mettle when it begins its Asian Champions Trophy campaign against Korea here on Tuesday. India has won the event thrice since its inception in 2011, including the previous two editions in 2016 (Malaysia) and 2018 (Oman). India plays Korea on Dec. 14, followed by Bangladesh on the next day, Pakistan on Dec. 17 and Asian Games champion Japan on Dec. 19. The semifinals and final will be held on Dec. 21 and 22. “Korea is a good team and are very capable of slowing down our attack. “In the Asia Cup in 2017, we drew (1-1) against them in the league stage at this same venue,” captain Manpreet Singh said. Speaking about the importance of the tournament, Manpreet said, “It is our first tournament after the Tokyo Olympics. The new cycle has started for us. If we start well, then our confidence levels will go high,” he said. Several youngsters have been given a chance in the squad. “Some of these youngsters have been waiting for a chance over the past two years as the focus had been on the core team for the Olympics,” Manpreet said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-takes-on-korea-today/article37948742.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||MOC adds new crew to the fleet in first meet||As many as 20 new sportspersons were added to the list of Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS) on Monday, taking the total number of athletes to be funded by the Sports Ministry for the 2024 Olympic Games to 148. Seven Olympic and six Paralympic disciplines were identified for support under TOPS at a meeting of the Mission Olympic Cell (MOC). More athletes will be added to TOPS list in MOC's next meeting later this month. The approved athletes were from cycling, sailing, shooting, swimming, table tennis, weightlifting and wrestling in Olympic sports. Archery, athletics, badminton, boxing, equestrian, fencing, golf, gymnastics, judo, rowing and tennis will be taken up in the next meeting later this month. The para athletes approved on Monday were from archery, athletics, badminton, shooting, swimming and table tennis.   It was also agreed upon that the MOC would meet every fortnight.   The list of athletes to be supported under TOPS:   Cycling: Development Group: Esow Alben, Keithellakpam Jemsh Singh, Laitonjam Ronaldo Y Rojit Singh and E David Beckham (new inductee).   Sailing: Core Group: Vishnu Saravanan, Varun Thakkar, KC Ganapathy and Nethra Kumanan.   Shooting: Core Group: Divyansh Singh Panwar, Aishwary Pratap Tomar, Saurabh Chaudhary, Abhishek Verma, Elavenil Valarivan, Anjum Moudgil, Manu Bhaker and Rahi Sarnobat Vijayveer Sidhu.   Development Group: Yasahwini Deswal and Chinki Yadav, Niraj Kumar, Sartaj Singh Tiwana, Dhanush Srikanth, Shahu Tushar Mane, Hriday Hazarika, Rudrankksh Balasaheb Patil, Parth Makhija, Anish Bhanwala, Adarsh Singh, Udayveer Sidhu, Sarabjot Singh, Naveen, Shiva Narwal, Kynan Chenai, Lakshay Sheoran, Vivaan Kapoor, Gurjoat Singh, N Gaayathri, Sunidhi Chauhan, Nishchal, Ayushi Podder, Shreya Agarwal, Shriyanka Sadarangi, Zeena Khitta, Abhindnya Ashok Patil, Tejaswini, Esha Singh, Rhythm Sangwan, Kirti Gupta, Manisha Kheer, Darshana Rathore, Kartikki Singh Shaktawat, Areeba Khan, Swapnil Suresh Kusale, Arjun Babuta, Anantjeet Singh Naruka and Nisha Kanwar.   Swimming: Core Group: Sajan Prakash and Srihari Nataraj.   Table Tennis: Core Group: A Sharath Kamal, Sathiyan Gnanasekaran, Manika Batra and Sutirtha Mukherjee, Harmeet Desai and Archana Kamat. Development Group: Manav Thakkar, Manush Shah and Ayikha Mukherjee, Payas Jain, SFR Snehit, Swatiska Ghosh, Diya Chitale, Suhana Saini and Sreeja Akula.   Weightlifting: Core Group: Jeremy Lalrinnunga and Mirabai Chanu. Development Group: Achinta Sheuli, Soumya Sunil Dalvi, Garud Harshada Sharad, Kolli Varalakshmi Pavani Kumari, Mangkhya Boni, R Arockiya Alish, Sanker Sargar, Gogoi Sidhanta, Charu Pesi, Markio Tario and Sorkhaibam Bindyarani Devi, N Tomchou Meetei, Niraj Pradhan, Akanksha Vyavahare, Shivani Yadav, Kajol Sargar, Jyoti Yadav, Komal Kohar, Sarika Shingare and Ajay Singh.   Wrestling: Core Group: Ravi Kumar, Bajrang Punia, Deepak Punia, Vinesh Phogat, Anshu Malik and Sonam Malil.   Development Group: Sunil Kumar, Ravi, Ravinder, Gourav Baliyan, Sajan, Sanju Devi, Aman, Aman, Rohit, Yash Tushir, Sandeep Singh, Deepak, Anirudh Kumar, Arjun Halakurki, Sandeep, Ashu, Hanni Kumari, Sarita, Nisha, Bhateri and Bipasha.   Para Sports: Core Group: Archery: Harvinder Singh; Athletics: T Mariyappan, Sharad Kumar, Praveen Kumar, Sandeep Chaudhary, Sumit Antil, Sundar Singh Gurjar, Amit Saroha, Devendra Jhajharia, Nishad Kumar, Navdeep and Yogesh Kathunia; Badminton: Suhas Yathiraj, Krishna Nagar, Pramod Bhagat, Manoj Sarkar, Tarun Dhillon and Parul Parmar; Shooting: Avani Lekhara, Manish Narwal and Singhraj Adana; Swimming: Suyash Jadhav; Table Tennis: Bhavina Patel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tops-gets-20-new-athletes/article37949052.ece
14 December 2021||ABU DHABI,||‘This has been manipulated, man’||Lewis Hamilton’s Mercedes team is expected to appeal after two protests it made against Max Verstappen and Red Bull at the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix were rejected by the stewards. Controversial decision The man in Mercedes’ sights is race director Michael Masi and his controversial decision to withdraw the Safety Car for the final lap. The appeal is likely to relate to the way in which the Safety Car rules were applied by Masi at the end of the race following a crash by Williams’ driver Nicholas Latifi. The involvement of the Safety Car set up a final lap in which Verstappen overtook race leader Hamilton to win the race and the title, dashing the Briton’s hopes of a record eighth world crown. Mercedes argued that Masi did not apply the rules correctly by resuming the race for the last lap. Masi made his opinion clear to a seething Mercedes team principal Toto Wolff. “That is what we call a race,” said the 42-year-old Australian, who took on the role when Charlie Whiting passed away at the beginning of the 2019 season. Although Hamilton was graceful in defeat once he emerged from the car, his team radio message which surfaced on Monday made it clear what he thought after being passed. “This has been manipulated, man.” Four-time champion Alain Prost said he understood Mercedes’ gripe. Extra controversy “The protest over the managing of the Safety Car is an extra controversy which one does not need because the mistake was committed by the authorities,” said the Frenchman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/this-has-been-manipulated-man/article37948996.ece
14 December 2021||GENEVA,||PSG vs Real in blockbuster clash||Real Madrid ended up paying the highest price for UEFA’s botched Champions League draw. Real was paired with Paris Saint-Germain in the round of 16 on Monday after UEFA had to redo the entire draw following a big mistake the first time around. The Spanish club had initially been drawn against Portuguese club Benfica but now faces PSG’s superstar attack of Lionel Messi, Kylian Mbappe and Neymar. PSG had been paired with Manchester United in the original draw, which had to be voided after a mistake that UEFA blamed on an external software provider. Man United had initially been paired with Villarreal even though the English club’s name should not have been placed in that bowl since the two advanced from the same group. Atletico and Man United were then paired in the second draw.   Round of 16 match-ups  Salzburg vs Bayern Munich; Sporting vs Manchester City; Benfica vs Ajax; Chelsea vs Lille Atletico Madrid vs Manchester United; Villarreal vs Juventus; Inter Milan vs Liverpool; PSG vs Real Madrid First legs on Feb. 15-16 and 22-23 and second legs on March 8-9 and 15-16||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/psg-vs-real-in-blockbuster-clash/article37949000.ece
14 December 2021||MADRID,||Real strolls to victory in Madrid derby||Real Madrid won 2-0 against a listless Atletico Madrid on Sunday, a 10th straight win in all competitions that tightened its grip on top spot in LaLiga. Karim Benzema, who had been a doubt for the game with a leg injury and only played the first 45 minutes, made the most of his time on the pitch, hitting a beautiful volley from Vinicius Jr’s perfect cross to open the scoring in the first half of the ‘Madrid derby’. It was the 17th goal of his career against Atletico and 13th of the season to lead the LaLiga scoring chart. Vinicius Jr did not score but was man-of-the match after earning another assist early in the second half, this time for Marco Asensio as Real extended to 11 its unbeaten streak against its local rival in the Liga. Carlo Ancelotti’s team is currently cruising at the top of the table, eight points clear of second-placed Sevilla and 13 above Atletico in fourth, albeit having played a game more than both.  The results: Premier League: Crystal Palace 3 (Gallagher 41, 90, Tomkins 62) bt Everton 1 (Rondon 70).   Serie A: Inter Milan 4 (Martinez 29, 68, Sanchez 50, Calhanoglu 66) bt Cagliari 0; Napoli 0 lost to Empoli 1 (Cutrone 70); Sassuolo 2 (Berardi 63, Raspadori 69) bt Lazio 1 (Zaccagni 6).   Bundesliga: Greuther Fuerth 1 (Nielsen 56) bt Union Berlin 0; Eintracht Frankfurt 5 (Tuta 23, Lindstrom 30, N’Dicka 50, Jakic 66, Sow 76) bt Bayer Leverkusen 2 (Schick 5, 22-pen).   LaLiga: Villarreal 2 (Mandi 32, Gerard 36-pen) bt Rayo Vallecano 0; Osasuna 2 (Garcia 15, Avila 87) drew with Barcelona 2 (Gonzalez 12, Ezzalzouli 49); Real Betis 4 (Moreno 14, 79, Juanmi 57, Fekir 66) bt Real Sociedad 0; Real Madrid 2 (Benzema 16, Marco Asensio 57) bt Atletico Madrid 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-strolls-to-victory-in-madrid-derby/article37949005.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,||Kochi to host PVL next year||The country’s long wait for a professional volleyball league is over. Nearly three years after the Pro Volley League, which ran for just one season after issues with the Volleyball Federation of India stopped the show, the Prime Volleyball League (PVL) is begin early next year in Kochi. “It’s a new avatar. It’s a completely private thing with zero interference from anyone. That’s the big learning that we had. “All the team owners have a stake in the league, we didn’t want any outside interference,” Tuhin Mishra, co-founder and MD, Baseline Ventures which is organising the event, told The Hindu on Monday. The PVL’s auction will be held here on Tuesday and nearly 400 players, including foreign stars, will be up for grabs.  Some of the country’s biggest stars, including Ashwal Rai, C. Ajithlal, G.S. Akhin, Jerome Vinith, Deepesh Kumar Sinha, A. Karthik, Naveen Raja Jacob and Vinit Kumar, have been slotted in the platinum category, while the rest will come under the gold, silver and bronze categories. Big names like David Lee (USA) and Luis Antonio Arias Guzman (Venezuela), will also feature in the international player draft during the auction. “Each (12-member) team has a budget of Rs. 75 lakh. They can pick two foreign players and that could cost them Rs. 25 to 30 lakh and there will something like 45 to 47 lakhs for the Indian players,” explained Mishra. Seven teams There will seven teams — Calicut Heroes, Kochi Blue Spikers, Ahmedabad Defenders, Hyderabad Black Hawks, Chennai Blitz, Bengaluru Torpedoes and Kolkata Thunderbolts — in the fray.. Mishra also made it clear that players have nothing to worry by playing in the PVL. “Legally, the (national) federation cannot stop any player from playing. Verbally, they can say anything but legally they cannot take any action. Plus, the federation in its own affidavit to the Competition Commission of India has given in writing that they will not stop any player or coach from participating in any league in the country,” he said. “And there are enough court judgements which protect the player.”  Head coaches of franchises:   Sajjad Hussain & S. Dakshinamoorthy (Ahmedabad Defenders), K.R. Lakshminarayana (Bengaluru Torpedoes), Kishore Kumar (Calicut Heroes).   Chander Singh (Chennai Blitz), Ruben Wolochin (Hyderabad Black Hawks), M.H. Kumara (Kochi Blue Spikers), and Sunny Joseph (Kolkata Thunderbolts).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kochi-to-host-pvl-next-year/article37949060.ece
14 December 2021||PUNE,||Punjab makes the quarterfinals in style||Punjab became the first team to enter the quarterfinals of the Hockey India senior men’s National championship after beating Andhra Pradesh 7-1 on Monday. Punjab remained unbeaten in Pool D which had been reduced to three teams after Andaman and Nicobar failed to turn up, for the championship. With six points, Punjab qualified for the knock-out stage, while Andhra Pradesh bowed out. Unbeaten Karnataka and Chandigarh stayed on course for quarterfinal berths after registering their second wins. Karnataka downed Puducherry 4-1 in Pool C, while Chandigarh beat Manipur 1-0 in Pool E.  The results:   Pool C: Karnataka bt Puducherry 4-1; Pool D: Punjab bt Andhra Pradesh 7-1; Pool E: Chandigarh bt Manipur 1-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/punjab-makes-the-quarterfinals-in-style/article37948743.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||PHL launches Rajasthan franchise||The Premier Handball League (PHL) on Monday announced Rajasthan Wolverines as the third team for the inaugural edition of its franchise-based league. The two other franchises are Garvit Gujarat and Golden Eagles Uttar Pradesh. Rajasthan Wolverines has been bagged by real estate company Shatvik Corporation and it will be among the six participating teams. “Rajasthan as a state has a hearty handball playing culture and has also been instrumental to the beginnings of many sporting leagues. Rajasthan has a robust attitude towards sports and fitness and thereby becomes an important state to join the Premier Handball League,” said Manu Agrawal, CEO, Bluesport Entertainment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/phl-launches-rajasthan-franchise/article37949189.ece
14 December 2021||HUELVA (SPAIN),||Prannoy rallies to win||India’s H.S. Prannoy fought back from a game down to beat Hong Kong’s Angus Ng Ka-Long in his men’s singles match, but the country’s doubles pairs suffered heavy defeats to make first round exits from the BWF World Badminton Championship here on Monday. Having lost the first game, Prannoy came back remarkably to win 13-21, 21-18, 21-19 in a contest that stretched to one hour and 11 minutes. However, Venkat Gaurav Prasad and Juhi Dewangan suffered a crushing 8-21, 4-21 loss to Denmark’s Mathias Thyrri and Mai Surrow in mixed doubles first round. In men’s doubles, India’s Arun George and Sanyam Shukla lost to the Chinese duo of Ou Xuan Yi and Zhang Nan 15-21, 14-21. The mixed doubles pair of Utkarsh Arora and Karishma Wadkar lost to Germany’s Patrick Scheiel and Franziska Volkmann 20-22, 16-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-pairs-bow-out/article37948995.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||HFC too good for NEUFC||NorthEast United FC put up a fight for a while, but could not stop a rampaging Hyderabad FC from notching up a 5-1 win at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Monday. The third win from five games took Hyderabad to the second spot behind Mumbai City. It has 10 points, two less than the leader. NEUFC remains on four points and is placed second from bottom. Bartholomew Ogbeche scored two of the goals to take his tally for the season to five. Chinglensana Singh, Aniket Jadhav and Javier Siverio netted the other goals, while Laldanmawia Ralte was NEUFC’s scorer. Hyderabad looked keen to attack right from the beginning. NorthEast, on the other hand, was struggling and giving away too many free-kicks. The first goal came from one of those free-kicks, taken by Edu Garcia, with Chinglensana slotting home the rebound off the post. Fifteen minutes later, Ogbeche doubled the lead. He received a superb long ball from the impressive Ashish Rai and calmly slotted home into the far post. NorthEast, however, came right back into the match with just two minutes left in the first half. In the goalmouth melee following a long-throw in from Tondonba Singh, Laldanmawia managed to find the target. After the interval, NorthEast came out stronger and pressed hard for the equaliser. But before long, Hyderabad was back in control. Ogbeche made it 3-1 with a superb strike from well outside the box. Hyderabad wasn’t done yet, as substitutes Aniket and Siverio scored in injury time to make it a night to forget for NorthEast.  The result: Hyderabad FC 5 (Chinglensana Singh 12, Bartholomew Ogbeche 27 & 78, Aniket Jadhav 90, Javier Siverio 90+3) bt NorthEast United FC 1 (Laldanmawia Ralte 43).   Today’s match: Odisha FC vs Jamshedpur FC, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hfc-too-good-for-neufc/article37949009.ece
14 December 2021||KOCHI,||Players who could strike it rich||Jerome Vinith, Ashwal Rai, C. Ajithlal and A. Karthik...these are the four who could attract the biggest bids in Tuesday’s Prime Volleyball League’s player auction. They are among the country’s most valuable players and stood out in the Asian Championship in Japan in September where India finished ninth. Tom Joseph, one of the country’s best players, added G.S. Akhin to that list. “But it won’t be easy for coaches to pick the players. You have a budget of Rs. 75 lakh and once you pick the two foreign stars, you are left with something like Rs. 45 lakh,” Sunny Joseph, the Kolkata Thunderbolts coach, told The Hindu.  “For a top category (platinum) Indian player, teams will have to pay between Rs. 8 to 15 lakh, while the next category is from Rs. 4 to 10 lakh and the last is Rs. 1.5 to 4 lakh. The problem is, if you go after good players automatically you won’t have much to give the lower category players. So, it’s a tough task.” But more than the cash, players are thrilled just to see the league come back. “It’s a fresh beginning for volleyball and for us, I hope the league will run for many years. “A player’s career runs for a few years, I’m 29 now and I’ve lost nearly three important years of my playing life. I won’t get them back,” said Jerome. “We’re just hungry to get back to the league.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/players-who-could-strike-it-rich/article37949045.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||PTL from Dec. 21||Ramkumar Ramanathan, Saketh Myneni, Sriram Balaji, Vishnu Vardhan, Niki Poonacha, Arjun Kadhe, Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan and Vijay Sundar Prashanth will spearhead teams in the third edition of the Centena Pro Tennis League to be played at RK Khanna Stadium here from December 21. Eight teams divided into two groups of four will play the league with the top two from each group making the semifinals. Each team will have two professionals, one woman, one junior and an over-35 player. Every tie will feature two men’s singles, one junior, one men’s doubles and two mixed doubles matches. The matches will be played in a best-of-11 format, with a regular tie-break when the match is tied at 5-5. The winner of a tie will be decided on the basis of maximum games won.  The teams:   Bangalore Challengers: Niki Poonacha, Paras Dahiya, Sai Samhitha, Aman Dahiya, Dilip Mohanty.   DMG Crusaders: Vishnu Vardhan, Karan Singh, Kashish Bhatia, Bushan Haobam, Rishi Kapur. Indian Aviators: Sriram Balaji, Siddhant Banthia, Diva Bhatia, Ajay Malik, Swarandeep Singh Dodhi.   Pro Veri Super Smashers: Ramkumar Ramanathan, Nitin Kumar Siinha, Mahika Khanna, Aditya Nandal, Mohit Phogat.   Sankara: Arjun Kadhe, Parikshit Somany, Niyati Kukreti, Shivang Bhatnagar, Suvrat Mall, Ashish Khanna.   Sapphire Superstars: Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan, Prithvi Sekhar, Riya Sachdeva, Chirag Duhan, Aditya Khanna.   Stag Babolat Yoddhas: Vijay Sundar Prashant, Ishaque Eqbal, Farhat Aleen Qamar, Nishant Dabas, Nishant Goel.   Team Radiant: Saketh Myneni, Suraj Prabodh, Prerna Bhambri, Parv Nage, Arjun Uppal .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ptl-from-dec-21/article37949053.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||NRAI to hold trials||The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) will conduct two sets of trials in rifle, pistol and shotgun in January, to facilitate the selection of national teams for the first set of international competitions next year. The trials for the pistol shooters will be held at the Dr. Karni Singh Range from January 13 to 25. Five days have been kept for women’s air pistol, and seven days for men’s air pistol. The 25-metre rapid fire pistol will be held over four days, while all other pistol events including women’s sports pistol will be held over two days each. The rifle and shotgun selection trials will be staged in Bhopal. The rifle events will be held from January 7 to 19, while the shotgun events will be from January 14 to 23. Shotgun WC The first World Cup of the season in shotgun will be held in Rabat (Morocco) from February 7 to 18. The first World Cup in rifle and pistol will be held in Cairo from February 26 to March 8. Three other Shotgun World Cups will be in Nicosia (Cyprus), Lima, and Lonato (Italy) in March and April. The second World Cup in rifle and pistol will be held in Rio. Two more World Cups featuring all the three disciplines will be held in Baku (Azerbaijan) and Changwon (Korea) in May and July. The shotgun World Championship is scheduled in Osijek (Croatia) from October 12 to 25 while the World Championship for rifle and pistol will be held in Cairo from November 9 to 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nrai-to-hold-two-sets-of-trials/article37949054.ece
14 December 2021||Hyderabad:,||Chuckit takes the honours in feature event||Trainer S. Sreekant’s Chuckit, ridden by Aneel, won the Kasu Brahmananda Reddy Memorial Cup, the feature event of Monday’s (Dec. 13) races. The winner is owned by Mr. Syed Mohiuddin Mufeed.  1. TRIBUTE PLATE (Div. III) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): N R I TOUCH (Akshay Kumar) 1, Indian Glory (Surya Prakash) 2, Art In Motion (Afroz Khan) 3 and Thunder Road (B.R. Kumar) 4. Not run: Dead Centre. 1, 2 and 2. 1m, 13.29s. Rs. 18 (w), 10, 18 and 25 (p). SHP: 62, THP: 57, SHW, FP: 148, : Q: 116, Tanala: 1,492. Favourite: N R I Touch. Owner: Mr. Ravinder Reddy Male. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  2. PALAMPET PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): N R I INFINITY (B.R. Kumar) 1, Kimberley (Mukesh Kumar) 2, Silver Bells (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Royal Grace (Ashad Asbar) 4. 2, 3/4 and 2-1/2. 1m, 39.55s. Rs. 29 (w), 13, 22 and 16 (p). SHP: 76, THP: 76, SHW: 21 and 47, FP: 361, Q: 278, Tanala: 3,098. Favourite: N R I Infinity. Owner: Mr. Ravinder Reddy Male. Trainer: G. Shashikanth.  3. TRIBUTE PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): CITY OF BLESSING (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Hot Seat (Md. Ismail) 2, Executive Decision (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Paladino (Afroz Khan) 4. Not run: Aarya. 3, 1/2 and 1. 1m, 12.62s. Rs. 15 (w), 12, 16 and 12 (p). SHP: 45, THP: 34, SHW: 17 and 48, FP: 85, Q: 58, Tanala: 281. Favourite: City Of Blessing. Owners: Mr. K. Thribhuvan Reddy & Mr. K. Vivek Reddy. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  4. PALAMPET PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): BANDIT KING (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Cheltenham (Akshay Kumar) 2, Southern Act (Koushik) 3 and Wandring Warrior (P. Sai Kumar) 4. 2, 1/2 and Hd. 1m, 39.36s. Rs. 20 (w), 14, 16 and 34 (p). SHP: 42, THP: 93, SHW: 18 and 32, FP: 100, Q: 64, Tanala: 992. Favourite: Bandit King. Owners: Mr. Prabhakar Chowdari Tripuraneni & Mr.Vadre Vajrender Rao. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  5. KASU BRAHMANANDA REDDY MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): CHUCKIT (Aneel) 1, House Of Diamonds (Akshay Kumar) 2, Blissful (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Tomorrows Dreams (Ajeeth Kumar) 4. 3-1/4, 1/2 and Sh. 1m, 11.62s. Rs. 104 (w), 18, 11 and 24 (p). SHP: 39, THP: 48, SHW: 56 and 12, FP: 285, Q: 75, Tanala: 3,632. Favourite: House Of Diamonds. Owner: Mr. Syed Mohiuddin Mufeed. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  6. NIRMAL PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III): DREAM JEWEL (Rupal Singh) 1, Theo’s Choice (Santosh Raj) 2, Sye Ra (Ajeeth Kumar) 3 and Sea Of Class (Akshay Kumar) 4. 1-1/4, 1/2 and Nk. 1m 28. 23s. Rs. 525 (w), 37, 15 and 45 (p). SHP: 35, THP: 80, SHW: 77 and 24, FP: 4,994, Q: 690, Tanala: 90,428. Favourite: Sea Of Class. Owners: Mr. Boppidi Sham Sunder Reddy, Mr. Narasimha Reddy Banala, Mr. Rakesh Reddy Kondakalla & Mr. Shyam Sunder Jakkula. Trainer: Robin Reddy Kondakalla. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 2,03, 347 (c/o) & 30%: 1,613 (54 tkts.). Treble: (i) 372 (70 tkts.), (ii) 22,590 (2 tkts.). Mini jackpot: 71,314 (c/o).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chuckit-takes-the-honours-in-feature-event/article37948746.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s Amee vs. Anupama in snooker final||Amee Kamani of Madhya Pradesh entered the ladies snooker final, beating Varshaa Sanjeev of Karnataka 46-77, 75-33, 45-82, 85-07, 63-56 at the National billiards & snooker championships in Bhopal on Monday. In the summit clash, she will meet Anupama Ramachandran of Tamil Nadu, who defeated Karnataka’s Vidya Pillai 51-50, 64-39, 36-67, 82-58. Advani crashes out On Sunday, World snooker champion Pankaj Advani of Petroleum Sports Promotion Board crashed out of the snooker event. The fancied Advani was beaten by Shivam Arora, a full-time snooker coach from Maharashtra, 64-01, 00-100, 16-70, 85-24, 44-69, 84-00, 127-01, 14-88 112-07. In another upset, Kreish Gurbaxani of Maharashtra knocked out professional Aditya Mehta over eight frames, winning 04-66, 71-29, 27-70, 74-59, 00-70, 77-53, 86-05, 70-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-amee-vs-anupama-in-snooker-final/article37949056.ece
14 December 2021||Vadodara:,||Yugal, Lakra come good for Delhi||Delhi batters Yugal Saini (118) and Dev Lakra (104 batting) send Kerala on a leather hunt on the opening day of the Cooch Behar Trophy cricket match here on Monday. The duo added 179 runs for the fourth wicket as Delhi piled up 314 for four at stumps.  The scores: Delhi 314/4 in 90 overs (Yugal Saini 118, Dev Lakra 104 batting, Kavya Gupta 57) v Kerala .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yugal-lakra-come-good-for-delhi/article37949186.ece
14 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Ayaz’s unbeaten 142 propels Mumbai||Ayaz Khan cracked an unbeaten 142 (148b, 13x4, 5x6) to help Mumbai score 365 for six against Jammu & Kashmir on the first day of the second round match in a Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) Elite Group E match here on Monday. Musheer Khan (75, 112b, 13x4) and Arjun Dani (73, 151b, 7x4) were the other main contributors.  The scores: Mumbai 365/6 in 90 overs (Ayaz Khan 142 batting, Musheer Khan 75, Arjun Dani 73, Mohammad Manzir 3/77) vs J & K .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ayazs-unbeaten-142-propels-mumbai/article37949469.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||OFC will aim to build on its good start||Odisha FC will aim to build on its promising start to the Indian Super League (ISL) season when it takes on Jamshedpur FC at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Tuesday. Odisha hasn’t been at its convincing best, despite three wins in four matches, that have taken it to second in the table. Fourth-placed Jamshedpur, which was punished in the last outing for its mistakes by a ruthless Mumbai City FC, will be keen to bounce back to establish itself as a serious playoff contender. While Odisha has scored 11 goals so far, it has let in seven in return, including four against a hapless SC East Bengal. NorthEast United, too, had its chances against Odisha but squandered them before the Juggernauts nicked it late in a 1-0 win. Main player Having conceded 50 shots in four matches — highest average in the league — head coach Kiko Ramirez will need to work out a way to limit chances against his team. Higher up the pitch, attacking midfielder Javi Hernandez will hold key to unlocking Jamshedpur’s defence. Odisha forward Aridai Cabrera was forced off the field with an injury but Ramirez expects to have the Spaniard remain in contention. Ramirez paid tribute to opposite number Owen Coyle’s work with Jamshedpur since his appointment in 2020. “They are probably one of the best [teams] this season and they have a clear idea of what they are doing on the pitch,” said the Spanish coach. Fitness concerns Jamshedpur head coach Coyle has fitness concerns heading into the clash with the attacking trio of Nerijus Valskis, Jordan Murray and Seiminlen Doungel, and centre-back Peter Hartley all nursing knocks. Despite the troubles, the team will likely continue to play with a high-intensity approach. “Jamshedpur only knows how to play in one way and that’s to win matches,” said Coyle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ofc-will-aim-to-build-on-its-good-start/article37949479.ece
14 December 2021||LAHORE,||Faisal Hasnain appointed PCB CEO||The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) has appointed former ICC Chief Financial Officer Faisal Hasnain as its new Chief Executive, replacing Wasim Khan. Hasnain will take charge in January. As ICC’s CFO, Faisal was involved in the sale of governing body’s commercial rights for the 2007-2015 and 2016-2023 cycles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/faisal-hasnain-appointed-pcb-ceo/article37949369.ece
14 December 2021||Bengaluru,||VVS takes charge at NCA||Former India stalwart V.V.S. Laxman began his tenure as director of cricket at the National Cricket Academy here on Monday. Last month, the 47-year-old Laxman had accepted the BCCI’s offer to take up the job, after his predecessor Rahul Dravid had relinquished the position to become Team India head coach. “First day in office at the NCA! An exciting new challenge in store, look forward to the future and to working with the future of Indian cricket,” Laxman tweeted, alongside two pictures inside the NCA. Before accepting the position, Laxman was IPL franchise Sunrisers Hyderabad’s mentor. As far as his coaching experience goes, Laxman was batting consultant for six years at Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB), which had roped him in for the ‘Vision 2020’ programme aimed at tapping and promoting grassroot talent in Bengal. Besides, Laxman has also been a prominent figure in the commentary box.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/laxman-takes-charge-at-nca/article37949011.ece
14 December 2021||Tashkent,||Ajay Singh wins India’s third gold||Ajay Singh won the men’s 81kg category to clinch India’s third gold of the Commonwealth weightlifting championships here on Sunday. Ajay lifted a total of 322kg and also set a National record in snatch (147kg). Popy Hazarika added a silver (women’s 59kg) with a total lift of 189kg (84+105).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ajay-singh-wins-indias-third-gold/article37949012.ece
14 December 2021||PATIALA,||Shreyansi shoots record score||Shreyasi Singh won the women’s double trap with a score of 101 in the 64th National shooting championships. In the process, Shreyasi bettered the record of 97 shot by Varsha Varman in the last National championship. She beat Manvi Soni and Shagun Showdhary by 18 points. Shreyasi had earlier won the trap gold. Manvi wins Manvi, who beat Olympian Shagun 2-1 in the shoot-off for the women’s silver, also won the junior gold, five points ahead of Yeshaya Hafiz Contractor.  The results:   Double trap: Women: 1. Shreyasi Singh 101; 2. Manvi Soni 83(2); 3. Shagun Chowdhary 83(1).   Juniors: 1. Manvi Soni 83; 2. Yeshaya Hafiz Contractor 78; 3. Rajkuwar Pranil Ingle 76.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shreyansi-shoots-record-score/article37949055.ece
14 December 2021||Colombo,||SLC gives Jayawardene a new role||Former Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene will be the consultant coach of the national teams starting next year. Jayawardene was appointed to the latest role on Monday by Sri Lanka Cricket’s (SLC) executive committee in consultation with the technical advisory committee of the Board.  Strategic support In his new role, which is effective for a period of one year, Jayawardene will be in charge of the overall cricketing matters of the national teams and will provide strategic support to the players and management teams at the High-Performance Center.  Despite the new appointment, Jayawardene will continue in his role with the Under-19 team as it prepares for next year’s ICC U-19 World Cup to be held in West Indies. “This is an exciting opportunity to work with the national cricketers and coaches in our various development squads, including the Under-19 and A-teams, to help us do justice to the enormous cricketing talent and potential in Sri Lanka,” said Jayawardene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/slc-gives-jayawardene-a-new-role/article37949190.ece
14 December 2021||CHENNAI,||AP holds off Puducherry||Captain Kumar Varma came to the rescue as Andhra Pradesh warded off a late surge by Puducherry to triumph 115-107 in a men’s match of the South Zone basketball qualifiers here on Monday. Later, Tamil Nadu men and women began their campaign on a rousing note. The men thrashed Telangana 107-45 while the women scored a thumping 103-35 win over Andhra Pradesh. Leading in all three quarters — thanks to Aravind Varma’s fine show, AP was taken aback by Puducherry’s counter-attack in the closing stages of the fourth and final quarter. With four-and-a-half minutes remaining, Puducherry equalised at 105 after trailing by seven points. Chaitanya (25 points) scored eight points towards the end to guide AP to the finish line.  The results:   Men: AP 115 (Intiyaz 28, Aravind Varma 20, Kumar Varma 25, Ronit 17) bt Puducherry 107 (Srikanth 25, Lavan 22, Gokul 22); TN 107 (Anantharaj 25, Muin Bek 14, Soorya 13) bt Telangana 45 (Santhosh 10).   Women: TN 103 (Darshini 19, Aishwarya 16, Pratheba 11) bt Andhra Pradesh 35 (Dhana 11) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ap-holds-off-puducherry/article37949057.ece
14 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sharath undergoes procedure to treat heel issue||Indian table tennis star A. Sharath Kamal underwent a medical procedure to treat “severe heel pain”. The 39-year-old Commonwealth Games gold medallist tweeted a picture of him on a hospital bed. “Was experiencing severe heel pain since eight months, that got worse in the last three months. Good to get treatment post #WorldChampionships now, with preparations starting soon for #CommonwealthGames, and #AsianGames in the coming year!” Sharath tweeted. “(I) just have some calcium deposit due to wear and tear.. so had to do a small procedure.. need three days complete rest,” he said. The Asian Games and CWG are slated for next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-undergoes-procedure-to-treat-heel-issue/article37949059.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Basketball: South Zone qualifiers, Nehru Indoor Stadium, 8 a. m. & 4 p. m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article37949105.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Ramanuja, Adisesha avatara||Many of Ramanuja’s sishyas had the suffix Nambi. They were: Thondanur nambi, Marudur Nambi, Mazhuvur Nambi, Sottai Nambi, Kuravi Nambi, Thirukkurungudi Nambi, Vankipurathu Nambi, Mudumbai Nambi, Sri Parankusa Nambi, Srivilliputtur Nambi, Thirukkurugoor Nambi and Vaduga Nambi. All of them had immense love for their Acharya. Vaduga Nambi’s duty was to serve milk to Ramanuja every day. An invocatory verse records that he performed this duty — Sri Ramanuja Yogeendra ksheera kainkarya saaline. Another invocatory verse says that Vaduga Nambi had jnana, and also says that he had as much regard for Ramanuja, as for the Lord Himself. One verse says he is an amsa of the ochre robe of sanyasis! Vaduga Nambi was the author of two works in praise of Ramanuja, said P.T. Seshadri in a discourse. One was Yatiraja Vaibhavam with 114 slokas; the other was Sri Ramanuja Ashtottara Satanama stotra, which details 108 names by which Ramanuja is known. In Yatiraja Vaibhavam, Vaduga Nambi says Ramanuja was born in Pingala year, in the Arudra star, on a Thursday, the tithi being Panchami, in Simha lagna. Ramanuja was the avatara of Adisesha. A work known as Naradiya Yadavadri Mahatmyam says Anantazhvan (Adisesha) is in Paramapada. In Tretayuga, Adisesha took the avatara of Lakshmana. In Dvapara yuga, Adisesha took the avatara of Balarama. In Kali yuga, Adi Sesha took the avatara of Ramanuja. In Thondanur in Karnataka, Ramanuja won a religious debate. Here he turned into Adisesha, the serpent with 1,000 tongues, and answered 1,000 questions all at once. Vaduga Nambi praises Ramanuja as Dharanidhara, showing that he is Adisesha, for it is this serpent which supports the earth (dharani).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/ramanuja-adisesha-avatara/article37948956.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 07:24 IST,||Sudoku — December 14, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-14-2021/article37949621.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The comedy of separation||Both R. Madhavan and Surveen Chawla are not new to streaming. Madhavan, 51, made his debut with Breathe in 2018 when streaming was considered, at best, peripheral. Chawla, 37, struck gold with the second season of Sacred Games in 2019 . Having begun their respective journeys on television — Zee TV’s Banegi Apni Baat and Ghar Jamai for Madhavan or Ekta Kapoor’s Kahin To Hoga for Chawla — their careers touched films, both Hindi and Tamil, before it landed on streaming, first separately, and now together, with their Netflix show Decoupled.  Created and written by author Manu Joseph ( Serious Men ), directed by Hardik Mehta ( Kamyaab, Roohi ), Decoupled uses the frame of comedy to look at a couple in Gurugram navigating divorce. “I haven’t played a character like this before,” says Madhavan, who plays a writer in the show. He is known for having a good hold on screenplays and contributing to scripts, be it with his earlier hits Minnale (2001), 3 Idiots (2009), or the more recent Irudhi Suttru (2016). In an interview with the two actors, edited for length and clarity, they speak of how the pandemic and streaming has shaped their craft, and Decoupled .  What drew you to these parts in Decoupled ?     Madhavan:  The show is in English, and we are not English-ising a Tamil or Hindi show. The character says things as he sees it, and sometimes he says the most obnoxious, offending lines. My challenge as an actor was to see that he doesn’t become a negative character. That he can say anything and still get away with it because of his innocent intent. Especially after the pandemic, being in front of the camera was a great relief. There was also a great synergy of people, and a fair amount of partying since we were all in the same hotel. I had more than one reason to accept the story.   Surveen:  This is a Gurugram-based couple with a young daughter. My character is that one person in the show who brings sanity back and normalises things in the midst of the sarcasm and the ego. But Hardik was very clear that we didn’t want to have a hate relationship between the people. [He wanted] to bring in animosity and yet have the audience feel that they have pieces of love left.  How involved are you now with the creation of your characters?     Madhavan:  When I approve a script, I know what about it has touched me. Sometimes, I see that we are not touching those markers which excited me in the first place. That is when I step in and guide [the team] as to what we originally conceived, which happens often. Sometimes, with the lack of experience with young directors — they have passion, and they want to tell a story, but there is a method to it — I have to say that maybe we don’t want to indulge in something we didn’t explore in the pre-production. That apart, Surveen and I were open to improvisation. Ideally, we don’t want to do more than the actor’s job because that is what we are paid to do. I would love to go on a Mani Ratnam or a Rajkumar Hirani movie set and completely surrender as an actor and not worry about anything else. But these are luxuries that are few and far between.   Surveen:  I’ve experienced collaboration at a far more detailed level on OTT, because it is a longer format and you are spending more time with your director.  Do you prepare differently for a performance on streaming?     Surveen:  With Decoupled ,  and Sacred Games, the process of filming was months at a stretch. It is far easier to shoot every single day as opposed to shooting with breaks, but it is also difficult because you have to keep that rhythm going for the longest time. Decoupled ,  though,  has been the quickest shoot, because due to the pandemic we were in a bio-bubble in Delhi for two months. We filmed continuously, and then went straight to Goa. So, to hang on to the character was easier.   Madhavan:  The intensity, involvement, and commitment is the same. It is easier to be in character in films because there are fewer shooting days. It is easier to pick up from the last scene we shot. In films, however, you might have to be more careful with your looks, since the larger screen will capture all nuances of your preparation.  How do you gauge the success of a show on OTT?     Surveen:  Decoupled is a modern story, and it will resonate with an urban elite, English speaking audience. Masses can’t be targeted with it. Social media, then, would be that marker of success for me, where people give us their reviews.   Madhavan:   Tangible proof is the remuneration that is offered to me for the next series (laughs).  Madhavan, you have spoken about how the pandemic has made you reconsider the kinds of stories you want to pursue…     Madhavan:  Post-pandemic, we have to cater to the emotional situation of the viewers, which has changed. I am looking for age-appropriate romantic stories to open up the screen, and show them the greenery, the snow, and make them feel that life isn’t as futile as it seemed during the pandemic.   Surveen:  I am also done with those dark and heavy roles. After a point, it gets to you. I was just not feeling the excitement of going on a set, doing something I hadn’t done before.    Decoupledpremieres on   Netflix on December 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-comedy-of-separation/article37949407.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A PLASTIC sea||At U.K.-based photographer Mandy Barker’s first solo show in India: Invasion of the Seas – ‘Shelf-Life’ features plastic litter collected from Henderson Island, a UNESCO World Heritage Site in the South Pacific Ocean. During her visit, plastic litter from 25 countries, comprising 45 recognisable brands and logos, had travelled more than 5,000 km to reach the shores of Henderson Island. The exhibition at Sunaparanta Goa Centre for the Arts, Panaji, opened on December 8. “It was truly shocking,” recalls Barker, who accompanied scientists on their voyage to Henderson Island in 2019. Meanwhile, in Goa, plastic pollution is a real issue, and this show is well-timed: in the middle of peak tourist season. According to a 2017 report by Kochi-based Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), Goa’s 100-plus km coastline generates 41 kg of beach litter per head, the highest in the country. Till January 23, 2022.   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-plastic-sea/article37949480.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Completing Tony’s portrait||There’s something about Anthony Bourdain that we just can’t get enough of. This year, the late chef and author, featured in Roadrunner , a documentary by Morgan Neville celebrating his life, as well as World Travel: An Irreverent Guide , a book co-authored by his colleague and collaborator Laurie Woolever. Most recently, Woolever is out with another book, Bourdain in Stories (Bloomsbury Publishing). With it, she completes her portrait of the man she worked alongside for about 10 years. Woolever first met Bourdain or ‘Tony’ in 2002, when he hired her to help with a cookbook ( Anthony Bourdain’s Les Halles Cookbook ) he’d just begun writing, in the wake of the success of Kitchen Confidential . In 2007, she worked with him again and a few years later, became his assistant. Her work, after his untimely death in 2018, took on a new form. “The idea [for this book] came up in a conversation between myself, editor Daniel Halpern, and my agent, in the immediate aftermath of Bourdain’s death. We were deciding what to do with his unfinished projects and how to move forward,” she says.  Tales from the 91  The book took close to three years and involved reaching out to the people in his life — about 100 (91 made it to the book) — and interviewing them. The interviews took her from Los Angeles to New York (pre-COVID-19) and ranged from 30 minutes to hours. “It depended on the subject and how well I knew them, and how effusive they were. Because people had such extraordinary memories, it became free-ranging conversations… a way to remember him and tell his stories,” she adds.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com   Priced at Rs. 699,   it is available online and at all major   bookstores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/completing-tonys-portrait/article37949481.ece
14 December 2021||December 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A progressive romance||Our mythology is dotted with gender-fluid tales, and our laws have begun to respect sexual diversity, but our mainstream Hindi cinema continues to narrate love stories that are as ramrod-straight as Manu Munjal, the protagonist of Abhishek Kapoor’s latest leap of faith. An unconventional love story set in the hotbed of masculinity, it is essentially a case study of a man and a woman who are struggling inside the bodies that nature has allotted them. Manu (Ayushmann Khurrana), a bodybuilder and fitness trainer, seeks to get over his diffident past, when he was bullied after his mother’s demise, to build the best body in town, but his softcore refuses to crystallise. A Zumba instructor, Manvi Brar (Vaani Kapoor) has sought to align her anatomy with her personal sense of her gender, but scars inflicted upon her by family members and society continue to haunt her. As Manvi attempts to bring some rhythm to the muscleman, sparks fly, but Manu’s social grooming — which reflects the conditioning of a large section of the audience as well — doesn’t allow him to see that both he and Manvi are sailing in the same boat and complete each other. Even as they bond and spar to the hormone-rushing music of Sachin-Jigar, the film consistently asks what constitutes the normal. Manu’s widowed father (Girish Dhamija) is in an inter-faith relationship, that he has hidden from his family, because he feels they can’t process it. Manu’s English lacks inflections, but he aspires for a well-groomed girl, and Manvi sees a soft soul beneath his crude behaviour. Indeed, Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui pitches a forward-looking idea and starts a conversation whose time has come. After Kai Po Che and Kedarnath , Abhishek once again pushes the envelope but this time the resolution is convenient and predictable. Early in the film, we are told that money is not an issue with Manvi; this takes away the emotional turmoil and economic cost that the gender reassignment surgery, without which the story could not be held, entails. The medical aspect of the complex process is barely touched upon. Of course, it is a conversation starter, but instead, in the guise of the breezy mainstream romance with a message, it seems the makers are selling the benefits of cosmetic surgery to unsuspecting youth. Except for Kanwaljit Singh, as the retired brigadier father of Manvi, the supporting characters fizzle out, after providing a few laughs. The character arc of the sisters of Manu, who are insistent on bringing a fair and beautiful conventional bahu , is disappointing too. Good performances The crackling chemistry between Ayushmann and Vaani, however, ensures that the luscious romance seeps through the screen, and paper over the cracks that appear in the script in the second half. As the self-suspecting and sassy Manvi, Vaani is a revelation. Rendering a hint of hoarseness to her voice, she deftly etches the confidence and complexes of a girl who loves the mirror, but whose eyes go blank in the midst of a conversation. It is her credible performance that helps us in configuring the backstory of Manvi. Once again playing imperfection with conviction, Ayushmann shines as a Jatt boy who grapples with his social bias. For once, he gets an opportunity to flaunt a rippled body along with his acting chops and Ayushmann doesn’t disappoint on both counts. When Manu punches above his weight in the finale, the commentator likens it to lifting the Sanjeevani. It indeed is, for it is a symbol of lifting centuries of misconceptions and prejudices. Reality will kick in later!  Chandigarh Kare Aashiquiis currently running in theatres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-progressive-romance/article37949483.ece
