15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Wholesale price inflation spikes to a record as food, fuel surge||India’s wholesale inflation accelerated to a new high of 14.2% in November from 12.5% in October, led by a surge in primary food inflation that hit a 13-month high and a continued uptick in mineral, fuel and power, as well as oil and gas prices. Economists termed November’s record wholesale inflation numbers — the eighth month in a row that India has seen double-digit inflation — a negative surprise. Expectations that the tax cuts on fuel announced last month by the Centre could provide some relief to producers grappling with high commodity and freight costs were largely belied. Power prices Fuel and power inflation, in fact, surged to a record level of almost 40% in November, rising sharply over two months from the revised level of 29.5% recorded in September. A marked uptick was also visible across most categories beyond fuel. Manufactured products recorded a marginal reduction month-on-month, with inflation dipping to 11.92% from 12.04% in October. But food inflation measured by the wholesale food index more than doubled from 3.06% to 6.7% in November. Inflation in primary articles also virtually doubled to 10.34% from 5.2% in October. The Wholesale Price Index (WPI) climbed 2.73% on a month-on-month basis, the government said, attributing the “high rate of inflation” primarily to the rise in prices of mineral oils, basic metals, crude petroleum & natural gas, chemicals and chemical products and food products. The record inflation of 14.2% in November 2021 has come as a shock, said ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar, as most non-core categories displayed an inflation rate that was much steeper than expected. Inflation, measured by the WPI, had risen 2.29% in November 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wholesale-price-inflation-spikes-to-a-record-as-food-fuel-surge/article37957144.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Polls: BJP falls one short of majority in Council||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress shared equal honours by winning 11 seats each in the elections to the 25 Legislative Council seats in the biennial elections held from 20 local authorities’ constituencies in the State. Belagavi upset With these results on Tuesday, the BJP fell short of one member for a majority in the 75-member Upper House. A major upset for the party was the defeat of its candidate Mahantesh Kavatagimath in the double-member Belagavi, where Channaraj B. Hattiholi of the Congress and Lakhan Jarkiholi, Independent, won. While it initially looked like BJP would get 12 and attain majority, the last-minute reversal in Mysuru saw the Janata Dal (S) inching ahead of the BJP. At the time of going to press, Mysuru results were yet to be announced officially on the Election Commission website. In elections held to 25 Council seats, the BJP and Congress bagged 11 each and JD (S) two and Independent one. After the results, BJP’s strength in the Council has increased from 32 to 37 while the Congress strength declined to 26 from 29 and the number of JD (S) members reduced to 10 from 12. In the last elections in 2015, the BJP had won six, Congress 14 and the JD (S) four seats. One seat had gone to an Independent. In this election, the BJP and Congress contested in 20 constituencies each, the JD (S) in six. The JD (S) lost its ground to the Congress in the Old Mysore region, with the former failing to retain Tumakuru, Kolar, and Mandya seats. Confusing signals from the JD (S) leaders on alliance with the BJP are said to be one of the reasons for the defeat of JD (S) candidates. In Chikkmagaluru constituency, the Congress candidate has contested the narrow victory of the BJP candidate and sought recounting on the grounds that the authorities counted votes of nominated members of local bodies. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai also demanded recounting of votes in Mysuru, even before the results were officially declared. The BJP suffered humiliation in the defeat of Mr. Kavatagimath in Belagavi. Mr. Hattiholi of the Congress won in the first preference votes in the elections, while Independent Mr. Jarkiholi stood second and won. This has caused dissatisfaction in BJP over former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi who openly supported his brother. With the victory of Mr. Lakhan, all four Jarkiholi brothers will became members of the Legislature. Except in Dakshina Kannada, in four other double-member constituencies Congress candidates secured highest votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/polls-bjp-falls-one-short-of-majority-in-council/article37957171.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC approves widening of three Char Dham highways||The Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld the Government’s mandate to broaden three Himalayan highways, considered crucial by the Ministry of Defence (MoD) for quick troop build-up along the Indo-China border. The three National Highways — Rishikesh to Mana, Rishikesh to Gangotri and Tanakpur to Pithoragarh — act as feeder roads to the northern border with China. They are part of the Char Dham project. These highways would now be developed in accordance with the double lane with paved shoulder (DLPS) system. “This court in judicial review cannot second-guess the infrastructural needs of the armed forces,” a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said in a judgment. The verdict is based on an application filed by the MoD to modify the court’s September 8, 2020 order, which directed that mountain roads for the Char Dham Highway project should be 5.5 metre in width in compliance with a 2018 circular of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. The Ministry had gone on to amend its circular in December last, saying that “for roads in hilly and mountainous terrain which act as feeder roads to the Indo-China border are of strategic importance for national security, the carriageway width should be 7 m with 1.5 m paved shoulder on either side”. Environmental concerns Modifying the September order, the judgment on Tuesday said, “We allow the Ministry of Defence’s application for DLPS configuration for three strategic highways… At the same time take note of the environmental concerns raised for the entirety of the project and the unanimous recommendation of the High Powered Committee (HPC) for taking remedial measures and direct that they have to be implemented by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways and the Ministry of Defence going forward.” The Bench formed an oversight committee chaired by former Supreme Court judge, Justice A.K. Sikri, to ensure that the Government implements the remedial measures recommended by the court’s HPC for the environment. The court clarified that the Justice Sikri Committee, however, is not to undertake “an environmental analysis of the project afresh” and should focus on the three highways in order to avoid overlapping into the HPC’s ambit. The two Ministries have to give monthly reports to the committee, which would in turn report to the court every four months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-allows-centre-to-widen-three-char-dham-highways/article37957138.ece
15 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong., BJP step up demand for resignation of Bindu||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have stepped up their demand for the resignation of Higher Education Minister R. Bindu. Ms. Bindu had come under a cloud after Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala published a letter she had purportedly written to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan demanding the Chancellor disband the search committee for appointing a new vice chancellor for Kannur University. In lieu, the Minister allegedly wanted Mr. Khan to extend the tenure of the current vice chancellor, who is due for retirement. The "expose" immediately triggered a demand for Ms. Bindu's resignation. Congress workers staged a march to the Kannur University. BJP activists attempted to storm the official residence of Ms. Bindu in the capital. The Congress alleged the political decision to extend the Vice Chancellor's tenure was taken at the Chief Minister's Office. Earlier, Kannur University Vice Chancellor had come under Opposition criticism for allegedly preferring wife of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's private secretary K.K. Rajesh for a teaching post in the university over a "more qualified candidate". The Opposition had alleged that the tenure extension of the current Kannur University Vice Chancellor was a quid pro quo for "accommodating" Mr. Rajesh's wife Priya Varghese. Meanwhile, a Kannur university Senate meeting has deferred the appointment of Ms. Varghese. Mr. Vijayan sidestepped the issue while inaugurating the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] district conference in Ernakulam. Mr. Vijayan merely said the higher education sector in Kerala was soaring and had won accolades. The Chief Minister did not mention his alleged fallout with the Governor over the Kannur Vice Chancellor appointment. Ms. Bindu also steered clear of public comments. Mr. Chennithala said that Ms. Bindu's silence on the issue was an admission of guilt. He would move the Kerala Lok Ayukta against her act of "nepotism and corruption". Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan on Tuesday demanded the resignation of Ms. Bindu. ‘CM misleading people’ He told the media in Paravur that the Chief Minister, who said there was no interference on the part of the government in reappointing the Vice Chancellor of Kannur University and that it was the Governor who made the reappointment in his capacity as Chancellor, was misleading the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-bjp-step-up-demand-for-resignation-of-bindu/article37957478.ece
15 December 2021||Srinagar,||Srinagar turns into a hotbed of militancy||Srinagar district has emerged as a hotbed of militancy in Kashmir this year, with a significant rise in the number of “encounters” from the “zero militancy” figures and a small number of shoot-outs in 2020. The district also recorded the highest number of alleged targeted killings of policemen and civilians, including members of the minority community. Militancy-free zone In 2020, according to official data, 20 militants were killed in nine encounters. In 2021, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir saw around 20 encounters and shoot-outs in and around the city. At least 34 people, including seven policemen and 14 militants, were killed till December in the city, which was declared a “militancy-free zone” with no locally recruited militants in October 2020 by the police. Five militant recruits from Srinagar were killed in separate gunfights this year, official figures suggest. Of the 10 wanted militants listed by the police in March, five were from Srinagar. The biggest challenge for security agencies remained the targeted killings of civilians this year, including members of the minority community and non-local vendors. More than 30 civilians, including five local Hindus and Sikhs, and five non-local labourers or vendors, were killed by suspected militants this year. “Around 22 local Muslims, including a Muslim salesman working with a Kashmiri Pandit shopkeeper, were also targeted by militants,” official data said. Srinagar district witnessed the highest number of civilian deaths at 10, including six members of minority communities, which forced security agencies to deploy personnel, mobile and permanent bunkers at prominent shops owned by Kashmiri Pandits and Hindus. The killing of four persons, including one “confirmed” militant and three “civilians”, in the Hyderpora encounter cast a shadow over the anti-militancy operations carried out in Srinagar city this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/srinagar-turns-into-a-hotbed-of-militancy/article37957176.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Woman from Manipur ‘attacked’ by stranger||A 38-year-old woman, a resident of Manipur, was allegedly slapped and abused by a stranger in south Delhi’s Neb Sarai. The woman, a resident of Indira Enclave, said she was on her way to meet her ailing sister in Safdarjung Hospital when the accused came on a motorbike, hit her and used an obscene word for her. He fled the spot but the woman managed to note down the bike’s registration number, after which the man was arrested. Police said the accused has been sent to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-from-manipur-attacked-by-stranger/article37957317.ece
15 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||Lakhimpur killings were planned, says SIT||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence of October 3 has described the killing of four farmers and a journalist as a “pre-planned conspiracy”. In an application submitted to the Chief Judicial Magistrate of Kheri district on Monday, the investigation officer (IO) has asked for dropping the charges of death due to negligence and rash driving and adding attempt to murder and voluntarily causing grievous hurt with common intention charges to the warrant of the accused. Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister Ajay Mishra Teni, is the main accused in the case, as it was his SUV that allegedly crushed the farmers. He, along with 12 others, has been booked under Section 302 (murder) and several other Sections of the IPC and is at present lodged in the Lakhimpur district jail. On Tuesday, Mr. Ajay Mishra visited his son in the jail. The development has put the position of the Minister of State for Home under a cloud. The Opposition has upped its demand of his immediate dismissal. Farmer unions have already been demanding his sacking from the Cabinet, posing problems for the ruling BJP in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. SIT’s chief investigation officer Vidyaram Diwakar, in his letter, said that as per the investigation and evidence collected so far, the criminal act was not committed because of “negligence” , and “callousness”; rather it was “intentionally carried out through a planned conspiracy” to kill people. It led to the death of five people and serious injuries to several others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lakhimpur-killings-were-planned-says-sit/article37957175.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Three men acquitted in 1995 bomb blast case||The Special Court for Exclusive Trial of Bomb Blast Cases in Poonamallee on Tuesday acquitted three persons accused of detonating a bomb at the Hindu Munnani State headquarters in 1995. On April 14, 1995 at 4 p.m, a bomb exploded on the premises of the Hindu Munnani State headquarters located on Ayyamudali Street, Chintadripet. ‘Bible’ Shanmugam, who was a receptionist in the building, died, and the person who planted the bomb, also died due to blast injuries. Further, three passers-by — S. Balamurugan, A. Thiagarajan, and Ravikumar — were grievously injured in the blast. A case was registered at the Chintadripet police station and was taken up for investigation by the Crime Branch CID Metro Wing. Kaja Nizamudeen, Zakir Hussain, Raja Hussain, Abubacker Siddiq alias A.M.A. Siddiq and Mustafa Rasadique were charged with criminal conspiracy and murder. Since Mustafa Rasadique died, the charge against him was abated. Abubacker Siddiq was still at large, and the case against him was split. Kaja Nizamudeen, Zakir Hussain and Raja Hussain were tried for their offences. At the conclusion of trial, the court acquitted the trio of all the charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-men-acquitted-in-1995-chintadripet-bomb-blast-case/article37957241.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,||M-Sand manufacturers challenge rules on mineral transportation||The Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the State Government to file its counter affidavit to a writ petition filed by the Tamil Nadu M-Sand Manufacturers’ Welfare Association to declare the Tamil Nadu Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage of Minerals and Mineral Dealers Rules of 2011 illegal and unconstitutional. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu directed State Government Pleader P. Muthukumar to ensure that the counter affidavit is filed in two weeks. Elaborate arguments The orders were passed after the court heard elaborate arguments made by advocate Naveen Kumar Murthy, representing the petitioner association. He said the 2011 rules were ex facie illegal, since they brought within their ambit subject matters that did not fall under the definition of ‘minerals’, as found in the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act of 1957. According to him, products such as blue metal or M-sand could not be termed ‘minerals’. Counsel also told the court that members of the petitioner association and other stone crusher unit operators in the State were being harassed by government officials citing the 2011 rules by demanding permits for the transportation and storage of M-sand, widely used for the construction of buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/m-sand-manufacturers-challenge-rules-on-mineral-transportation/article37957245.ece
15 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||Lakhimpur killings were planned: SIT||The SIT probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence of October 3 has described the killing of four farmers and a journalist as a “pre-planned conspiracy”. In an application submitted to the Chief Judicial Magistrate of Kheri district on Monday, the investigation officer (IO) has asked for the dropping the charges of death due to negligence and rash driving and adding attempt to murder and voluntarily causing grievous hurt with common intention charges to the warrant of the accused. Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister Ajay Mishra Teni, is the main accused in the case. The development has put the position of the Minister of State for Home under a cloud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lakhimpur-killings-were-planned-sit/article37957141.ece
15 December 2021||Vijayawada,||High Court suspends G.O. on cinema tickets||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Tuesday suspended G.O. 35 that sought to fix the prices of cinema tickets. Following the development, the exhibitors would be able to revert to the prices in vogue prior to the enforcement of the G.O. Advocates representing the theatre owners contended that the government did not have the authority to fix the prices of tickets, and said it was the prerogative of the owners. The court agreed with the petitioners’ claims and suspended the G.O. The industry had expressed dissatisfaction over the government’s decision and urged it to reconsider the issue. The industry representatives had explained the situation to the Chief Minister and the I&PR Minister Perni but to no avail. As per the G.O., while the minimum price was Rs. 5, the maximum was Rs. 250, and the prices varied in the municipality, nagar panchayat, and municipal corporation limits. In the municipal corporation limits, the rates were fixed between Rs. 40 and Rs. 250 depending upon the theatre type (multiplex, AC, non-AC). The prices were between Rs. 40 and Rs. 150 in municipality limits; Rs. 10 and Rs. 120 in nagar panchayats; and Rs. 5 and Rs. 80 in gram panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-court-suspends-go-on-cinema-tickets/article37957111.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||1 more dead in Zewan attack||Two foreigners and a local member of the Jaish-e-Mohammad were behind the attack on a police bus on Monday. The militants wanted to seize the weapons of the police personnel. The death toll rose to three, with one more policeman succumbing to injuries on Tuesday. A non-local “wanted” militant was killed in Poonch.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1-more-dead-in-zewan-attack/article37957168.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||TRS bags all 12 LAC quota council seats||The ruling TRS made a clean sweep of the elections for seats in Legislative Council under the local authorities constituencies, bagging all the 12 seats for which polls were notified. The election was conducted for 12 seats, including two seats under LAC quota – one each from the erstwhile Medak, Nalgonda, Adilabad, Nizamabad. Warangal Khammam and two seats each from the erstwhile Karimnagar, Rangareddy and Mahbubnagar districts. The term of the sitting members in these seats including Kalvakuntla Kavita is set to expire on January 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trs-bags-all-12-council-seats-under-lac-quota/article37957437.ece
15 December 2021||Srinagar,||Srinagar turns into hotbed of militancy||Srinagar district has emerged as a hotbed of militancy in Kashmir this year, with a significant rise in the number of “encounters” from the “zero militancy” figures and a small number of shoot-outs in 2020. The district also recorded the highest number of alleged targeted killings of policemen and civilians, including members of the minority community. In 2021, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir saw around 20 encounters and shoot-outs in and around the city. At least 34 people were killed till December in the city, which was declared a “militancy-free zone” in October 2020 by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/srinagar-turns-into-hotbed-of-militancy/article37957140.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Traveller may have Omicron: T.N. Minister||A traveller who had returned from Nigeria, a non-risk country, tested positive for COVID-19, and the S-gene dropout was observed in the preliminary analysis of his sample, raising suspicion that he could have the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Tuesday. Six of his family have also been tested and the samples sent for genome sequencing. He returned two or three days ago, and was randomly tested at the airport. Currently, 2% of the travellers from the non-risk countries were randomly tested. In compliance with the guidelines for travellers from the non-risk countries, he was allowed to go home after his sample was lifted. As the result returned positive for COVID-19, he was picked up in three hours, health officials said. Later, six of his family members, who had mild symptoms, were found to be COVID-19-positive. All seven samples were sequenced at the State Public Health Laboratory’s genome sequencing facility during which the S-gene dropout was observed. “All of them were admitted to Government Corona Hospital, Guindy, and are under intense monitoring. They have cold, cough and mild body ache,” the Minister told reporters at the Chennai airport. The Health Department has asked the Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine (InStem), Bengaluru, to expedite the genomic sequencing of seven samples in which the S-gene dropout was observed, he said. So far, 37 samples were sent to InStem for whole genome sequencing to identify the SARS-CoV-2 variant. Of them, four have returned positive for the Delta variant, and the results of 33 samples were awaited. “We have asked InStem to expedite the sequencing of the seven samples as preliminary analysis has raised the suspicion that it could be the Omicron variant. We expect the results by tomorrow,” he added. Explaining the S-gene dropout, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said maximum mutations occurred in the spike protein. “The World Health Organisation has said this will not be detected. This could be an initial marker for the variant. We have 3.5 lakh kits to detect the S-gene dropout,” he said. The Minister said 2% of the travellers from non-risk countries were tested on any variation in temperature at mass fever screening at the airports. Until Tuesday morning, 11,481 persons, who travelled from countries at risk, were tested. Of the 58,475 persons who travelled from the non-risk countries, 1,699 were randomly tested. “So far, 37 persons were found positive for COVID-19. Report from InStem confirmed that four of them were positive for the Delta variant. The remaining 33 persons are in hospital isolation in Chennai, Tiruchi and Nagercoil,” he said. The Minister added that surveillance would be stepped up for persons travelling by train and road. Persons travelling from Kerala by road were screened in 13 border areas, while those from Karnataka were screened at Hosur. Fever screening would also be intensified. Dr. Radhakrishnan said cluster surveillance was key at this point. “This is not the time to panic but to understand that we need to go back to the basics of masking and physical distancing. Those who have symptoms should get tested and isolate themselves till the results arrive. People need to be careful while at gatherings and at places of common dining,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/traveller-may-have-omicron-tn-minister/article37957195.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||On track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/on-track/article37957284.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI:,||ADB pares India’s FY22 growth to 9.7%||The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has marginally lowered its growth projection for the Indian economy to 9.7% in 2021-22, from 10% estimated in September. The bank has cited the lower than expected 8.4% growth in the July to September quarter and expects supply chain factors such as chip shortages and rising semiconductor prices to continue to suppress growth. This was evident, it pointed out, in a double-digit contraction in motor vehicle sales in October and in GST e-way bills generated in November. “In India, a strong 20.1% growth rebound in Q1 of fiscal year 2021 was followed in Q2by growth moderation to 8.4%, marginally below expectations ,” the bank said in its Asian Development Outlook Supplement released on Tuesday. In April, the ADB had projected an 11% growth for India in 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/adb-pares-indias-fy22-growth-to-97/article37957142.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,||CM condemns Srinagar attack||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday condemned the terror attack on a police bus near Srinagar terming it “cowardly”. In a tweet, Mr. Stalin offered his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families of the security personnel who lost their lives and wished speedy recovery of the injured personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-condemns-srinagar-attack/article37957279.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||Disclose all ingredients used in food items: HC||The use of non-vegetarian ingredients, even in a miniscule amount, in food items would render them non-vegetarian, the Delhi HC observed while ordering manufacturers to disclose the full list of all ingredients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/disclose-all-ingredients-used-in-food-items-hc/article37957316.ece
15 December 2021||Mumbai,||BJP wins two Council seats in Maharashtra||In a major jolt to the tripartite MVA Government in Maharashtra, the Opposition BJP has won both the Council seats for which the election was held on December 10. With this victory, the BJP has won four of the six Council seats while the rest were already declared unopposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-wins-two-council-seats-in-maharashtra/article37957314.ece
15 December 2021||Mumbai,||Amid examination fraud, Maharashtra turns to TCS||With two out of five firms empanelled as service providers for OMR-based examination management embroiled in controversy, the Maharashtra Government is forced to turn to Tata Consul- tancy Services Ltd, whose earlier bid was rejected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amid-examination-fraud-maharashtra-turns-to-tcs/article37957548.ece
15 December 2021||Srinagar,||Srinagar district turns into hotbed of militancy||The Srinagar district has emerged as a hotbed of militancy in Kashmir this year. In 2020, according to official data, 20 militants were killed in nine encounters. In 2021, till December 14, Srinagar has seen around 20 encounters and shoot-outs in which at least 34 people, including 14 militants, have been killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/srinagar-district-turns-into-hotbed-of-militancy/article37957549.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,||‘39 attacks on Christians in Karnataka this year’||Documenting 39 instances of attacks on members of the Christian community this year, a report by PUCL on ‘Hate crimes on Christians in Karnataka, 2021’ has alleged that all recent attacks on members of the community were perpetrated by Hindutva organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/39-attacks-on-christians-in-karnataka-this-year/article37957172.ece
15 December 2021||HUBBALLI,||Court quashes KSLU notification on exams||The Dharwad Bench of High Court on Tuesday quashed the university’s examination notification pertaining to students of second and fourth semester and directed the university to promote students as per the earlier order of the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/court-quashes-kslu-notification-on-exams/article37957173.ece
15 December 2021||Srinagar,||‘Two foreigners, one local part of militant strike on police bus’||Two foreigners and a local militant of the Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM), intending to snatch weapons, were behind the attack on a police bus on Monday, as the death toll rose to three with one more policeman dying ofi njuries on Tuesday. A non-local “wanted” militant was killed in an anti-militancy operation in Poonch. “It was a planned attack. The terrorists fired indiscriminately at the bus that plies daily on the same route. Two foreigners and a local carried out the Zewan attack,” IGP Vijay Kumar said, after a wreath-laying ceremony for the deceased policemen. The plan was meticulous as the militants alighted in the area, which otherwise houses major installations of other security wings in its vicinity, only after the road opening party of the security forces was withdrawn from the stretch. “The attackers had done a recce of the area,” Mr. Kumar said. Twenty-five policemen of the armed reserve police’s 9 battalion were on the bus when it was fired upon from at least two sides around 6 p.m., leaving three dead and 11 injured. “The policemen retaliated to the fire and didn’t allow the attackers to snatch weapons,” Mr. Kumar said. Blood trail He said one of the injured attackers fled to Pampore and then to Khrew in Pulwama. “The blood trail of the injured militant has provided a clue about where they fled. We have other leads as well. We will track down the group soon,” he said. The police have decided to provide bullet-proof vehicles to the policemen to ferry them from one point to another. Outfit identified The third deceased policeman was identified as Rameez Ahmad from Ganderbal. The police said a little-known outfit, Kashmir Tigers, affiliated to the JeM, was behind the attack. In its purported claim put out in Urdu on social media, commander Altaf Hussain Qasmi said, “We had cautioned the police not to create a hurdle in the way of the Mujahideen and desist from anti-movement activities. The police instead proved stubborn. We were forced to take tough action. The [Zewan] attack will not be our first or last. We will intensify our attacks.” Foreign militant killed The Army on Tuesday said it killed a “wanted” non-local militant in the Behramgala area of Poonch. “The operation was launched on December 13 along with the police after receiving specific intelligence inputs about the presence of armed terrorists. During the encounter in the early hours on December 14, one terrorist attempted to escape and opened fire at the security personnel. He was, however, neutralised in the ensuing fire,” a Jammu-based Army spokesman said. He said one AK-47 rifle, four magazines and pouches were recovered from the slain terrorist, who was identified as Abu Zarara. The police said the slain militant was active in the Rajouri-Poonch belt and was affiliated to the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). “The operation in the area continues,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-foreigners-one-local-part-of-militant-strike-on-police-bus/article37956938.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||India votes against UN draft resolution on climate change||India on Monday voted against a draft resolution at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) linking climate to security, saying it was an attempt to shift climate talks from the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) to the Security Council and a “step backward” for collective action on the issue. The resolution was sponsored by Ireland and Niger, and it did not pass, with 12 UNSC members voting for it, India and Russia voting against it and China abstaining. Niger, which holds the UNSC presidency for December, organised a debate on December 9 titled ‘Maintenance of international peace and security: security in the context of terrorism and climate change.’ One of the objectives of the debate was to examine how terrorism and security risks could be linked to climate change, as per a concept note circulated by Niger. “What is it that we can collectively do under this draft resolution that we cannot achieve under the UNFCCC process?” India’s Permanent Representative and Ambassador to the U.N. T.S. Tirumurti said, positing that the reason countries were attempting to bring climate talks to the Security Council was that decisions could be taken without consensus or the involvement of most developing countries. A video of Mr. Tirumurti explaining India’s vote was posted by official Indian handles on Twitter. “If the Security Council indeed takes over the responsibility on this issue, a few states will then have a free hand in deciding on all climate-related issues. This is clearly neither desirable nor acceptable,” he said. Undermining progress The draft resolution, as per the ambassador, would undermine progress made at Glasgow, where the latest round of talks under the UNFCCC, the 26th Conference of the Parties (COP26), concluded in November. Developing and ‘least developed’ countries had worked, over the last two decades, to make “common but differentiated” responsibilities a fundamental tenet of climate action, Mr. Tirumurti noted. “Today’s attempt to link climate with security really seeks to obfuscate lack of progress on critical issues under the UNFCCC process,” Mr. Tirumurti said, adding that many of the UNSC members were the primary contributors to climate change. He said developed countries had not met their promises with regard to climate action and called for these countries to provide $1 trillion in climate finance “at the earliest.” Mr. Tirumurti said the attempt to discuss climate action and climate justice issues at the UNSC was “motivated by a desire to evade responsibility in the appropriate forum.” He said that climate change may have exacerbated conflicts in the Sahel region and across Africa, and India remained committed to peace and development in those regions, but “viewing conflicts through the prism of climate change” was “misleading” and an oversimplification that could worsen conflicts rather than resolving them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-objects-to-un-move-on-climate-change/article37957073.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||At Sonia meet, Opposition unity is theme||On a day when like-minded parties took out a solidarity march against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday carried forward the theme of Opposition unity by meeting top leaders. The meeting at Ms. Gandhi’s residence, attended by United Progressive Alliance (UPA) leaders, is being interpreted as a clear message to Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee, who recently declared that the UPA did not exist. It is the first of a series of meetings that the Congress chief is planning to host. The meeting was attended by NCP chief Sharad Pawar, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, DMK leader T.R. Baalu and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut. The NCP, the DMK and the NC are part of the UPA. The Shiv Sena has been pitching to recast the UPA, opening doors for newer members like itself. The meeting also decided that a fresh attempt to break the logjam in the Rajya Sabha will be made and NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge will call on Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu. Two scenarios Sources say that it was a deliberate decision to keep the gathering to a small group out of fear of bad optics. In case of a larger meeting, Ms. Banerjee would have dominated the narrative, overshadowing the actual meet. “There would be two possible scenarios, one where we call her and she declines, and second, where we do not invite her. In both the cases, it would be her presence or absence that will dominate the headlines,” said one of the leaders who attended Tuesday’s meeting. The Shiv Sena and the NCP were also deliberately clubbed together to ensure there is no misunderstanding between the two Maharashtra allies. Earlier in the day, the Congress, Shiv Sena, DMK, RJD, IUML, CPI(M) and CPI participated in the march to flag the “illegal” suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members. The march exposed the fault lines within the Opposition. The Trinamool Congress joined the Opposition march with Rahul Gandhi leading, but within the House, they drifted away from the Opposition. The Opposition had decided against participating in the House at a meeting on Tuesday morning. The Trinamool has skipped all the meetings, because it does not want to be seen as part of the Congress-led Opposition. Going against the Opposition consensus, the Trinamool’s chief whip Sukendu Sekhar Ray and the party’s Rajya Sabha member Nadimul Haq spoke during Zero Hour where the members get an opportunity to raise issues of national importance. The Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien, in a cryptic tweet aimed at the Congress, said, “Amused. Some political parties have the ability to come up with genuine IDEAS for protest inside and outside #Parliament, some political parties then try so hard to own (and appropriate) those ideas. Truly amusing.” Opposition march At half past noon, at the Gandhi statue in Parliament, where the 12 suspended MPs have been doing a sit-in protest for the last 14 days, all Opposition leaders from the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha congregated, including former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. Carrying placards proclaiming that they too should be suspended if the suspension of the 12 members cannot be revoked, the leaders marched to Vijay Chowk, a kilometre away from Parliament. Trinamool MPs Sugata Roy, Mausam Noor, Shantanu Sen and suspended MP Dola Sen participated in the march. Speaking to the media at Vijay Chowk, Mr. Gandhi pointing at the suspended MPs and said, “They are the symbol of democracy of this country. They are the symbol of the crushing of the voice of the people of India. They have done nothing wrong.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/at-sonia-meet-opposition-unity-is-theme/article37957082.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||A fortnight’s emerging evidence on the Omicron variant||The earliest genome for what is now designated as the Omicron variant was sequenced from a viral isolate collected from Gauteng, South Africa in early November 2021 and was made publicly available by the National Institute for Communicable Diseases, South Africa through GISAID, a database for sharing genomes of viruses. Since its designation, owing to added genomic surveillance and deposits of genomic data from across the world, over 2,700 sequences of the Omicron variant are presently available in GISAID. The transmission rate, immune evasion and the proportions of patients developing severe disease and death are the useful parameters which would enable broad assessments on how the variant would impact the population. Immune evasion The immune system has two arms. The first arm is mediated by antibodies — proteins which can recognise and bind proteins on the surface of microorganisms thereby neutralising them. The second type is mediated by T-cells which can recognise and kill cells infected with viruses. The corpus of evidence at hand for Omicron is largely based on antibodies and neutralisation. The Omicron variant has about 32 mutations in the spike protein, many of which have been associated with binding sites of antibodies, indicating that it would escape antibodies from previous infections, vaccines, and many monoclonal antibodies used in the treatment. Six studies A total of six studies are now available in the public domain from across the world. While the ranges of neutralisation compared with the ancestral lineages as well as Delta provide a wide range, it is unequivocal that the neutralisation of Omicron is significantly less than that of the ancestral lineage (B.1, 20-40-fold lower) or Delta (about five-fold lower). The only silver lining is that antibodies from individuals with boosters, or individuals with infection prior to vaccination (hybrid immunity) seem to neutralise the virus to some extent. Early evidence on vaccine efficiency has also emerged from the United Kingdom Health Security Agency, which evaluated efficiency for vaccines against symptomatic infection, that also corroborated quite well with the observations in the laboratory. Two doses of AstraZeneca (ChAdOx1) vaccine seemingly provides practically no protection against symptomatic infection, while an added booster with mRNA vaccine seemingly provides much better protection against symptomatic infection. The estimates for protection against severe disease and death would be estimated much later as these are delayed events. From the perspective of public health, this would mean a significant number of people with pre-existing immunity from COVID-19 infections or from two doses of vaccines could still have symptomatic re-infections and vaccine breakthrough infections. One of the useful estimates for assessing the rate of transmission is the doubling time. Early assessments suggest the doubling time for the Omicron variant is approximately 2.5 to three days, which is much shorter than the Delta variant. This significant advantage of Omicron over Delta means that in regions where ongoing and high transmission of the Delta variant is occurring, including in the U.K., Omicron would emerge as the dominant lineage in a very short period of three to four weeks. This would have implications in the ability of healthcare systems to test as well as offer adequate care to the needy. Disease severity Early and preliminary estimates from South Africa suggest that the proportion of patients requiring hospitalisation for the Omicron variant in Gauteng province is much lower than in the previous waves. Similar trends have been observed for oxygen requirements as well as Intensive Care Unit admissions. While this indeed is a silver lining, a sufficiently high rate of transmission could quickly saturate existing healthcare capacity. It is reassuring that early evidence suggests that individuals who have attained hybrid immunity (infection as well as vaccination) are likely to be better protected at least against severe disease and deaths. Another redeeming aspect is that a significant population in India has already gone through infection as suggested by serosurveys, and at least 50% and more of the adult population has accessed both doses of vaccine. The early evidence from South Africa suggests that the proportion of patients infected requiring hospitalisation is lower than the previous waves. While this does not necessarily mean that the variant is “milder” than other variants, it does imply that populations similar to South Africa — young and with high prior infections — may be less affected this time. Evidence at hand also suggests that vaccines indeed protect against severe disease and death, and therefore the immediate need is to cover as many eligible people, especially in the high risk groups, with two doses of vaccines. With a rapid rate of transmission, even a lower proportion of patients requiring hospitalisation can put enormous strain on existing resources — both for testing as well as for provision of care. Time-tested measures The current scenario also mandates placing a lot of emphasis on time-tested public health measures. The growing corpus of evidence indicates the effectiveness of non-pharmacological interventions, including masks and ventilation, both of which have not been well-appreciated. Similarly, the importance of ventilation and social distancing cannot be emphasised more, especially in a scenario where a large number of people are likely to congregate over the festive and marriage season. Too little comfort In summary, the emerging evidence on the Omicron variant offers too little to comfort. The rapid spread of the Omicron variant is likely to test public health systems and their ability to plan and implement strategies well in advance, and also their ability to react efficiently and in a timely manner. For the common man, it is possibly the best time to take pending doses of vaccine, pull up masks, let a lot more fresh air into rooms, and avoid crowds. It is always better to be safe than sorry. ( Vinod Scaria and      Bani Jolly are researchers at the CSIR-Institute of    Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-fortnights-emerging-evidence-on-the-omicron-variant/article37957089.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Two-day conclave on commodities||The Hindu BusinessLine will present ‘Commodities Market Outlook 2022’, a two-day virtual event on December 16 and 17. Powered by Indian Oil and in association with Madhur Pure and Hygienic Sugar, the virtual conclave will cover sessions on energy products (crude oil, natural gas) and agriculture on Day 1, and precious metals and base metals on Day 2. The associate sponsor for the event is BSE and the knowledge partner is NCDEX. The conclave aims to provide readers and market participants an outlook for Q1 and Q2, 2022. Experts will share their perspectives on global and Indian market outlook, and the market direction. The sessions will be held on Day 1 from 10.30 a.m. onwards and on Day 2 from 11 a.m. onwards. On December 16, M.R. Subramani, Commodities Editor, The Hindu BusinessLine , will present the welcome address. Amit Kumar Sharma, Director, Structured Products -LNG BP, Singapore, and Mathew John, Director (Technical Research), Almus Consulting, will speak on energy products. Those who will talk about agriculture include Ravi Gupta, Director, Shree Renuka Sugars; Kapil Dev, Chief Business Officer, NCDEX; and T. Gnanasekar, Director, Commtrendz Research. On December 17, P.R. Somasundaram, Managing Director, World Gold Council, will deliver the keynote address. Surendra Mehta, National Secretary, India Bullion and Jewellers Association; Pinakin Dave, Head, Commodities, BSE; and Akhil Nallamuthu, Senior Research Analyst, BL Research Bureau, will speak on the subject of precious metals. For sessions on base metals, Mayur Karmarkar, Managing Director, International Copper Association, will deliver the keynote address. Sandeep Daga of Regsus Consulting and Gurumurthy K., Chief Research Analyst, BL Research Bureau, will also speak on the topic. G. Chandrashekhar, policy commentator and commodities market specialist, will deliver the concluding remarks. To register for the two-day virtual conclave, visit https://bit.ly/HBLCC21 or scan the QR Code given.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-day-conclave-on-commodities/article37957063.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBSE exam marred by new timelines, format||Students, teachers and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) itself have faced challenges due to the new Board examination format, introduced due to the uncertainties of the COVID-19 format this year. The pressure of holding two Board exams in the year and setting papers with only multiple choice questions (MCQs) for the first time has led to squeezed timelines, faults in the vetting process and multiple mistakes in question papers. “Usually, the CBSE approaches you three or four months before the examination to work on question papers, and there are multiple sets produced. Then it goes to a monitoring committee,” said a Delhi-based teacher who has previously set question papers for the CBSE, and did not wish to be named. “But this time, they came to me less than a month before exams, and wanted questions in a new format also. I declined as there was not enough time to do a good job,” she added. CBSE officials admit they have been “working under tremendous pressure”. Because of the unusual decision to hold a Board examination in December, apart from the usual one in March, the standard timelines of the process have been squeezed drastically, said one official who did not wish to be named. With 75 subjects for Class 10 and 140 subjects in Class 12, it has been a “humongous task” to set multiple sets of papers in time. Limited pool of experts There is only a select limited pool of external experts entrusted with setting examination papers, and a similar small group of moderators, according to Board sources. CBSE officials cannot be part of the multilevel vetting process in order to prevent leakages, so some of this year’s question paper snafus took them by surprise as well. Whether it was the misogynistic passage that appeared in a reading comprehension exercise in a Class 10 English paper, or a politically uncomfortable query in the Class 12 Sociology paper, the CBSE was not privy to the contents until they appeared on students’ desks on the morning of the exam, leaving the Board blindsided by controversies. Although the Board provides guidelines to external paper setters which it says were violated by those who crafted these contentious questions, some officials said it was the rushed timeline that explained why the vetting process failed to stop such violations. Now, a new expert committee has been set up to review and monitor the Board’s processes, especially given the new reality of dual examinations. Students and teachers also raised complaints about the multiple choice question paper format and the reduced exam duration of just 90 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-exam-marred-by-new-timelines-format/article37957133.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||55% of adults fully vaccinated: Mandaviya||Over 55% of India’s adult population is now fully vaccinated, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Tuesday. “With over 55% of the eligible population fully vaccinated now, India has achieved another milestone in its fight against #COVID19,” Mr. Mandaviya tweeted. The Health Ministry, giving data in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, stated that as on December 9, 2021, there were 2,410 vaccine doses having an expiry date this month. State-wise details of doses having expiry dates this month and available in government stores are Rajasthan (100 doses of Covaxin), Maharashtra (10 doses of Covaxin), Ladakh and Maharashtra (400 and 1,900 doses of Covishield). The Ministry stated that the expiry date of vaccines available at private hospitals had not been maintained centrally. Stock review Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Bharati Pravin Pawar in her reply in the House, said, “We closely monitor COVID-19 vaccine stocks in the States so as to ensure their optimal utilisation. The vaccine stock that has not been utilised in private hospitals and nearing expiry are usually taken up for redistribution by respective State governments for their timely utilisation.” The States have also been advised to review programme coverage and vaccine wastage on a daily basis and redistribute the vaccine stock if required, she observed. Currently, more than 17.06 crore balance and unutilised doses were still available with the States, according to Health Ministry data. India on Tuesday reported 5,784 new COVID cases in the last 24 hours, lowest in 571 days, it added. Dr. Pawar, in a written reply, noted that the current production capacity of Covishield was approximately 250-275 million doses a month, while Bharat Biotech manufactured approximately 50-60 million doses of Covaxin a month. “Both companies have achieved close to 90% of present production capacity,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/55-of-adults-fully-vaccinated-mandaviya/article37957088.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||CJI bats for more women judges||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Tuesday promised to take up with the Supreme Court Collegium the demand for more women judges. “The demand for higher representation beyond 50% on the Bench in view of backlog of under representation of women is taken note of. I promise to take up your demand with my Brothers in the Collegium,” the CJI told an audience of women Supreme Court and High Court judges and senior lawyers. The Supreme Court currently has the highest number of women judges ever in its history. The recommendation of Justice B.V. Nagarathna by the Collegium, led by Chief Justice Ramana, would see the first woman Chief Justice of India. “There can be no denying that the inclusion of women as judges and lawyers in the country will substantially improve the justice delivery system. Women can bring a different perspective to the law which will enrich the legal field,” the CJI said at the function organised to felicitate Justice Hima Kohli, one of the four women judges in the Supreme Court. Supreme Court judge, Justice Indira Banerjee, urged the CJI to recommend more women judges for the Supreme Court before she retires in September. Chief Justice Ramana responded by quoting the late U.S. Supreme Court judge, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg, to say “women belong in all places where decisions are being made…It shouldn’t be that women are the exception”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-bats-for-more-women-judges/article37957070.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Centre giving unrealistic image of economy’||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Tuesday said the pandemic, coupled with the Narendra Modi Government’s “short-sighted” policies, has brought in an atmosphere of “uncertainty” for economic revival. Opening the debate in the Lok Sabha on the supplementary demand for grants, Mr. Tharoor said the Government must stop presenting an “unrealistic picture” of the economy and that the additional demand for Rs. 3.73 lakh crore shows the gross miscalculation of the Government’s expected expenditure while presenting this year’s Budget. Mr. Tharoor said this not only showed underwhelming allocations to different sectors but also an “undermined Parliament”. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who was present for most part of the debate, is expected to give her reply on Wednesday. “Our nation’s economy continues to battle the significant forces of disruption that were set in motion by the COVID-19 pandemic and which can trace their way back in our country to the disaster of demonetisation,” he said. Raising the issue of Government picking up the debt of Air India, he said, “ Achhe din will take a while in coming as tax payers will have to foot the bill.” Questioning allocations to sectors such as the Railways, defence, MNREGA, agriculture or flagship programmes such as Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao for the girl child, Mr. Tharoor said, “Like the earlier Budget, I have to say na jawan, na kisan [nothing for the soldier or the farmer]…It is about Paise Bachao, Beti Dubao ”. Countering the Opposition MPs, the BJP’s Nishikant Dubey alleged that a loss-making Air India and high fuel prices because of oil bonds were the UPA’s legacy. Opposition members, including Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy and Dayanidhi Maran of the DMK, and N.K. Premachandran of the RSP, also criticised the Government’s disinvestment plans, including the Air India’s sale to the Tata group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-giving-unrealistic-image-of-economy/article37957079.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||NIA arrests Afghan national in drug haul case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested another Afghan national in connection with the 3,000-kg heroin seizure by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) at the Mundra port in Gujarat in September. The accused has been identified as Sobhan Aryanfar (28). The agency arrested him from Neb Sarai in south Delhi. According to the NIA, Aryanfar has been found to be involved in the conspiracy to transport narcotic drugs concealed in the import consignment of semi-processed talc, which had originated from Afghanistan. The agency has registered the case under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the relevant provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and the Indian Penal Code, on the basis of the findings of the DRI. The NIA officials suspect that the same network had been used to smuggle in another consignment in the past. Some of the accused persons are said to be linked to a drug trafficking case registered earlier by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police. Based on the inputs, the NIA had conducted searches in different parts of the country, including in and around Delhi, in October. It collected samples of suspected drugs from a warehouse. Earlier, the DRI arrested 10 persons, including six Afghan nationals and an Uzbek woman, for their alleged involvement. The DRI probe revealed that the contraband had been packed in Afghanistan and sent through Kandahar-based Hassan Hussain Limited. The consignment was declared as that of talc stones for export to Aashi Trading Company in Vijayawada, via Bandar Abbas port in Iran. The drugs were meant to be brought to Delhi for further transportation and distribution. The NIA will be contacting the authorities in Iran for gathering information about the persons who had booked the consignment at Bandar Abbas port.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-arrests-afghan-national-in-drug-haul-case/article37957095.ece
15 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Konyak Nagas demand that armed forces keep out of Mon||The dominant Konyak Naga community has made Nagaland’s Mon district out of bounds for the “Indian military” until justice is delivered to the 14 civilians killed by security forces on December 4 and 5. The Konyak Union, the apex body of the Konyaks, issued a statement on December 13, declaring “total restriction on the convoy of Indian military force and patrolling” across the Konyak territory. “In accordance with the declaration made on December 7, the Konyaks shall not withdraw their non-cooperation with the Indian military forces until their charter of demands is fulfilled,” the organisations said. The demands include punishment for the soldiers involved in the botched ambush leading to the deaths and putting the judgement against them in the public domain. The union also disallowed military recruitment rallies in Mon district and asked the Konyak youth not to participate in such rallies. The union directed landowners to immediately denounce the past land agreements signed for the setting up of military camps within Konyak areas. It further sought severance of all forms of public relations with the Indian Army. The Oting villagers had refused to accept Rs. 18.3 lakh paid as part of the total compensation for the families of the 14 victims. The compensation would be accepted only after the soldiers guilty of killing the villagers are punished, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/konyak-nagas-demand-that-armed-forces-keep-out-of-mon/article37957078.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Over half of UAPA detainees under 30’||Nearly 53% of persons arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in 2018, 2019 and 2020 were below the age of 30, the Union Home Ministry (MHA) informed Lok Sabha on Tuesday. In a written reply, Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said the UAPA has been amended in the past keeping in view the requirement and “presently no amendments in the UAPA are under consideration.” Nityanand Rai was responding to questions from members on whether the Government planned to amend the existing Act in the light of recent evidence about the large number of acquittals and for preventing the harassment of innocent people in the wake of misuse of UAPA. Most arrests in U.P. In 2020, the maximum arrests under UAPA of persons below 30 years of age was made in Uttar Pradesh (205) followed by Jammu and Kashmir (166), Manipur (113) and Jharkhand (35).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-half-of-uapa-detainees-under-30/article37957065.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||SC allows Centre to widen three highways||The verdict is based on an application filed by the MoD to modify the court’s September 8, 2020 order, which directed that mountain roads for the Char Dham project should be 5.5 metre in width in compliance with a 2018 circular of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. The Ministry had gone on to amend its circular in December last, saying that “for roads in hilly and mountainous terrain which act as feeder roads to the Indo-China border [and] are of strategic importance for national security, the carriageway width should be 7 m with 1.5 m paved shoulder on either side”. Modifying the September order, the judgment on Tuesday said, “We allow the Ministry of Defence’s application for DLPS configuration for three strategic highways… At the same time take note of the environmental concerns raised for the entirety of the project and the unanimous recommendation of the High Powered Committee (HPC) for taking remedial measures and direct that they have to be implemented by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways and the Ministry of Defence going forward.” The Bench formed an oversight committee chaired by former Supreme Court judge, Justice A.K. Sikri, to ensure that the Government implements the remedial measures recommended by the court’s HPC for the environment. Noting that while a majority of the HPC had recommended DLPS-standard road width for the highways, the court said the panel had also unanimously suggested “best practices” and remedial measures to protect the ecology from harm, especially in “areas of concern”. The court observed that some areas needed constant monitoring by the Roads Ministry. A system needed to be set up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-allows-centre-to-widen-three-highways/article37956939.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||ADB pares India’s 2021-22 growth to 9.7%||The bank has retained its forecast for 2022-23, when it expects growth to moderate to 7.5% ‘as domestic demand normalises’. It expects inflation to rise in India from an average of 5.5% for the full year estimated earlier, to 5.6%. While inflation in the first seven months of 2021-22 averaged 5.2%, some pressure is expected to build as chip shortages drive up semiconductor prices, it said. “The projection for the whole year is increased marginally to 5.6%,” the bank's economists said in Tuesday's supplement. The Reserve Bank of India has estimated retail inflation to be 5.3% over the year. South Asia’s GDP forecast has been lowered to 8.6% from 8.8% in September, due to the moderation in India’s growth estimate and the slower than anticipated growth in manufacturing. However, the ADB said other economies in South Asia have gained from higher global demand and rebounding domestic activity. “Economies elsewhere in South Asia look to be on track for previously projected recovery,” it noted.  “The inflation projection for South Asia is revised up from 5.8% to 5.9% in 2021 and from 5.1% to 5.3% in 2022 on the expectation that global prices for food and other commodities remain elevated and as domestic factors come into play in specific economies,” the ADB concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adb-pares-indias-2021-22-growth-to-97/article37957066.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Lakhimpur killings were planned, says SIT||SIT’s chief investigation officer Vidyaram Diwakar, in his letter, said that as per the investigation and evidence collected so far, the criminal act was not committed because of “negligence” , and “callousness”; rather it was “intentionally carried out through a planned conspiracy” to kill people. It led to the death of five people and serious injuries to several others. “Hence sections 307 [attempt to murder], 326 [voluntarily causing grievous hurt through weapons] and 34 [criminal act done by several persons with common intention] of IPC and sections of 3/25/30 of the Arms Act should be added to the warrant of the accused and sections 279 [rash driving], 338 [causing grievous hurt because of negligence] and 304A [causing death by negligence] of IPC be dropped,” he stated. Eight people were killed in Banbirpur village near Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3 after three vehicles allegedly ran over a group of farmers returning after staging a protest against the contentious three farm laws, causing a massive outrage among farmers. The farmers were agitated against Mr. Mishra after a purported video, where he could be heard saying it would take him two minutes to discipline them. Two FIRs were filed in the case. One was lodged on the complaint of the families of the dead farmers. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) observed that the Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s stand had been vindicated and had made the position of Mr. Ajay Mishra all the more untenable in the Cabinet. “ From day one, we have been saying that the Minister and his son are involved in the case. We again demand his immediate dismissal and arrest and the farmers’ struggle will continue till he is shown the door,” said Dharmendra Malik, BKU’s media in charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lakhimpur-killings-were-planned-says-sit/article37957067.ece
15 December 2021||Srinagar,||Srinagar saw majority of targeted civilian killings||Srinagar district has emerged as a hotbed of militancy in Kashmir this year, with a significant rise in the number of “encounters” from the “zero militancy” figures and a small number of shoot-outs in 2020. The district also recorded the highest number of alleged targeted killings of policemen and civilians, including members of the minority community. Militancy-free zone In 2020, according to official data, 20 militants were killed in nine encounters. In 2021, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir saw around 20 encounters and shoot-outs in and around the city. At least 34 people, including seven policemen and 14 militants, were killed till December 14 in the city, which was declared a “militancy-free zone” with no locally recruited militants in October 2020 by the police. Five militant recruits from Srinagar were killed in separate gunfights this year, official figures suggest. Of the 10 wanted militants listed by the police in March, five were from Srinagar. The biggest challenge for security agencies in Jammu and Kashmir this year remained the targeted killing of civilians, including members of the minority community and non-local vendors, by militants. Srinagar district bore the brunt of the intensifying violence. More than 30 civilians, including five local Hindus and Sikhs, and five non-local labourers or vendors, were killed by suspected militants this year. Srinagar district witnessed the highest number of civilian deaths at 10, including six members of minority communities, which forced security agencies to deploy personnel, mobile and permanent bunkers at prominent shops owned by Kashmiri Pandits and Hindus. The killing of The Resistance Front ‘commander’ and recruiter Mohammad Abbas Sheikh, who operated from Srinagar and identified the targets, was seen as an end to the militants’ capabilities to strike in Srinagar. However, Sheikh’s associate Mehran managed to carry out attacks in and around the city this year,” an official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/srinagar-saw-majority-of-targeted-civilian-killings/article37957071.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Wholesale price inflation spikes to a record||But food inflation measured by the wholesale food index more than doubled from 3.06% to 6.7% in November. Inflation in primary articles also virtually doubled to 10.34% from 5.2% in October. The Wholesale Price Index (WPI) climbed 2.73% on a month-on-month basis, the Government said, attributing the “high rate of inflation” primarily to the rise in prices of mineral oils, basic metals, crude petroleum and natural gas, chemicals and chemical products and food products. The record inflation of 14.2% in November 2021 has come as a shock, said ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar, as most non-core categories displayed an inflation rate that was much steeper than expected. Inflation, measured by the WPI, had risen 2.29% in November 2020. Within food articles, inflation in eggs, meat and fish jumped from 1.98% in October to 9.66% in November, fruits recorded 15.5% inflation compared to 8.2% a month earlier. Wheat prices saw an inflation of 10.14% from 8.14% in October. Vegetable price trends turned around after at least five months of negative inflation, having last recorded -18.5%, to clock an inflation of 3.91% in November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wholesale-price-inflation-spikes-to-a-record/article37957074.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||11 States, one UT have border disputes: Centre||The Union Home Ministry has informed the Lok Sabha that 11 States and one Union Territory have boundary disputes between them. It added that “occasional protests and incidents of violence are reported from some of the disputed border areas”. “There are boundary disputes arising out of demarcation of boundaries and claims and counter-claims over territories between Andhra Pradesh-Odisha, Haryana-Himachal Pradesh, Union Territories of Ladakh-Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra-Karnataka, Assam-Arunachal Pradesh, Assam-Nagaland, Assam-Meghalaya, Assam-Mizoram,” Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said in a written reply. He asked for the cooperation of the State Governments concerned for resolving disputes while maintaining that the Central Government only played the role of a facilitator for an amicable settlement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/11-states-one-ut-have-border-disputes-centre/article37957075.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||RS nod for longer stints for ED, CBI directors||The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021 which seeks to amend the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946, and the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Both the Bills were passed amid a walkout by the Opposition over the suspension of their 12 members. The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021, passed in the Lok Sabha on December 9 seeks to extend the tenure of the Enforcement Directorate Director to a maximum of five years. Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pension Jitendra Singh moved the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021 for consideration in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday and said the Bill, which extends the tenure of the Director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to a maximum of five years from the present two years, is a move by the Central Government to check corruption and to ensure and enhance transparency. In recent years, he said, the nation is faced with the triple menace of corruption, black money and international crime that is linked to drug trafficking, terrorism and criminal offences and all these are a threat to the security and financial structure of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-nod-for-longer-stints-for-ed-cbi-directors/article37957076.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Police caused Aug. 11 trouble: Kharge||The Delhi Police were responsible for the unruly scenes in the lobbies of Parliament on August 11, Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge has said in a letter to Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu, urging him to withdraw access extended to outside security agencies. Twelve Rajya Sabha members were suspended for the winter session for their alleged misconduct on August 11 during the monsoon session. Mr. Kharge said Opposition MPs were attacked and harassed by some security personnel in the lobbies. They did not belong to the Rajya Sabha Secretariat security service, but were from the Delhi Police. “These people were unknown to the members and that became the primary cause of suspicion, which led to unruly scenes in which Phulo Devi Netam of the Congress sustained injuries,” he wrote. Mr. Kharge tried to read out this letter in the post-lunch session of the House but was disallowed by Deputy Chairman Harivansh. He further flagged that a 2.5-minute CCTV footage was released to the public in an illegal manner by a Government source. “This was not official Rajya Sabha TV [no Sansad TV] live footage and was wilfully released with sole intention to defame Opposition MPs,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-police-caused-aug-11-trouble-kharge/article37957086.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||MPs seek clarity on jabs for children, booster shots||Congress and Trinamool Congress members in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday raised concerns over the potential threat posed by the Omicron variant of COVID-19, asking the Government what it planned to do with regard to the variant, whether booster doses of the vaccines were to be given and when vaccination of children and adolescents could be expected. Raising the issue during Zero Hour, the leader of the Congress Legislature Party in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, said that Omicron was a developing threat, and going by the arc of infections in the first and second wave of COVID-19, it could not be taken lightly. “I want to know when the Government intends to make vaccines available to children and adolescents,” he said. Controlling infections Echoing him, Trinamool MP Kalyan Banerjee said it was reported on Tuesday that one person in the U.K. had died of Omicron infection. “I just want to know the measures taken by the Central Government to protect people from this disease, see to it that people come out of this disease, and that it does not spread at all,” he said. His party colleague and former Union Minister Saugata Roy said booster doses for COVID-19 should be started in the whole country immediately. “India has not started the booster dose because of some differences of opinion among the expert committee. Now, Omicron has entered India, and already the number of affected people... has come to 40. It is not easy to find whether a particular patient is infected with Omicron or not because of the problem in genome sequencing. Yesterday, in Maharashtra, two well-known film artistes, Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Arora, have been affected by COVID-19, which is a matter of concern for all of us. Sir, I demand that the third dose or the booster dose should start immediately. Young people between 12 and 18 years of age, who have not received the COVID-19 vaccine so far, should also get the dose,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mps-seek-clarity-on-jabs-for-children-booster-shots/article37957097.ece
15 December 2021||Kolkata,||BJP stages 3-day protest at Singur||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday began a three-day protest at Singur highlighting the agrarian distress in the State. Senior BJP leaders, including Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, State president Sukanta Majumdar and national vice-president Dilip Ghosh, attended an event organised by the Kisan Morcha at a time when Trinamool Congress chairperson and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is busy campaigning in Goa. The BJP leadership highlighted issues of farmers’ distress such as loss of crops due to floods and rains earlier this month and demanded compensation for the affected farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-stages-3-day-protest-at-singur/article37957080.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||Vaccine for children in 6 months: SII||The Serum Institute of India (SII) plans to launch a COVID-19 vaccine for children in six months, its Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla said on Tuesday. Participating in an industry conference, Mr. Poonawalla said the vaccine ‘Covovax’ was under trial and would offer protection to children as young as three years of age. Currently, Covishield and other COVID -19 vaccines are approved for people above 18 years. From age of three “We have not seen a lot of severe disease in children. Fortunately, the panic is not there for children. However, we will be launching a vaccine in six months for children, hopefully down to the age of three,” Mr. Poonawalla said. “If you feel you want to get your children vaccinated, wait for Government announcements on that, and you go ahead with that,” Mr. Poonawalla stated. He noted that there was enough data to show that the vaccines would work and protect the children. He pointed out that so far, nothing could be said about the Omicron variant as to how it would impact the children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-for-children-in-6-months-sii/article37957091.ece
15 December 2021||VARANASI,||Varanasi will be road map for India: PM||On the second day of his visit to his constituency, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the development of Varanasi would form the road map for the rest of the country. “Where there is a seed, the tree begins to expand from there. And that is why, today when we talk about the development of Banaras, it also forms the road map for the development of the whole of India,” he stated at the 98th anniversary celebrations of Sadguru Sadafaldeo Vihangam Yog Sansthan, a centre for yoga and meditation in Umraha village here. Earlier in the day, Mr. Modi held a meeting with the Chief Ministers of the BJP-ruled States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/varanasi-will-be-road-map-for-india-pm/article37957068.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vietnam leader visiting India today||Chairman of Vietnam National Assembly Vuong Dinh Hue, along with a high-level parliamentary delegation, is scheduled to visit India from December 15 to 19. In January 2022, the two countries will complete 50 years of establishment of bilateral relations. Mr. Vuong is visiting India on the invitation of Vice-President and Chairman of Rajya Sabha Venkaiah Naidu, and Speaker of Lok Sabha Om Birla. This will continue the series of high-level exchanges between the two countries, an official said. While travel was curtailed due to COVID-19 pandemic, the two countries had continued contacts at the highest levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vietnam-leader-visiting-india-today/article37957134.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||PM should sack Mishra, says Rahul||On a day when the Special Investigation Team probing the Lakhimpur violence that claimed eight lives submitted that the entire incident was a “pre-planned conspiracy”, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi demanded the resignation of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra and sought an apology from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He alleged that the Minister tried to kill farmers and the Prime Minister knew it as he was a member of his team. “A Minister has tried to kill farmers. The Prime Minister knows as he is in his team. We raised the issue but we were not allowed a discussion on it even then. We were all silenced at the time after we wanted to discuss the issue,” Mr. Gandhi said. He was speaking at the conclusion of the joint Opposition march protesting against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members. Asked if the Congress would raise the issue in Parliament, the former Congress chief said, “We will certainly raise the issue in Parliament but they will not allow us to raise it.” He also alleged that there are two or three capitalists who wanted to steal the farmers’ income and were backing Mr. Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-should-sack-mishra-says-rahul/article37957084.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Issue ration cards to sex workers: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed States and Union Territories to immediately start the process of issuing voter ID cards, Aadhaar and ration cards to sex workers across the country. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao said every person is guaranteed their fundamental rights irrespective of vocation. The court found that its directions a decade ago to provide sex workers with ration cards had not been complied with yet. “The State governments and UTs were directed to issue ration cards and identity cards to sex workers almost a decade back and there is no reason as to why such directions are not implemented till now,” the Bench noted. The court directed that authorities can take assistance from the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) and State AIDS control societies, which would in turn prepare a list of sex workers after verifying the information provided to them by community-based organisations. The status report related to issuance of ration cards, voter ID cards and Aadhaar cards to the sex workers must be filed in a period of four weeks, the court order stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/issue-ration-cards-to-sex-workers-sc/article37957136.ece
15 December 2021||Belagavi,TAMIL NADU||House panel for sacking 67 varsity appointees||Taking exception to various universities in Karnataka either appointing or upgrading faculty posts by violating UGC norms, including one that makes it mandatory to advertise posts, the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of the State legislature has recommended sacking of 67 such persons if they are still in service. The 20-member committee headed by MLA Ramalinga Reddy has also recommended that the salary (in the cases of appointments) and additional salary (in the case of upgrading of their positions) should be recovered from such persons. The committee has recommended that disciplinary action be taken against Vice-Chancellors, Registrars, and officials concerned for such violation of norms. “In the olden days, only honest people and those who commanded high respect in the education field were being appointed as Vice-Chancellors. But of late, people are being appointed though they lack such qualities. This is the main reason for the decline in standards of various universities ... Hence, the Government should take the required measures to uphold the dignity of the education sector,” the committee said in its report which was tabled in the Assembly. Pointing out that even the Comptroller and Auditor General had taken note of such irregularities in appointments by various universities, the committee has recommended to the Government to consider setting up a commission for making appointments in a transparent manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-panel-for-sacking-67-varsity-appointees/article37957105.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||‘Christians under attack in Karnataka’||Documenting 39 instances of attacks on members of the Christian community this year, a report by People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL) on ‘Hate crimes on Christians in Karnataka, 2021’ has alleged that all recent attacks on members of the community were perpetrated by Hindutva organisations. In most instances, the police colluded with these groups, alleges ‘Criminalising the Practice of Faith’, the report released on Tuesday, which documents cases till the end of November. The report was written after speaking to 39 pastors from each of these incidents. However, there are several other cases that have gone undocumented, the report said. “The perpetrators behind these communal hate crimes in all the instances are Hindutva organisations, namely Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Bajrang Dal, Hindu Jagrana Vedike. A new organisation name that has emerged from the accounts is that of Banjara Nigama. This organisation appears to be small but rather violent,” the report said, adding that two MLAs - Sunil Hegde and minister M.C. Narayana Gowda - were also named by community members as people who supported the police in targeting them. The report said that in almost every instance, the attackers have hurled casteist slurs and abuses at those gathered. “Almost in every instance of mob violence studied in this report, it can be observed in the chain of events that the police have colluded with Hindutva groups... the police actively work to criminalise the lives of Christians and stop them from organising prayer meetings,” the report states. In most cases, while police arrived minutes after the mob stormed the prayer meeting, they “join the Hindutva organisations in accusing the pastors of converting Christians against their will. In several instances, the police, instead of protecting the victims of violence, take the pastors and believers to police stations and book cases. Despite serious efforts being made by the lawyers from the Christian community, in some of the cases, the police have refused to file a complaint against the mob leaders,” the report alleged, adding that in some instances, police have tried to broker peace between the two groups. “This complicit role of the police emboldens a culture of intolerance and bigotry. Through the complicity, the police have become an arm of social segregators strengthening such Hindutva forces,” the report further said. However, when contacted, Praveen Sood, DG and IGP, Karnataka State Police, denied “any collusion” on their part. “It may be PUCL’s view that we colluded. But I maintain that we have acted impartially in every case,” he said. The report also documents how the community members have been “socially boycotted” in several instances. “What is particularly alarming is the discrimination and social boycott that the Christians have faced from persons who are not a part of these Hindutva organisations, such as their own neighbours, landowners, employers, small businesses like grocery stores, even schools, in their localities,” the report said. Even without an anti-conversion law, the attack on Christian minorities has been a weekly affair, and such a bill is likely to only make matters worse for the community by giving carte blanche for excesses by vigilantes, the report notes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/christians-under-attack-in-karnataka/article37957104.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Railway stations on city outskirts lack dedicated link buses||Residents living beyond the city limits of Ambattur, despite having access to good suburban train services, face severe difficulties using them because of the absence of dedicated link buses. Commuters, particularly women, are put to hardship because of their dependence on public transport. The availability of a dependable suburban train facility along with affordable housing has fostered in a residential boom on the west section, covering Thirumullaivoyal, Avadi, Pattabiram, Nemilichery and Thiruninravur, on both sides of the railway tracks. However, the residents find it a tough task to reach the railway stations because of poor connectivity. Despite the potential for the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) to operate small buses in these areas makes for a sensible revenue model, officials have failed to explore it. Avadi has become a multi-modal transport hub with thousands of commuters, from as far away as Poonamallee and Porur, visiting the railway station to board long distance trains, and those bound for Kancheepuram, Sriperumbudur, Oragadam and Perungalathur taking long distance buses from the Poonamallee bus terminus. But the absence of ample bus service has forced commuters to depend on share autorickshaws, which fill the vacuum left by the absence of the transport links to interior areas such as Paruthipattu, Karayanchavadi, Veeraraghavapuram, Thiruverkadu, Iyyapanthangal and Mangadu. The Avadi-Poonamallee Road has become a busy with share autorickshaws operating between the Avadi railway station and Poonamallee bus terminus. S. Elumalai, a resident of Karayanchavadi, said if not for the share autorickshaws, hundreds of residents bound for the railway station and bus terminus would be left in lurch, as bus services were inadequate. The share autorickshaws charge anywhere between Rs. 10 to Rs. 20, but the issue is that passengers are forced to travel in cramped conditions. Residents said the MTC should operate small bus services on this route and also from the railway stations of Pattabiram, Nemilichery and Thiruninravur. They also complained that the MTC had even completely stopped small buses which were previously operated by diverting it for Metro stations within the city. The MTC had recently started operating a total of 12 small buses from Metro stations of Alandur, Airport, Tiruvottiyur and Koyambedu. The transport coporation had a fleet of 200 mini-buses, which had now decreased to 140. T. Sadagopan, a consumer activist, said the small bus concept had helped in breaking up the share autorickshaw cartels in several areas, but the failure of the MTC to expand the small bus services to areas outside the city had resulted in share autorickshaws making a comeback in those parts. Officials had a standard answer of poor revenue generated from operating small buses while failing to explore the issuing of pre-paid travel cards or bus passes in them, he added. A senior official of the MTC said more than five bus services were being operated from the Avadi bus terminus through Avadi-Poonamallee Road, and that this would be increased in the coming days based on the feedback received from residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-stations-on-city-outskirts-lack-dedicated-link-buses/article37957259.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vote share difference does not back PMK founder’s position||PMK founder S. Ramadoss’s recent criticism of his allies for having violated “alliance dharma” during the 2021 Assembly election may not be particularly valid if the vote share of the party and the AIADMK-led coalition in select crucial districts is any indication. He had said that the party should have won in at least 15 seats, but its allies did it in. Even at the macro level, the difference between the average votes polled by the AIADMK and those of the PMK is not very wide. The former got 1,53,91,055 votes in 191 constituencies, with an average of 80,581 votes per constituency. On the other hand, the PMK, which was allotted 23 seats, netted 17,58,774 votes, securing 76,468 votes on an average in every constituency it contested. The margin of difference between the AIADMK’s figure and that of the PMK was about 4,000 votes, which was understandable, given the strengths and weaknesses of the two parties. The alliance also consisted of the BJP, which lagged behind its allies. The national party’s average was about 60,684 votes, nearly 20,000 votes short of what the AIADMK had polled per constituency. A look at districts If one takes a closer look at a couple of districts where the AIADMK and the PMK are said to be strong, there was not much difference between the vote share of the PMK and that of the coalition. Take the case of Ariyalur which has two constituencies — Jayankondam and Ariyalur. The alliance lost in both and its vote share was 44.12%. The PMK fielded its spokesperson, K. Balu, in Jayankondam, where the party’s vote share was 43.48%. Similarly, in Dharmapuri, where the PMK bagged two seats, including Pennagaram where party president G.K. Mani won, its vote share was 49.52% against the coalition’s 50.8%. The AIADMK emerged victorious in the remaining three constituencies of the district. The trend is more or less the same in Villupuram district where the PMK got one out of two constituencies it contested and the AIADMK won two. The remaining four seats went to the DMK. The PMK’s vote share was 40.34%, whereas the AIADMK-led front’s tally was marginally higher, at 41.58%. But Salem presents an ironical picture. In the district, all the seats were bagged by the AIADMK-led front, including Mettur and Salem (West) where the PMK won. However, the difference between the front and the PMK was considerable with about 4.5 percentage points. The former got about 51% against the PMK’s individual tally of 46.55%. This could be ascribed to the lack of support for the PMK among the non-Vanniyar communities, a leader from the district contends. Substantiating Dr. Ramadoss’s argument, a second-line PMK leader said his party was one of the factors for the AIADMK to win in 66 seats, though the party was in power for 10 years. But the PMK’s contribution was not reciprocated adequately by the alliance leader.  The alliance also consisted of the BJP, which lagged behind its allies. Its average was about 60,684 votes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vote-share-difference-does-not-back-pmk-founders-position/article37957266.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai to get carbon credit framework||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) and Chennai Smart City Ltd. will set up a carbon credit framework, facilitating the reduction in emission by civic infrastructure projects. Once a carbon credit framework is in place, the Corporation will be able to improve civic infrastructure projects with better facilities for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emission, get money for infrastructure projects that are environment friendly and trade carbon credits, which are permits that allow organisations to emit a certain amount of greenhouse gases. Under the carbon credit framework, organisations can purchase additional credits from other organisations that offset GHG emissions through programmes that directly remove GHG in the atmosphere. For example, the proposed increase in green cover by the Corporation is one such environment-friendly initiative. Eco-friendly steps Other programmes that use environment-friendly alternatives to traditional technology, such as solar energy, will gain prominence in the carbon credit framework. LED street lights project of the Corporation has led to a reduction in carbon emissions. The civic body will assess the impact of the project and explore ways to improve the street lights infrastructure to reduce carbon emissions. Expert in LED technology J. Kumar, UGC-BSR faculty fellow, said the Corporation and other line agencies should focus more on projects such as the installation of charging stations with solar power for electric vehicles. “In India, we are leading in terms of putting solar panels on waterbodies. Earlier, there were technical issues in doing this. Now they are able to stabilise and put such things. Electric vehicles are considered to minimise greenhouse issues. But that electricity should not be generated by burning fossil fuels. We can minimise carbon footprint by using standalone solar panels for electric vehicles charging stations,” said Prof. Kumar. “The State has always been a pioneer in initiatives such as LED street lights. After LEDs were commercially made available, the city installed them along roads, near landmarks such as the Raj Bhavan. Later, the technology was adopted in the city. We have to adopt more innovations in such technologies. Similarly, public buildings can have better thermal management to minimise their carbon footprint,” said Prof. Kumar. AGS Colony Residents’ Welfare Association president Geetha Ganesh said tree planting drives should be supported by providing better tree pruning equipment and technical expertise to sustain the green cover. “TNEB workers who prune the trees are not doing it properly. They are damaging a large number of trees planted by residents. The Corporation Parks Department has to monitor such pruning,” said Ms. Ganesh. “To reduce carbon footprint, the GCC should coordinate with MTC to improve public transport in every nook and corner of the city. Small buses can be changed to EVs so they can be used more as a local transit or as transfer buses. Tree plantation can be encouraged, provided the GCC improves the staff in its Park Department, across all zones. Tree pruning becomes a problem during the monsoon because of inadequate staff in the 15 zones. Cycling should be encouraged after providing safe cycling tracks across the city. Solar-powered street lights also can be looked into as an alternative option,” said Ms. Ganesh. Former Corporation floor leader V. Sukumar Babu said the Corporation and Chennai Smart City Ltd. should hold a public consultation before finalising the carbon credit framework, as a number of residents do not understand the significance of emission reduction. According to Corporation officials, Chennai Smart City Ltd. and the GCC stand to benefit from setting up a carbon credit framework. The civic body has prepared a Request for Proposal to call for consultancy for revenue generation from carbon credits for Chennai Smart City Limited. The consultants will register the eligible projects under any of these methods, and explore any other credit for GCC and Smart City projects. The consultants will be responsible for the trading of issued carbon credits and bringing revenue to the current bank account of the Corporation and Smart City. The consultants will carry out extensive research and data gathering to fill the documents, find a buyer and plan for long-term monitoring of emission reduction. The consultants will also have to make a plan for the project, in the event of the loss of project infrastructure, for instance, damages to solar panels on building roofs due to a cyclone. Moreover, a comprehensive set of guidelines are to be set out by the bodies that issue carbon credits. In terms of emission documentation, the first required step is for the consultant to document emission savings by various infrastructure projects. There is an extensive list of documents for project registration, which will need to illustrate how much emission reduction or removal is taking place, and the manner in which the project is achieving this, said an official. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the civic body had included many environment experts in the Smart City projects to cut down carbon footprint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-to-get-carbon-credit-framework/article37957642.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vijay Sethupathi, manager told to appear before court on Jan. 4||The IX Metropolitan Magistrate Court has ordered the issuance of summons to actor Vijay Sethupathi and the manager of Vijay Sethupathi Productions on a defamation complaint filed by Maha Gandhi. They have been directed to appear before the court on January 4. The complainant, a resident of Saidapet and an actor, said while visiting Bengaluru on November 2, he had met Mr. Sethupathi at the Kempegowda International Airport and spoken to him. Mr. Gandhi said Mr. Sethupathi belittled him, and the manager, who accompanied Mr. Sethupathi, assaulted him and threatened to kill him. The complainant said, on his return to the city, he heard that Mr. Sethupathi had spoken ill of him in an interview. On November 8, when he visited the doctor, he learned that his ear had been injured in the manager’s assault. Mr. Gandhi urged the court to take his complaint on file, take cognisance of the case, issue summons to the accused, and prosecute and punish them for the offence punishable under sections 294 (b) (Uttering vulgar words), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 500 (Punishment for defamation) and 506 (i) (Criminal Intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.  When Mr. Gandhi visited the doctor, he learned that his ear had been injured in the manager’s assault||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vijay-sethupathi-manager-told-to-appear-before-court-on-jan-4/article37957246.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu’s daily case count drops to 649||Tamil Nadu’s daily count of COVID-19 cases dropped marginally to 649 on Tuesday. Chennai and Coimbatore continued to account for more than one-third of the fresh infections, while Ariyalur, Kallakurichi and Theni reported no cases. As many as 19 districts reported fewer than 10 cases each. Of them, Perambalur, Ramanathapuram, Tirupattur, Thoothukudi, Villupuram and Virudhunagar recorded a single fresh case each. In Chennai, the daily count rose from 114 on Monday to 123 on Tuesday. Coimbatore logged 107 cases, compared with 101 cases the previous day. There were 51 cases in Erode and 49 in Chengalpattu. Tiruppur had 44 cases, while Namakkal and Salem recorded 42 cases each. The fresh cases pushed the State’s tally so far to 27,36,695. Tamil Nadu recorded nine deaths, taking the toll to 36,633. As many as 695 persons, including 117 in Coimbatore and 103 in Chennai, were discharged after treatment. The total number of recovered patients stood at 26,92,451. At present, 7,611 persons were under treatment. Another 2,19,311 persons were vaccinated across the State. The coverage reached 7,51,75,160 at government vaccination centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadus-daily-case-count-drops-to-649/article37957227.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Training for visually impaired teachers||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and the Samagra Shiksha in Tamil Nadu are working towards equipping visually-impaired teachers in the State with Information and Communications Technology (ICT) skills. Around 1,500 such teachers in Tamil Nadu are working in mainstream schools across the State. Hope Foundation, an NGO in association with Dell Technologies, has facilitated this initiative with the School Education Department. “As many as 314 special educators, who are a part of the inclusive education wing of the Samagra Shiksha, will be trained to become resource persons for this programme. We have designed a curriculum approved by the SCERT to impart special ICT skill training for visually-impaired teachers, which these resource persons will facilitate in the coming months,” said Santhosh Peter Kagoo, State Program Coordinator, Hope Foundation. The special curriculum includes how to use accessible readers, the School Education Department’s EMIS system, apps such as Zoom and Google Classrooms for online classes, and the DIKSHA app to access educational content. Tactile learning books have been prepared as resource material. While Phase 1 of this special ICT skill training module will focus on smartphones, phase 2 will deal with computers. On Thursday, a workshop for special educators from eight districts was held in Chennai. K. Manjula, a special educator who attended the sessions, said that familiarising visually-impaired teachers with tools such as Google Classroom as well as accessing content online would help them take online classes in the future. After the special educators are trained as resource persons, the workshops for visually-challenged teachers are expected to begin in January 2022. “This is a good opportunity to enrich teachers in ICT skills and provide them with accessible resources,” said S. Mars, CEO, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-for-visually-impaired-teachers/article37957272.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Major shift towards e-mobility in T.N.’||The Tamil Nadu Planning Commission is revisiting the e-vehicle policy unveiled in 2019 to mark a huge shift towards e-mobility, T.R.B. Rajaa, MLA and member of the commission, said. Speaking during a webinar organised by the Dravidian Professionals Forum on ‘Tamil Nadu’s transition to net-zero carbon economy’ Mr. Rajaa said the commission was looking at the possibility of setting up e-vehicle charging infrastructure in the State. It would also look at how batteries are used and manufactured and fix responsibility for recycling batteries. “We will give a big boost to green charging infrastructure,” he said. The commission would also look at the possibility of having more CNG buses and study the viability of hydrogen fuel cells and usage of more e-vehicles. The State would consider a no-coal policy once it achieved self-sufficiency in the power sector, especially with the usage of wind and solar power. Net zero target Tamil Nadu Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said, “If India needs to achieve net zero by 2070, Tamil Nadu needs to achieve it by 2050 at least. Tamil Nadu needs to be ahead of the curve. It is possible through innovation, technology and storage options for renewable energy.” Erik Solheim, former executive director of the U.N. Environment Programme and former Norwegian Minister for Environment, said Tamil Nadu had an important role to play in the Net Zero initiative, and the opportunity to go into renewables, including solar power, was enormous. He said Tamil Nadu could have a big role to play in the production of electric vehicles. Irene Giner-Riechl, co-founder, Global Women’s Network for the Energy Transition, and president, Global Forum on Sustainable Energy, said the energy transition was a terrific economic and social opportunity. “It is important that it is used as an opportunity to engineer social progress, inclusivity and diversity and make our societies more just,” she added. Behavioural changes Benoit Lebot, senior advisor, Government of France, said lifestyle and behavioural changes of people could reduce greenhouse gases, and there was a need to look at energy efficiency of everything that people used.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-shift-towards-e-mobility-in-tn/article37957395.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ECI not authorised to interfere with internal polls of political parties: HC||The Election Commission of India (ECI) is not authorised under any law to interfere with the internal elections of political parties recognised by it or registered with it, or find out whether or not the office-bearers had been elected by following a democratic process, the Madras High Court held on Tuesday. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu said this while dismissing as not maintainable a writ petition filed against the election of former Chief Ministers O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami as coordinator and co-coordinator, respectively, of the AIADMK. AIADMK member J. Jayachandran, of Arasanatti in Hosur, had filed the case with a plea to restrain the ECI from approving the unopposed election of the duo. The litigant alleged that they had amended the byelaws of the party and declared themselves elected after preventing others from filing their nominations. The petitioner’s counsel had contended that democracy would flourish not only when the general elections are conducted freely and fairly, but also when the internal elections of a political party, whose members contest elections at various levels from panchayat to Parliament, are conducted without giving room for malpractices. However, the first Division Bench pointed out that the writ petitioner had failed to refer to any provision in the Representation of the People Act of 1951 which obligates the ECI to approve the internal elections of a political party. Therefore, “we find that the impleadment of ECI is for the sake of it”, the judges wrote. Though Section 29A of the 1951 Act requires every political party to get itself registered with the ECI, “there is nothing in Section 29A, too, that requires an enquiry to be conducted by the commission into the fairness and validity of the internal elections held for the posts in a political party”, the Bench added. Further, referring to Section 29A (9), which requires registered political parties to communicate to the ECI any change in their name, head office, office-bearers, address and so on without any delay, the judge said even this provision did not confer any corresponding duty on the ECI to look into internal elections of a political party.  Palaniswami and Panneerselvam declared themselves elected after preventing others from filing their nominationsPetitioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eci-not-authorised-to-interfere-with-internal-polls-of-political-parties-hc/article37957232.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Apollo turns to brain sensing technology||Doctors of Apollo Hospitals have turned to advanced ‘brain sensing’ technology in Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) for patients with Parkinson’s disease. “We are in the era of precision DBS,” said Vijayashankar Paramanandam, neurologist, Movement Disorders and DBS specialist, Apollo Hospitals. The best candidates for DBS included patients with tremors and difficulty in walking with at least four years of symptoms and four months of motor complications. The use of advanced brain sensing technologies help in individualised monitoring for effect that maximises therapeutic outcome, he said. He added that it could help improve the condition of patients who have symptoms such as tremors, rigidity, slowness in activities of daily living, dyskinesia. It could also help reduce the medication. The advanced movement disorders team at Apollo Hospitals performed five DBS surgeries last month. This included four patients with Parkinson’s and one with dystonia, according to a press release. Arvind Sukumaran, senior consultant neurosurgeon, Epilepsy/Functional Neurosurgeon, said DBS was a well-established therapy for patients with Parkinson’s disease. “The procedure involves placing two electrodes deep into the targeted region (of the brain) using advanced computer-aided trajectory planning and stereotactic machinery. The patient will be awake and responding,” he said. Phase two “The second phase of the procedure involves placing the battery in the chest. The stimulation is started two weeks later,” he added. He added that when compared to medications, DBS provided long-lasting recovery. In this, a wire that travels from under the skin connects the pacemaker-like device to the electrodes inside the brain. The electrical pulses from the device modify the electrical activity of the affected areas of the brain to produce the desired effect and improve the symptoms. An external programmer is used to adjust and deliver electrical stimulation to the brain. V.R. Roopesh Kumar, senior consultant and lead — neurosurgery, said there had been tremendous improvement in neurosciences when compared to where it was 30 years ago. Preetha Reddy, vice-chairperson of Apollo Hospitals Group, said in the release that the hospital had been performing DBS for 14 years and it was a well-established therapy for patients diagnosed with advanced Parkinson’s disease and was now used for many other neurological indications with good success. Venkatachalam, director of medical services, Apollo Hospitals also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apollo-turns-to-brain-sensing-technology/article37957252.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Commuters’ Sunday woes||Ever since the restrictions were removed for both the bus and suburban train services in the city after the second wave of the pandemic, the demand for public transport from the outskirts of the city has been increasing. Residents of Tiruvallur, Arakkonam and Gummidipoondi, who want to visit the city on the weekends, said there was a shortage of buses and trains on Sundays, when both services were operated with a minimum fleet. Commuters from Arakkonam, Tiruvallur and Thiruninravur rue that they are being forced to travel in jam-packed trains, finding it difficult to maintain physical distancing. Similarly, those travelling from Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu complained about limited trains. T. Jayakrishnan, a regular commuter from Arakkonam, said trains to Arakkonam, Tiruvallur and Gummidipoondi, were being operated on a frequency of 30 minutes to an hour, with very few services available around noon. He wanted more trains to be operated from Arakkonam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commuters-sunday-woes/article37957254.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Meeting held to resolve GST issues||The office of the Commissioner of Goods and Services Tax (GST) and Central Excise of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry zone organised a meeting on Tuesday with the manufacturers of auto parts and cars to resolve issues faced by the industry. A release by the office said representatives from the industry highlighted certain difficulties faced by them. It added that the meeting was useful as many issues were settled on the spot. M.V.S. Choudhary, Chief Commissioner, GST and Central Excise, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry zone, who chaired the meeting, launched an auto call facility to remind stakeholders to file returns within due dates. S. Ravi Selvan, Principal Commissioner, Chennai Outer Commissionerate, said such meetings will be organised every quarter. Representatives from major manufacturers, including Hyundai Motor India Ltd., BMW India Private Ltd., Renault Nissan Automotive India Private Ltd., and MRF Ltd., took part in the meeting. The release said similar meetings were scheduled with textile, pharma and leather industries on Wednesday, micro, small and medium scale industries on Thursday, and with IT companies on Friday.   Representatives from major manufacturers, including Hyundai, BMW and Renault Nissan, took part in the meeting||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-held-to-resolve-gst-issues/article37957236.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Subway mooted on GST Road near Tambaram||A vehicular subway connecting East and West Tambaram is likely to come up beneath the GST Road if a proposed study gives the green signal. The facility will allow motorists from the Selaiyur side to cross the road to reach the Tambaram-Mudichur Road without having to wait for traffic at the nearby intersection. The State Government has issued a G.O. sanctioning Rs. 50 lakh for the preparation of a detailed project report. Initially an amount of Rs. 20 lakh would be released. “It would come as a blessing for thousands of residents in this fast-growing suburb to reach their destinations in the city,” said D. Gopalan, a resident of Mudichur. The Highways Department has also proposed to acquire Defence land to lay a service lane along the GST Road on that stretch. “We will provide them [the Defence establishment] with an alternative site since it is essential that a service lane be provided at that point,” explained an official. Rs. 45.49 crore sanctioned The Government has also accorded sanction for the grant of Rs. 45.49 crore for the construction of a vehicular underpass that would be integrated with Metro Rail’s viaduct at the intersection of the southern sector of the Inner Ring Road and the Mount-Medavakkam Road at Madipakkam. The underpass would be constructed by the Chennai Metro Rail on behalf of the Highways Department. The total length of the subway would be 294 metres. It would have two intermittent lanes of 5.5-metre width each, with a 1.2-metre-wide median. Service lanes would come up on the Medavakkam and Alandur sides. Though an amount of Rs. 50.93 crore was initially sought, the Government has sanctioned Rs. 45.49 crore since the amount required for land acquisition was reduced. In the first instalment, Rs. 11.37 crore would be released to CMRL this year. The rest would be released as and when required by the Highways Department.  It would come as a blessing for thousands of residents in this fast-growing suburb to reach their destinations in the city D. Gopalana resident of Mudichur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/subway-mooted-on-gst-road-near-tambaram/article37957243.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Prevent ex-legislators, retd. judges from misusing emblems’||The Madras High Court on Tuesday asked the police to come up with suggestions on empowering personnel, including constables, to take action against the misuse of the national and State emblems by former Ministers, former Members of the Parliament and the Legislative Assembly and retired judges of the Supreme Court and High Court. Justice S.M. Subramaniam said he would pass a detailed order, directing the police to initiate stringent action against the misuse of emblems by former legislators and retired judges, but was not sure whether such an order would be implemented effectively. He said policemen should not hesitate to initiate action against highly placed offenders. Passing interim orders, the judge had suo motu impleaded the Director General of Police as a respondent in a related case pending before him, and had directed Additional Government Pleader M. Rajendiran to ensure the presence of a responsible officer from the office of the DGP or the Greater Chennai Commissioner of Police. Accordingly, Additional Commissioner of Police J. Loganadhan appeared before the court on Tuesday. The judge told the officer that the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act of 1950 clearly prohibited the misuse of emblems and names of certain organisations. But there was still large scale violation of the law, he said. Stating that even a police constable should be able to prevent the misuse of an emblem, the judge asked the Additional Commissioner of Police to come up with suggestions on how best the law could be implemented. He granted time till January 3 for the suggestions to be made in writing. The issue was taken up during the hearing of a 2014 writ petition filed by film financier Mukunchand Bothra (since dead), but now pursued by his son Gagan Bothra, complaining about the alleged misuse of the national emblem by former MP R. Anbarasu (who also died in August 2019) on his letter pad in 2006. The petitioner had said that he was arrested and kept in judicial custody for 21 days on the basis of a complaint lodged by the former MP. Later, he came to know that the former an MP had lodged the complaint on a letter pad with the national emblem. Anbarasu was not an MP on May 27, 2006, when the complaint was lodged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prevent-ex-legislators-retd-judges-from-misusing-emblems-says-hc/article37957275.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches loan scheme for women’s SHGs||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday provided loans to the tune of Rs. 2,750 crore and welfare aid to 7.56 lakh women from 58,463 women’s Self Help Groups in the State. Mr. Stalin said this would provide impetus to women entrepreneurs and help them gain self-confidence as well. “Our government will provide all necessary support to you to help you rise further in life, and these schemes will continue,” the Chief Minister said at the event held at Tiruttani. Mr. Stalin said there were over 7.22 lakh women’s SHGs in Tamil Nadu with 1.06 crore members. “ Kalaignar [former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi] planted the seeds of this massive development in Tamil Nadu,” he said. The Chief Minister said Rs. 87.39 crore had been released as capital funding for 17,479 SHGs this financial year; Rs. 14.59 crore had been released for 5,338 unions of differently abled and financially backward people; and steps had been taken to get higher prices for, and export, products made by women. “So far, Rs. 6,777 crore has been provided as loans. By the end of this month, the figure would be Rs. 10,000 crore, and next year, another Rs. 10,000 crore would be disbursed,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the government had also waived loans to the tune of Rs. 2,756 crore taken by women’s SHGs.  Our Government will provide all necessary support to help you rise further in lifeM.K. StalinChief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-loan-scheme-for-womens-shgs/article37957235.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister inaugurates renovated golden temple car at Tiruttani||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) P.K. Sekar Babu on Tuesday inaugurated the renovated golden temple car at the Subramaniaswamy Temple in Tiruttani. The work has been completed after a gap of eight years since the car had been taken apart for repairs and the work could not be carried out. It has been renovated at a cost of Rs. 11. 58 lakh and the works undertaken, include repairs to wooden parts, re-laying of golden sheets, lighting arrangements and a shutter for the temple car. Golden and silver temple cars are usually pulled inside temple premises by devotees as part of their prayers. Silver car The Minister also performed a puja for beginning repair works for the silver car at a cost of Rs. 18.3 lakh. “We hope that the temple car would be ready in three months. Under the directions of the Chief Minister, M.K.Stalin, we had announced that the golden car, commissioned in 1972, would be brought back to use. The silver car is over 60 years old,” Mr. Sekar Babu said, adding that the department had sought a report of all the temple cars in the State. Among the other works being taken up in the temple, he said four small halls and one large hall would also be constructed for weddings at a combined cost of Rs. 5 crore. Feasibility study The feasibility study for a rope car atop the temple has been recently submitted. The facility would be provided if there is a possibility, he said. Tenders have been called for the construction of 65 steps leading to the Rajagopuram and work at an estimated cost of Rs. 85 lakh is set to commence next month, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/golden-temple-car-at-tiruttani-renovated/article37957273.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister condoles journalist’s death||State Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan on Tuesday condoled the death of former political correspondent of The Hindu N. Kalyanasundram. Kalyanasundaram died on Sunday after suffering a heart attack in California, U.S., where he had been to attend a family wedding. In his message, the Minister said Kalyanasundaram played an important role in the field of journalism in Tamil Nadu. He expressed his condolences to the bereaved family. Recalling the role Kalyanasundaram played for the welfare of journalists, Chennai Press Club joint secretary Bharati Thamizhan issued a statement condoling his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-condoles-journalists-death/article37957242.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Judges find it convenient to adjourn cases, says HC||Adjournments are enemies of the justice delivery system. At times, judges also find it convenient to adjourn cases out of laziness and expect lawyers to seek adjournments. Such a mindset cannot be encouraged when scores of litigants are longing for justice, the Madras High Court has said. Justice S.M. Subramaniam made the observations while ordering speedy trial in the murder of activist Raj Mohan Chandra by an armed gang. He was murdered opposite Singa Muga Theertham on the Tiruvannamalai-Chengam Road, on July 2, 2012. The judge ordered that the trial must be completed in six months. He said the case was related to an unfortunate event in which an activist was murdered. In such cases, the police and the courts must exhibit sensitivity and complete the trial as expeditiously as possible. Otherwise, it will encourage the accused to commit more such crimes. “Adjournments can never be claimed as a matter of right, but only as an exception. Thus, courts are expected not to grant adjournments in a routine manner. Mechanical adjournments of cases must be avoided. No doubt, on genuine reasons, adjournments are to be granted, but only by recording reasons and not otherwise,” the judge wrote. “It is true that adjournments are sought in a convincing manner mostly on flimsy reasons. Courts are also considering adjournments as they find it convenient or do this out of laziness. It is not out of way to mention that, sometimes, courts are also expecting the counsels to seek adjournments,” the judge said. “Such a mindset should not be encouraged, and the agony of the people, who are waiting and longing to get justice, must always ring a bell in the minds of the courts,” the judge wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/judges-find-it-convenient-to-adjourn-cases-says-hc/article37957255.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Include Narikuravas in ST list’||Tamil Maanila Congress president and Rajya Sabha member G.K. Vasan has urged the Union Minister of Tribal Affairs to take steps to include the Narikuravas in Tamil Nadu in the list of Scheduled Tribes. He said the community in States, such as Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala had been included in the ST list, but despite efforts from the government, the community in Tamil Nadu had not been included in the list. “A Bill was introduced [to that effect] in the 16th Lok Sabha, but it lapsed. I request the Minister of Tribal Affairs to take necessary steps for including the Narikurava community in T.N. to the ST list,” Mr. Vasan said in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/include-narikuravas-in-st-list/article37957276.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||4 escape as car catches fire in Guduvanchery||A car caught fire on GST Road in Guduvanchery on Tuesday. The four passengers of the car managed to escape with no injuries. Isakki, 50, a native of Tirunelveli, was returning to Nerkundram with three women in his car. Smoke from bonnet Around 7.45 p.m., when the vehicle was at Guduvanchery, smoke emanated from its bonnet. Immediately, Mr. Isakki and the other passengers disembarked from the car as the flames engulfed it quickly. Upon receiving an alert, the Fire and Rescue Services personnel reached the spot and put out the fire. Traffic was disrupted on the road for sometime in the morning hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-escape-as-car-catches-fire-in-guduvanchery/article37957250.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for phone theft||The T.P. Chatram police on Tuesday apprehended two, including a juvenile, for stealing mobile phones. R. Janakiraman, who works at a house construction site, on Monday found that his phone was missing. Others at the site too could not find their phones. They complained to the police about the theft. After analysing CCTV camera footage, the police arrested S. Muthu, 22, and his 17-year-old associate. The juvenile was sent to a government home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-held-for-mobile-phone-theft/article37957249.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TARATDAC members picket Govt. offices, demand higher aid||Members of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) on Tuesday picketed several Government offices in Tamil Nadu, demanding a raise in the minimum monthly assistance given to persons with disabilities. “One of our long-pending demands to the government has been to increase the monthly assistance given to persons with disabilities, which is currently Rs. 1,000 a month. Loss of livelihood during the pandemic has affected several people with disabilities, and given how much the prices of essentials have increased, the Government should increase the assistance to a minimum of Rs. 3,000 a month,” S. Nambu Rajan, State general secretary, TARATDAC, said. He said the State Government should fix the monthly assistance for persons with disabilities between Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 5,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/taratdac-members-picket-govt-offices-demand-higher-aid/article37957256.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online application for COVID-19 ex-gratia||The Tamil Nadu government has launched an online portal for eligible persons to apply for the ex-gratia payment to the kin of the persons who died due to COVID-19. The government recently announced that it will pay Rs. 50,000 from the State Disaster Response Fund to the family of the persons who died due to COVID-19. In a release issued on Tuesday, the State government said that online mode of application has been enabled to ease the application process. Eligible persons can apply through the online form by visitingwww.tn.gov.inand then navigating to the ‘Ex-Gratia for COVID-19’ link under the ‘What’s new?’ section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-application-for-covid-19-ex-gratia/article37957277.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Writ appeal by CSI Trust Association dismissed||A Division Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed a writ appeal preferred by the Church of South India (CSI) Trust Association against a single judge’s direction to the Registrar of Companies to conduct a fresh inquiry into allegations of misappropriation, mismanagement and misfeasance in the appellant association, which owns properties worth several lakh crores of rupees, across the southern parts of the country. ‘Opportunity of hearing’ Justices Paresh Upadhyay and Sathi Kumar Sukumara Kurup confirmed the orders passed by Justice R. Mahadevan on February 1, directing the Registrar to conduct the inquiry, strictly in accordance with law, by giving an opportunity of hearing to the CSI Trust Association. The Bench, however, said an interim stay on the single judge’s order would continue for eight more weeks, so that any further appeal to the Supreme Court remains meaningful. The single judge had directed the petitioners to participate in the fresh inquiry, and ordered that a time-bound decision must be taken in the matter. Within two weeks thereafter, a detailed report should be filed with the Union Ministry of Corporate Affairs, he had ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-dismisses-writ-appeal-preferred-by-csi-trust-association/article37957267.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eleven women arrested for gambling||Police attached to the Chetpet station on Tuesday arrested 12 people, including 11 women, for allegedly indulging in gambling with cash. Following information, a police team kept a close watch on movement at a particular place in the S.M. Nagar area, and rounded up a few persons who were playing card games for money. The police brought the 12 accused, including Durairaj, 65, of New Colony, Anna Nagar, who organised the gambling, to the police station. A total of Rs. 18,680 in cash and two packs of cards were seized. They were booked under the Gambling Act, and later released, since it is a bailable offence, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eleven-women-arrested-for-gambling/article37957643.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNCC chief terms Modi Govt. ‘anti-farmer’||TNCC president K.S. Alagiri on Tuesday termed the Modi Government as anti-farmer, saying it had written off over Rs. 10 lakh crore of corporate loans in the past seven years, but had not waived farm loans of Rs. 2 lakh crore. Mr. Alagiri said the BJP government had not fufilled any promise it had made to farmers. Mr. Alagiri said 75% of corporate loans, including the ones taken by Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi, which had been waived by the BJP Government in the last seven years, belonged to public sector banks. On farm legislation However, the Government had brought in the farm laws and tried to destroy farmers’ livelihoods, he said. If the farmers protested again, demanding that their loans be waived, they would find massive support across the country, the leader warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alagiri-terms-modi-govt-anti-farmer/article37957268.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. sets up helpline for fertilizer plaints||The Tamil Nadu Agriculture Department has set up a helpline number — 9363440360 — at the State Agriculture Directorate, through which farmers can get information about the availability of fertilizers and also raise complaints. Complaints can be lodged over the phone or through WhatsApp, the department said in a press release. An officer has been appointed specifically to look into the complaints and find an immediate solution, the press release added. Currently, fertilizers are distributed to farmers through 8,100 private centres and 4,354 cooperative units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-sets-up-helpline-for-fertilizer-plaints/article37957228.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Restore old permit system for quarries’||AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday demanded the restoration of the system of issuing permits once in 15 days for operating stone quarries. Under the new system, the permits were being issued once in three days. In place of the earlier norm of letting the quarries mine up to 12,000 units of blue metal a year, thus allowing the operator to achieve the target, the new system set the cap at 1,000 units a month, he pointed out. He called for changes in the new rules and said quarries were being operated even after the permits expired. In a statement, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam termed “belated” the CBSE’s decision to drop a misogynistic comprehension exercise in the Class 10 English examination, and wanted the Board to hold a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restore-old-permit-system-for-quarries/article37957239.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Election petition dismissed||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed an election petition filed against the victory of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Vanathi Srinivasan from Coimbatore South Assembly constituency this year. The court held that the petition had been filed on the basis of vague allegations and there was nothing substantial. Justice V. Bharathidasan rejected the petition filed by K. Raghul Gandhi who had contested as a candidate of Hindustan Janata Party in the constituency and secured 73 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-petition-dismissed/article37957280.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI/TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Prevent boats with high-speed engines from fishing in A.P. waters’||Fishermen of Chennai and nearby districts have urged the State government to take steps to prevent boats with high-speed engines from Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Karaikal district of Puducherry from fishing in Andhra Pradesh waters. This follows the decision of their Andhra Pradesh counterparts to take action on such boats. K. Kapilan of Chennai Visai Padagu Nala Sangam said that a couple of weeks ago, 15 boats from Kasimedu had been captured by Andhra Pradesh and the owners had to shell out Rs. 50,000 as fine for each boat. “They caught our boats as we don’t have high-speed engines and told us that it was our responsibility to ensure that errant boats that cut their nets from our State do not enter their waters. We do not fish close to the shore and take care not to enter their fishing grounds. They still use traditional craft and smaller boats,” he said. G. Veeramuthu of Akkaraipettai in Nagapattinam said that even last week a meeting had been convened for villages in Nagapattinam, Karaikal and Mayiladuthurai. “We had made it clear that no boat with high-speed engines should fish off Andhra Pradesh. However, a section of fishermen from Karaikal do not listen and are never caught due to their engine speed. Others who are caught are heavily fined, sometimes tied up and beaten even. They also end up losing their catch and nets. The government must step in and safeguard the interests of our fishermen,” he said. Charge denied Denying the charge that fishers of Karaikal were utilising high-speed engines for their boats, Mahendran, panchayatar of Kilinjal Medu fishing hamlet, said: “It has become a practice for a section of fishers in Andhra Pradesh to detain our boats though the engines are as per permitted specifications, and demand ransom. The ransom amount running into a few lakhs of rupees is utilised by the fishers to improve amenities in their hamlets,” Mr. Mahendran said. “Unfortunately, our plight has not been redressed by the Puducherry government,” he added. Official sources said the Fisheries Department would sensitise fishermen against use of high-speed engines. “The problem of fishermen from Tamil Nadu fishing in Andhra Pradesh and getting caught has been happening for a long time. The State government even has a separate fund for use in rescues. If many boats are caught, officials of the Fisheries Department take part in the talks and help the men out,” said a retired official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-boats-with-high-speed-engines-from-fishing-in-ap-waters/article37957253.ece
15 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Waste chokes drain carrying rainwater to Singanallur Tank||The drain that runs along Tiruchi Road and carries rainwater to the Singanallur Tank is choked with waste at its mouth. For 50-100m or so, the drain is filled with packing materials, plastic bottles and other solid waste. That the choking is at the drain’s mouth is a cause for concern for two reasons – one the entire waste will enter the Singanallur Tank and the other the choking at the mouth, where the water flow is heavy, may lead to rainwater overflowing onto the Road, say environmentalists. This happens at a time when the Coimbatore Corporation has plans to develop the Tank into an environment hotspot and it is worrisome because development and choked drain cannot go together, they add. The drain that originates near Ganapathy carries rainwater to the Tank. Sources in the Coimbatore Corporation say the civic body has plans to clean the Tank once the rain subsides. Prior to the North East Monsoon when the State Government ordered cleaning of all drains, the Corporation cleaned the Sanganoor Canal near Kathiravan Garden. For, the Canal gets choked near the railway track. Once the monsoon gets over, the Corporation will not only clean and dredge the Sanganoor Canal, it will also clean the Ganapathy-Singanallur drain, the sources also say and add that thereafter the Tank development work will begin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waste-chokes-drain-carrying-rainwater-to-singanallur-tank/article37957287.ece
15 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Plea to increase monthly financial assistance||Members of the Tamilnadu Association for Rights of All Types of Differetly Abled and Care Givers staged a protest in front of the Collectorate here on Tuesday demanding an increase in monthly financial assistance. The Association’s state deputy secretary S. Punitha said for persons with over 75% disability the State government gave Rs. 1,500 a month and those with disability between 40% and 75% it gave Rs. 1,000. The Association’s demand was for increasing the monthly assistance to Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 3,000 respectively. The Puducherry government had recently increased to Rs. 3,800 the monthly assistance for those with over 75% disability. And, the Kerala government was giving financial aid to the caregivers of mentally challenged persons. The State government should consider what the neighbouring states were doing, Ms. Punitha said. Enumeration The Association’s other demand was for a proper enumeration of persons with disability. While the District Differently Abled Welfare Office assessment was that there were 35,000-odd persons with disability in Coimbatore, the Association’s estimate was two lakh. Unless a door-to-door census was conducted, it would be difficult to arrive at the correct number, she said and added that the government should also frequently conduct camps for persons with disability to undergo medical test to have their disability assessed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-increase-monthly-financial-assistance/article37957289.ece
15 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Educationist C.R. Swaminathan passes away||Former Chief Executive Officer of PSG Institutions and former chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Southern Region, C.R. Swaminathan, died in Coimbatore on December 14. He was 74 and is survived by his wife. Swaminathan, a B.Sc Agriculture graduate from Bapla Agricultural College and MBA at PSG Institutions, joined PSG Industrial Institute as Assistant Sales Manager - Marketing in 1971 and was appointed CEO of the Institutions in 1985, a post he held till 2005. L. Gopalakrishnan, Managing Trustee of PSG & Sons’ Charities, said Mr. Swaminathan also worked for the progress of education sector in Coimbatore. With his executive participation in all the major industrial associations, he spearheaded their common cause when he was working in the PSG Industrial Institute. He was part of voluntary and social organisations in Coimbatore. He had headed the CII in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu and Southern Region, was an independent director in many companies, and governing council member of numerous educational institutions. C. K. Ranganathan, chairman, CII Southern Region said, “Mr. Swaminathan was a visionary leader and had contributed immensely for the industrial development in South India, and more particularly in Tamil Nadu.” S. Chandrakumar, chairman, CII Tamil Nadu, said he was a proactive leader in industry and academia. CII Coimbatore zone chairman V. Arjun Prakash said Mr. Swaminathan was a mentor to many in a number of CII’s path breaking initiatives. He had served as president of the Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association (SIEMA), Coimbatore Management Association, and Coimbatore Industrial Infrastructure Association (COINDIA). He had been the president of Institute of Indian Foundrymen and Indian Machine Tools Manufacturing Association. According to K.V. Karthik, president of SIEMA, Mr. Swaminathan played a key role in the formation of COINDIA and was even recently ready to guide the pumpset industry on raw material sourcing as he had done for foundries through the Foundry Development Foundation. Mahendra Ramdass, former president of COINDIA, said Mr. Swaminathan had facilitated and worked for development of many infrastructure projects in Coimbatore. Vanitha Mohan, managing trustee of Siruthuli, said for conservation of water bodies or afforestation projects, Mr. Swaminathan, a trustee, guided them on the right people to approach and permissions to be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/educationist-cr-swaminathan-passes-away/article37957281.ece
15 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police Inspector injured||An Inspector of Police attached to the Coimbatore City Police was injured in an alleged attack by an accused in Rathinapuri on Monday. The police said G. Suriya alias Suriyaprakash (21) was being inquired by Inspector (Law and Order) of Rathinapuri police station Ramesh Kumar and two other police personnel regarding alleged sale of ganja in Sivananda Colony. Suddenly, the youth pushed the Inspector to the ground and fled from the spot, the police said. Mr. Ramesh Kumar was diagnosed with fracture on his left arm and left leg and was admitted to a private hospital. The Rathinapuri police arrested Surya and he was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-inspector-injured/article37957294.ece
15 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Teacher, who was held for sexual assault, detained under Goondas Act||The Coimbatore City Police on Tuesday detained a teacher of a private school, who was arrested on the charge of sexually assaulting a Class XII girl, under the Goondas Act. Police sources said Coimbatore City Commissioner of Police Pradip Kumar signed the order for the detention of the accused, Mithun Chakravarthy, 31, late on Monday. The accused was arrested on November 12 for offences under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 9 (l) (whoever commits sexual assault on the child more than once or repeatedly) read with Section 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, a day after the 17-year-old girl committed suicide at her residence in the city. The detention order was served on the accused at Coimbatore Central Prison, where he had been remanded in judicial custody, on Tuesday morning, the sources said. The school principal, Meera Jackson alias Mini Jackson, was also arrested in the case for her alleged failure to report the incident to the police, and was subsequently granted conditional bail by the Special Court for POCSO Act Cases in Coimbatore. The teacher is alleged to have sexually assaulted the victim on the school premises. Further investigation is on.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)   The detention order was served on the accused at Coimbatore Central Prison, where he had been remanded in judicial custody||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teacher-who-was-held-for-sexual-assault-detained-under-goondas-act/article37957237.ece
15 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Isha founder commends Green T.N. Mission||Founder of Isha Foundation Jaggi Vasudev commended the State government for its ‘Green Tamil Nadu Mission’ that aims at increasing the forest and tree cover in the State from the present 23.8% to 33% by 2030-31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isha-founder-commends-green-tn-mission/article37957304.ece
15 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three coir units closed down near Pollachi for violations||The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) on Tuesday ordered the closure of three coir pith manufacturing units near Pollachi in Coimbatore district on charges of causing air and water pollution. Officials said that the three units were functioning in Thimmanguthu village near Pollachi for nearly five years. The waste water from these units caused pollution of groundwater and nearby water bodies and the dust generated during the drying process caused air pollution in the locality. The Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal had passed an order on August 25 this year that the TNPCB must initiate action against the three units for non-compliance to the environmental norms, officials said. The coir pith manufacturing units did not take steps to mitigate the pollution following the order, following which TNPCB chairman A. Udhayan ordered the closure and disconnection of power supply to the three units as per the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act. On Tuesday, Tangedco disconnected the power supply to the three units, according to the TNPCB officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-coir-units-closed-down-near-pollachi-for-violations/article37957306.ece
15 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kovai Courtallam reopens to tourists||Kovai Courtallam waterfall, one of the popular tourist spots in Coimbatore district, recorded over 500 visitors on Tuesday as it reopened after a gap of over two months. The Forest Department had closed Kovai Courtallam for visitors on October 4 following increase in inflow of water due to rain. According to T. Saravanan, Boluvampatti Forest Range Officer, the visitors will be allowed into Kovai Courtallam only in four time slots – 9 a.m. to 9.30 a.m., 10.30 a.m. to 11 a.m., 12 noon to 12.30 p.m. and 1.30 p.m. to 2 p.m. Only 150 visitors will be allowed per time slot to prevent overcrowding as part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures, he said. “In the weekends, we will allow 200 to 250 visitors for each of these batches,” Mr. Saravanan said. All visitors are required to register online atwww.coimbatorewilderne ss. comprior to visiting Kovai Courtallam, according to the Forest Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kovai-courtallam-reopens-to-tourists/article37957300.ece
15 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Salem Division of Southern Railway announced on Tuesday that the cancellation of the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) trains between Mettupalayam and Udhagamandalam has been extended till December 21. According to a release, Train No. 06136 Mettupalayam – Udhagamandalam and Train No. 06137 Udhagamandalam – Mettupalayam special trains, which were initially cancelled on October 23, will continue to remain cancelled due to landslides and fallen boulders triggered by rain in the Kallar – Coonoor section of the NMR line. The NMR services between Coonoor and Udhagamandalam will continue uninterrupted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37957293.ece
15 December 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Transgender murdered||A transgender was found murdered with injuries on her face at B. Mutlur near Parangipettai on Tuesday. The police gave the name of the victim as Panimalar, 31, of Manalur near Chidambaram. Local residents found the body with deep wounds on the face and the head, in an eucalyptus farm at B. Mutlur and alerted the police. On information, police officials inspected the scene of crime. The body was retrieved and sent for post-mortem to Chidambaram Government General Hospital. The motive behind the murder was not known immediately, though the police were inquiring various angles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transgender-murdered/article37957651.ece
15 December 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Zero deaths in Cuddalore||Cuddalore district recorded nil COVID-19-related deaths on Tuesday. Six persons tested positive. Villupuram district reported one case. No fresh cases were reported in Kallakurichi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/zero-deaths-in-cuddalore/article37957652.ece
15 December 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||School buses inspected||District Collector S. Divyadarshini inspected 210 school buses in the district for fitness and safety aspects. The Collector and Regional Transport Officer D. Damodaran carried out the inspection near Dharmapuri travellers bungalow. The vehicles were checked for proper functioning of emergency exit, GPS device, fire extinguisher, first-aid box and other aspects. Nine vehicles that were found violating safety norms were advised to rectify the problems within a week. Officials said that vehicles operating without finishing periodical inspection would be impounded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-buses-inspected/article37957415.ece
15 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Devotees throng temple on Vaikunta Ekadasi||On account of Vaikunta Ekadasi , devotees in large numbers thronged the Kasturi Aranganathar Perumal Temple at Kottai in the city on Tuesday. The opening of Paramapada Vasal was held at 4.45 a.m., However, in view of COVID-19 restrictions, devotees were not allowed to take part. Only priests, temple staff and officials of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department (HR and CE) witnessed the event. Devotees were allowed to visit the temple and offer prayers from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. on the day. Sources said that only those wearing mask were allowed inside the premises after thermal scanning. They were not allowed to carry puja items and barricades were erected to ensure queue. Devotees were asked to leave the premises immediately after offering prayers. Police personnel were posted inside and around the temple and the temple staff asked the devotees to ensure personal distancing while on the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devotees-throng-temple-on-vaikunta-ekadasi/article37957412.ece
15 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled persons seek hike in monthly assistance||Members of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) staged a protest in front of the Revenue Divisional Office here on Tuesday urging the State government to increase their monthly assistance. The members said that the persons with 40% disability were given a maximum of Rs. 3,800 as monthly assistance in Puducherry and Rs. 3,016 in Telangana. “The DMK in its election manifesto had promised to increase the assistance from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 1,500,” they said and added that no steps were taken by the government in the last six months to fulfil the promise. They said that COVID-19 pandemic had hit their life as they were unable to fulfil their basic needs and that of their family members. In Salem, the differently abled persons staged a protest in front of Collectorate on Tuesday. The protesters demanded the State government to provide a monthly assistance of Rs. 3,000 for persons with 40% disabilities and Rs. 5,000 for those with severe disabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-persons-seek-hike-in-monthly-assistance/article37957407.ece
15 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man gets 20 years jail for sexual assault||A 23-year-old man was on Tuesday sentenced to 20 years of imprisonment for marrying a minor girl and sexually assaulting her. The prosecution case is that N. Kullaiyan alias Rajamanickam of P.K. Pudur in Anthiyur befriended the 11-year-old girl and married her on May 14, 2020. The girl’s parents lodged a complaint with the All Women Police Station in Anthiyur, who registered a case under Sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. The man was arrested and lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison. The girl was sent with her parents. On Tuesday, Mahila Court judge R. Malathi found the accused guilty and sentenced him to undergo 20 years imprisonment. The judge also recommended the State government to provide a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh to the victim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-20-years-jail-for-sexual-assault/article37957409.ece
15 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC crew stage protest in Talavadi over alleged attack on driver||The drivers and conductors of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) staged a protest and halted services to Talavadi Hill for over three hours on Monday evening after an alleged attack on a TNSTC bus driver by a motorist. A TNSTC bus from Panahahalli village, drove by Bangaru (53) of Doddagajanur, was on its way to Talavadi bus stand. While the bus crossed Mallankuzhi, a man on a two-wheeler intercepted the bus, and reportedly assaulted the driver. Efforts by commuters to nab the man failed as he fled on his vehicle. The driver was taken to Upgraded Primary Health Centre at Talavadi and later shifted to the Government Hospital at Chamrajanagar in Karnataka.As the news spread, TNSTC drivers and conductors refused to operate buses from the bus stand and staged a protest. They wanted an attempt to murder case registered against the man. The attacker was identified as Sivanathan (36) of Tamilpuram. Inquiries revealed that the man attacked the driver for not giving him way. Police held talks with the protesters and promised to take action against the man. Later, the protest was withdrawn and bus services that were halted from 4 p.m. resumed at 7.30 p.m. The halt in bus services hit students and regular commuters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-crew-stage-protest-in-talavadi-over-alleged-attack-on-driver/article37957417.ece
15 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Water release in LBP canal extended by 34 days||The State government has passed an order for extending the water release in the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal by 34 days from December 13 to January 15, 2022. Usually, water is released from the Bhavanisagar dam into the LBP main canal to benefit 1.03 lakh acres in the districts of Erode, Tiruppur and Karur from August 15 to December 12 every year for 120 days. In the current year, water was released on August 15 in the LBP main canal with ‘even number’ sluice gates, and ‘odd number’ sluice gates in the Chennasamudram canal ayacut areas to benefit 1,03,500 acres in Gobichettipalayam, Bhavani, Perundurai, Erode, Modakkurichi and Kodumudi Taluks in Erode district and Kangayam Taluk in Tiruppur district and Aravakurichi Taluk in Karur district. On August 20, breach occurred in the main canal inundating houses and farm lands at Malaipalayam village in Perundurai Union after which discharge was stopped. Works to attend the breach was carried out and completed in over 20 days and members of Keel, Bhavani Vivasayigal Nala Sangam, Keel Bhavan Murai Neer Pasana Vivasaigal Federation and Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association urge the government to extend the water release date by one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-release-in-lbp-canal-extended-by-34-days/article37957408.ece
15 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 51 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Tuesday reported 51 new cases of COVID-19, which took the overall tally to 1,07,065. A total of 65 persons were discharged after treatment and the district had 605 active cases as on Tuesday. Of the 42 fresh cases reported in Salem district on Tuesday, 29 cases were indigenous and 16 cases were in the Corporation limits. As per bulletin, one death was reported in Salem Namakkal district reported 42 new cases, all indigenous. Eight cases were reported in Dharmapuri and 10 cases in Krishnagiri. A total of 107 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday. Tiruppur district reported 44 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-51-new-covid-19-cases/article37957405.ece
15 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Carcass of tiger found||The carcass of a tiger in a decomposed state was found in a stream located near Jerahalli Forest Range at Hasanur Division in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve on Tuesday. The farmers, who found the carcass, alerted the Forest Department officials. The officials said that the tiger, aged between five and eight years, could have died five days ago. An autopsy will be held on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/carcass-of-tiger-found/article37957396.ece
15 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Kavindapadi sub-station , power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on December 16 at Kavindapadi, Kolathupalayam, Odathurai, Pethampalayam, Ellispettai, Singanallur, Perundalaiyur, Vellankovil, Appakudal, Krishnapuram, Dharmapuri, K. Pudur, Marappampalayam, Ayyampalayam, Velampalayam, Chandirapuram, Perumapalayam, Thannachipatti, Pandiyampalayam, Kunjaramadai, Odamedu, Karukkampalayam, Kannadipudur, Manickavalasu, Ayyanvalasu, Manipuram, Viralimedu, Thangamedu, Sevacoundanur, Alandur, Kavundampalayam, Kuttipalayam and Serayampalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37957410.ece
15 December 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||Act against forced change of sexual orientation: Kerala HC||Stringent action should be taken against any forced conversion of sexual orientation or gender identity and expression of persons of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Intersex and Queer (LGBTIQ) community, the Kerala High Court has said and directed the State to frame guidelines for such procedures. The High Court said that if medically conversion therapy was possible, then guidelines for the same were necessary and directed the Kerala government to look into the matter and if needed, constitute an expert committee to study the issue. “Based on the study report, respondent 1 will frame a guideline and produce the same before this court within five months,” Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan said and listed the matter for further hearing on May 18, 2022. The court said that on the next date the government should place the guidelines on record. The court was hearing a plea by Queerala, an organisation for Malayali LGBTIQ community, and a “transman” who claims to be a victim of forced conversion therapy, who have sought a declaration that any form of forced conversion therapy or treatment of people belonging to LGBTIQ community “was illegal, unconstitutional and a violation of their fundamental rights”. The petitioners alleged that there is forced conversion at the instance of the medical practitioners and that it creates several physical problems to members of their community as there were no guidelines prescribing such conversions. The State Government conceded that there were no guidelines, but said that it had not received any complaints that there were forced conversions as alleged in the writ petition. It told the court that if there were any such forced conversions, then they were illegal and appropriate steps would be taken.  Petitioners say forced conversion at the instance of medical practitioners creates several physical problems to members of their community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/act-against-forced-change-of-sexual-orientation-kerala-hc/article37957102.ece
15 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,TAMIL NADU||Bird flu hits Kottayam; ducks to be culled today||In a major blow to duck farmers ahead of the festive season, authorities have confirmed the presence of a highly pathogenic avian influenza virus in three panchayats of Kottayam district. District Collector P.K. Jayasree said the presence of H5N1 virus, a subtype of influenza A virus, was confirmed at Kattamada (wards 4, 5) in Vechoor panchayat, Vendakari Kizhakkechira in Kallara (ward 1), and the Kallungathara Ikkarasala paddy polders in Aymanam (ward 3) in tests conducted at the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. An emergency meeting convened by the Collector on Tuesday decided to kick-start culling of all domestic birds in a km radius of the locations where the virus has been detected. The culling operations will commence on Wednesday and 10 rapid response teams (RRTs) of the Animal Husbandry Department have been set up for the purpose. As per a primary assessment, 28,500 to 35,000 birds will have to be culled to keep the disease in check. A blanket ban on movement of poultry, including ducks, chicken, quail, and other domestic birds, has been declared in the one km radius of the infected areas. According to the Collector, a compensation of Rs. 100 will be given to ducks below 60 days and Rs. 200 to those above 60 days. Culling in Alappuzha Bird flu (H5N1) in ducks was confirmed in two more grama panchayats in Alappuzha on Tuesday. Officials of the Animal Husbandry department said the outbreak was reported from three places in Nedumudi grama panchayat and two spots in Karuvatta. A total of 38,675 ducks within one-km radius of the hotspots would be culled to tackle the spread of the disease. “Culling operations will begin on Wednesday morning. Carcasses of culled birds will be burned. Apart from ducks, other domestic birds in these areas will also be culled,” said an official. Last week, bird flu was confirmed in ducks at Kunnumma South (ward 10) in Thakazhy grama panchayat. Following this, rapid response teams culled more than 9,000 birds, mostly ducks, within one-km radius of the infected area. ( With inputs from Alappuzha bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bird-flu-hits-kottayam-ducks-to-be-culled-today/article37957109.ece
15 December 2021||Kozhikode,TAMIL NADU||Another school adopts unisex uniform||The concept of gender neutral uniforms in schools is being extended to the higher secondary section too in the State, with the Plus One students of Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Balussery, Kozhikode, joining the bandwagon. The higher secondary section of the school is open to both girls and boys though the name of the institution may give another impression. It was the Valayanchirangara Government Lower Primary School near Perumbavoor in Ernakulam district that launched a unisex uniform for the first time in the State. The students wear three-fourth shorts and shirts to the school. R. Indu, principal of the Balussery school, said the proposal to have a gender neutral uniform for the Plus One classes came from the students in Plus Two classes. It was discussed in the staff council and parent-teacher association meetings and approved. The students have already started wearing shirts and trousers. Meanwhile, the issue is being discussed on social media platforms as well in the wake of the opposition from certain student organisations. Journalist and academic Arun Kumar wrote on Facebook that gender-neutral uniform would dismantle the consciousness that enabled men to look at the human body as a commodity. Academic N.V. Mohammed Rafi wrote that girl students were asked to wear a special coat in many schools. “It is part of a training to view female breasts as a sexual organ alone,” he wrote. Quoting Simone de Beauvoir  and Michel Foucault, he said social institutions intervened in the lives of children at various stages and used their power in different ways. Women were being defined and confined as a body fit for procreation alone, growing up with their individual character and intellectual capabilities cancelled. The gender neutral uniform was an idea against that, said Mr. Rafi. Minister for Higher Education R. Bindu will officially declare the initiative ‘Ore Swathanthryam, Ore Sameepanam’ (Equality in Freedom, Approach) open at 11.30 a.m. on Wednesday through the online mode. Actor Rima Kallingal and police officer N.A. Vinaya will join the Google Meet session along with K.M. Sachin Dev, MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-school-adopts-unisex-uniform/article37957107.ece
15 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Court transfers probe into 2019 TNPSC examination scam to CBI||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday transferred the investigation into the 2019 Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) Group IV services examination scam from the CB-CID to the CBI. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan directed the CBI to conduct a free and fair investigation and file a charge-sheet as early as possible. The court passed the order in connection with a petition filed in 2020 by I. Mohamed Razvi of Madurai. The petitioner had sought a CBI probe intothe exam scam, saying the examination held in 2019 was marred by malpractices. In the examination in question, the accused had given special pens with vanishing ink to the candidates to fill in the answer sheets. The ink would disappear in two to three hours, and then, the accused would fill in the answer sheets with the correct answers. The CB-CID had registered a case in connection with the malpractices that took place in Rameswaram and Keelakarai taluk in Ramanathapuram district. The offence was committed by a few persons in connivance with a record clerk and a typist of the TNPSC. The accused had enticed 99 candidates with the promise of securing them jobs, and collected money for the purpose. Earlier, the CB-CID told the court in a status report that a total of 118 people were arrested, including 98 candidates, two TNPSC staff and a van driver. One candidate died due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-transfers-probe-into-2019-tnpsc-examination-scam-to-cbi/article37957230.ece
15 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Contract workers want HC order implemented||A large number of workers affiliated to the CITU wing of Madurai Managaratchi Thozhilalar Sangam urged Madurai Corporation to immediately implement the High Court directive to take 309 temporary workers on its rolls without further delay. Leading the agitation here on Tuesday, Sangam general secretary Balasubramanian said 309 of the 720 workers taken on contract basis in 2008 had moved the Inspector of Labour seeking a direction to make them permanent workers. Later, when the workers approached the Corporation with an order in their favour, the authorities did not execute it, but went on appeal against the order. The Sangam moved the High Court Bench, which ordered in September 2015 that the Corporation should execute the Labour Inspector’s order. However, the authorities had not honoured the order to date, Mr. Balasubramanian said. The protesters also demanded an upward revision of daily wage to Rs. 625 for temporary scale/contract workers in underground drainage project, Rs. 700 for the workers in Street Light division, Rs. 675 for those in Drinking Water wing and Rs. 750 for temporary drivers. Considering the general price rise, the CITU leader said, the civic body should revise the wages as the meagre wages given to them at present had made life miserable for thousands of workers. Though the Corporation had issued appointment orders to the wards of employees on humanitarian ground, the Sangam demanded that they be absorbed as permanent employees. Later, the Sangam office-bearers submitted a memorandum to the Corporation authorities at Anna Maligai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contract-workers-want-hc-order-implemented/article37957581.ece
15 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Build dividing wall in supply channels, HC tells PWD||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed Public Works Department to construct a permanent dividing wall in Tiruppachethi north and south supply channels in Sivaganga district within six months. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan directed that the wall should be completed in six months and the authorities should report compliance to the court. The court passed the order on a petition filed by Mohan of Sivaganga district. The petitioner said the people of Tiruppachethi were dependent on the water from Vaigai dam. There were two waterbodies in the village – the north kanmoi and the south kamoi. The two irrigated nearly 600 acres of agricultural lands. While farmers depending on the north kanmoi were utilising the water from Vaigai dam, those benefited by the south kanmoi were not getting proper water supply as the north kanmoi was situated three feet lower than the south kanmoi, he said. The State submitted that an estimate for Rs. 30 lakh was prepared to construct the dividing wall and it would be certified and included in the kudimaramathu scheme. Following the sanction, the project would start, it was submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/build-dividing-wall-in-supply-channels-hc/article37957386.ece
15 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled stage protest||Scores of members of Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (Taratdac), led by district president T. Nagaraj, blocked the road in front of the Collectorate here on Tuesday, pressing for higher monthly assistance to the differently abled. CITU Madurai urban district secretary R. Deivaraj addressed the protesters, who were demanding Rs. 3,000 monthly assistance to the differently abled and Rs. 5,000 assistance to the severely disabled persons. Mr. Nagaraj said given the inflation and price rise, maintenance of the differently abled persons with a monthly assistance of Rs. 1,000 and the severely disabled with Rs. 1,500 was very difficult. He said while the Puducherry government was giving a monthly assistance of Rs. 3,800, the Telangana government was providing Rs. 3,016. “The DMK had promised to give Rs. 1,500 to the differently abled and Rs. 2,000 to the severely disabled in its election manifesto. But, even this promise has not been fulfilled,” he said. The agitators were arrested and released later in the day. The association would further intensify its protest with a mass mobilisation in Chennai if the demands were not met immediately, Mr. Nagaraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-stage-protest/article37957587.ece
15 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Forensic report says poisoning caused death of college student, says ADGP||A chemical examination of viscera done by forensic experts has revealed that poisoning caused the recent death of college student L. Manikandan (who was picked up by the police earlier) in Ramanathapuram district, according to Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) P. Thamarai Kannan. Briefing journalists in Madurai on Tuesday, he said the forensic examination revealed that the boy had not died of assault by the police, as charged by his family members and some others. “The final report on viscera test has come today and it has concluded that the death was due to poisoning,” he said. The boy’s death was reported on December 5, a day after he was questioned at the Keezhathooval police station near Mudukalathur for not stopping his motorcycle for a vehicle check. “When the police chased him, the pillion rider fled from the scene. The boy was brought to the police station and inquired about the vehicle’s particulars,” Mr. Kannan said. Subsequently, his mother was called to the station and he was sent with her. “Everything that happened at the police station, ever since he was taken there, was recorded on different closed circuit television cameras,” he added. The police alleged that the boy later committed suicide at his house, around midnight, and was declared dead on being taken to the hospital. “Since his younger brother alleged that police assault on Manikandan caused his death, an officer in the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police was tasked to conduct the inquiry. Inquest was done in the presence of the Revenue Divisional Officer, Paramakudi, and post-mortem was carried out by two doctors,” he added. Court’s direction However, the family was not satisfied with the investigation, and based on the direction of the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court, a second post-mortem was conducted by forensic experts. To a question on whether the police had assaulted the boy after the chase (outside the police station), the ADGP said the viscera report did not reveal any assault. The ADGP said the motorcycle that Manikandan was riding was a stolen one. He warned people not to post any false information about Manikandan’s death on social media. Inspector General of Police (South Zone) T.S. Anbu, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Ramanathapuram) N.M. Mylvahanan and Superintendent of Police (Ramanathapuram) E. Karthik were present. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)  Everything that happened in the police station ever since he was taken there was recorded on different closed circuit television cameras P. Thamarai Kannan Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poisoning-caused-death-of-student-says-adgp/article37957309.ece
15 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Consider plea seeking temple land to build school, says High Court||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department to consider a representation made by villagers who sought a temple land to construct a high school in Dindigul district. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan directed the HR & CE Department to consider the representation within four weeks. The petitioner, C. Arumugam of Sirankattupatti, said the government had sanctioned a high school for the village. There was a vacant land measuring 1.22.50 hectares, which belonged to Karuppasamy Temple, in the village. He said the land was suitable for the construction of the school. The lands called Kovil Maniyam were under the control of the temple priests, and when the villagers approached the priests requesting them to give the land for the construction of the school, they consented to it, he said. Then, a representation was made to the HR & CE Department seeking the transfer of the temple land to School Education Department authorities for the construction of the school. Since no orders were passed, the petition was filed, he said. The case was posted for reporting compliance to January 12, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consider-plea-seeking-temple-land-to-build-school-says-high-court/article37957583.ece
15 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam case: HC seeks status report||Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought a report from the trial court in Madurai on the status of trial in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks. Justice K. Murali Shankar sought a report on time required to complete the trial. In March, the judge had directed to complete it in six months after J. Selvarani, wife of Jayaraj and mother of Benicks filed a petition, apprehending that since the accused were police personnel, they could topple a fair trial. Therefore, the trial pending before Additional District and Sessions Judge I should be expedited and concluded within a stipulated period in the interest of justice, she had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sattankulam-case-hc-seeks-status-report/article37957401.ece
15 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Guard loses rifle||A security guard with a gold finance company in Arapalayam lost his double-barrel bore rifle on Sunday night. Police said S. Kasirajan, 51, of V. Karisalkulam was proceeding on his motorbike to his office on AA Road in Arapalayam. He had kept the dismantled rifle in a bag, but found it missing on the way. On Monday, he lodged a complaint with Koodal Pudur police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guard-loses-rifle/article37957588.ece
15 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||University saves Rs. 1 crore in energy bill||Pondicherry Central University has saved about Rs. 1 crore in its annual energy bill by optimising its energy use and harnessing renewable sources. The university, situated on a green campus spread over 780 acres on the East Coast Road, houses 15 Schools, 50 Departments and Centres, a Central Instrumentation Facility, a library, an administrative building, staff quarters and student hostels. Demand increasing The electricity required to power the entire campus is estimated to cost Rs. 75 lakh a month. With power demand ever increasing, the university turned to sustainable energy management with an emphasis on tapping into renewable sources, officials said. The benefit of a lighter energy bill did not happen overnight, but was the culmination of a series of measures taken in the last few years, they said. It is pointed out that as early as in 2018, Vice-Chancellor Gurmeet Singh directed that the overhead high-tension lines be made underground lines to cut distribution loss and avoid power failure due to bird hits and the attendant cost of the fuel required to power generators. The campus simultaneously switched to energy efficient LED lighting. It is installing 139 multifunction meters and energy management software, which is expected to help monitor the quality and quantum of power from a desktop computer. Rooftop solar plants have been installed at 15 buildings to provide a total capacity of 1,223.5 KW. The solar panels installed across the campus generate 2.4 MW worth about Rs. 13 crore. One of the most important initiatives has been the roll-out of a 2.4-MW solar power project in March 2021. It entails no financial commitment on the university. It is based on the RESCO model — recommended by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy — under which a company develops, installs, finances, operates and owns the project and supplies power to the client. This plant, which was formally commissioned in September by Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, is said to be the single largest installation on any educational campus in the country. “We are now in the happy situation wherein apart from saving about Rs. 9 lakh on our monthly energy bill, the institution funnels about 1 lakh MW to the Puducherry power grid each month,” Assistant Registrar and university spokesman K. Mahesh said. The contribution to the grid, he added, would go up in the summer. The university has also installed a 500 KVA diesel generator, a dedicated HT feeder and fire safety/firefighting equipment, all costing Rs. 7.14 crore. All the conventional light-fittings are being replaced in phases with energy-saving LED light-fittings. It is estimated that a third of the power requirement of the campus is being met through non-conventional energy generated for captive consumption, and carbon emission will likely be cut to the extent of 2,900 tonnes a year. According to the spokesman, measures are being taken to expand rooftop solar installations to more buildings and turn the campus gradually into a fully solar- powered one.  We are now in the happy situation wherein apart from saving about Rs. 9 lakh on our monthly energy bill, the institution funnels about 1 lakh MW to the Puducherry power grid each month K. MaheshAssistant Registrar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/university-saves-rs-1-crore-in-energy-bill/article37957650.ece
15 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Electricity dept. privatisation proposal: draft transfer policy given to employees||Deloitte, the consultant appointed by the Centre to prepare the ground for the transition of the Puducherry Electricity department into a private company, has circulated a draft of the transfer policy to the territorial government and employees of the department. The draft of the transfer policy, according to an official source, was given to the employees a few weeks ago to explain to them the ‘benefits and safeguards,’ ensured to the workers when the department was handed over to a private entity to carry out power transmission and distribution in the Union Territory. “It is based on the draft policy that the Power Secretary, Puducherry, invited the employees for talks last week. The meeting was to explain to them the safeguards and benefits ensured in the privatisation policy. We also wanted to get their wish-list so that it could be added. Though the employees did not participate, they handed over their written representation seeking clarity on service conditions and terminal benefits available after privatisation,” an official privy to the transfer policy told The Hindu . According to the draft, the official said, all service and terminal benefits currently enjoyed by the employees would be continued. “In fact, the draft of the transfer policy guarantees formation of a trust. While leasing out the department, whatever money is raised will first be parked in the trust with government control to ensure terminal benefits for the employees. The money raised will be first set aside for this fund and the remaining will only be used for other purposes,” he said. The transfer policy also guarantees that the employees would be entitled to service benefits they enjoyed a day before the transition. The draft has given an assurance on both service and terminal benefits, he also said. “Without taking the employees into confidence, the transfer will not be initiated. The Chief Minister and Minister for Power will also have to take a stand on the draft submitted to the government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electricity-dept-privatisation-proposal-draft-transfer-policy-given-to-employees/article37957646.ece
15 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Legislators attend orientation session||Speaker R. Selvam, Minister for Civil Supplies A. K. Sai J. Saravana Kumar and first time legislators belonging to All India N. R. Congress, Bharatiya Janata Party, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Congress and Independents are attending an orientation programme for legislators in New Delhi. A release from Mr. Selvam’s office said senior legislators, Home Minister A. Namassivayam, former Minister A.M.H. Nazeem (DMK) and two-time legislator and current Minister for Transport Chandira Priyanga are among the 21 legislators attending the training. The Parliamentary Research Training Institute for Democracies (PRIDE) is organising the three-day orientation programme for legislators belonging to Puducherry Assembly. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla inaugurated the programme on Tuesday. It is being held at the Parliament museum and library. Mr. Selvam said they had a separate meeting with Mr. Birla to discuss about the proposed construction of a new legislative Assembly complex for the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/legislators-attend-orientation-session/article37957648.ece
15 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||One COVID-19 death, 24 fresh cases in U.T.||The Union Territory reported one COVID-19 death and 24 new cases on Tuesday. Puducherry recorded the COVID-19 casualty, taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,878. Puducherry accounted for 21 of the new cases, detected from 2,543 tests, followed by Karaikal (1) and Mahe (2). With 29 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 177. This comprised 41 patients in hospitals and 136 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 0.94%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.41%. The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,29,248 cases and 1,27,193 recovered patients. Meanwhile, 6,545 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has to date administered an aggregate of 13,14,772 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-fresh-cases-in-ut/article37957397.ece
15 December 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Dengue hits fishermen colonies||A large number of people from fishermen colonies in Thangachimadam, Rameswaram and Pamban staged a demonstration at Thangachimadam recently, urging the government and the district administration to take proactive steps and fight the rising fever cases in the coastal belt. The demonstrators said the primary health centre at Rameswaram was not enough to serve about one lakh population in the fishermen colonies. Either the government should upgrade it or establish a new facility immediately. In the last week, the number of fever cases with dengue symptoms was on the rise, Jesu Raja, a fishermen leader, claimed. He said local body and health department officials distributed pamphlets advising the residents to keep the surroundings dry and clean. The dengue threat had severely affected the routine work of the fishermen community. The need of the hour was to screen all the residents as many suffered ailments silently. While a majority of the people here were daily workers, they ran a risk of losing their livelihood, he said and added that many of them rushed to Ramanathapuram Government Hospital and some among them were referred to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. Many fishermen, who had no financial resources, were suffering for want of proper treatment. The civic authorities had not intensified fogging activities. The district administration should immediately direct the Health Department to set up special camps in the colonies. Also, blood samples had to be tested. When contacted, a Health official said four cases of dengue had been reported from Rameswaram. Fogging operation was carried out in all the wards and streets periodically. The womenfolk in the colonies stored water in plastic cans and drums. As they were not closed, the containers seemed to be turning into mosquito breeding grounds. To effectively fight it out, anti-dengue measures were being taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dengue-hits-fishermen-colonies/article37957400.ece
15 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem GH sets up centre to rescue, treat mentally ill homeless persons||The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here has set up an Emergency Care Recovery Centre to rescue, treat and rehabilitate mentally ill homeless persons. As announced by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Emergency Care Recovery Centres are being set up in medical college hospitals under the Department of Psychiatry to provide treatment for mentally ill homeless persons. As part of the programme, a separate 10-bed ward has been created at the hospital. Hospital Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy inaugurated the centre in the presence of Head of the Department of Psychiatry Rajeswari, Deputy Superintendent A.Pon Rajarajan and other senior doctors here on Monday. Dr.Valli said in a release that the centre aimed to rescue mentally ill homeless persons, treat and rehabilitate them and reintegrate them with their family. The Dean said that various other departments including social welfare, police and NGOs were involved in the programme. Doctors from the department said that a district-level committee under the District Collector has been constituted for this purpose. Mentally ill persons who were abandoned by their families would be identified and brought for treatment. Once the persons recover, they would be reunited with their family, if their whereabouts are identified, else they would be shifted under the care of government-recognised NGOs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-gh-sets-up-centre-to-rescue-treat-mentally-ill-homeless-persons/article37957414.ece
15 December 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||‘Exempt fireworks industry from environment rules’||The CPI (M) has demanded exemption for fireworks industry from Environmental Protection Rules to ensure livelihood of eight lakh workers in the industry. A resolution to this effect was passed at a two-day Virudhunagar district unit 23rd conference which concluded here on Monday. The State and Centre should take efforts to ensure exemption for the fireworks industry, the party demanded. The conference sought modernisation of Arasu Cement factory at Alangulam and eep under check the price of yarn to protect the interests of powerloom workers. The State government should expedite construction of buildings for arts and science colleges announced in Srivilliputtur and Tiruchuli. Besides, the CPI(M) wanted setting up of another arts and science college at Rajapalayam. The State government should immediately repair all roads that were damaged by rain. The meet wanted Southern Railway to restore all three pairs of Madurai-Sengottai passenger trains that were operated before the outbreak of COVID-19. As of now, only one service a day was available from each end. K. Arjunan was elected for the third term as the party’s district secretary. A 41-member district committee was elected during the conference. Party leaders U. Vasuki and S. Noor Mohammed addressed the conference in which over 250 party representatives participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exempt-fireworks-industry-from-environment-rules/article37957388.ece
15 December 2021||Special Correspondent,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urged to retain seed certification office in Coimbatore||The Tamil Nadu Vivasayeegal Sangam that is affiliated to the All India Kisan Sabha has urged the State government to reconsider the decision to shift the Seed Certification and Organic Certification Directorate out of Coimbatore. In his petition, farmers’ association’s district president Su. Palanisamy said the government should let the Directorate function from here. Tamil Nadu Agricultural University’s seed research centre was in Coimbatore and seed-producing farmers were in Coimbatore and its neighbouring districts – Tiruppur, Erode, Karur and a few others. By shifting the Directorate to Chennai, the State government would cause hardships to farmers, who would have to spend time and money for having their seeds certified. And, they stood to gain nothing by travelling to Chennai for the purpose. Mr. Palanisamy reminded the government that former Chief Ministers Annadurai and Karunanidhi were instrumental in shifting the Directorate to Coimbatore and reiterated in the petition that the farmers would be at a loss if the office were to be shifted out of Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-urged-to-retain-seed-certification-office-in-coimbatore/article37957290.ece
15 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA TBI to act as PRAYAS Centre||The Technology Business Incubator facility at SASTRA, a Deemed to be a University, Thirumalaisamudhram, has been approved by the Department of Science and Technology to act as a PRAYAS Centre (PC) for nurturing the ideas and innovations (knowledge-based and technology-driven) into successful start-ups. The Innovation and Entrepreneurship Division of the DST has conceived the National Initiative for Developing and Harnessing Innovations (NIDHI), an umbrella programme under which the Promotion and Acceleration of Young and Aspiring technology entrepreneurs (PRAYAS) programme would be implemented, to provide funds to convert idea/innovations of young and aspiring innovators into prototypes/proof of concepts. Under the PRAYAS programme, each PC would be supported for five years with grants such as Rs. 1 crore as capital expenditure for creating a dedicated fab-lab and working space of about 3,000 square feet, Rs. 1 crore each year for grants to innovators (Rs. 10 lakh each for 10 innovators) and Rs. 20 lakh each year for annual operations, fab-lab management and other expenses. A total of nine PCs, two PCs during the launch year of NIDHI-PRAYAS (2016-17), three PCs in 2018-19, two in 2019-20 and two, including SASTRA TBI in 2020-21, have been allotted to Tamil Nadu. Among the allotted nine PCs, seven, including SASTRA TBI, Thirumalaisamudhram, are open to receiving applications from young innovators to utilise the incubator facilities. Thus, aspiring innovators especially from Thanjavur region, are invited to utilise the facilities at SASTRA TBI, which includes rapid prototyping labs in the areas of 3D Printing, Internet of Things, Virtual Reality and Drones. The Wi-Fi-enabled facility houses ready to operate work stations, conference rooms, library and other facilities also. Candidates may visitwww.sastrabi.in/PRAYASto know more about the programme including the terms and conditions and the application process. The last date for application is December 20, according to a University release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sastra-tbi-to-act-as-nidhi-prayas-centre/article37957353.ece
15 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Festival celebrated||The Vaikunda Ekadasi festival was celebrated at Sri Saranathaperumal Temple, Thirucherrai near Kumbakonam on Tuesday. The main event of the presiding deity passing through the Paramapadavasal took place at 5-30 a.m. and the deity was taken in a procession within the temple. The festival was celebrated at Sri Madhanagopalaswamy Temple in Perambalur with the opening of the sorgavasal on Tuesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/festival-celebrated/article37957366.ece
15 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Demo held in Thanjavur||The Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers staged demonstrations in support of their demands at various places in the district on Tuesday. The demonstrators, led by its State general secretary S. Namburajan, squatted on Gandhi Salai near Thanjavur Corporation office and raised slogans demanding a hike in financial assistance and monthly maintenance allowance on par with the assistance extended in Puducherry and Telangana. Similar demonstrations were held at Thirupananthal, Kumbakonam, Orathanadu, Thiruvonam and Pattukottai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demo-held-in-thanjavur/article37957367.ece
15 December 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Overwhelming response to street-corner vaccination camp||A street-corner COVID-19 vaccination camp conceived and promoted by a former councillor of Kumbakonam Municipality has received overwhelming patronage as more than 21,000 people have got themselves vaccinated at the campsite. The former councillor, R. Krishnamoorthy residing in ward 10, ensured that a vaccination camp was organised near his petty shop at the junction of Mutt Street-Kamatchi Josier Street at Kumbakonam 100 days ago. The vaccination exercise at the street-corner campsite was extended for a few more days in view of the interest shown by the people to get the jab. As patronage for the street-corner vaccination campsite grew day-by-day, it was converted into a “permanent” campsite wherein 21,174 persons have taken the jab till December 13, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/overwhelming-response-to-street-corner-vaccination-camp/article37957356.ece
15 December 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers request CM to ensure availability of fertilizers||The Cauvery Farmers Protection Association has submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister M. K. Stalin urging him to ensure the availability of potash for farming operations. In the memorandum, the association has narrated the dire need for potash to prepare the agricultural fields which have been ravaged by heavy downpour recently. While the farmers were unable to avail potash through the cooperative societies, the fertilizer was freely available with traders who sell them at a higher rate, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-ensure-availability-of-fertilizers/article37957349.ece
15 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Ganja seller arrested||Thanjavur West Police have arrested Murugan, 34, of Vadakkuvasal on the charge of selling ‘ganja’. The police received information that ‘ganja’ was being sold in the area and conducted a search in and around A.V. Park and Muniyandavar Kovil Colony. They found the accused selling ‘ganja’ packets and seized 1.165 kg of the contraband.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ganja-seller-arrested/article37957352.ece
15 December 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Jail term for murder bid||Judge A. Sundari has awarded five-year jail term to an accused here on Monday. According to the prosecution, P Pinniappan, 52, lived on Karuppasami Koil Street in Bodinayakkanur. His relative Nagarajan had some enmity with his neighbour Kannan. On February, 24, 2013, when Pinniappan, his son Thangapandi and others were there, a wordy duel between Nagarajan and Kannan snowballed into exchange of blows. When Thangapandi attempted to intervene and separate them, Kannan stabbed him with a weapon inflicting injuries. Immediately, Pinniappan rushed his son to the hospital for treatment. Later, he lodged a complaint with the police following which he was arrested. Thevaram police registered attempt to murder under IPC Section 307. Delivering the order, the Judge said that Kannan should undergo five year imprisonment and Rs. 3000 as fine. In the event of non payment of the fine, he should undergo another three months jail. In a press release, Theni Superintendent of Police Praveen Umesh Dongre commended the Additional Public Prosecutor Jayaraj, Inspectors Vinoji and Rajendran and constable Geetha for their effort in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jail-term-for-murder-bid/article37957385.ece
15 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Standoff between striking doctors, govt. continues||The strike by postgraduate medical students in government medical college hospitals across the State, which crossed 13 days, is set to continue as the stand-off between the striking doctors and the government shows no signs of thawing. Though on Tuesday it did look like the government was finally opening the doors to discussions with the striking doctors and that an amicable settlement might be reached, there were no formal discussions between both parties. While Health Minister Veena George and the Additional Chief Secretary (Health) met representatives of Kerala Medical Postgraduates’ Association (KMPGA) on Tuesday, the talk was later described by the medicos as just a prelude to a formal meeting, which was on a ‘friendly’ note. Official discussions with students will take place later, a communication from the Health Minister’s office said. However, KMPGA leaders said in the evening that they had been waiting all day hoping that they would be invited for formal discussions on Tuesday itself. Since they had received no intimation from Ms. George’s office, they were forced to continue the strike, they said. The KMPGA made it clear that they would not bow down under pressure and that they would continue their strike till their demands were met. Apart from the appointment of more non-academic junior residents to ease the inhuman workload that the junior residents were being put to since the past one-and-a-half years, the medicos are demanding the restoration of a 4% hike in the stipend. They also requested the government to send a formal communication to the Centre regarding the issues caused by the delayed NEET-PG allotment 2021. ‘Govt. had kept its word’ Meanwhile, in a press release issued here, Ms. George claimed that the government had “kept its word” and had completed the appointment of 307 non-academic junior residents, who have already joined duty. The prospect of a continuing strike can totally derail all patient care activities as none of the institutions have adequate faculty to manage OP clinics, IP services, emergency wing, ICUs and COVID duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/standoff-between-striking-doctors-govt-continues/article37957112.ece
15 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||No updation of ‘patta’ details in land records, say tsunami victims||Agitated by the inordinate delay in updating their ‘patta’ details in the land records and thereby denying them basic amenities, residents of Tsunami Colony near here submitted a petition at the weekly grievance redress meet held at the Collectorate recently. The petitioners said 202 houses were constructed through a non-governmental organisation in 2008 for tsunami victims and ‘patta’ for these houses were handed over two years later. However, details of the ‘patta’ were yet to be updated in the village land records. “Hence, there is no reference about the ‘patta’ given to the tsunami victims in the taluk office land records too. Consequently, no basic amenity has been created in our area for the past 11 years. Without road, drinking water, streetlight, etc., we are suffering a lot. The Collector should instruct Revenue officials to include the ‘patta’ details in the land records without delay,” said the petitioners, who also submitted a petition at the camp office of Lok Sabha MP Kanimozhi. Another group of people from Chairman Samy Temple Street in Eral submitted a petition for ‘patta’ for the land on which their houses had been constructed. They said they were living in their houses built 120 metres away from the Tamirabharani river for the past three generations. However, revenue officials, who gave ‘patta’ for a few houses in their colony, were asking them to move out stating that they were living on ‘watercourse poramboke’ land. The Collector should instruct the officials to give ‘patta’ for the left-out families, they said. A group of villagers from Therkku Veerapandiapuram submitted a petition seeking Rs. 6 lakh as compensation for an acre land acquired for SIPCOT Industrial Complex expansion in 2008.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-updation-of-patta-details-in-land-records-say-tsunami-victims/article37957402.ece
15 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Four burglars arrested||The police have arrested four burglars and recovered 44 sovereigns of gold ornaments from them. According to Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, unidentified persons burgled the house of exporter M. Antony Raj, 53, at Kathirvel Nagar on October 8. The SIPCOT police investigating the case with the help of the CCTV footages collected from the area found that K. Karthik Raja, 24, of Rathnapuri in Coimbatore district, his brother K. Rajaram, 26, J. Manoj, 35, of Amman Nagar in Salem and V. Dileep Diwakar, 26, of Surya Nagar near Nilakkottai in Dindigul district were involved in the crime. As they were lodged in Tiruchi Central Prison after being arrested in a case of burglary in Kanchipuram district, they were arrested again and grilled by the special team that led to the recovery of the booty. Police sources said they are facing several cases of burglary registered in Kanchipuram, Kanniyakumari, Thanjavur, Thoothukudi, Coimbatore, Pudukottai and Tirupur districts, Mr. Jayakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-burglars-arrested/article37957391.ece
15 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Assembly panel visits Thoothukudi||The Tamil Nadu Assembly’s Public Sector Undertakings Committee visited the district on Tuesday. Led by committee’s chairman S.R. Raja, the members visited Tuticorin Thermal Power Station and Poompuhar Shipping Corporation and reviewed the performance of Tangedco, Tamil Nadu Warehousing Corporation and other public sector undertakings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assembly-panel-visits-thoothukudi/article37957589.ece
15 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Tanker with adulterated diesel seized||The police have seized a tanker with 24,200 litres of adulterated diesel. When a team was patrolling Thaalamuthu Nagar area on Monday night, they found five persons unloading diesel from a tanker parked in a godown at KVK Samy Nagar. As the unidentified persons ran away from the spot on seeing the police team, they checked the diesel and found that crude oil and ethanol had been mixed with the diesel. After seizing the lorry with 24,200 litres of diesel, the team handed it over to the Civil Supplies CID team for further investigation. A hunt is on to nab tanker owner and five others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adulterated-diesel-seized/article37957390.ece
15 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi’s Heritage Park work apace||The work on establishing the Purathana Poonga (Heritage Park) on Butterworth Road, meant to celebrate the culture and history of Tiruchi, is nearing completion. The park, being built on 1.27 acres of land in the heart of the city, was once used as a horse stable. The archway of the stable remains intact and will be used as the main entrance to the park. The park was planned in 2019 and the civil work for it began in December that year. However, as work picked up pace, the work had to be stalled in 2020 following the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. “But for the lockdown, we would have finished the work and thrown open the park by now. The work is still going on and we hope to open it in two or three months,” an official of the civic body said. The concrete structures are all ready, once the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation (Poompuhar) is ready with the statues and murals, the work would be complete, the official said. The civic body has planned to display mural paintings, statues and plaques tracing the vibrant history of the city through the ages. The project has been execuated on an outlay of Rs. 4 crore, of which Rs. 2 crore has been allotted for the statues and plaques alone. According to the plan, the park will feature statues of rulers who ruled the land, including Rani Mangammal, Karikala Chola and Raja Raja Chola. Detailed descriptions of the city during their times and important landmarks will be highlighted. Schools, colleges and parents can bring their children to the park to learn about the vibrant history of the city, the officials said. History class Tourists also can participate in the walk-in history class on Tiruchi. A children's play area, a large herbal garden and an amphitheatre where cultural events can be held form part of the plan. Nearly 70% of the work has been completed, and the park will be thrown open to the public once the statues are installed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchis-heritage-park-work-apace/article37957685.ece
15 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Cancellation of trade fair disappoints Karur exporters||Exporters of handloom textile made-ups from Karur district are disappointed over the cancellation of the annual international trade fair, Heimtextil 2022, which was to be held from January 11-14 in Frankfurt in Germany. Heimtextil, a major trade fair of international relevance, has been cancelled for the second consecutive year due to the pandemic. “Against the background of the worsening pandemic situation in Germany over the past two weeks and the associated restrictions, Heimtextil, scheduled to take place in the second week of January, is cancelled,” an official announcement said. Messe Frankfurt, the organiser of the fair, has indicated that it was working with the industry to determine whether the fair could be held in the summer of 2022. Retailers, wholesalers, designers, furniture and bedding stores, interior decorators, interior architects, architects, hotel outfitters and many other decision makers come to Heimtextil every year. A range of product samples right from decorative and furniture fabrics to textiles for the bedroom and bathroom and table are displayed at the expo. The exhibition also gives an overview of the latest trends in the industry and popular designs. Every year, about 40 exporters from Karur, which is famous for its handloom made-ups such as table cloths, kitchen towels, bedsheets, curtains and other home furnishing products, travel to the expo and set up stalls to attract buyers and secure orders. “It is disappointing. There was lot of expectations (on getting good business) as the fair was to be held after a gap of two years. Sample developments were almost over and we had made payments to contractors for doing the interiors in our stalls,” observed P. Gopalakrishnan, president, Karur Textile Manufacturers Exporters’ Association. Those who had planned to participate may have suffer some loses by way of payments to contractors, flight and hotel bookings etc. Though the organisers are now exploring the possibility of holding it in summer, but June is holiday time in Europe, he said wondering whether such a move would be successful. However, exporters say that all is not lost due to the cancellation of the fair. “In general it is big opportunity to get business. Normally, some of the participants from Karur get orders for up to 40% of their annual business. But the fair was cancelled in 2021 too, yet we managed to get good business. We will have to wait and see this year,” Mr. Gopalakrishnan said. Nevertheless, attending the fair in person, especially in the absence of China, would have helped participants to get better business, he added. Some of the participants were sore that the fair has been cancelled at the last minute. Many had booked tickets, made the registrations and other arrangements may stand to loose some money individually, pointed out Arasu Sethupathi, Joint Secretary of the association. “The cancellation of the fair was disappointing in particular because some buyers who have been buying only from China till now, had decided not be fully dependent on the country and were looking to give orders to manufacturers from countries such as India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. We were hoping to garner some orders from such buyers. It would have been an big opportunity for India and we may miss them,” Mr. Sethupathi said. On the other hand, some also feel that the cancellation of the fair may be a blessing in disguise in the wake of the Omicron scare. “If the pandemic situation were to turn worse there and buyers failed to turn up, we could be faced with heavier losses,” an exporter observed.  There was lot of expectations as the fair was to be held after a gap of two years. We had also made payments to contractors for doing the interiors in our stalls P. Gopalakrishnan President, Karur Textile Manufacturers Exporters’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancellation-of-trade-fair-disappoints-karur-exporters/article37957350.ece
15 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Move to screen older patients for cancer at district, medical college hospitals||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Tuesday said the State government had decided to screen all patients above the age of 50 for cancer at district headquarters hospitals and government medical college hospitals. Inaugurating a cancer screening outpatient department at K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital here, Mr. Subramanian said the incidence of cancer among elderly patients was high. Hence, it had become imperative to screen patients above 50 years of age. As a proactive step of the State government, it had been decided to subject them to cancer detection test at the hospitals. If they visited the hospitals for any treatment, they would also be asked to undergo the test. They would be able to start advance treatment if needed, according to the Minister. Similarly, several patients, mainly those with severe spinal cord injuries, were bedridden for long and suffered bedsore. In order to extend the best possible treatment to them, a 10-bed special ward would be set up at the hospitals. The facility had been opened at K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital, which was equipped with one more RT-PCR machine, he said. ‘Adequate oxygen’ When the DMK came back to power in May, Mr. Subramanian said, the State faced severe shortage of oxygen cylinders. It had a total capacity of just 220 metric tonne of oxygen for medical needs. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin initiated a number of steps to increase storage and production of medical oxygen in the State. Besides encouraging private companies and entrepreneurs to set up production facilities, the State government also took steps to augment its own supply and storage. The total storage capacity of oxygen went up to 1,310 metric tonne from 220 metric tonne in May 2021. An oxygen storage facility with a capacity of 142.5 metric tonne was set up at Manapparai so as to fulfil the needs of hospitals in central and southern districts of the State. K.N. Nehru, Minister for Municipal Administration, Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Minister for School Education, J. Radhakrishnan, Health Secretary, Collector S. Sivarasu and others participated in the inauguration function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-screen-older-patients-for-cancer-at-district-medical-college-hospitals/article37957364.ece
15 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Paramapadavasal opened at Srirangam temple for Vaikunda Ekadasi festival||The Paramapadavasal of the Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple was opened in the early hours of Tuesday, marking the highpoint of the 22-day Vaikunda Ekadasi festival in the temple town. For the second consecutive year, the event was held without devotees due to restrictions imposed in view of the pandemic. The event usually draws devotees in droves as the temple is considered the foremost among the 108 Divya Desams . Devotees were however allowed darshan from 7 a.m. Earlier, the processional deity, Lord Namperumal, attired in Ratnangi (gem studded armour) was taken in a procession, after rituals at the sanctum sanctorum, through the Raja Mahendran Thiruchutru and Kulasekaran Chutru before reaching the Vraja Nadhi Mandapam - a few metres ahead of the Paramapadavasal , also referred to as the sorgavasal (gateway to heaven). Vedic hymns were rendered by pandits at the Vraja Nadhi Mandapam where the processional deity halted for some time. Lord Namperumal passed through Paramapadavasal at 4.45 a.m. The deity was later taken to Thirumamani Asthana Mandapam inside the Thousand Pillar Mandapam. Only officials and temple staff, police and media persons were allowed inside the shrine during the event. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K.Sekar Babu were among those present. The entire temple complex was decked up for the event.The festival, split into Pagal Pathu and Ra Pathu , commenced on December 3 with Thirunedunthandakam. It will conclude on December 24 with Nammazhwar Moksham . In a brief interaction with mediapersons, Mr. Sekar Babu pointed out that the Vaikunda Ekadasi festival at Srirangam, usually held in the month of Tamil month of Margazhi , was being held in the month of Karthigai this year after 19 years so as to avoid overlapping with the Thai Ther festival, another major festival of the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paramapadavasal-opened-at-srirangam-temple/article37957355.ece
15 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Poor patronage for Jan Aushadhi pharmacies||The Jan Aushadhi pharmacies, where generic medicines are sold anywhere between 20 to 80% lower than their branded counterparts, seem to have a low footfall in the city. Lack of awareness and a low profit margin is why customers and pharmacists stay away, some say. A Jan Aushadhi pharmacy stands on the second floor of a building overlooking the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Here, all generic medicines prescribed by the doctors at the hospital are sold at cheaper rates through the Department of Pharmaceuticals of the Union government. There are 10 such pharmacies across Tiruchi city. “The initiative was introduced to ensure that the public does not refrain from taking medicines prescribed by the doctor on the sole pretext of being unable to afford it,” a pharmacist said. However, the public is largely unaware, and doctors too, do not encourage purchasing from there. On an average day, less than 50 people purchase medicines from the pharmacy, while at least 500 can be seen at a private pharmacy nearby. There are no large hoardings or promotional banners. The name too, is written in Hindi which people do not understand, a pharmacist rued. However, the customers who come to the pharmacy are regular customers. “The monthly cost for my medication for diabetes is Rs. 4,000. But I spend less than Rs. 1,000 on the same medicine here,” S. Sundaram, a customer said. The difference is that the medicines are not branded and marketed through pharmaceutical companies. They are made of the same ingredients and are supplied by the Department of Pharmaceuticals directly. Some customers, however, lack trust. “The quality of the medicine is questionable. I am scared of side-effects,” a patient said. Some pharmacists also complained that the profit margin was low compared to private pharmacies. Doctors would not prescribe the drugs sold here as they may have a profit-based relationship with some pharmacies. P. Muthukumaran, who runs Jan Aushadhi pharmacy near Tiruchi GH, has made membership cards for his customers. “I keep a record of their medical history through the card and provide them with medicines.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-patronage-for-jan-aushadhi-pharmacies/article37957689.ece
15 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||OFT to deliver 100 TriCa compact carbine weapon for NSG||Having witnessed a significant surge in demand for its indigenously-developed Tiruchi Assault Rifle (TAR) in recent years, Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, is poised to fulfil an order for 100 units of TriCa compact carbine weapon, also developed through in-house research and development, placed by the National Security Guards (NSG). States dealing with Naxals were keen on equipping their forces with the compact 7.72x39 mm carbine weapon, the shorter version of TAR, Officer-In-Charge of Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, Rajiv Jain, said on Monday on the sidelines of the local public exhibition of Defence Products. OFT, a unit of Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited (AWEIL), Kanpur, is hosting the exhibition as part of the commemoration of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ and India@75. Tiruchi is one of the 75 locations across the country where the Ministry of Defence has instructed conduct of the exhibition of the modern defence products till December 19. OFT, has, so far, completed deliveries for 30,000 TAR weapons, and will be completing the delivery of 42,000 to 45,000 units during this fiscal out of the orders for 78,000 weapons that have been placed collectively by the Central Reserve Police Force, Border Security Force, Sashastra Seema Bal, and police forces in various States, Mr. Rajiv Jain said. The exhibition started with a formal inaugural address through video-conference by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Defence Corridor projects in Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, conversion of Ordnance Factory Board into seven defence public sector undertakings were initiatives aimed at transforming India into a net exporter of defence equipment, the Minister said. Highlights among the exhibits included the Stabilised Remote Control Gun System, a lethal weapon enabling effective combat engagement while the operator remains safe below the deck, for which the OFT had developed expertise with technology transfer from Israel; and the powerful fire weapon NSV-T 12.7 mm Machine Gun AD, essentially an anti-aircraft gun developed with Russian technology, which can also be used in anti-armour and anti-personal roles, mounted on ajeyha (T-72) and T-90s tanks. The High Energy Projectile Factory, Tiruchi, a unit of Munitions India Limited, has put on display its products that included RGB-60 and its range of FSAPDS (Fin Stabilised Armour Piercing Discarding Sabot). Also on display are vintage weapons used in World War II constituting MG 15 - 7.92 mm machine gun (Germany), Fiat - Ravelli Modello 1935 Italian Medium Machine Gun, Bren .303 in MK Light Machine Gun, Berthier Light Machine Gun Mk3, Chatellerault M1924/ 29 Light Machine Gun, Vickers-Berther Light Machine Gun Mk3, Rifle No 5 MK 1, V.L. Pistol Signal 1, Luger Pistol 9mm, Welrod MK 11A 9mm Pistol, MP-40 carbine, and Sten 9mm MKS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oft-to-deliver-100-trica-compact-carbine-weapon-for-nsg/article37957403.ece
15 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||56 new cases, 2 deaths||The central region on Tuesday reported 56 fresh cases and two deaths. One person each from Thanjavur and Mayiladuthurai districts succumbed to the infection, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. Barring Tiruchi, Karur and Thanjavur, which reported 14 cases each, all the other six districts in the region reported fresh cases in single digits. Four persons each tested positive in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam, three in Mayiladuthurai, two in Pudukottai and one in Perambalur. No fresh cases were reported in Ariyalur district. Tiruchi had the maximum number of active cases with 197 patients under treatment including those under home treatment. Karur had 155 active cases, Thanjavur 135, Tiruvarur 84, Nagapattinam 58, Mayiladuthurai 28, Pudukottai 27, Perambalur 12 and Ariyalur 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/56-new-cases-2-deaths/article37957360.ece
15 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Poor quality of TNUDB construction alleged||Allegations of poor quality of construction in the newly built flats of the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUDB), known formerly as Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, at Kalmanthai in the city have surfaced. According to sources, TNUDB has built 192 tenements after demolishing the old buildings constructed about 50 years ago. Barring a few works, mainly provision of electrical fittings, the tenements are almost ready for occupation. Sixty-four people, who have allotments in the demolished structures, are said to have been shortlisted for reallottment. Some of the residents allege that the construction, including wall plaster, is of poor quality. Upon information, CPI (M) cadre led by its Tiruchi district secretary R. Raja visited the tenements on Sunday. “We find the quality of construction to be poor. It needs to be assessed with experts before the houses are allotted to beneficiaries,” said Mr. Raja. Collector S. Sivarasu, when contacted, said he had sought a report from TNUDB officials on the complaint. He would visit the tenements before taking action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-quality-of-tnudb-construction-alleged/article37957362.ece
15 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Marked rise in child marriages, says SP||Child marriages have markedly increased in Tiruchi in the last year during the COVID-19 lockdown, Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar said here on Saturday. In the last year alone, over 200 cases have been registered, many of which came to light only after the child becomes pregnant and visits a hospital for delivery, he said. Addressing a gathering of women police personnel at a workshop on ‘Child Marriage Act and FIR process’ organised by Childline 1098, Mr. Kumar said that the workshop would act as a refresher course for the personnel who handle these cases. Parents of the child, organisers of the marriage, attendees at the marriage ceremony and those failing to stop the marriage can all be prosecuted under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, he said. Citing an example from a recent case where a child bride had complained against the groom and his family, Mr. Kumar said that the victim was the complainant who could turn hostile later. “Remember that you must always involve the District Social Welfare Office and register a complaint through them so that these issues can be avoided,” he said. S. Martin, advocate, District Legal Service Authority, and M. Murugeshwari, Professor, Department of Women’s Studies, Bharathidasan University, took part as facilitators. J. Godwin Prem Singh, Director, Childline Nodal Agency, Tiruchi, was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marked-rise-in-child-marriages-says-sp/article37957687.ece
15 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Ten arrested for murder of youth||Tiruverumbur police on Tuesday arrested 10 persons on the charge of murdering Felix Thomsonraj (25) of Ponneripuram two days ago. Felix Thomsonraj was hacked to death by a gang when he was riding a load carrier at Mavadikulam on Sunday. The murder was said to be in revenge for the killing of J. Chinrasu of Kottapattu about two months ago. Investigation revealed that J. Sakthivel (21) and J. Ramesh (26), brothers of Chinrasu, murdered Felix Thomsonraj with the support of eight others. Felix’s brother, Alex, was said to have murdered Chinrasu, police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ten-arrested-for-murder-of-youth/article37957368.ece
15 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Street lights inaugurated||Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru inaugurated 32 pairs of street lights between railway junction overbridge to Crawford Road along Madurai Road in the city on Tuesday. The 32 posts with 64 street lamps were installed at a cost of Rs. 28.45 lakh. Earlier Mr. Nehru inaugurated a couple of borewells with water tanks, established at a cost of Rs. 7.35 lakh, at Puthur Mandhai and South Muthuraja Street, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/street-lights-inaugurated/article37957358.ece
15 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Constable removed from service||A constable attached to Siruganur police station has been removed from service for violation of conduct rules. According to sources, Naveen, 33, of Muthurajapalayam joined the police service in 2011. He married in 2013 and got married to another woman in 2016 and had two children. But he allegedly had an affair with another woman. She subsequently lodged a complaint with senior police officials. Acting on the complaint, Sujithkumar, Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi (rural), conducted an enquiry with Naveen and others. Mr. Sujithkumar said the constable had clearly violated the conduct rules. It was established that he married again when his first wife was alive. Hence, he was removed from service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-removed-from-service/article37957365.ece
15 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Loans distributed to SHGs||Women self-help groups functioning in the four districts received loans and welfare assistance in the functions organized in the district headquarters on Tuesday. In all, 5,459 SHGs received loans and other welfare assistance worth Rs. 278.35 crore. In Tirunelveli, Speaker M. Appavu handed over loans and welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 63.07 crore to 1,001 self-help groups in the presence of Collector V. Vishnu. Tenkasi Collector S. Gopala Sundararaj and the MLAs handed over loans and other assistance to the tune of Rs. 50.16 crore to 1,190 SHGs. In Thoothukudi, Minister for Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare Anita R. Radhakrishnan and Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha handed over loans and welfare measure, worth about Rs. 64.69 crore to 1,374 women SHGs in the presence of Collector K. Senthil Raj. Kanniyakumari Collector M. Aravind handed over loans and welfare assistance worth Rs. 100.43 crore to 1,894 SHGs. Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy on Tuesday distributed Rs. 105.05 crore by way of financial assistance through banks to 2,078 self-help groups for women. Along with the MLAs, A.R.R.Srinivasan and S. Thangapandian, he gave away assistance worth Rs. 75,000 each to five SHGs for women from Sri Lankan Tamils Rehabilitation camps. The Collector said that the assistance was being given to the SHGs through Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women for social and economic empowerment of women through education, employment, economic development and self-reliance. The corporation was implementing its programmes through Tamil Nadu STate Rural Livelihoods Mission and Tamil Nadu Urban Livelihoods Mission. Stating that former Chief Minister, M. Karunanidhi, formed the SHGs first in Dharmapuri in the country in 1989, the SHGs were given proper training and provided bank assistance for them to take up income generation activities for their socio-economic empowerment. A total of Rs. 104.79 crore was given to 1,910 SHGs and Rs. 14.30 lakh to 143 roadside vendors under Prime Minister's Self-Reliant India Scheme and Rs. 11.25 lakh to 25 SHGs under Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project. District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Tamil Nadu Rural Livelihoods Mission, Project Director, Deivendran, District Lead Bank Manager, Pandiselvan, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loans-distributed-to-shgs/article37957693.ece
15 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||DMK government is corrupt: BJP||The DMK government in Tamil Nadu, which was involved in corruption and channelising the money accrued to one particular family, had no intellectual ability to design and execute welfare schemes, BJP State president K. Annamalai said. Speaking to reporters at Thoothukudi airport on Tuesday, he said the DMK government was involved in “cut, commission and corruption”. While 20% of commission was demanded for sanctioning contracts for all projects or giving permission for starting industries, a commission of 4% was taken for clearing bills after execution of projects. Since the entire quantum of money acquired through corruption was channelised to one particular family, the DMK’s lower-level office-bearers did not carry out any relief work. “Tamil Nadu should be saved from this serious threat. The people should question this worst threat of corruption, which is the only achievement of this administration. Even ordinary men will start questioning this corrupt government as it will pathetically stand exposed within four months,” he said. Asserting that the Stalin’s administration lacked ‘intellectual ability’ to conceive and implement new schemes, the BJP leader said all Central government’s schemes were being rechristened and relaunched in Tamil Nadu as if they were its brainchild. While ‘New Education Policy’ had been introduced in Tamil Nadu as ‘Illam Thaedi Kalvi’, ‘Jan Oushad Kendra’ was launched as ‘Malivu vilai marunthu’. “While a Minister says the positive features of the New Education Policy would be followed in Tamil Nadu, another Minister says there is no need for the NEP here. We can conclude that this government and its Ministers have no intellectual ability but only siphoning off funds from the people even in ‘Jal Jeevan Scheme’ meant for giving drinking water connections to the rural poor,” he said. Mr. Annamalai said corruption in ‘Jal Jeevan Scheme’ had been brought to the notice of the Centre and the Union Minister had promised to look into it during his visit to Tamil Nadu. He said the loan given by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to ‘narikorava’ woman Aswini, who was denied permission to sit in the common feast of a temple, during his visit to her house was the Centre’s Mudhra Loan Scheme meant for giving loans to vendors and small traders. Mr. Annamalai, who participated in the party workers’ meet held here ahead of the urban civic polls, said the Tamil Nadu Police, who could do excellent work, could not discharge their duties as their hands were tied. Consequently, extremism reared its ugly head in the State and the hands of religious extremists from Tamil Nadu in heinous crimes like bomb blasts in other States were detected by the NIA. He said the government was silencing its critics as there was no space for freedom of expression in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-government-is-corrupt-bjp-leader/article37957380.ece
15 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Governor visits ISRO facility||Governor R.N. Ravi visited Indian Space Research Organisation’s propulsion complex at Mahendragiri on Tuesday. While lauding the contribution of ISRO scientists, he urged them to make India the foremost leader in space domain. Director, IPRC, K. Alaguvel briefed him about the activities of this centre. On reaching Manonmaniam Sundaranar University in the afternoon, he interacted with the ex-servicemen and the NCC cadets in the presence of Collector V. Vishnu and Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli City, K. Senthamaraikannan. After Vice-Chancellor, MSU, K. Pitchumani gave a presentation on MSU’s activities and the achievements, he visited the Departments of Communication, Criminology and Criminal Justice and Statistics and inquired about the academic facilities created there for the students. The Governor also interacted with the students, principals of affiliated colleges, Syndicate Committee members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-visits-isro-facility/article37957392.ece
15 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Forest officials rescue Indian star tortoise in Tiruppur||Officials from the Forest Department rescued an Indian star tortoise following an alert from a resident in Tiruppur on Tuesday. Sources in the Forest Department said the resident from Pooluvapatti within Tiruppur Corporation limits contacted the local officials regarding the presence of the Indian star tortoise in his residence. Following this, a forest watcher visited the residence and rescued the tortoise on Tuesday morning. The male Indian star tortoise, estimated to be around one year old, did not have any external injuries, the sources said. It was released near the Nanjarayan Tank on the outskirts of Tiruppur later in the day. With the scientific name Geochelone elegans , the Indian star tortoise has been listed under Appendix I of Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species on Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) as this tortoise species is threatened by poaching for illegal wildlife trade. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has classified it as ‘vulnerable’. The Forest Department will investigate into how the Indian star tortoise is spotted in the city, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-officials-rescue-indian-star-tortoise-in-tiruppur/article37957292.ece
15 December 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Forest dept. continues clamp down on illegal miners||In continuation of the clamp down on illegal gold mining in Pandalur and Devala, the forest department has begun regular perambulation work carrying weapons to deter illegal prospectors from digging more mines in the area. G. Ramkumar, Forest Range Officer, Pandalur Range (Gudalur Division), said that due to recent efforts, illegal gold mining has almost been completely stopped in the region. “Acting on the instructions of the District Forest Officer, Gudalur Division, Kommu Omkaram, a continued effort has been initiated to prevent people from entering the crucial elephant and wildlife corridor in Devala and Pandalur,” said Mr. Ramkumar. In the last few months, the forest department had used unmanned aerial vehicles (drones), to scope out the extent of the active mines in the area. They have also detained prospectors and have imposed fines on a number of individuals after media reports exposed the extant of the activity in Devala. The action followed after an elephant calf was rescued and reunited with its herd after becoming trapped in one of the mines. Later, an adult tusker was also found inside another mine, which forest department officials believe was covered up by the miners to prevent action against them. According to officials, the illegal gold mines in Devala are spread over an area of 600 hectares, with over 5,000 illegal mines bored into the hillocks in the region. The area is a crucial corridor for wildlife connecting Mudumalai Tiger Reserve and Gudalur to Nilakottai and Wayanad in Kerala. Sign boards have also been placed warning of strict action against people trespassing into the area, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-continues-clamp-down-on-illegal-miners/article37957303.ece
15 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Carcass of female elephant found||The carcass of a 25-year-old female elephant was found in Segur Forest Range in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve buffer zone on Monday. A postmortem of the highly decomposed carcass was conducted on Tuesday. Officials said the carcass was more than two weeks old and that all its organs were in an advanced stage of decomposition due to which the cause of death could not be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/carcass-of-female-elephant-found/article37957297.ece
15 December 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Management plan to be made for Kazhuveli sanctuary||With Kazhuveli wetlands on Tamil Nadu’s east coast notified as the 16th bird sanctuary in Tamil Nadu, the Forest Department has now set in motion the process of preparing a management plan, with a thrust on conservation of biodiversity and natural resources within the sanctuary. The government, in an order on December 6, had declared Kazhuveli wetlands a bird sanctuary, a long-pending demand of conservationists. This is the second bird sanctuary in Villupuram district after Oussudu sanctuary, which is jointly managed by Tamil Nadu and Union Territory of Puducherry. Located close to Marakkanam on the East Coast Road, Kazhuveli wetlands, spread over an expanse of 670 square km of catchment area, are one of the major wetlands on the Coromandel Coast after the Pulicat Lake. The lake is connected to the Bay of Bengal by Uppukalli Creek and Edayanthittu estuary and is visited for nesting by migratory birds on the Central Asian flyway. The southern part of the wetland has been reserved land since 2001. Speaking to The Hindu, District Forest Officer Sumesh Soman said work on preparing the management plan has started. “The plan will give direction to conservation of biodiversity and natural resources within the sanctuary. The Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON) has already done a study on the flora and fauna in the wetlands and the management plan will have goals to conserve and protect the existing flora and fauna, for them to flourish.” “Kazhuveli has varied habitat, including sloping wetlands preferred by shore birds, darters and waders, birds on floating vegetation, water fowls and open grasslands preferred by different species of birds and fauna. We will try to preserve the existing nature of the wetlands. The plan will also provide strategy for species management, anti-poaching, patrolling and curtailing of the illegal trade in wild animals and plant species,” he said. The department will be holding consultations with various stakeholders to sensitise them to the importance of Kazhuveli, provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act and the importance of an eco-sensitive zone in the surrounding areas, he said. The wetlands’ boundaries have already been demarcated, and about 455 boundary stones have been erected. Work on cattle-proof trenches has also been completed while further protective measures will be taken up. According to S. Vimalraj, a naturalist of the Indigenous Biodiversity Foundation (IBF), “The notification of the sanctuary is of immense significance not only from the conservation point of view, but also for strengthening the varied habitats that Kazhuveli supports.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/management-plan-to-be-made-for-kazhuveli-sanctuary/article37957399.ece
15 December 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Assistance given to 2,078 SHGs||Collector J. Meghanath Reddy on Tuesday distributed Rs. 105.05 crore by way of financial assistance through banks to 2,078 self-help groups for women. Along with the MLAs, A.R.R.Srinivasan and S. Thangapandian, he gave away assistance worth Rs. 75,000 each to five SHGs for women from Sri Lankan Tamils Rehabilitation camps. The Collector said that the assistance was being given to the SHGs through Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women for social and economic empowerment of women through education, employment, economic development and self-reliance. The corporation was implementing its programmes through Tamil Nadu STate Rural Livelihoods Mission and Tamil Nadu Urban Livelihoods Mission. Stating that former Chief Minister, M. Karunanidhi, formed the SHGs first in Dharmapuri in the country in 1989, the SHGs were given proper training and provided bank assistance for them to take up income generation activities for their socio-economic empowerment. A total of Rs. 104.79 crore was given to 1,910 SHGs and Rs. 14.30 lakh to 143 roadside vendors under Prime Minister's Self-Reliant India Scheme and Rs. 11.25 lakh to 25 SHGs under Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project. District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Tamil Nadu Rural Livelihoods Mission, Project Director, Deivendran, District Lead Bank Manager, Pandiselvan, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assistance-given-to-2078-shgs/article37957384.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Traveller suspected of having Omicron variant of COVID-19, says T.N. Minister||Currently, 2% of the travellers from the non-risk countries were being randomly tested. In compliance with the guidelines for travellers from the non-risk countries, he was allowed to go home after his sample was lifted. As the result returned positive for COVID-19, he was picked up in three hours, health officials said. Later, six of his family members, who had mild symptoms, were found to be COVID-19-positive. All seven samples were sequenced at the State Public Health Laboratory’s genome sequencing facility during which the S-gene dropout was observed. “All of them were admitted to Government Corona Hospital, Guindy, and are under intense monitoring. They have cold, cough and mild body ache,” the Minister told reporters at the Chennai airport. The Health Department has asked the Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine (InStem), Bengaluru, to expedite the genomic sequencing of seven samples in which the S-gene dropout was observed, he said. So far, 37 samples were sent to InStem for whole genome sequencing to identify the SARS-CoV-2 variant. Of them, four have returned positive for the Delta variant, and the results of 33 samples were awaited. “We have asked InStem to expedite the sequencing of the seven samples as preliminary analysis has raised the suspicion that it could be the Omicron variant. We expect the results by tomorrow,” he added. Explaining the S-gene dropout, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said maximum mutations occurred in the spike protein. “The World Health Organisation has said this will not be detected. This could be an initial marker for the variant. We have 3.5 lakh kits to detect the S-gene dropout,” he said. The Minister said 2% of the travellers from non-risk countries were tested on any variation in temperature at mass fever screening at the airports. Until Tuesday morning, 11,481 persons, who travelled from countries at risk, were tested. Of the 58,475 persons who travelled from the non-risk countries, 1,699 were randomly tested. “So far, 37 persons were found positive for COVID-19. Report from InStem confirmed that four of them were positive for the Delta variant. The remaining 33 persons are in hospital isolation in Chennai, Tiruchi and Nagercoil,” he said. The Minister added that surveillance would be stepped up for persons travelling by train and road. Persons travelling from Kerala by road were screened in 13 border areas, while those from Karnataka were screened at Hosur. Fever screening would also be intensified. Cluster surveillance Dr. Radhakrishnan said cluster surveillance was key at this point. “This is not the time to panic but to understand that we need to go back to the basics of masking and physical distancing. Those who have symptoms should get tested and isolate themselves till the results arrive. People need to be careful while at gatherings and at places of common dining,” he said. T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, and K. Narayanasamy, director of Government Corona Hospital, were present.  We have asked InStem to expedite sequencing of the seven samples as preliminary analysis has raised the suspicion that it could be the Omicron variantMa. SubramanianHealth Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/omicron-variant-suspected-in-traveller-from-nigeria-says-tn-health-minister/article37957238.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Holy procession||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/holy-procession/article37957270.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 107 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 107 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday. One death was reported, raising the toll to 2,489. As many as 117 persons recovered on Tuesday and the district had 1,149 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 44 new cases. The district had 603 active cases as 49 persons recovered. The toll remained at 1,005. In the Nilgiris, 18 persons tested positive and the total number of cases stood at 34,292.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-107-new-covid-19-cases/article37957295.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society and Sri Venugopala Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple: Thirukarthigai and Markazhi mahotsavam, Kovaipudur temple premises, 9.30 a.m.    Atma Rasha Arakattalai: Ara Clinic inauguration, Balasundaram Nagar, Mani Complex, MG Road, Avarampalayam, 9 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts & Science for Women: Workshop on Entrepreneurship skill, attitude and behaviour development, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37957296.ece
15 December 2021||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Council election results set alarm bells ringing for BJP||The Legislative Council election results have set the alarm bells ringing for the BJP as the Opposition Congress too has matched its performance by winning 11 seats. The ruling party has fallen short of the majority mark in the Upper House by just one seat as the party managed to increase its tally to 37 in the 75-member Council by winning 11 of the total 25 seats that went to polls. However, sources in the BJP said it would still manage to reach the majority mark as Lakhan Jarkiholi, who won as an Independent, is expected to back the party. BJP leaders are hoping to achieve this mark in the next elections to the Council which are scheduled in June. Reaching the majority mark in the Council will make it easy for the BJP Government to get clearance from the Upper House for any Bills or policies that are in tune with the party’s core ideology, which the party is keen on ahead of the 2023 Assembly elections. Another feature of these elections is that the BJP, which was hitherto being referred to as a party with an urban base, has now managed to make inroads into rural areas too as a majority of the electoral college comprised village panchayat members. At the same time, these elections have also come as a caution bell ahead of the 2023 polls as the Congress has matched its performance by winning 11 seats. These elections have also exposed chinks in the party’s armour as its chief whip Mahantesh Kavatagimath has lost in Belagavi despite having political bigwigs such as Jarkiholi brothers, Minister Umesh Katti, and the former Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi from the district in its fold. The fact that the youngest Jarkiholi sibling, Mr. Lakhan Jarkiholi, has won as an Independent while the BJP’s official candidate has lost shows that the party has the complex task of making the Jarkiholis to fall in line with the party’s diktat. Party State general secretary Ravikumar said the organisation was happy that these elections had proved that the party was not confined to only urban areas. “The fact that village panchayat members have overwhelmingly supported us shows that the party government has done well with respect to development of village panchayats and rural infrastructure. We have increased development funds for village panchayats from the earlier Rs. 5 lakh to nearly Rs. 35 lakh a year now,” he told The Hindu . Meanwhile, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the results were good though the party had expected to win three or four more seats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/council-election-results-set-alarm-bells-ringing-for-bjp/article37957204.ece
15 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Lakhan Jarkiholi cooks BJP’s goose||The victory of Lakhan Jarkiholi has thrown up several questions about the political equations in Belagavi district. Mr. Lakhan Jarkiholi, younger brother of Ramesh Jarkiholi, BJP MLA, shared his victory with Congress candidate Channaraj Hattiholi, the younger brother of Lakshmi Hebbalkar, Congress MLA. With this, four brothers of Jarkiholi clan are serving as members of the two Houses at the same time. Mr. Ramesh, Mr. Satish, and Mr. Balachandra are in the Lower House, while Mr. Lakhan is set to enter the Upper House. Mr. Lakhan defeated his immediate rival, Mahantesh Kavatagimath of the BJP, by 226 votes. This is being seen as a major upset for the ruling BJP that has 13 MLAs, two Lok Sabha members and a Rajya Sabha member in the district. BJP insiders say that the failure is a direct influence of the contest of the Independent candidate Mr. Lakhan. Mr. Kavatagimath, who ended his 12-year membership in the Upper House, maintains that all the BJP leaders in the district worked sincerely for his victory and does not blame any particular leader for his defeat. Some BJP leaders say Mr. Ramesh and Mr. Balachandra Jarkiholi would have to carry the burden of the party’s defeat. “During the recent visits of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, he met the brothers. They promised him that they would work for the BJP. But they have gone back on their promise,” said a senior leader. However, those close to Jarkiholi brothers ask why the blame is being pinned on them when there are 11 BJP MLAs in the district, apart from the Jarkiholi brothers. Siddaramaiah, leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, said that Mr. Ramesh and Mr. Balachandra were responsible for the defeat of the BJP, more than the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lakhan-jarkiholi-cooks-bjps-goose/article37957200.ece
15 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||It will be relatives galore in Legislative Council||Most of the Council poll candidates who were related to serving or retired legislators, have won the elections. Four of the Jarkiholi brothers will be in the State legislature now. Lakhan Jarkiholi, the Independent candidate from Belagavi, defeated Mahantesh Kavatagimath, BJP nominee. His three brothers are already MLAs. Bheemarao Patil, son of the former Minister Basavaraj Patil Humnabad, has won from Bidar. To participate in the next Council session, he will travel to Bengaluru with his elder brothers Rajshekar Patil, MLA, and Chandrashekar Patil, MLC. Channaraj Hattiholi, younger brother of MLA Lakshmi Hebbalkar, surprised political observers by getting the highest number of votes at 3,751 of the 8,844 valid votes in Belagavi. Sunilgouda Patil, the younger brother of M.B. Patil, Congress MLA, won from Vijayapura. Pradeep Shettar, younger brother of MLA and former Minister Jagadish Shettar, won from Dharwad. Sharangouda Bayyapura, younger brother of Amaregouda Bayyapura, Congress MLA, won from Raichur. A similar trend was noticed in South Karnataka. Suraj Revanna, son of H.D. Revanna, JD(S) MLA, won from Hassan. Suja Kushalapp, brother of MLA Appachu Ranjan, won as a BJP nominee from Madikeri. D.S. Arun, son of D.H. Shankarmurthy, veteran BJP leader, has won from Shivamogga. Congress nominee R. Rajendra, son of the former MLA Rajanna, won from Tumakuru. Congress candidate S. Ravi, a relative of D.K. Shivakumar, won from Bengaluru Rural constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-will-be-relatives-galore-in-legislative-council/article37957201.ece
15 December 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||In Belagavi, Hattiholi, Lakhan Jarkiholi win||Channaraj Hattiholi, Congress candidate, and Lakhan Jarkiholi, who fought the polls as an Independent, won the Legislative Council polls from the dual member constituency of Belagavi on Tuesday. They defeated Mahantesh Kavatagimath, the BJP nominee and two-time MLC. Deputy Commissioner and Returning Officer R. Venkatesh Kumar declared the results and handed over certificates to Mr. Hattiholi and Mr. Lakhan Jarkiholi in Chikkodi at the end of 32 rounds of counting. Mr. Hattiholi got 3,718 first preference votes and was declared the winner by afternoon. The fight between Mr. Lakhan Jarkiholi and Mr. Kavatagimath went on till the last round. Mr. Lakhan Jarkiholi got 2,522 votes, a lead of just 90 votes over Mr. Kavatagimath. Of the 8,849 voters, 8,846 had cast their votes. Of them, 152 were considered invalid and 8,694 were counted. Due to the winter session in Belagvi, the Election Commission had allowed the request of the district administration to shift the counting process to Chikkodi. The Congress and the BJP had fielded one candidate each in the dual member constiutency of Vijayapura-Bagalkot. Sunilgouda Patil of the Congress, sitting MLC and younger brother of M.B. Patil, Congress MLA, won with 3,325 votes. The BJP candidate P.H. Pujar was set to win after he got 2,225 votes. The counting of second preference votes was still on. Independent candidate Mallikarjun Loni secured 2,015 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-belagavi-hattiholi-lakhan-jarkiholi-win/article37957426.ece
15 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Retiring MLCs demand release of local area development grants||Members of the Legislative Council retiring on January 5 next year have demanded the State Government release the funds pending under the local area development grant. Congress member M. Narayana Swamy, during the Question Hour in the Legislative Council on Tuesday, said he and a few other members were retiring on January 5. They had given letters for various works under the local area development fund. “Many works are at different stages. But the Government has not released funds,” he said. Chairman Basavaraj Horatti said the Government should take a decision on this. RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa said he too had discussed the issue with the Chief Minister and would take a decision soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/retiring-mlcs-demand-release-of-local-area-development-grants/article37957208.ece
15 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||PAC recommends criminal cases against erring officers||The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of the Legislative Assembly has recommended to the State Government to file criminal cases against officers allegedly involved in the illegal grant of land meant for farmers who lost their land in Hemavati, Yagachi, and Vatehole projects. The committee headed by Congress MLA Ramalinga Reddy submitted its interim report in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday. Taking exception to alleged involvement of officers in granting land based on fake documents, the committee wondered why criminal cases were not filed against officers so far. “Revenue Department officials have responsibility of protecting government properties. It is unfortunate that they granted land illegally. It is like fence itself eating the crop,” the report said. The CAG had referred the illegal grant of land to the House committee in January 2020. The committee had sought reports from the Revenue Department on the issue. The Hemavati project was taken up in 1970s. A dam was built at Gorur in Hassan taluk in 1979. As many as 172 villages were affected by the project and 22,640 acres of land was submerged. Similarly, Yagachi project was implemented in 2001 and Vatehole project was completed in 1984. The State Government had earmarked 95,359.08 acres of land spread over Hassan, Mandya, and Kodagu districts for the affected families. The Government has been granting land to the affected families for the last five decades, but is not yet complete. Following complaints of irregularities in granting land, Hassan DC R. Girish had ordered a probe by a team headed by then Assistant Commissioner of Hassan H.L. Nagaraj. The team reported that 1,654 acres of land was granted illegally, causing crores of rupees loss to the State. Later, the district administration, as per the direction from the Government, filed criminal case against those who allegedly created fake documents to claim land. The police probe found that 2,370 ineligible applicants got land granted. They got land granted during the tenure of various senior KAS officers who held the post of Special Land Acquisition Officer. B.A.Srinivas, one of the officers, had submitted that his signature was forged in over 50 cases. In some cases the grant certificates had been issued at the Tahsildar's office itself, without the scrutiny of seniors. During the tenure Capt Srinivas Gowda, who was also Land Acquisition Officer, 648 applicants were granted land illegally, as per the police report. Further, many were allotted forest land, without verifying the actually position on the ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pac-recommends-criminal-cases-against-erring-officers/article37957198.ece
15 December 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Person held for attempt to rob priest||The police have arrested a person on the charge of threatening a Christian priest and of trying to rob a church in Belagavi. The accused, Mohammad Nizam Phulwale, 20, will be produced before a magistrate on December 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/person-held-for-attempt-to-rob-priest/article37957422.ece
15 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Govt. defends decision on new BDA building||The State Government on Tuesday defended the Bengaluru Development Authority’s decision to demolish its 17-year-old building at the head office to construct a new one. J.C.Madhuswamy, Minister for Law, said the new building was necessary to keep the records and accommodate BDA staff. The Government had taken the decision in the interest of the public visiting the head office. The Minister was responding to the issue raised by Congress member M. Narayanaswamy in the Legislative Council, who said the BDA had decided to demolish a building in good condition to construct a new one. “Why should the Government construct a new one, demolishing another, which is in good condition?” he asked. Mr. Madhuswamy said the old building was in a good condition, but there was no scope to add more storeys to the existing structure. Considering the number of files the authority had to handle, a new building was necessary, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-defends-decision-on-new-bda-building/article37957185.ece
15 December 2021||Belagavi/Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Train delay: candidates to get another chance to write examination||The State Government has decided to provide one more opportunity for the candidates who could not write competitive examination being held by the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) for the posts of assistant engineer of the Public Works Department because of delay in arrival of a train in Kalaburagi. Raising the issue during the Zero Hour in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday, JD(S) member K.M. Shivaline Gowda and Congress member Priyank Kharge expressed concern that several candidates from southern region were travelling to Kalaburagi by train to write the examination. However, many missed the examination as their train had got delayed by more than five hours. They urged the Government to provide one more opportunity for them to write the examination. Responding to this, Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said those who had missed out would be given an opportunity to write the exam. Earlier in the day, hundreds of aspirants who were travelling to Kalaburagi for writing the examination could not reach on time as the Hassan–Solapur Express they were travelling by got delayed by over five hours.Enraged aspirants, around 800 of them, got down the train at Raichur station and blocked the train by sitting on the tracks in protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-delay-candidates-to-get-another-chance-to-write-examination/article37957202.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Companies let employees try out different work models||In July, Rohit K., a digital sales professional, quit his job with a software solutions company as its back-to-office plan did not quite mesh with his plans, both professional and personal. The management had instructed all employees to return to the office, but he was not ready to change course and return to the old normal. “I value an organisation that offers more choice and flexibility about where to work as geography does not matter in certain roles,” said Rohit, who successfully negotiated for a hybrid work model with his new employer, a multinational corporation. He successfully sought an assurance that he could work remotely from his hometown in Chandigarh. He is, however, open to visiting the head office in Bengaluru when the situation demands it. A majority of corporate firms understand that after two years of flexibility, the workforce cannot be coaxed back to old systems, and their back-to-work plans reflect this thinking. The Indian IT sector is set to witness attrition of more than 1.15 million this fiscal, according to Xpheno, a specialist staffing firm. Hybrid models to curb attrition In an attempt to stem the tide, companies are offering a choice of hybrid work models to curb attrition. Amagi, a Bengaluru-based media technology firm, is reportedly conducting surveys and HR-led focus group discussions to ensure its ‘back-to-office’ policy – to be implemented early next year – mirrors employee expectations and preferences. Towards building a hybrid work culture, Amagi is sifting through roles to see which would require an employee’s physical presence and which do not. “Of the 400 plus employees on our rolls, more than 150 were hired during the pandemic from various cities including Hyderabad and Mumbai. At this point, asking all of them to move to Bengaluru could be a potential attrition point for us. We need to retain our key talent, and do an extensive analysis to see how we can accommodate the needs and requests of our employees to keep them engaged, while at the same time, balancing our business priorities,” says Ashish Kolvalker, Global HR Head, Amagi. He added that future possibilities include only having certain outstation employees fly down once in a while for key meetings. Many firms, including Amagi, are adapting their office space to suit a digital work environment. “The HR team at Amagi has suggested opening a satellite office at the central business district to enable employees staying away from the office to meet once a while,” said Mr. Kolvalker. FMCG company Marico Limited titled its new policy ‘Ways of Work’ design, enabling employees to work from office at “reduced but defined frequency”. It announced that it will provide a location flexibility option to all its staff across grades based on their roles and individual needs. This will allow them to work from a location outside the ‘Base Location’ of their role, for the next 12 to 18 months. A ‘hot desking’ area is also being reserved for members coming out of their turn. This is an area in an office where employees get to choose where they sit. Bengaluru-based fintech start-up Slice has launched a three-day work week programme that will be extended to its full-time engineers, product managers and designers that work on the company’s major projects. Edtech company BYJU upgraded its employee leave policy, offering both employees and trainees period leaves and seven-days-in-a-year child care leave, the latter for those with children aged up to 12 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/companies-let-employees-try-out-different-work-models/article37957183.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||S-gene dropout test proposed for international travellers||With a rise in the number of international travellers testing RT-PCR positive on arrival at the airport, the State’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that the State should start using S-gene target failure (SGTF) test kits at the Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute for probable diagnosis of Omicron. TAC members, who deliberated on the SGTF screening at the committee’s 139th meeting held on Monday, recommended that the TaqPath ‘S’ gene COVID-19 diagnostic kit by Thermo Fisher should be procured in Bowring Hospital that has been designated as a dedicated Omicron facility. The Thermo Fisher TaqPath assay can be used as a proxy test for detecting the new variant, pending confirmation by genome sequencing, stated the TAC’s report. “Those testing positive at the airport can be brought to Bowring Hospital for testing using SGTF. Those who are detected with S-gene dropout (the test takes about four hours) should be considered as probable Omicron cases and shifted to the designated Omicron ward for isolation and treatment. However, for final confirmation of Omicron, their samples should still be sent for genome sequencing, which is the gold standard,” the report stated. Discharge as per protocol “Even if the genome sequencing report is delayed, the patients considered as probable cases of Omicron can be discharged as per the guidelines on the 10th day and sent for further home quarantine. This should resolve conflicts with patients and avoid confusion at the treating hospital, whether government or private,” the report said. Sources in the TAC said that at least two travellers from high-risk countries are testing positive at the airport by routine RT-PCR and express tests. On suspicion of Omicron they are shifted to Bowring Hospital or any designated private hospital for isolation and treatment. Simultaneously their samples are sent for genome sequencing and for confirmation of Omicron. “The results of genome sequencing are getting delayed (about 10 days or more) due to waiting at the lab level as a minimum of 94 samples are required for sequencing. Moreover, only samples with a Cycle Threshold (CT) value of less than 25 are eligible for sequencing. This delay has led to restlessness among these Omicron-suspected patients, who are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic and hence recover quickly,” sources said. “They also test negative for two consecutive RT-PCR tests done before discharge on the tenth day. As a result they allege that they are unnecessarily held back in the hospital waiting for their genome sequencing report. Besides, if they opt for treatment in a private hospital the cost of which has to be borne by the patients themselves, this extra stay is considered avoidable and the resultant expenditure wasteful,” sources said. Recently, three contacts of India’s second Omicron patient, a 46-year-old government anaesthetist who did not have any travel history, were initially discharged after they tested negative. However, they were asked to come back to the hospital as their genome sequencing reports had not arrived. The three - all doctors - left the hospital the next day without informing the authorities as they ‘no longer wanted to stay in a COVID-19 ward after testing negative.” Following this conflict, the State Government released discharge guidelines for Omicron patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/s-gene-dropout-test-proposed-for-international-travellers/article37957189.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Most Cong. wins are at the cost of JD(S)||The big message from the outcome of the biennial elections held to 25 seats of the Legislative Council from 20 Local Authorities’ constituencies is that the Congress has won 11 seats at the cost of the regional party, the Janata Dal (Secular). The Opposition Congress won 11 seats, three seats less than it had won in 2015. Among the winners, eight candidates won the elections for the first time to become members of the Upper House. In Old Mysore The JD(S) lost its ground to the Congress in the Old Mysore region. The party wrested three seats held by the JD(S) in the region. The Congress candidates won in Tumakuru, Mandya, and Kolar constituencies. The party has also retained seats in Bengaluru Rural and Mysuru. The Congress had fielded fresh candidates in the Mysuru region — R. Rajendra (Tumakuru), M.L. Anil Kumar (Kolar), D. Thimmaiah (Mysuru-Chamarajanagar), and M.G. Gooli Gowda (Dinesh) — and all won and three of them against the JD(S). Despite having six MLAs in Mandya district, the JD(S) lost to Mr. Gooli Gowda, who served as a special officer to Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar and earlier as the media officer to the former Home Minister and MLA G. Parameshwara. Other first time winners are: Channaraj B. Hattiholi (Belagavi), Bhimarao B. Patil (Bidar), Manjunath Bhandary (Dakshina Kannada), and Shanaranagouda Patil (Raichur). Three candidates — S. Ravi, Saleem Ahmed, and Sunilgouda Patil — already served as MLCs. Lack of clarity about understanding between the JD(S) and the BJP and conflicting statements from leaders of the two parties on the alliance during the campaign cost the regional party dear. In fact, a few JD(S) leaders, including Kanthraj (BML), incumbent JD(S) MLC from Tumakuru, is expected to join the Congress soon. C.R. Manohar, who represented the JD(S) in Kolar, recently resigned and joined the Congress. In Belagavi, the Congress surprised everyone by defeating BJP candidate Mahantesh Kavatagimath in a double-member constituency. Mr. Hattiholi of the Congress won in the first preference votes while Independent candidate Lakhan Jarkiholi, stood second and declared winner. The Congress and the Independent candidate’s victory is expected to redraw the battle lines in the district in the coming days. United fight Further, unlike in the previous elections, the Congress was able to put up a united show in these elections and issues such as the party’s chief ministerial face in the 2023 Assembly elections did not figure during the campaign. Candidates were also selected on a consensual basis, sources in the party said. The Congress failed to retain its seats in Hassan, Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada, and Ballari. Except Hassan where the JD(S) won, all three other seats went to the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/most-cong-wins-are-at-the-cost-of-jds/article37957211.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Illegal structures: Dispose of pleas against BBMP orders in one year, HC tells tribunal||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the Karnataka Appellate Tribunal to endeavour to dispose of within nine months to one year the cases filed questioning the orders passed by Bruhat Bengaluru Mahangara Palike (BBMP) for demolition of illegal structures. “The tribunal to endeavour expeditious disposal of the cases filed before it, particularly, concerning issuance of notice under Section 321 of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations (KMC) Act, 1976, or under Section 248 of the BBMP Act, 2020, at any rate, within nine months to one year of filing of such cases,” the court said. Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order while observing that the court had come across the proceedings that were pending adjudication before the tribunal for five to seven years in many cases. “If an illegal construction is brought up on the precincts of the BBMP and notices are issued against such illegal constructions, the tribunal ought to decide such cases as expeditiously as possible, as the purpose for which the notices are issued would be lost by sheer lapse of time,” the court observed. The court also directed the tribunal not to unnecessarily dismiss the applications filed by the complainants if the proceedings before the tribunal are a result of complaint registered by such complainants, and not drive every complainant to this court seeking such impleadment. “The tribunal on certain specious plea declines to permit the complainant to come on record which has led to mushrooming of writ petitions being filed before this court,” it pointed out. The court issued the direction on a petition filed by one Shivaprasad Navada, a resident of Koramangala 9th main, 3rd block in the city. The petitioner had questioned the tribunal’s order of rejecting his plea to implead in the proceedings in which persons, who had put up alleged illegal constructions had questioned the notice issued by the BBMP in 2017 under the KMC Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illegal-structures-dispose-of-pleas-against-bbmp-orders-in-one-year-hc-tells-tribunal/article37957181.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||263 new cases, seven deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 263 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30,00,934. Bengaluru Urban reported 158 cases and one death. With seven deaths, the toll rose to 38,275. This is apart from deaths of 29 patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 327 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 29,55,465. The State now has 7,165 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.36%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.66%. As many as 71,308 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 51,436 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,47,27,172.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/263-new-cases-seven-deaths/article37957190.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) sees further decline in Vokkaliga heartland||The Janata Dal (Secular), which registered victories in two of the six constituencies that it had contested in the Legislative Council polls, had to suffer an embarrassing defeat in Mandya, the heartland of Vokkaliga politics. In all, it lost three seats to its main political rival, the Congress, in the Vokkaliga-dominated region and also wrested one. While the two victories for the JD(S) came from Hassan, where the party patriarch H.D. Deve Gowda’s grandson Suraj Revanna won comfortably, and Mysuru, where candidate Manje Gowda scraped through, the party failed to retain Tumakuru and Kolar. In his electoral debut, Mr. Suraj Revanna became the seventh person from Mr. Gowda’s family to register a poll victory. With the defeats, the party’s strength in the Upper House is down to 10 from the current 12. In Mandya, the party’s chief whip N. Appaji Gowda lost by a narrow margin of 97 votes. The party will be worried about the resurgence of the Congress in Vokkaliga-dominated districts of Mandya, Tumakuru, and Kolar after community leader D.K. Shivakumar became KPCC president. Reacting to the results, H.D. Kumaraswamy told reporters in Delhi that the results showed that the JD(S) had been defeated due to “internal understanding between the BJP and the Congress” in Mandya, Kolar, and Tumakuru. “It was a ploy to humiliate us. However, our votes have remained intact in all these districts. We are focused on the 2023 Assembly polls,” he said. Party sources, however, pointed to the differences that the party leadership has with its legislators from these districts. “Some legislators in Tumakuru and Kolar have had no communication. Their role would have played an important role,” sources said. Sources said, “The confusion over a speculated alliance with the BJP, which was clarified only a few days before the polls, has definitely damaged party prospects. The JD(S) did not send a clear signal till a couple of days before the polling day.” The party’s performance since 2018 has been dismal. Barring three of the family members — Anitha Kumaraswamy from Ramanagaram in a bypoll, Prajwal Revanna from Hassan in the Lok Sabha election and now Mr. Suraj Revanna — and Mr. Manje Gowda none of the candidates have been able to win. The party failed to retain key constituencies of K.R. Pet, Hunsur, Mahalakshmi Layout, and Sira that it had won in 2018 during the by elections held subsequently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-sees-further-decline-in-vokkaliga-heartland/article37957206.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Change words related to Kodavas in backward classes list, HC tells Govt.||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State Government to accept the recommendations made by the Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission to use words “Kodava”, “Kodavaru” instead of “Kodagaru” in the list of backward classes and issue a notification in this regard within three months. Justice Krishna S. Dixit passed the order while allowing a petition filed by Codava National Council, Madikeri. The court refused to give one more chance to the Government to re-examine the issue while pointing out that the Government had “mechanically reiterated” its earlier decision of 2015 to reject the recommendations despite an opportunity given by the court in August this year for reconsidering the 2015 decision. The commission, after thorough investigation, had in 2005 and 2010 recommended the Government to use “Kodava”, “Kodavaru”, in Kannada and “Codava”, “Codavaru” in English instead of “Kodagaru” in the list, the court noted. Though the Government had claimed that it had rejected recommendations as the “competent authority” did not approve the changes, the court observed that the Government had failed to point out which that competent authority was. “How could a high constitutional functionary like the State Government be swayed away by the view of some so called ‘competent authority’ remains to be a riddle wrapped in enigma,” the court said. “Even in the order of September, 2021, the so called competent authority remains equally unseen and unseeable...,” the court observed. The court cautioned the Government of imposing heavy cost in the next level of legal battle if it does not comply with the order within an outer limit of three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/change-words-related-to-kodavas-in-backward-classes-list-hc-tells-govt/article37957186.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Forest Dept. plans ‘Kappe Habba’ to create awareness on frogs||The Forest Department has organised ‘Kappe Habba -2021’ to create awareness on frogs. The event will be on December 18 and 19 at Muppane Nature camp of Kargal wildlife subdivision. The Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and head of Forest Forces Sanjay Mohan, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (information and technology) Ritu Kakkar, researchers Gururaj K.V. and Priti Hebbar and others will take part in the event. I.M. Nagaraj, Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests of the Wildlife Division of Shivamogga, said, “The programme is aimed at creating awareness on frogs of Western Ghats, which is among the major biodiversity hotspots in the world. Researchers will throw light on findings they have made on frogs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/forest-dept-plans-kappe-habba-to-create-awareness-on-frogs/article37957187.ece
15 December 2021||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Medical student held for misbehaviour||A PG medical student was arrested by the Amruthahalli police on Monday for allegedly misbehaving with a homemaker, her son and daughter. The incident took place three days ago and following a plaint, the police tracked down the accused. The arrested has been identified as Vijay Bharadwaj, from Bihar and was studying MS in a private college in V..V Puram. He was residing in Jayanagar. The incident occurred around 2.30 a.m. when the three were returning home in an SUV from Hoskote. They were passing Veeranapalya on Hebbal Ring Road when their tyre got punctured. They were replacing the tyre when the accused came in a car and started asking for money and started misbehaving with them. The family left the scene, but the accused followed them till Goraguntepalya and tried to hit their car from behind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medical-student-held-for-misbehaviour/article37957184.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka’s borrowings up by over Rs. 96,000 cr.||The State’s borrowings increased by Rs. 96,509.56 crore in 2020-21, according to the Finance Accounts tabled by the State Government in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday. This includes off-budget borrowings of Rs. 18,421.37 crore. The total borrowings as of March 31, 2021 stand at Rs. 3,97,505.58 crore. Within a year it increased by Rs. 78,088.19 crore, excluding the off-budget borrowings. The total borrowings in the year was Rs. 1,64,888.99 crore and amount repaid was Rs. 86,800.81 crore. PD accounts Comptroller and Auditor General of India Girish Chandra Murmu, in his certificate, took serious note of the way personal deposit accounts were handled in the State. As of March 31, 2021, as many as 71 PD accounts had a total of Rs. 3,989.23 crore unspent. The accounts were not closed at the end of financial year as required under the Article 268A of the Karnataka Financial Code. “Such practices violate legislative intent, which is to ensure that funds approved by it for the financial year are spent during the financial year itself,” the CAG noted. Further, he said that unspent balance lying in PD accounts “entails the risk of misuse of public funds, fraud and misappropriation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnatakas-borrowings-up-by-over-rs-96000-cr/article37957196.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Order to register FIR against Pant, two others quashed||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday quashed the order of a magistrate to register a first information report (FIR) against Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) M.N. Anucheth, and Cubbon Park Police Inspector Maruti B. for allegedly delaying registration of FIR in the CD scandal episode allegedly involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. The High Court also quashed the private complaint, lodged by one Adarsh R. Iyer, based on which the VIII Additional Metropolitan Magistrate, Bengaluru city on November 23 had ordered registration of FIR against them. Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar passed the order while allowing the petition filed by the three officers. Noticing that the police had initiated a preliminary inquiry based on a complaint by Dinesh Kallahalli, a social activist, the High Court also observed that facts such as filing of complaint by victim-woman herself, order of a Division Bench of the High Court against filing the final investigation report before the jurisdictional court were not brought to the notice of the magistrate by the complainant. The police officers had explained in their petition that they had not disobeyed the law in not registering FIR based on Mr. Kallahalli’s complaint while pointing out that preliminary inquiry was carried out by the police as per the apex court’s guidelines by treating Mr. Kallahalli’s complaint as a petition as it lacked sufficient information to register an FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/order-to-register-fir-against-pant-two-others-quashed/article37957180.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||TAC favours lockdown only if weekly TPR crosses 5%||After a second review of its recommendations made in the wake of Omicron, the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that imposition of lockdown should be considered in districts only if the weekly test positivity rate (WTPR) goes above 5% and occupancy of oxygen beds is about 60%. However, the TAC has said the situation is not alarming as of now and there is no need to press the panic button. Around 300 cases are reported daily and the TPR is about 0.3% following a daily testing rate of about 1.1 lakh to 1.2 lakh. “ The State has fairly geared up and readied the health infrastructure and facilities for a possible third wave. The Government of India recommends lockdown as a last resort when the TPR is over 10% and the occupancy of oxygen beds is about 60%,” the TAC report stated. “However, after a quick review of the recommendations made at the 138th meeting on December 8, TAC recommends certain restrictions for consideration by the State as and when the situation demands. The TAC has prudently used the weekly TPR as a guide to impose restrictions at district levels and 5% weekly TPR is recommended for imposing lock down to reduce the burden on health facilities. If night curfew has to be imposed, it should be from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m,” the report added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tac-favours-lockdown-only-if-weekly-tpr-crosses-5/article37957188.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New chief whips||When the next legislature session is held, the Legislative Council will not only get a new leader of the Opposition, but also new chief whips for all parties. For, the chief whips of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Janata Dal (Secular) Mahantesh Kavatagimath and N. Appaji Gowda, respectively, lost the poll battle, Congress chief whip M. Narayanswamy did not contest. Denied ticket The current leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil was denied the ticket by the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-chief-whips/article37957209.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Omicron patient discharged||A 34-year-old South Africa returnee, who was detected as the third Omicron case in Karnataka, has been discharged from Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, the designated Omicron facility, on Tuesday. Doctors said he had returned from South Africa on December 1 and tested negative at the airport. However, he tested positive on a repeat test and got himself admitted to Bowring hospital on December 3. His genome sequencing reports came on December 12. “He has completed 10 days from the onset of symptoms, is symptom-free and has tested negative twice in a span of 24 hours. Hence, we have discharged him. He has been advised one week home quarantine,” a doctor in charge of the Omicron ward said. Meanwhile, the 46-year-old government doctor without any travel history, who was the second patient to be detected with Omicron in Karnataka, is still under treatment at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/omicron-patient-discharged/article37957197.ece
15 December 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Writer Rajeshwari Tejaswi passes away||Rajeshwari Tejaswi, 84, writer and wife of late writer K.P. Poornachandra Tejaswi, passed away in Bengaluru on December 14. She was suffering from age-related illnesses. Rajeshwari was born in Kalasipalyam, Bengaluru in 1937. She met Poornachandra Tejaswi while pursuing higher education in Mysuru where she studied MA Philosophy, and married him. The couple shifted to Mudigere where Tejaswi took up farming. Rajeshwari began writing only after the death of Tejaswi in 2007. She wrote her first book ‘Nanna Tejaswi’ shortly after Tejaswi’s demise, and was an account of their life together. The book went on to have over six reprints. She later wrote a personal memoir titled ‘Namma Menegoo Bandaru Gandhiji’. Apart from being a writer, she was a passionate philatelist and gardener. She collected rare seeds during her travels. She was involved in the activities of K.P. Poornachandra Tejaswi Trust at Kottigehara in Mudigere taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/writer-rajeshwari-tejaswi-passes-away/article37957193.ece
15 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||High Court quashes KSLU notification on exams||In a big relief to law students who have been on strike for over a week seeking cancellation of the offline examination, the Dharwad Bench of High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday quashed the university’s examination notification pertaining to students of second and fourth semester and directed the university to promote students as per the earlier order of the court. The order will apply to all KSLU affiliated law colleges across Karnataka and the examinations were scheduled to begin from Wednesday (December15). After hearing both the sides, Justice Hemant Chandangoudar passed order on Tuesday evening. The order said: “The impugned notification dated 22.09.2021 issued by the respondent No. 2 (KSLU) and also subsequent notification dated 01.12.2021 issued by respondent No. 3 insofar it relates to conducting the examination for the students of 2nd and 4th semester of three year LLB course are hereby quashed. Respondent No. 2 university is directed to promote the petitioners to the next semester in the light of the order passed by this court in writ petition no. 14389/2020 disposed of on 08.02.202. It is made clear that this order is restricted to the students of the three year LLB course.” Earlier order In the earlier order of the High Court passed on February 8, by Justice R. Devdas it was said: “Insofar as the even semester examinations are concerned, the same shall be assessed on the basis of the internal assessments of the students to an extent of 50% and the remaining 50% of the marks on the basis of performance in the previous semester only (if available). The marks card shall also be issued in the above terms, with respect to the even semesters”. Clarification awaited Meanwhile, it is not yet clear about how the university plans to conduct the examinations pertaining to other semesters of five-year LLB course and the repeaters following Tuesday’s court order. As the court has clearly restricted its order to 2nd and 4th semesters, confusion still prevails about the other issues. A clarification from KSLU is awaited. Following the court order on Tuesday, celebrations erupted at the protest site on KSLU campus in Hubballi, where the students have been on indefinite agitation for over a week, including four on hunger strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-quashes-kslu-notification-on-exams/article37957207.ece
15 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Cong., BJP retain seats in Dharwad||In the dual seat Dharwad local authorities’ constituency of Legislative Council, both the Congress and the BJP have retained their seats with Saleem Ahmed and Pradeep Shettar registering wins respectively. However while Mr. Ahmed won comfortably and secured the required number of first preferential votes in the fourth round itself, Mr. Shettar secured the required votes in the final (sixth) round. Mr. Ahmed, who was initially branded an ‘outsider’ by some local aspirants of the Congress, registered a thumping victory by securing 3,334 votes, while Mr. Shettar retained the seat by securing 2,497 votes. Independent candidate Mallikarjun Haveri made a dent in the BJP vote bank bagging 1,217 votes and ended up in third position. Mr. Shettar had secured 3,406 first preferential votes in the 2015 election, but could only secure 2,497 votes this time. The polling was held on December 10 with 99.68% of the voters turning up to cast their votes. The counting of votes was held on Tuesday at the University of Agricultural Sciences in Dharwad and the results were declared by afternoon after six rounds of counting by Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad and Returning Officer Nitesh Patil. Mr. Ahmed, who is also KPCC working president, said that the result was a boost to the Congress after it had won the bypolls at Hangal. The voters had given a reply to all those who had tried to brand him an outsider, he said. “The voters particularly gram panchayat members are unhappy with the BJP Government as it has neglected rural development and discouraged the panchayat raj system. The people have reposed their faith in Congress,” he said. Mr. Ahmed promised to be the voice of the people and work for their welfare. Thanking the voters and BJP leaders for the victory, Mr. Shettar said that the issue of Independent candidate eating into the party’s vote share would be discussed at the party forum and remedial measures would be taken. In Uttara Kannada district, the BJP created a history by winning the seat for the first time. Ganapati Ulvekar won by securing 1,514 first preferential votes. His rival and Congress candidate Bhimanna Naik secured 1,331 votes. Independent candidates Ishwar Gouda secured four votes, Dattatreya Naik got three, and Somashekhar V.S. only one vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-bjp-retain-seats-in-dharwad/article37957424.ece
15 December 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Congress, BJP win two seats each in Kalyana Karnataka||Kalyana Karnataka region gave a mixed response in elections to local authorities’ constituencies of the Karnataka Legislative Council with Congress and BJP winning two seats each. Candidates of the ruling BJP won in Kalaburagi and Ballari constituencies while Congress took Bidar and Raichur-Koppal. The elections were held on December 10 and the results were declared on Tuesday. In Kalaburagi-Yadgir, BJP candidate B.G. Patil created history by winning the constituency for the second time in a row. He polled 3,452 votes as compared to Congress candidate Shivanand Patil’s 3,303 votes. Independent candidate Mallikarjun Kodli secured only 16 votes. As many as 298 ballot papers were rejected. With the win, Mr. B.G. Patil became the only person to win the constituency twice. Ballari, a Congress stronghold, voted for BJP for the first time. BJP candidate Y.M. Sathish defeated his immediate rival K.C. Kondaiah of the Congress by an impressive margin of 757 votes. He polled 2,659 as compared to Mr. Kondaiah’s 1,902 votes. Independent candidates N. Gangireddy and C.M. Manjunatha Swamy polled four and two votes, respectively. As many as 87 ballot papers were rejected. Congress retained Bidar with Bhimarao Patil emerging victorious with a margin of 227 votes. He polled 1,789 votes while Prakash Khandre of BJP polled 1,562 votes. Govindarao Somvanshi of Aam Admi Party polled 15 votes. As many as 84 ballot papers were rejected. The constituency was represented by Vijay Singh of Congress in the previous term. Congress retained the Raichur-Koppal constituency by a margin of 472 votes. Its candidate Sharanagouda Bayyapur polled 3,369 votes as compared to BJP candidate Vishwanath Banahatti’s 2,942 votes. Tirupathi Narasappa of Janahita Party and independent candidate Narendra Arya secured 17 and seven votes, respectively. As many as 153 ballot papers were rejected. By wresting Ballari from Congress, BJP has increased its tally from one seat to two in the local authorities’ constituencies of the council in Kalyana Karnataka region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-bjp-win-two-seats-each-in-kalyana-karnataka/article37957421.ece
15 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Council polls: BJP, Congress win one seat each in DK-Udupi||Minister for Social and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee vice-president Manjunath Bhandary registered comfortable victories from the local bodies constituency of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Tuesday in the Legislative Council elections. With neither party fielding a second candidate, victory was certain. But for the entry of Social Democratic Party of India’s Shafi Bellare, Mr. Poojary and Mr. Bhandary could have got elected unopposed. While Mr. Poojary secured 3,672 votes, Mr. Bhandari polled 2,079, and Mr. Bellare 204. As many as 56 votes were declared invalid. In all, 6,011 votes were polled. Returning Officer and Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra declared that both the candidates secured winning votes from the first preferential votes. Poll Observer and Secretary to Government Capt. Manivannan, Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao, Dakshina Kannada ZP CEO Kumara, Additional DCs of DK and Udupi Channabasappa and Balakrishna, Assistant Commissioners of Mangaluru, Puttur and Kundapura C. Madan Mohan, Yatish Ullal and K. Raju, and other officers were present during the counting. Mr. Poojary is getting elected to the Legislative Council for the third full term, the earlier being in 2010 and 2016. He was elected to the council in the byelections in 2009 from the same constituency after the demise of Blasius D’Souza. He had been the Leader of the Opposition in the council earlier and at present is the Leader of the House too. Having done extensive research in rural development and panchayat raj and obtaining a doctoral degree from Madurai Kamaraj University, Mr. Bhandary entered public life during his student days. He is a sportsperson too and is the president of Dakshina Kannada Amateur Athletics Association. The Bhandary Foundation runs Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management in Mangaluru. South Canara District Central Cooperative Bank chairman M.N. Rajendra Kumar’s hasty retreat from the fray even before filing the nomination is said to have cleared the victory path of both the candidates, particularly the Congress. After Mr. Kumar’s announcement to contest the polls as an Independent to represent the cooperative sector, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar held a meeting with him. This was followed by Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar’s veiled threat of dislodging the chairman for alleged irregularities. Having large following in the cooperative and SHG sectors, Mr. Kumar’s candidature would have affected the prospects of the national parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/council-polls-bjp-congress-win-one-seat-each-in-dk-udupi/article37957597.ece
15 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||SCDCC Bank declares 13.5% dividend||South Canara District Central Cooperative (SCDCC) Bank on Tuesday announced paying 13.5% dividend to members even as it has registered an all-time high net profit of Rs. 33.74 crore for the financial year 2020-21. Announcing dividend payment at the 107th annual general body meeting here, chairman M.N. Rajendra Kumar said the bank could register the spectacular achievement notwithstanding stiff competition from commercial banks. He said the robust performance was backed by adapting to new technologies, including core banking etc., in its 106 branches. It also introduced mobile app and tab banking facilities during the year and would introduce inter-banking mobile payment system and net banking services in the coming days. Implementation of common software in all primary agriculture credit cooperative societies was under progress to introduce uniform software across cooperative banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scdcc-bank-declares-135-dividend/article37957593.ece
15 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Three held on charge of raping minor girl||Two persons from Mangaluru and one from Kerala were arrested for allegedly raping a minor girl in Ullal police station limits on Monday. Quoting the victim’s mother, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said the victim was taken to an apartment in Mudipu and allegedly made to drink alcohol mixed with sedative. Three persons then raped the victim. As the accused were from a different community, people started to gather at the spot. The police quickly rushed to rescue to the victim and arrest the accused. The victim has been sent for further examination and also for counselling. A case was registered against the arrested persons for offence punishable under provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, he added. Mr. Kumar said a few days ago, one of the arrested person and another man were arrested for sexual harassment following complaint by the victim’s mother. The complaint was following people raising objection to the three persons being found behaving an inappropriate way in Climibi Gudde. The victim had earlier accused a head constable of sexual harassment and the latter was placed under suspension, Mr. Kumar said. Mr. Kumar said one of the arrested person reportedly involved in conspiring with the persons allegedly involved in two instances of desecration of nagabanas in the city and create communal tension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-held-on-charge-of-raping-minor-girl/article37957598.ece
15 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Prohibitory orders imposed in Uppinangady||Orders prohibiting people from moving in groups was imposed in Uppinanangady town following a protest by the Popular Front of India that turned violent and police had to resort to lathicharge on Tuesday evening. The PFI activists held the protest outside the police station since morning against some of the persons arrested in connection with recent attacks in Uppinangady, which took a communal colour. In the evening, the protesters prepared themselves to do namaz at the site of protest. A group of right-wing activists opposed it and raised slogans. There was clash between the two groups and the police intervened to disperse the crowd. People from both sides started throwing stones and this forced police to resort to a lathicharge. Nearly 50 persons were injured including three policemen, who reportedly had serious injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prohibitory-orders-imposed-in-uppinangady/article37957601.ece
15 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||15 new COVID-19 cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 13 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. With 10 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 147. Test positivity rate was put at 0.25%. Udupi district reported two new cases. Both patients are from Udupi taluk and they are under home quarantine. With 19 patients discharged, there are 36 active cases in the district. With 6,038 people vaccinated on Tuesday, the total number of people covered has gone up to 28,57,907 in Dakshina Kannada. Of these, 15,94,673 have received their first dose and 12,63,234 their second dose. In Udupi district, 3,080 people were vaccinated taking the total number to 17,46,991. Of these, 9,53,559 have received their first dose and 7,93,432 their second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/15-new-covid-19-cases-in-dk-udupi/article37957599.ece
15 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man who made derogatory post on Gen. Rawat traced||The city police on Tuesday traced Shrinivas Karkala from the city, who is accused of a Facebook post with derogatory reference to the former Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said because of his physical condition the police took legal opinion, wherein it was stated that there was no need for his custodial investigation. Hence the police did not arrest him, he said. The city police team have gathered evidence to show that the post was by Mr. Karkala, he added. Following a complaint by Sushanth Poojary on December 10, the Mangaluru South police registered a case for alleged derogatory references to Gen. Rawat and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval in Facebook posts made from accounts of Shrinivas Karkala, Vasanth Kumar T.K., and Subbarao Ravikumar. The case was registered for offences punishable under Sections 505 (1) (A), 505 (1)(B) and 505(2) (statements conducing to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-who-made-derogatory-post-on-gen-rawat-traced/article37957600.ece
15 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Winners thank electorate and parties||Kota Srinivas Poojary and Manjunath Bhandary have thanked their respective parties and the electorate for electing them as members of the Legislative Council from Dakshina Kannada-Udupi local bodies’ constituency. After receiving the result declaration from Returning Officer and Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra in Mangaluru, Mr. Poojary visited Malpe Somashekara Bhat in Udupi, one of the Bharatiya Janata Party patriarchs in the region, and paid his respects. Mr. Bhandary in a statement here said he was indebted to the members of local bodies from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts for recognising him and electing him as their representative. He was also grateful to Congress leaders for choosing him to represent the party from the constituency. Stating that he would work hard for the success of the party, Mr. Bhandary promised to work in unison to bring Congress to power again. He also promised to strengthen the panchayat raj system in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/winners-thank-electorate-and-parties/article37957591.ece
15 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||briefly||Bharatiya Janata Party’s national organising general secretary B.L. Santhosh will be in Udupi on Wednesday to attend the convention of heads of BJP Shakti Kendras to be held at the Town Hall from 10 a.m. A communique from BJP, Udupi district here said besides heads of Kendras, legislators from the district, party leaders from state and National levels will attend the convention.    The third ordinary meeting of the academic council of Mangalore University for the academic year 2021-22 will be held on December 17. University Registrar in a statement here said the meeting would be held at the Rani Abbakka (new Senate) Hall in Mangala Gangothri from 11 a.m.    Power supply will be affected in some parts of Mangaluru fed by 11 kV Kulur, Marakada, Kunjathabail and Chilimbi feeders between 9.30 a.m. and 4.20 p.m. on Wednesday. Areas affected include Gandhinagara, Shanthinagara, Vidyanagara, Kulur Junction, Raikatte, Bangrakulur, Marakada, Jyothinagara, Korantadi, Basavanagara, Millathnagara, Kunjathabail, Kottara Chowki and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37957594.ece
15 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Congress ousts JD(S) in Mandya||JD(S) suffered a setback in its stronghold of Mandya when Congress candidate Dinesh Gooli Gowda triumphed in the elections to the Legislative Council from the local bodies’ constituencies of Mandya district. Mr. Dinesh, who was till recently the Special Officer of Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekar, defeated sitting JD(S) member N. Appaji Gowda by a margin of 97 votes. During the counting of votes taken up on Tuesday, Mr. Dinesh had secured 2,009 while Mr. Appaji Gowda had polled 1,912. The BJP’s Bookahalli B.C. Manju could secure only 50 votes while independent Manjunath B.G. had to be content with just two votes. According to an official statement, there were a total of 4,019 ballot papers, including one postal ballot paper. However, 46 ballot papers were rejected and only 3,973 were found valid. After the counting concluded, Mr Dinesh was declared elected and Deputy Commissioner of Mandya district Ashwathi handed him the certificate. A crowd of Congress supporters, who had gathered outside the counting centre, burst into celebrations after the announcement of the results. It may be mentioned here that the BJP candidate, hours before the polling on December 10, had shed tears in front of the media hurt over being cheated by the people “whom he trusted”. Elections had also drawn attention over the entry of Mr. Dinesh into the fray. Though he has been with the Congress for a long time, he was working as Special Officer to Mr. Somashekar till a few days before the date of filing nominations for the elections began. Mr. Somashekar claimed that he had no information that Mr. Dinesh had been seeking a Congress ticket, but added that he relieved the latter from the post the moment he learnt about the officer’s plans to contest the elections. He also said that he had appointed Mr. Dineshon the recommendation of a senior party leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-ousts-jds-in-mandya/article37957612.ece
15 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Overwhelming response to expo||Students and general visitors in hundreds flocked to the Exhibition of Technology and Products conducted to mark Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav or celebration of the 75th anniversary of Independence, on Tuesday. The concluding day witnessed a beeline to the exhibition organized in front of the Kote Anjaneyaswami temple opposite the Balarama gate of the palace and the organisers said that the response was beyond all expectations. On Monday the organisers intended to close the exhibition at 5 p.m. but the rush was such that the expo had to be kept open till 7 p.m. The response on Tuesday exceeded Monday’s crowd and it was largely youngsters, college and school-going students, said the organisers. Both the DFRL and the Defence Bioengineering and Electro Medical Laboratory (DEBEL), Bengaluru, which participated and showcased many of its products are Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) laboratories. As the focus of DFRL’s research is on food and meant to cater to defence personnel deployed under varied conditions, it showcased a slew of products developed and patented by it. The DFRL has of late been focusing on degradable materials, rapid testing kit, and diversification of convenient rations suiting the requirements of armed forces in different terrains. Degradable cutleries, photo degradable polymeric materials for secondary packaging, rapid test kit to check the quality of milk and frozen meat, light-weight energy-rich convenient products like energy bars as well as mobile laboratory for microbiological testing were on display. The mobile laboratory had come in handy in the early days of the first wave of the COVID-19 and it was deployed at the K.R. Hospital for collecting and testing the samples for the virus. The DEBL has been carrying out R and D in the field of bioengineering and electro medical technology related to defence. Some of the technologies developed by it include protective equipment, individual underwater breathing apparatus, submarine escape system, and advanced micro-climatic conditions suit for battle tanks and submarines. The advanced micro-climatic conditions suit helps in mitigation of extreme temperatures and heat stress faced by the soldiers operating battle tanks and submarines when the ambient temperature can go beyond 50 degrees C. The suit comprises a liquid cooled garment connected to an active chiller unit and helps beat heat stress, according to the scientists who explained the salient features of some of the products on display. One of the significant technologies developed by DEBEL and which was on demonstration was the Medical Oxygen Plant (MOP) system. It was developed as a spin-off product from the onboard oxygen plant system developed for India’s Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas. It took less than two years to translate the concept from design to development and came in handy for hospitals during COVID-19.  Spin-off product from technology developed for Tejas aircraft was on display Degradable cutleries, rapid test kit to check the quality of milk and frozen meat also showcased||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/overwhelming-response-to-expo/article37957614.ece
15 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Suja Kushalappa of BJP wins in Kodagu||The BJP has retained its seat in the Legislative Council from Kodagu local bodies constituency as its candidate Suja Kushalappa defeated Manthar Gowda of the Congress in what was a direct contest between the two parties. The Janata Dal (Secular) had withdrawn its candidate Ishaaq Khan, leaving only two candidates in fray. The margin of victory was 102 votes. Suja Kushalappa polled 705 votes while his rival candidate polled 603 votes after the counting of the votes held on Tuesday. Suja Kushalappa is the brother of MLA Appachu Ranjan and former MLC M.A.Subramani. In all, 1,325 voters from the elected bodies had exercised their franchise in the elections held last week of which 17 votes were invalid. Suja Kushalappa, who was the district unit president of the party in the past, is credited with working at the grassroots to improve the BJP’s performance in the local bodies elections. ‘Money power’ After the victory Suja Kushalappa said he had worked for nearly three decades in the party and had expected to win by a larger margin. He attributed the decline in margin to “use of money power’’ by the Congress. He said Kodagu district was witnessing development due to the efforts of the local BJP MLAs and MPs all of which helped the party gain the confidence of voters who elected him. The district received sufficient grant and projects and this was responsible for the party retaining the seat, he added. The defeated candidate from Congress is the son of BJP leader from Hassan and former Minister A Manju. The latter was relieved of all party responsibility in Hassan once his son was given the Congress ticket to contest from Kodagu. In defiance of the party’s directive Mr. Manju had campaigned for his son but had vowed to campaign for the BJP candidate in Hassan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suja-kushalappa-of-bjp-wins-in-kodagu/article37957616.ece
15 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||NCC alumni association||With the NCC commencing registration of its ex-cadets for the newly formed NCC Alumni Association (NCCAA) across India, the NCC Mysuru has called upon those in Mysuru to sign up. NCC Mysuru Group Commander Col. R.R. Menon said several had responded. “There still remains a large number who are yet to be registered. In view of this, a meeting has been called of all ex-NCC cadets on Thursday, December 16, at the Group Headquarters location.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ncc-alumni-association/article37957617.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Aspirants for PWD engineer posts miss exam due to delayed train||Hundreds of candidates from south Karnataka, aspiring for the post of Assistant Engineer in the Public Works Department (PWD), missed their competitive examinations held in Kalaburagi on Tuesday as the Hassan-Solapur Express was delayed by about five hours. The train, which left Hassan at 4 p.m. and Yeshwantpur Junction at 8.50 p.m. respectively on Monday, and was scheduled to arrive in Kalaburagi at 6 a.m. on Tuesday, got delayed for technical reasons including the track doubling works in Hindupur. Sources in Railways said that the movement of many trains on the route had been disrupted for the same reason. Enraged after they missed the examination, for no fault of their own, the candidates alighted at Raichur station and blocked the train by sitting on the tracks for hours. They raised slogans against Railways and demanded that the Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) reschedule the examination. The Raichur police tried to convince the protesting candidates to leave for Kalaburagi but they refused to vacate the railway tracks. It was only after they received a letter from the secretary of KPSC that assured an “appropriate decision pertaining to only these candidates” that they withdrew the agitation. The train left Raichur at about 11.30 a.m. carrying the candidates. Meanwhile, the authorities in Kalaburagi had made elaborative arrangements to receive and quickly carry the candidates to their respective examination centres so as to facilitate them to write the second paper. As many as 28 city buses operated by Kalyana Karnataka Transport Corporation, apart from hundreds of autorickshaws, were kept ready outside the station. As the train arrived, the candidates were notified through the Railway announcement system to immediately take the appropriate buses to reach their respective destinations. Candidates hurriedly getting off the train and rushing towards the busses created a chaotic situation outside the railway station. Names of the examination centres were displayed on each bus. The public transport staff and police personnel were found assisting the candidates to take the right bus. It is learnt that the KPSC authorities had, learning from the past experiences of examination malpractices and in a bid to avoid them, decided to hold the examinations for south Karnataka candidates in Kalaburagi and for north Karnataka candidates in Bengaluru. The KPSC letter that was immediately issued after the news of candidates’ protest in Raichur spread blamed the candidates for making such travel arrangements as to reach the examination centre only on the day of examination. “... the Commission [KPSC] had published the Hall Tickets more than a week ago. The candidates were advised to see the examination centres a day before. Yet, they had made travel arrangements in such a way that they would reach the centres only on the day of examination,” the letter read, notifying the candidates to attend the second paper scheduled for the afternoon. In a swift response, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson Priyank Kharge took to Twitter and demanded the KPSC to postpone the examination to allow the candidates who missed it because of the delayed train.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aspirants-for-pwd-engineer-posts-miss-exam-due-to-delayed-train/article37957419.ece
15 December 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||Bird flu: ban imposed on transport, sale of poultry||Alappuzha District Collector A. Alexander on Tuesday issued an order banning movement and sale of duck, chicken quail, and other domestic birds, their egg, meat and waste (manure) in Champakulam, Kainakary, Nedumudi, Muttar, Edathua, Veeyapuram, Karuvatta, Thrikkunnappuzha, Pulinkunnu, Ramankary, Thakazhy, Purakkad, Ambalappuzha South, Ambalappuzha North, Punnapra North, Punnapra South, Cheruthana, Aryad, Kumarapuram and Pallippad grama panchayats and in Alappuzha and Haripad municipalities. The order follows confirmation of bird flu in ducks in two more grama panchayats. Places within a one-km radius of spots in Nedumudi and Karuvatta grama panchayats where the disease was confirmed have been declared as containment zones. The movement of people to and from these places have been banned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bird-flu-ban-imposed-on-transport-sale-of-poultry/article37957574.ece
15 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Soaring fertilizer prices put farmers in a fix||Soaring fertilizer prices have put paddy farmers in Kuttanad and other parts of Alappuzha district in a bind. Farmers say increasing prices and shortage of certain fertilizers could not have come at a worse time as they are yet to overcome the devastation caused by heavy downpours and floods in recent months, which destroyed paddy cultivation (second crop) in large tracts. According to the farmers, potash prices witnessed the biggest hike. The cost of the fertiliser has increased to Rs. 1,700 (per 50kg bag) from Rs. 875 a year ago. The price of factamfos jumped to Rs. 1,390 (per 50kg bag) from Rs. 1,035. “We are hoping to recoup some of the losses in the puncha (first crop) season. However, rising prices and shortage of fertilizers have dashed our hopes,” said Renil Kumar, secretary, Vavakkad North padasekharam in Kuttanad. Distribution rationed Apart from the price hike, there is a severe shortage of urea and potash. This has prompted societies in Kuttanad to ration the distribution of the two fertilizers, which, along with factamfos, are the most commonly used in the region. Farmers have sought the intervention of the government to arrest the rising prices of fertilizers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/soaring-fertilizer-prices-put-farmers-in-a-fix/article37957563.ece
15 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Toe party line, Mani warns Rajendran||Former Electricity Minister and CPI(M) leader M.M. Mani on Tuesday said that former Devikulam MLA S. Rajendran would be ousted from the party if he did not obey the party line. “He had done something that did not deserve any pardon,” said Mr. Mani. Inaugurating a party area meeting at Marayur in Idukki, Mr. Mani said Mr. Rajendran did not attend the local and area-level meetings and that he would be ousted from the party if he continued to do so. A party commission inquiry was conducted as Mr. Rajendran had abstained from the campaign of the party candidate during the last Assembly elections. Inquiry report Mr. Mani said he did not know whether the inquiry report would favour Mr. Rajendran or not. Mr. Rajendran can continue receiving party benefits if he obeys the party or he can look for another, added Mr. Mani. Born in a family of estate workers, Mr. Rajendran thrice became MLA from the Devikulam constituency. The party area meeting was attended by representatives from Vattavada, Kanthallur and Marayur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/toe-party-line-mani-warns-rajendran/article37957564.ece
15 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Jawan killed in fire accident||A jawan of the Border Security Force (BSF) from Kochukamakshi, near Kattappana, was killed when a fire broke out at a surveillance camp at Baramulla in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday night. The deceased was identified as Aneesh Joseph of Vaduthalakunnel. Information reaching his family said while on guard duty, a fire which he had made outside the tent to escape from cold, accidentally spread to his tent. While trying to escape, he fell down to a 15-foot gorge. Besides burns, Aneesh sustained a serious head injury in the fall. Though he was rushed to a hospital, his life could not be saved. Aneesh’s wife is working with the Central Reserve Police Force and the couple have two children. Aneesh’s body will be brought to the Nedumbassery airport on Wednesday, said a relative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jawan-killed-in-fire-accident/article37957526.ece
15 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Allotment of land to be expedited: Minister||K. Radhakrishnan, Minister for Tribal Welfare, has said that steps would be expedited to provide land to all landless tribal families in the district. Addressing a review meeting of various projects being implemented in the district for tribespeople, here on Tuesday, Mr. Radhakrishnan said that 3,595 tribal families in the district were landless and the Tribal Development Department would expedite steps to provide land to them in a time-bound manner. Mr. Radhakrishnan directed the officials to draft a special action plan to allot land to the landless under the landbank project, Forest Rights Act, and distribution of reserve forest land to tribespeople. A meeting of Revenue and Forest Ministers to be convened soon to ensure their support in solving the issues related to the dearth of survey officials and discuss the issues of delay in allotting forest land to tribespeople, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. Leakages were found in 4,610 houses of tribespeople in the district and a project would be executed to renovate the houses, the Minister said. Higher education  Mr. Radhakrishnan directed officials to submit the details of the tribal students who were yet to get chances for higher education after passing the SSLC examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/allotment-of-land-to-be-expedited-minister/article37957499.ece
15 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Efforts stepped up to trap tiger||Forest officials have intensified combing operations to capture a straying tiger that has triggered panic among the people in four divisions of Mananthavady municipality for the past many days. The carnivore is believed to be have killed 13 domestic animals in the region in 16 days. “Though a team of forest officials comprising nearly 80 staff, with the support of the police, started the combing operations on Tuesday morning using every possible method to track and capture the tiger, it was in vain after the animal hid in a coffee plantation at Kurukkanmoola,” North Wayanad forest divisional officer Ramesh Bishnoi, who led the team, told The Hindu . “We used the service of two kumki elephants (trained elephants) and used three drones for the search, but we could not track it owing to the canopy density of coffee plants and other trees in the plantation”, he said. Images captured “We have got two images of the tiger and it seems the animal has sustained injuries on its neck,” Mr. Bishnoi said. The image has been sent to the Parambikkulam tiger reserve for identifying the image with the database of tigers, Mr. Bishnoi said. As many as five cages have been set up in the area to capture the tiger and 35 surveillance cameras were also installed to monitor its movement, he said. Meanwhile, Wayanad District Collector A. Geetha visited the area to assess the situation on Tuesday. She said all possible steps had been adopted to capture the big cat. However, it was difficult to locate it now as the pattern of its movement was unpredictable. Orders were issued to capture the animal by firing tranquilizer shots also but, the officials were yet to sight the animal for the purpose, Ms. Geetha said. “We recommended the government to provide appropriate compensation to the farmers for the loss of their domestic animals”, she said. Ban orders extended The three-day prohibitory orders issued by the Wayanad Sub Collector in four divisions of the municipality were extended to Wednesday. Special protection would be given to the public, especially students and dairy farmers in the morning hours, with the support of police and forest officials, Ms. Geetha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/efforts-stepped-up-to-trap-tiger/article37957519.ece
15 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Youth Cong. march turns violent||A protest march taken out by Youth Congress workers demanding the resignation of Kannur University Vice-Chancellor Gopinath Ravindran turned violent after the police used water cannons against the workers and and lathi-charged them. The police had barricaded the main entrance of the university. However, some protesters climbed the barricade. Following this, the police used water cannons and lathi-charged those who tried to jump over the barricade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-cong-march-turns-violent/article37957487.ece
15 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Chellanam residents take out march to Kochi corpn. office||The Chellanam-Kochi Janakeeya Vedi on Tuesday took out a march to the Kochi Corporation office in protest against the alleged apathetic approach to the problem posed by sea erosion in coastal areas falling within the corporation limits, and demanding active intervention. Fr. Thomas Chullikkal inaugurated the march. Among the demands raised by protesters included inclusion of areas within the corporation limits in the government package for Chellanam-Kochi coastal protection, reconstruction of the Chellanam-Kochi coast by sourcing soil from the Cochin Port Trust and steps to resolve the sea erosion issue. The activists said the corporation has the responsibility to intervene in the matter and exert pressure on the government to find a solution to the problem since it is caused by the Cochin Port Trust that functions within the corporation limits. The present project for coastal protection excluded CMS, Kattiparambu, Kaithaveli, Manassery, Saudi, and Beach Road. This deficiency should be addressed and a more comprehensive coastal protection plan should be drawn up, the Janakeeya Vedi demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chellanam-residents-take-out-march-to-kochi-corpn-office/article37957502.ece
15 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Search to resume for location to rehabilitate traders||The search for a new location to rehabilitate 74 traders who have set up their shops at Fashion Street, which has come up on slabs laid across the Mullassery Canal, will resume shortly. The search was warranted after a proposal for temporarily relocating the shops to a holding of the Ernakulam Maharaja’s College near the college ground had to be dropped following stiff opposition from the college authorities and a section of the general public. The Irrigation Department, which has been entrusted with task of unclogging the canal, has insisted that the shops and other encroachments along the canal be removed for initiating the work. The unclogging of the canal has been proposed as part of Operation Breakthrough, the project that aims to ameliorate the city flood situation. “We need to relocate the traders as it is necessary for initiating the work. The traders will be brought back to the area after the completion of the canal work. These traders were rehabilitated in the canal area by the Kochi Corporation some 20 years ago,” said Mayor M. Anilkumar. Those opposing the temporary rehabilitation of the traders turned a blind eye to the fact that no portion of the Maharaja’s college ground would be used for the purpose and the traders will be brought back to the original location after the completion of the canal restoration work. The city administration will join hands with the district administration and the Ernakulam MLA for the rehabilitation, he said. Earlier, the authorities had toyed with the idea of using the space of the pump house of the Kerala Water Authority near the canal. The idea had to be dropped as the location was found unusable. According to Mr. Anilkumar, some suggestions regarding a few locations have come up from various quarters including Ernakulam MLA T. J. Vinod. The Kochi Mayor, the District Collector and the MLA together will inspect the sites shortly to select the ideal one. The traders need to be relocated for the crucial project, he said. Meanwhile, those at the Irrigation Department are busy vetting the bids submitted by various agencies that have evinced interest in taking up the canal restoration work. The technical bids have been sent for the approval of the State authorities. The financial bids of the agencies that have submitted feasible technical bids will be considered shortly. The selection notice will be issued to the agency picked up for the job only when the shops and other encroachments are removed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/search-to-resume-for-location-to-rehabilitate-traders/article37957509.ece
15 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cabin crew trainees allege raw deal||Even as Air India Express Employees Union organised a dharna in front of the Air India Express Headquarters on Tuesday, protesting against the alleged reduction in the period of employment contract of cabin crew from five years to a year, and an enquiry into the alleged ‘recruitment scam’, 23 trainee cabin crew of the batch of 49 of the airline are up in arms against what they termed as the management discontinuing their training from April this year and not considering them for employment. “We had spent around Rs. 5 lakh as fees and other expenses for the three-month course held by the airline, in early 2020. Only the examination conducted by Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and FAM flight (wherein the trainees undergo viva) are pending. This would have got over but for the pandemic. Nine months later, we got a message that the batch will be discontinued. In the process, we lost two years, during which time we could not join any other job due to a pre-condition that was specified while we joined the course,” said one among the trainees, on the condition of anonymity. Most of the trainees joined the course after completing their postgraduation, engineering or other similar professional courses, which are beyond the basic educational qualification that has been specified. At least a few of them have crossed the age of 27, the age limit to join as cabin crew, due to the pandemic. “We are willing to attend the DGCA exam and the FAM flight. The last time we got a communication was in September, directing us to report to Mumbai. It was withdrawn within a few days. The management is unwilling to lend a ear to hear our grievances,” said yet another trainee. As a last resort, the trainees submitted a ‘mercy petition’ to the management, stating how they were on the verge of completing their training and signing the contract with the company, when the pandemic played spoilsport. “Furthermore, we waited for more than a year, adhering with the terms and conditions of the offer letter, since the management assured that our training will resume once things were back to normal. This has not been adhered to, with the result that many are in debt, while others had left their previous jobs to join the airline,” the petition says. The trainees cited how the airline is allegedly refusing to recruit them, despite it registering profit during the past fiscal. “We cannot apply in other airlines since the exams too were not held.” Senior officials of the airline preferred not to respond to the concerns raised by the trainees when The Hindu contacted them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aie-cabin-crew-trainees-allege-raw-deal/article37957494.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CPI(M) district committee may induct new faces||The Ernakulam district committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) is likely to have new faces. The decision to induct fresh blood forms part of the efforts to make the party more attractive to the younger generation and to have a proper mix of members belonging to all age groups. The district secretariat will also have new office-bearers. It is likely to have a woman representative as per the directive from the party leadership. The list of the district committee and secretariat members will be announced at the end of the Ernakulam district conference of the party here on Thursday. C. N. Mohanan is likely to continue as the district secretary. The leadership has taken into account his attempts to quell internal dissent and groupism in the party after he assumed charge of the secretary’s post in June, 2018. Mr. Mohanan also enjoys the trust and confidence of both Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, and Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, senior members of the party’s Polit Bureau. The district conference assumes significance as it is being held following the suspension of district-level leaders citing their non-performance in the Assembly election. N. C. Mohanan and C.K. Manishankar were among those who had faced the music over the failure of the party candidates in various constituencies. The inaugural day of the meet began with the flag hoisting by K. M. Sudhakaran, veteran leader, at Kalamassery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-district-committee-may-induct-new-faces/article37957504.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Study mooted independent Chancellors||A study commissioned by the Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) in 2011 titled ‘Affiliation System — A Study of Kerala Experience’ had recommended amendment of the University Acts to provide for independent and separate Chancellors for universities within the State. Authored by the late A.N.P. Ummerkutty, noted academician and former Vice Chancellor of Calicut University, the study had stated that the “colonial concept of Governor as the common Chancellor for all the universities in the State has clearly outlived its intention, utility and value.” The study, accessed by The Hindu , assumes significance amid the raging controversy after Governor Arif Mohammed Khan expressed his willingness to relinquish the post of Chancellor, alleging political interference by the government over the appointment of Vice Chancellors. In chapter 8 of the study titled ‘Relations between the Government and Universities’ and sub section named ‘Separate, Independent Chancellors for Universities’, Prof. Ummerkutty said the colonial need of an invisible bonding of university with State through a common head no more exists for the university. “Hence, why can’t we think of delinking the university fully from the government and allow it to look after its own affairs within, of course, the larger socio-economic policies of the State?” he asked. Single head The study pointed out that it is necessary to pinpoint the responsibility of leading the university on a single, working head of the institution with adequate functional autonomy and accountability for his/her policies and actions. “In fact, the very ideas of autonomy and accountability in the university system should start from its top officer. If the office of the Chancellor is only a non-working, rather ‘decorative outpost’ as it looks at present and working outside the institution’s structural framework, this ambiguity is likely to cast its powerful shadow on the entire system,” it said. Prof. Ummerkutty explained that the university as a coherent, purposeful institution cannot be an exemption to the modern principles of governance and management. “In fact, as an intellectual and academic outfit, it should be a model in the matter. The need to have independent Chancellors for different universities should be viewed from this realistic point of view”, he said. New norms The study pointed out that the head of the institution cannot be an exception to the rule, when autonomy and accountability are considered to be the new norm of higher education in the State from top to bottom. “At present, the Chancellor is neither autonomous in his/her functions in respect of the university nor is he/she accountable to anyone on the matter. Further, he works outside the framework of the university organisation. Such an in-absentia headship is neither satisfying to the person concerned nor of any real benefit to the institution,” it said.  The colonial concept of Governor as the Chancellor for all universities in the State has clearly outlived its intention, utility and value.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/study-mooted-independent-chancellors/article37957527.ece
15 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC terms situation in State as ‘scary’||Referring to the recent killing of a man by a gang of 12 assailants who chopped off the victim’s leg and threw the limb on the road, Kerala High Court has said it was a “scary” situation in the State. “People chopping off someone’s leg and throwing it on the road is scary. They (assailants) are all probably drug addicts and heavily into substance abuse. Where are we going like this,” Justice Devan Ramachandran said.  Petitions The remarks came during hearing a batch of petitions related to assignment of land to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the State. During the hearing, the court said that while the State government was saying it would provide housing to these people, how would it ensure they have a source of livelihood? The court also pointed out that over 50 lakh from other States were working in Kerala, but people here do not have jobs. This was leading to the younger generation resorting to crimes or drugs, the high court said.  Pothencode murder A man, wanted in an attempt-to-murder case, was hacked to death and his leg chopped off on December 11 by a gang of 12 assailants at Pothencode area of Thiruvananthapuram district. Several of those accused in the gruesome case had been arrested, the police said. On December 11 afternoon, the assailants tracked the victim to Pothencode where he had come seeking a job and was staying in the house of a distant relative. On seeing the gang coming to attack him, the victim rushed into the home of his relative. But the assailants followed him to the house and hacked him. They later chopped off his leg in front of the others there, including children, the house owner had told the media. Shocking action The victim was then rushed to the medical college hospital in Thiruvananthapuram but his life could not be saved. The assailants, while fleeing the scene of crime, threw the limb on the road, police had said.  Over 50 lakh from other States work in Kerala, but people here do not have jobs and this was leading the younger generation to resort to crimes or drugs, says the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/situation-in-state-very-scary-says-high-court/article37957576.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IUML aligning with fundamentalists: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday accused the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) of trying to deepen the divisive lines in the name of religion by adopting the slogans and perspectives of the Islamic fundamentalist groups. “The peace-loving workers of the Muslim League should realise that the party would face the same situation as that of the Congress, which had taken a soft Hindutva approach, by aligning with the Islamic fundamentalist ideals and thoughts,” Mr. Vijayan said at the inauguration of the Ernakulam district meet of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) here. “The Waqf rally organised by the IUML was an example of its continuing soft approach towards the extremist Islamic forces. The Congress party had lost its base and workers after it had embraced a soft Hindutva approach,” he said. Alleging that the Congress had failed to earn the trust of the people, Mr. Vijayan said that it was time for the Left to lead the like-minded regional parties in various States and form an alternative to ensure that the Bharatiya Janata Party did not come to power at the Centre again. The Chief Minister blamed the Narendra Modi government of encroaching upon the rights and powers of the States by formulating laws and policies that would curtail its development. Lack of Central support “Kerala has not been able to achieve its dreams of realising various infrastructure projects owing to the lack of financial support from the Centre. The United Democratic Front (UDF) seems to be supporting the regressive stance taken by the Union government by opposing major projects, including the SilverLine rail project,” he said. Mr. Vijayan said that the UDF and the BJP were facing a political crisis after the Left government came to power in the State for the second consecutive time. “Besides the Congress and the BJP, parties like the IUML were also facing an internal crisis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-aligning-with-fundamentalists-cm/article37957542.ece
15 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CIAL sees surge in passenger traffic||Flight operations at Cochin International Airport Ltd. (CIAL) have recorded a growth compared to the early days of the pandemic, according to a communication issued by CIAL. The airport, the release said, logged a passenger traffic growth of 110% in the period of September-November this year in comparison with the same time last year. Data suggest the airport handled 11,891 aircraft movements in September-November this year which was 62% more than the same period in 2020. It also facilitated 6,73,238 international passengers during these three months. Domestic passengers during this period were 6,85,817 in number. The cumulative passenger volume was 13,59, 055 as compared to 6,46,761 in the same time in 2020. Airport Managing Director S. Suhas attributed the steady growth in traffic to the company’s efforts in making the airport a safe travel hub. The airport witnessed peak traffic with 23,029 passengers and 154 aircraft movements on December 10, the highest since the outbreak of COVID-19. CIAL now handles 182 weekly departures to the Middle East alone. It also hosts flights to the UK, Sri Lanka, and Male. After a 20-month-long hiatus, Singapore Airlines resumed its operations from CIAL which also helped international connectivity. The airport also scaled up COVID testing in the wake of the Omicron scare, for international passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-sees-surge-in-passenger-traffic/article37957515.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Metro offers discounted fare for establishments near viaduct||Employees of business and educational institutions located up to 500 metres from the Kochi Metro viaduct will get a substantial discount on the ticket fare, the KMRL has said.  The interested business establishments and educational institutions may send an application to Binish L., DGM (Marketing) of KMRL (binish.l@kmrl.co.in), to obtain the discount. Employee particulars including the name, age, gender, boarding and alighting stations, along with a copy of their photo id must be submitted along with the application, before December 31, metro sources said. For more details, contact 91889 57544. Contests for public With the Christmas-New Year festival season kicking in, Kochi Metro is set to host various competitions for the public. They will begin on December 18, with a Christmas star making contest which will be held at Aluva, Muttom, Kaloor, and Petta stations. On 19th Sunday, carol singing competition will be held at Aluva, Edappally, Vyttila, and Ernakulam South stations. Crib-making competition and Christmas tree decoration competition will be held at all metro stations on December 20 and 21 respectively. A Santa Claus fancy dress competition will be held on December 22 for children aged up to 13 years, at Palarivattom, Kadavanthra, Thykoodam, and Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium metro stations. Cake-making With an intent to support bakers, a cake-making competition will be held on December 23 at Vyttila, Maharaja’s, Palarivattom, and Kadavanthra Metro stations. There is no entry fee for the competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/metro-offers-discounted-fare-for-establishments-near-viaduct/article37957505.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Held on assault charge||The Vadakkekkara police on Tuesday arrested four persons on the charge of assaulting a youngster. The arrested were identified as Jonish, 36, of Moothakunnam, Jijin, 35, of Vadakkekara, and Mithun, 32, and Dilkush, 33, of Kunjithai. The victim was assaulted by the accused as an act of vengeance for having attacked their friend and was freed by the court in that case, the police said. Arrested for murder The Kadavanthra police on Tuesday arrested the wife and daughter of a man who was found dead. They were slapped with murder charges. Shankar, 46, a migrant Tamil construction worker, was found dead at his home in Kadavanthra on Sunday. His wife, Selvi and daughter Anantha, were arrested for his alleged murder. He was sleeping after getting drunk when he was allegedly murdered. According to the police, the accused tied the victim’s hands to the cot and then strangulated him using a shoe lace. To create the impression that he had died of natural causes, the accused then summoned his son claiming that the victim wasn’t responding. He was rushed to the Ernakulam General Hospital where he was declared dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/held-on-assault-charge/article37957513.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Contest for designing medical college logo||The public will have the chance to design the logo for the Governement Medical College, Ernakulam. The Health Department has decided to organise a competition involving the public to design the logo. Creative minds can use either the symbol of the Rod of Aesculapius or the traditional symbol of Hermes that features two snakes winding around a winged staff while designing the logo, according to an official communication. They need to also bring in the historical, cultural and indigenous knowledge of Ernakulam in the design. It should also have the words “Government Medical College Ernakulam”. The public could bank on the model of the logo of other government medical colleges in the State, it said. The logo design in soft and hard copy format should reach the Principal, Government Medical College, Ernakulam, Kalamassery, on or before December 23. The soft copy can be mailed to principalgmcekm@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/contest-for-designing-medical-college-logo/article37957511.ece
15 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC against carrying heavy goods on workers’ heads||Terming the practice of carrying heavy loads on the head or body of workers as “dehumanising activity”, the Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to take steps to tackle it. Justice Devan Ramachandran observed that the Kerala Headload Workers Act which permitted such a practice was a relic of the past. “How could our citizens be subject to such torture. It had deleterious effects on the spine. No one can carry heavy weight like this for several hours and that too for years. No other country puts its citizens to such dehumanising activity.” The court made these oral observations while hearing a petition by a hotel owner. The court observed that headload workers were poor people who had no other job options and, in fact, their plight was exploited by certain vested interests. The court observed that the term ‘headload’ in the statute had to go and ought to be replaced with ‘loading’. The court also asked why machines were not being used to aid workers and added that it was not saying headload activity should be stopped altogether. “They should be rehabilitated, not thrown out of jobs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-against-carrying-heavy-goods-on-workers-heads/article37957528.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Four arrested for obstructing police personnel||The Muvattupuzha police on Tuesday arrested four persons on the charge of obstructing police personnel from discharging their duties. The arrested were Muhammed Rafeeque, 37, and M.M. Haris, 36, of Muvattupuzha; Naushad, 49, of Perumbavoor, and Ibrahim, 47, of Mulavur. They are accused of preventing the police from discharging their duties during the raid conducted by the Enforcement Directorate at the house of a Popular Front leader in Muvattupuzha on December 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-arrested-for-obstructing-police-personnel/article37957514.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held for attempt to abduct minors||The Perumbavoor police on Tuesday arrested two persons accused of trying to abduct a minor girl and a boy in a car and sexually abuse them. The arrested were identified as Libin Kumar, 32, of Kollam, and Aneesh, 31, of Alummoodu. The nine-year-old girl and her friend were playing in front of her house at Marampally when the accused, under the influence of alcohol, tried to lure them into the car by promising to give them toffees. However, parents made a timely intervention, leading to their arrest. The accused were produced in court, which remanded them in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-attempt-to-abduct-minors/article37957507.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police arrest youth with MDMA||In a joint operation, the Thoppumpady police and city District Anti-Narcotic Special Action Force on Tuesday arrested a person allegedly found in possession of 5 gms of the premium party drug MDMA. The arrested man was identified as Sulfiker, 26, of Mattancherry. He was living in a rented house at Palluruthy and was arrested from Thoppumpady. The accused allegedly targeted youngsters and students for selling the drug. An investigation has been launched to find out the potential involvement of more persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-arrest-youth-with-mdma/article37957508.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Father must give maintenance allowance to ward: High Court||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has held that the father of a child born out of an interfaith marriage has a legal obligation to give his child maintenance allowance. Natural guardian The Bench comprising Justice A. Muhamed Mustaque and Justice Kauser Edappagath observed that the custom and statutes recognised the father as a natural guardian who was entitled to the custody of his minor child and property. The right necessarily carried with it a corresponding duty to take care of the child. Since the father was recognised as the guardian, he was under a duty to maintain and protect the child. The court added that caste, faith, or religion could not have any rational basis for determining the parental duty of a father. All children had to be treated alike irrespective of the faith or religion professed by the parents. Unmarried daughter The court also observed that an unmarried daughter of an inter-religious couple was entitled to marriage expenses from her father. The court passed the verdict while partially allowing an appeal filed by J.W. Aragadan of Kozhikode, who married a Muslim woman, challenging the order of the Family Court at Nedumangad directing him to pay maintenance allowance of Rs. 5,000 to his unmarried daughter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/father-must-give-maintenance-allowance-to-ward-high-court/article37957491.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Implement K-Rail in time-bound manner’||The CPI(M) Ernakulam district conference has urged the State Government to take steps for the time-bound implementation of the K-Rail project, which according to the organisation, was essential for the sustainable development of Kerala. The project will not leave any ecological impact or hit any ecologically fragile or wildlife areas. The project was conceived after keeping in mind the geographical features of the State, according to a resolution that was considered at the three-day conclave, which began here on Tuesday. However, according to the resolution, a section of vested interests, pseudo environmentalists and right-wing politicians were spreading falsehood and organising agitations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/implement-k-rail-in-time-bound-manner/article37957506.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Resume KSRTC services from isles’||The KSRTC must reintroduce all Tirukochi bus services through the trio of Goshree bridges, that were withdrawn during the pandemic, the Goshree Manushyavakasha Samrakshana Samithi has demanded. Commuters and activists would hold a demonstration in front of the Ernakulam bus stand on Wednesday raising the demand, since the Goshree islanders and others were struggling for want of adequate bus services, said Paul Mampilly, chairman of the body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resume-ksrtc-services-from-isles/article37957510.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Oil firms can transfer LPG consumers’||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has held that oil companies could transfer the existing consumers of a distributor to a newly appointed distributor in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oil-firms-can-transfer-lpg-consumers/article37957578.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Consider future needs while widening roads: Kerala HC||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday observed that if roads were not sufficiently widened, it would cause inequities to citizens and cause major accidents. Justice Devan Ramachandran said that when any road was constructed, the authorities should keep an eye on the future, taking note of the rapidly increasing traffic and the burden on the road on account of the increasing density of population. The earlier width of a road could have been fixed taking into account the requirement when it was constructed. But continuing to maintain it in such a way would cause inequity to the citizens, particularly when the roads were properly laid. The court made the observations when a petition seeking to widen the entire stretch of the Nadukani-Parappanangadi road came up for hearing. Petitioner’s claim The petitioner submitted that the stretch from Nadukani to Tirurangadi had been widened to a 12-m carriageway. But the stretch from Tirurangadi to Parappanangadi continued to be 7-m or less wide, due to financial constraints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/consider-future-needs-while-widening-roads-kerala-hc/article37957520.ece
15 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Curb plastic menace: Minister||Awareness programmes against plastic menace should be launched from the ward level, Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian has said. He was inaugurating an awareness programme on controlling marine plastic pollution jointly organised by the Kollam Corporation and the Department of Environmental Sciences, University of Kerala here on Tuesday. “Since plastic cannot been destroyed for centuries, it will adversely affect the environment. We should learn to avoid the use of plastic in daily life,” said the Minister. Pointing out a UN report that around 8 million tonnes of plastic waste is dumped into the oceans every year, Mr. Cherian said at-source waste treatment should be made a priority. Mayor Prasanna Ernest, who presided over the function held at Thangassery Harbor Engineering guest house, said local bodies should take the initiative in waste management. “Participation and cooperation of the public is also essential in the process,” she said. University of Kerala pro-Vice Chancellor P. Ajayakumar and Kerala University syndicate member K.G. Gopachandran Kollam port executive engineer E. Linda, Boat Owners Association Secretary Peter Mathias and organising secretary E. Shirley Williams were among those present at the event. State Pollution Control Board representative Sheela A. Moses and District Suchitwa Mission coordinator Shanavas led the classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curb-plastic-menace-minister/article37957565.ece
15 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Govt. schools to be disabled-friendly||All government-funded school buildings will be made disabled-friendly, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty said here on Monday. He was inaugurating Kollam district panchayat’s Vismayam project that provides joystick-operated motorised wheelchairs to differently-abled students of government schools. “Aided school students will also be considered for educational programmes. The government aims at bringing in a revolutionary change in academics,” said the Minister. Mr. Sivankutty distributed awards instituted by the district panchayat to best teachers, schools and students who achieved the highest pass percentage. The district panchayat has set aside Rs. 30 lakh for the Vismayam project and 21 wheelchairs were distributed at the event. Panchayat president Sam K. Daniel presided over the function, while vice president Sumalal, standing committee heads, Deputy Director of Education Subin Paul, District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) principal-in-charge S. Sheeja and Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) District Coordinator S. Srinivasan were among those present.  Project provides joystick-operated motorised wheelchairs to students||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-schools-to-be-disabled-friendly/article37957571.ece
15 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Yoga training for jail inmates concludes||A yoga and meditation training programme organised by the Kerala Prisons and Correctional Services Department and Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham for the inmates of the Kollam District Jail concluded here on Tuesday. Swami Gurupadashritanandapuri led the yoga classes at the week-long event organised as part of a series of training programmes being conducted in 43 jails and correctional homes across the State. Inaugurating the last session of the programme, Kollam Assistant Commissioner G.D. Vijayakumar said yoga is an easy method that helps improve the mental and physical health. He said the programme would also enable the inmates to return to society as new individuals. Swami Gurupadashritananda delivered the benedictory address and Mr. Vijayakumar distributed certificates to the participants. Mata Amritanandamayi Math and Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham have been offering free yoga and meditation training in central jails, district jails, sub-jails and special sub-jails. Teachers trained in Amrita Yoga and Integrated Amrita Meditation Technique (IAM Technique), which includes breathing control techniques, self-analysis and emotion control, have been handling the sessions. The prison staff are also offered training in yoga.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yoga-training-for-jail-inmates-concludes/article37957570.ece
15 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Knowledge economy mission’s job fair||The Kerala Knowledge Economy Mission (KKEM) will organise a job fair to provide employment to 10,000 persons with Plus Two and higher qualifications. The fair will be held on December 19 at the Indian Institute of Infrastructure and Construction, Chavara. Registrations can be made on the website knowledgemission.   kerala.gov.in till 5 p.m. on December 15. For details, contact 0471-2737881.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/knowledge-economy-missions-job-fair/article37957567.ece
15 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Now, rubber plantations across State go green to arrest fall in yield||Bogged down by the vagaries of weather and leaf blights, the interminable network of rubber plantations in Kerala are turning ‘evergreen’ by sporting thickets of bright canopy. As the changing climate begin to exert its toll in natural rubber production, the Rubber Board has launched a major drive to promote crown budding technique for bringing the disease-causing microbes under control. The project is being initiated as the rising costs, labour shortage and environmental concerns are preventing growers from adopting chemical control measures in rubber holdings. According to Shaji Philip, principal scientist, Pathology wing of the Rubber Research Institute of India, healthy and disease-free leaves of rubber trees is a necessary condition for better yield. “The leaf diseases are leaping from one plantation to another and the problem is especially severe after 2015 with the weather becoming more irregular and unpredictable. In the absence of any successful measures to counter this trend, it may delay the maturity period of trees and cause up to 30% fall in annual output,” he explained . Among the various types of leaf diseases, colletotrichum circular leaf spot is the most prevalent leaf blight reported across the plantations in the State. Crown budding, according to Mr. Philip, is a technique applied on the stem of a high yielding rubber clone at a height of 2.5 to 3 meters using a disease-resistant clone. “It can be done both at nurseries and on the field. The budded trees help the growers save about Rs. 10,000 per hectare as they do not require spraying and are resilient to climate change,” added Mr.Shaji Acting on a direction by its scientific advisory committee, the board is looking to launch training programmes for the growers in the technique, which will be carried out through the field officers and production department. To begin with, the agency recently held an interaction with the estate owners and managers and introduced the budded stumps of FX 516, a suitable clone for crown budding in rubber.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/now-rubber-plantations-across-state-go-green-to-arrest-fall-in-yield/article37957573.ece
15 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Woman hacks husband to death||The Kottayam East police here on Tuesday arrested a woman who had allegedly hacked her husband to death. According to the police, the accused, identified as Rosamma, is a native of Bodimettu in Tamil Nadu and had been living in Payyappadi near here along with her husband Siju. As per the case, she allegedly hacked her husband to death in the early hours of Tuesday and fled with their six-year-old son. Police custody However, she landed in police custody on the premises of a church near Manarcaud during a search operation launched by the local police. Preliminary investigation suggested that the woman had been undergoing treatment for mental illness. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-hacks-husband-to-death/article37957500.ece
15 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||‘Court allayed NSS concerns’||Nair Service Society (NSS) general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair has said that Kerala High Court has admitted both the arguments raised by the NSS with regard to the sample survey by the State to determine the economically weaker sections (EWS) among the forward communities. Commenting on the High Court order on the petition filed by the NSS against the survey, Mr. Nair said the order allayed the concerns of the organisation. “The order has directed that the survey should not affect the reservation to the EWS among the forward communities and that it should not substitute the comprehensive socio, economic and community survey or the survey of each community proposed by the Justice Ramkrishna Pillai Commission.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-allayed-nss-concerns/article37957579.ece
15 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Orthodox Church ‘willing to’ recognise Patriarch||In a significant move, the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church has expressed its willingness to recognise the Patriarch of Antioch subject to the 1934 Constitution of the Malankara Church, various orders of the Supreme Court of India, and a set of other conditions. Responding to a query by a Bench of the Kerala High Court, Baselios Marthoma Mathews III, Catholicos of the East and Malankara Metropolitan, informed the court that the Patriarch should, in turn, recognise him as the only Catholicos in Malankara. The Patriarch should also accept the 1934 Constitution of the Malankara Church and the Supreme Court order of 2017, and the other verdicts of the apex court. If the Patriarchate was willing to recognise the Catholicos in this capacity, the Patriarch would be given recognition as accorded by the Church’s constitution. First among equals According to the Catholicos, the spiritual powers of the Patriarch had already reached a vanishing point as per an order by the Supreme Court. In the event of the two coming together in a liturgy, the Patriarch will be regarded as first among equals and this has been the position of the Orthodox Church till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orthodox-church-willing-to-recognise-patriarch/article37957529.ece
15 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Customs unit reeling under acute staff shortage||The Kozhikode Customs unit has been reeling under acute staff shortage even as smuggling of gold is thriving via the Calicut International Airport. Based on the volume of international and domestic travellers, reliable sources said the airport should ideally require about 145 Customs officials. The sanctioned strength of the Customs department is 78. But now the airport has less than 40 staff members on its rolls. Three superintendents were suspended a week ago after a large quantity of seized gold allegedly went missing from their custody. No replacement was made for a specified period of time, said the sources. The Air Customs unit at the airport has three deputy superintendents, 15 superintendents, 17 inspectors and seven other officials. All of them work in three shifts. Many officials have to endure additional burden despite the average number of flights a day coming down due to curtailed operations during the COVID-19 pandemic. The average annual passenger traffic at the airport stood at 30-33 lakh, including 27 lakh international travellers, said sources. In the past one month, the Customs Intelligence Unit of Kozhikode made gold seizures valued at Rs. 12 crore. The recoveries would have been better if the airport had adequate staff and more equipment, including closed-circuit television for video surveillance and X-ray machines, baggage scanners and metal detectors, added the sources. Notable seizures this month include the recovery of 2.33 kg of gold from two passengers who arrived from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and 3.9 kg of gold from two passengers who arrived from Saudi Arabia. In almost 90% of the cases, the passengers tried to smuggle gold in compound form concealed either in household utensils, electronic devices, undergarments, trousers and in the rectum. The Customs department has been demanding that the Airports Authority of India should procure body scanners at the airport. However, nothing materialised due to the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/customs-unit-reeling-under-acute-staff-shortage/article37957490.ece
15 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Melange of styles at Akademi gallery||On one side, a veteran of five decades is holding his 24th solo art exhibition while on the other, four younger artists are creating waves in their own genres. The Kerala Lalithakala Akademi Art Gallery in Kozhikode has something for every art lover. In an exhibition of his recent works, artist Austin Konchira is mostly exploring the world of machines. Moving slightly away from his past style, Mr. Konchira has used bright colours and his huge paintings make the visitors stop and observe the details. ‘Jna- The thinking soul’, the group exhibition by Deepa K.P., Sudheesh Pallisseri, Bineesh Narayanan and Biji Mol K.C., is a study on different mediums and styles of art. Ms. Deepa, a self-taught artist from Wayanad, has captured the complexity of tree roots using the medium of watercolour in a semi-realistic manner. Mr. Narayanan, also from Wayanad, works on a combination of images to come up with an idea and uses oil colours as his medium. Ms. Biji Mol from Payyanur in Kannur district has captured the essence of nature in a realistic manner. Greenery, flowers, birds and women make her works soothing to the eye. She has used acrylic colours as her medium. Mr. Pallissery, another artist from Wayanad, has mainly used graphite and charcoal in his works and his images resemble the complexities of human organs. All the four artists are quite different from each other in their language, and use of colours, themes, and surfaces. The exhibition was titled ‘Jna’, a letter in the Malayalam alphabet, to express the experimental nature of the show as well as discord with conventions, said the artists. While Mr. Konchira’s show began on Monday and is set to conclude on December 19, ‘Jna; began on Tuesday and will conclude on December 21. The shows will be open on all days from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/melange-of-styles-at-akademi-gallery/article37957493.ece
15 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||School pays tribute to local heroine of freedom movement||When the students of Government UP School at Kallai in Kozhikode decided to celebrate a local heroine from the freedom struggle, they never expected to have guests from their honouree’s family. A.V. Kuttimalu Amma, a local legend for the people of Kallai, was honoured on Monday in the presence of her grandson and great granddaughter, who were in Kozhikode by pure coincidence. The school decided to honour the memory of the freedom fighter following instructions from the Department of Education to carry out activities involving students to pay tribute to the heros in their own locality in a larger canvas, on the occasion of the 75th anniversary of India's Independence. Kuttimalu Amma, wife of former Minister in the Madras Legislative Assembly and Rajya Sabha member, Madhava Menon, was chosen for her selfless struggle despite being a young mother. She was imprisoned along with her two-month-old daughter for being a frontline fighter. The baby was 4 years old when Kuttimalu Amma was released. Jisha M., the art teacher of the School, with the help of students Dilshad Ahammed, Juhi Manoj, Vaiga Rajesh, Fathima Hiba, and Fathima Huda from Classes 5, 6 and 7 of the school, drew a portrait of Kuttimalu Amma on the school wall, depicting her struggle as well. Sankara Menon, now 60, son of Kuttimalu Amma’s eldest daughter, the very one who went to prison with her mother, was in Kozhikode to visit his ancestral home without knowing that his grandmother was being honoured in such a manner. But when the school authorities came to know about his presence in the city, they invited him and his family to be part of the unveiling ceremony of the portrait. Mr. Menon and his daughter Uthara spent some time at the school interacting with the students and remembering the legend that was their grandmother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-pays-tribute-to-local-heroine-of-freedom-movement/article37957486.ece
15 December 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||‘New norms must protect traditional fishers’||The Matsya Thozhilali Federation has approached the Central government with various demands, including the abandonment of blue economy projects within 75 nautical miles of the coast. In a memorandum to the government, Federation State president Ummer Ottummal said that up to 75 nautical miles of the shore should be considered the work area of traditional fisherfolk. Mr. Ottummal also demanded that marine fisheries norms should not be applicable to traditional fishermen engaged in the trade with or without the help of machines. He sought more time to respond to the Indian Marine Fisheries Bill as its translations in eight languages were distributed only in recent days. “The presentation of the Bill in Parliament should be postponed as we require more time to study it and respond creatively,” he said. According to the Federation, the laws should protect traditional fishermen. “Any change in existing rules or formation of new laws should consider the traditional fishermen who make a hard living by battling the sea every day,” said Mr. Ottummal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-norms-must-protect-traditional-fishers/article37957483.ece
15 December 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Arya Vaidya Sala opens new godown||Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala on Tuesday opened its new godown for stocking herbs and medicines. Arya Vaidya Sala managing trustee and Chief Physician P.M. Varier inaugurated the new facility at Changuvetty. Arya Vaidya Sala has set up the new godown as part of an ongoing modernisation drive. Officials said that the existing warehouse facilities would be upgraded and the buildings renovated. Arya Vaidya Sala chief executive officer G.C. Gopala Pillai, Arya Vaidya Sala trustees K. Muraleedharan and P. Ramkumar, joint general manager P. Rajendran, group captain U. Pradeep, senior manager Shailaja Madhavankutty, and herb suppliers attended the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arya-vaidya-sala-opens-new-godown/article37957488.ece
15 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Saying no to O.V. Vijayan statue||Palakkad municipality has denied permission for reinstalling the ‘stolen’ statue of writer O.V. Vijayan at SBI Junction in the town. The statue installed at a 2.7 cent ‘park’ by the municipality had gone missing in 2019, and the municipal councillors led by the then chairperson Prameela Sasidharan had staged an agitation for its reinstallation. O.V. Vijayan Anusmarana Samithi president and rights activist Boban Mattumantha approached the municipality demanding reinstallation of the statue. However, the municipality denied permission for the statue’s restoration saying that it could not be reinstalled on the roadside. Vested interests Mr. Mattumantha alleged that he suspected some vested interests among the municipal officials in denying permission. Although the government circular says that statues cannot be installed on public walkways and roadsides, the 2.7 cents of enclosed land in which O.V. Vijayan’s statue stood till 2019 was earmarked as a park. It was in 2011 that three statues were installed at three different points in Palakkad town as part of a beautification scheme. When the statue of Naranath Bhranthan was installed at Mission School Junction, the statue of Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavathar was installed at Mercy College Junction, and that of O.V. Vijayan at KSRTC Junction. However, O.V. Vijayan’s statue disappeared in 2014 when the KSRTC Link Road was widened. When people raised protests, the municipality gave permission for installation of the Vijayan statue at SBI Junction in 2016. In 2019, the statue disappeared again, leading to a series of controversies and court cases. The municipality then asserted that the land belonged to it, and that the statue should be reinstalled there. However, none in the municipality now wants to reinstall O.V. Vijayan’s statue at the junction. No impediment When the authorities say that the current law does not permit them to reinstall the statue, Mr. Mattumantha says that technically there was no impediment for restoration of the statue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/civic-body-says-no-to-ov-vijayan-statue/article37957496.ece
15 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Governor had accepted panel decision on KUFOS VC||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan had accepted the unanimous decision of a selection committee to appoint K. Riji John as Vice Chancellor of the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS), a statement submitted at the Kerala High Court has revealed. The document has emerged against the backdrop of Mr. Khan, the Chancellor of State Universities, faulting another selection committee, which was constituted for identifying a Vice Chancellor for the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, for recommending a sole name and not a panel of nominees as mandated by the University Grants Commission (UGC). The statement, accessed by The Hindu , had been submitted by M.U. Vijayalakshmi, standing counsel for the Chancellor, on his behalf on November 18. The Chancellor is the first respondent in a writ petition filed by K.K. Vijayan who challenged the appointment of Dr. John as Vice Chancellor. The selection committee was chaired by State Planning Board vice chairman V.K. Ramachandran, who was the government’s nominee. It had also comprised former Pro Vice Chancellor of Kerala University J. Prabhash and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) Deputy Director General (Fisheries Science) J.K. Jena as the nominees of the KUFOS governing council and the ICAR Director General respectively. Unanimous decision The panel which met on January 22 to interact with nine shortlisted candidates unanimously recommended Dr. John for the post. He was subsequently appointed the Vice Chancellor by the Chancellor the next day. “This (the appointment) is in conformity with the statutory provision stipulating that the Vice Chancellor shall be appointed by the Chancellor on the advice of the selection committee,” the Governor’s statement said. Curiously, in his letter sent to the Chief Minister on December 8 that has triggered a major controversy, Mr. Khan said the selection committee headed by Prof. Ramachandran recommended only a single name for appointment as Vice Chancellor of the Sanskrit university. “This recommendation is in total violation of the UGC guidelines, which require the selection committee to recommend a panel of three names.” he stated. While interacting with the media in New Delhi, the Chancellor had opined the committee which apparently found a majority of candidates to be unfit for the position should have ideally recommended him to re-advertise the post. The UGC regulations mandate the selection of Vice Chancellor should be through proper identification of a panel of 3-5 names by a search committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governor-had-accepted-panel-decision-on-kufos-vc/article37957534.ece
15 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pothencode murder case: five more held||Five more people have been arrested for the murder of a youth near Pothencode on Tuesday, taking the total number of those brought to book in the case to eight. Those who were arrested by the Thiruvananthapruam Rural police for the alleged murder of 32-year-old Sudheesh include Vishnu alias Sooraj and Jishnu of Mangalapuram, Sachin of Attingal, Arun of Pothencode and Nandu of Venjaramoodu. The other accused, Renjith and Nidheesh of Mangalapuram, and Nandeesh of Chirayinkeezhu had been arrested earlier and remanded to judicial custody. Three prime accused The three prime accused, Unni, Rajesh and Shyam Kumar, are yet to be apprehended. The investigation team have recovered various objects including swords that were allegedly used for the crime. Sanjaykumar Gurudin, Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), Thiruvananthapuram range, said all those arrested were directly involved in the crime. Efforts were under way to identify others who could have abetted the crime. He also denied lapses on the part of the local police in apprehending Sudheesh in connection with an attempted murder case that was believed to have spurred the retaliatory attack on him. Special drive The gruesome murder has prompted the launch of an anti-goonda special drive across the Thiruvananthapuram police range. The drive is also aimed at reining in drug proliferation that is believed to have spurred a significant number of criminal activities in the region of late. Mr. Gurudin has issued specific directions to district police chiefs within the range that comprised Thiruvananthapuram City, Rural, Kollam City, Rural and Pathanamthitta police districts. List updation The special drive, Operation Trojan, which got under way on Tuesday will continue for 15 days until December 31. Each police district has been directed to prepare and update the lists of goondas, history-sheeters, those accused in bodily offence cases, and warrantees. Those wanted for their roles in cases that were under investigation must be immediately arrested. The police officers will also focus of identifying and nabbing drug peddlers and those engaged in the sale of alcohol and other psychotropic substances. Check-posts Special check posts will come up at inter-State and inter-district border points to check the smuggling of contraband substances. The District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force (DANSAF) teams in each police district will also be mobilised for adopting preventive measures such as raiding suspected areas of drug trade, keeping close tabs on ‘vulnerable’ locations such as railway stations and bus stands and organising surprise checks in long-route buses. The special drive also entailed keeping a close watch on previous offenders. Station house officers will prepare a list of drug peddlers and regularly update their criminal antecedents. Close coordination will also be ensured with various enforcement wings such as Narcotics Control Bureau and Excise department.  An anti-goonda drive, Operation Trojan, got under way on Tuesday and will continue for 15 days until December 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pothencode-murder-case-five-more-held/article37957677.ece
15 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Energy conservation awards presented||Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty has stressed the need to create better public awareness energy conservation and its financial benefits. He was speaking after presenting the State energy conservation awards in various categories at a function held here on Tuesday. Chairman and Managing Director, Kerala State Electricity Board, B. Ashok presided over the awards function. Chief Electrical Inspector V.C. Anilkumar, CEO, Anert, Naredranath Veluri, Energy Management Centre director R. Harikumar and General Manager, NTPC, Kayankulam S.K. Ram, were among those present. The award winners were selected from 78 entries received in eight different categories. The total savings in electricity and oil by the applicants were estimated to be 621 MU (million units) and 45,345 toe (tonne of oil equivalent) defined as the amount of energy released by burning one tonne of crude oil.  The award winners were selected from 78 entries received in eight different categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/energy-conservation-awards-presented/article37957575.ece
15 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State posts 3,377 new cases||The State reported 3,377 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 64,350 samples were tested in 24 hours. The cumulative COVID-19 burden stands at 52,00,416. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 43,344 with the State adding 174 deaths to the official list. This includes 28 recent deaths and 146 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths. The State’s active case pool is dropping steadily and had 35,410 patients on Tuesday. A total of 4,073 recovered on the day. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 580 cases, Thiruvananthapuram 566, Kottayam 323, Kozhikode 319, Thrissur 306, Kannur 248, Kollam 233, Pathanamthitta 176, Malappuram 142, Alappuzha 129, Palakkad 105, Wayanad 102, Idukki 90 and Kasaragod 58 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-posts-3377-new-cases/article37957539.ece
15 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree to launch campaign against dowry||The Kudumbashree mission will launch a State-level campaign to create awareness against dowry, ostentatious weddings and harassment of women and equip society to raise their voice against these ills. ‘Sthreepaksha Navakeralam’ is being launched against the backdrop of mounting concern over the rise in dowry-related suicides and murders. Objective Messages against dowry, ostentatious weddings, and harassment of women will be taken to all sections of society with the aim of bringing about a change in the mindset of the people. The plan is to rope in maximum number of youth for realising a broad-based campaign. Action plan A detailed action plan of activities to be taken up at the district, block, and neighbourhood group level has been prepared as part of the campaign that will continue till March. Various programmes will be organised at the district, panchayat, and neighbourhoold group level every week. In the first week, discussions will be held on ‘Dowry and violence’ in nearly three lakh neighbouhood groups and 19,542 auxiliary groups in the State. The following weeks will see poster campaign, social media challenge against dowry, video making and promotion through social media, wall-painting campaign, webinars for college students, opinion survey on dowry, two-wheeler rally, balasabha, cartoon series, and signature campaign. Minister for Local Self-government M.V. Govindan has urged women and youth to come together to stand up against dowry, harassment, and biases against women. ‘Sthreepaksha Navakeralam’ will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at Kanakakkunnu here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-to-launch-campaign-against-dowry/article37957516.ece
15 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IDSFFK ends amid pandemic blues||At Home Walking directed by Rajula Shah has been chosen for the Best Long Documentary at the 13th International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala (IDSFFK), organised by the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy. The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 2 lakh. The jury, headed by filmmaker Iffat Fatima, observed that the film is a powerful counterpoint to the disturbing expressions of religiosity in mass culture that have come to dominate public discourse and space in India.  The Last Man , a hard-hitting and deeply disturbing film directed by Dakxinkumar Bajrange, takes an unflinching look at the widespread and abhorrent prevalence of manual scavenging in large parts of the country. It won the award for the Second Best Long Documentary. The special mention in the the Long Documentary category was shared by Madhulika Jalali’s Ghar Ka Pata , which sensitively told story about a Kashmiri Pandit family’s search for their ancestral home, and Sristi Lakhera’s Ek Tha Gaon , which is an atmospheric and sensitive portrayal of a dying village in the hills.  Testimony of Ana , Sachin Dheeraj Mudigonda’s heart-breaking story of a victim of witch hunt who has endured societal abuse and violence, won the award for the Best Short Documentary, carrying a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh. The award for the Second Best Short Documentary was equally shared between Manoj Murali’s Mattivecha Pangu portraying an age-old ritual practised in the filmmaker’s village and Ruuposh , directed by Ameen Barif, Mohd Fehmeed, Zeeshan Khan, Aqdas Sami, Mohd Althaf and Faraz Fakhri, on a family which chose to stay behind in the country after partition and their relationship with the relatives on the other side. Kalsubhai , directed by Yudhajit Basu, won the Special Mention in short documentary.  My Mother’s Girlfriend , directed by Arun Fulara, won the award for the Best Short Fiction for its powerful commentary on love, sexuality, gender, age, class and religion. Ashmita Guha’s Catdog , which explores uncharted territories from adolescent life, won the award for the Second Best Short Fiction. ‘Cycle’ gets mention  Cycle, directed by Devashish Makhija, won the Special Mention in Short Fiction. The award for the Best Campus Film was shared between Burn directed by Mac Mer, for its flamboyant style in capturing the rage against caste discrimination in university campuses, and Raj Govind’s Unseen Voices , which transports the viewer to the Anchunadu valley in the foothills of the Western Ghats. Nikhil.S.Praveen won the Navroze Contractor Award for Best Documentary Cinematography for Eyes on their Fingertips , directed by Muhammed Thalhath. M. Rituparna Saha won the Kumar Talkies Award for Best Editing in Long Documentary for A Bid for Bengal directed by Dwaipayan Banerjee and Kasturi Basu. The fiction jury was headed by filmmaker Leena Yadav. The award for Lifetime Achievement was presented to documentary filmmaker and cinematographer Ranjan Palit. His associate Nachimuthu accepted the award on his behalf. Mr. Palit, a cinematographer, director and producer, has shot over a 100 documentaries, 14 feature films, and numerous commercials for screen and television. Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal, who inaugurated the closing ceremony at Aries Plex SL Cinemas on Tuesday, said that film festivals in Kerala provide a platform for dissent and freedom of expression. Minister for Cultural Affairs Saji Cherian, who presided over the function, said that the government would nurture films and other cultural productions that helped to inculcate progressive values in the minds of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idsffk-braves-odds-ends-well/article37957672.ece
15 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Preparations on for Beemapally Uroos||The State government will make all arrangements for the smooth conduct of the Beemapally Uroos. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty on Tuesday. The Minister said the government would make arrangements for the festival in compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols without affecting customs and rituals. From Jan.5 The 10-day festival begins on January 5. Beemapally Muslim Jamaat office-bearers informed the meeting that the Uroos would be held by adhering to COVID protocols directed by the district administration. Minister for Transport Antony Raju gave instructions to officials to take action on demands put forward by the Jamaat office-bearers and people’s representatives in connection with the festival. Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil directed that ahead of the festival, microphones be used on vehicles to inform the public about following COVID-19 guidelines. District Collector Navjot Khosa, heads of departments, councillor, and representatives of political parties attended the meeting. Another meeting to be attended by the Ministers and officials would be held at Beemapally in connection with the Uroos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/preparations-on-for-beemapally-uroos/article37957669.ece
15 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||More relief for artistes||The State has announced more relaxations in COVID-19 restrictions. The Department of Disaster Management has revised the guidelines to permit ritual art forms to be staged as part of festivals in the State. A notification issued by the department said 300 persons would be allowed to participate in open venues hosting festivals and political, social, and cultural programmes. The number would be restricted to 150 for indoor programmes. The maximum number of people permitted to converge for marriage functions and funeral rites would remain 200 in open spaces and 100 in closed spaces. Pointing out that the curbs had affected their livelihood and pushed them to the brink of penury, performing artistes had been demanding steps to stage performances again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-relief-for-artistes/article37957537.ece
15 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Child labour incentive||Information about child labour in the State can be passed on to the District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) or any other official entrusted by the DCPO as part of the incentive scheme announced by the government. Phone number of the officials are available on the linkhttp://wcd.kerala. gov.in/offices_icps.php. Anonymity maintained Action to prevent child labour will be taken by the officials on the basis of the information. Those providing information and found eligible will be given an incentive of Rs. 2,500 by maintaining their anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/info-on-child-labour-sought/article37957497.ece
15 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Medical, Ayurveda rank lists published||The Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) on Tuesday published the State medical and Ayurveda rank lists on the basis of NEET (UG) 2021 scores. Gowrishankar S. of Alappuzha, who secured 17th rank in NEET (UG), has topped the State medical rank list. Vaishna Jayavardhanan of Thrissur (NEET rank - 23), R.R. Kavinesh of Kottayam (31), Nirupama P. of Malappuram (62) and Bharath Nair (88) occupied the next spots. Rohith K.V. of Malappuram (State medical rank - 67) and Jonathan S. Daniel of Ernakulam (304) topped the SC and ST categories respectively. A total of 42,059, mostly girls (31,722), have been included on the rank lists. As many as 37,991 candidates among them are eligible for MBBS, BDS, BHMS, BAMS, BUMS and BSMS courses. The provisional and final category lists will be published on December 20 and 24 respectively. The allotment schedule for admission to medical courses will be published later, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-ayurveda-rank-lists-published/article37957535.ece
15 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bus fare: Raju holds talks||Transport Minister Antony Raju on Tuesday held discussions with the Justice Ramachandran committee on the proposed hike in bus fare. Mr. Raju said a general understanding that a hike was required was arrived at. The meeting was generally in agreement on the continuation of concession for students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bus-fare-raju-holds-talks/article37957536.ece
15 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Get Aadhaar for care home kids: panel||If a child admitted to a childcare institution does not have an Aadhaar card, the authorities of the institution should take steps to get the card through the child welfare committee (CWC) concerned, the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said. The commission of member K. Nazeer recommended that the Women and Child Development secretary and the Women and Child Development director issue circulars directing heads of childcare institutions to ensure that no child went without an Aadhaar card. No delay Acting on a petition from the Alappuzha CWC chairperson, the commission directed the registrar of the UID State Authority to take steps without delay on the Aadhaar application of children living in childcare institutions. The petition said that a child, around 10 years old, was admitted to Government Children’s Home by the police in October 2016. His date of birth or Aadhaar card were not available nor was there any details about his parents. The child was now in foster care. Technical hurdles Though the then superintendent of the children’s home, and later the CWC and the District Child Protection Officer, on the directions of the District Collector, tried to get an Aadhaar card for the child, there were technical hurdles. The child had to appear for the SSLC examinations and hence the school authorities were asking for the Aadhaar number, the petition said, seeking the commission’s intervention. During an online hearing, the Pareeksha Bhavan secretary informed the commission that Aadhaar card was not compulsory to sit for the SSLC examination. The school Principal also denied asking for Aadhaar. The registrar of the UID State Authority said that following a notice from the commission, the child had been issued an Aadhaar card. Moreover, if any child was yet to get Aadhaar, steps would be taken for the same on getting details. The commission observed that Aadhaar was a must for future requirements of children living in childcare institutions. Benefits They could lose out on many benefits owing to lack of Aadhaar. Applying at the last moment could lead to delay in getting the card, and children being denied many opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/get-aadhaar-for-care-home-kids-panel/article37957489.ece
15 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Law to set up panel for elderly in the offing: Bindu||The State government will consider setting up a commission for the elderly, Minister for Social Justice R. Bindu has said. The possibility of bringing in new legislation for this would be explored, she said. The Minister was speaking at the first meeting of the reconstituted elderly council on Tuesday. Kerala, she said, had bagged the Vayoshreshtha Samman of the Union government for excellence in implementing policies for the elderly. The possibilities of a comprehensive law that included provisions not present in the Central law and were more effective in protecting the elderly would be considered, she said. The government would be recommended to look into implementing a health insurance scheme for the elderly on the lines of MEDISEP for government employees and pensioners. It would also be directed to examine all elderly who are eligible for old-age pension in the Vayomithram project that ensures comprehensive health care and support to the elderly above the age of 65. Parks for the mental recreation of the elderly and converting a portion of existing parks for their use would also be recommended to the government. A letter would be given to the Transport Department seeking steps for making seat reservation for the elderly on public transport more effective. Elderly clubs Formation of elderly clubs in schools and colleges and inclusion of representatives from the State in the National Council of Senior Citizens were the other demands. The meeting protested against the alleged discrimination of the elderly by the Union government and withdrawal of free rail travel for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/law-to-set-up-panel-for-elderly-in-the-offing-bindu/article37957675.ece
15 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Help kids with issues in families’||Ward-level action plans should be drawn up to identify problems faced by children within families, Minister for Transport Antony Raju said on Tuesday at a workshop by the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights for strengthening child protection committees. Commission chairperson K.V. Manoj Kumar said the committees would be formed at the ward level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/help-kids-with-issues-in-families/article37957668.ece
15 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kallattumukku roadwork begins||Work on relaying the Kallattumukku road to prevent waterlogging got under way here on Tuesday. The area had been experiencing extreme waterlogging. The work will be completed in 15 days. The project would be taken up in a time-bound manner, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty, the local MLA, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kallattumukku-roadwork-begins/article37957673.ece
15 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||566 COVID-19 cases in capital||The district recorded 566 COVID-19 cases and 663 recoveries as the active cases count stood at 6,006 on Tuesday. A test positivity rate stood at 7.8%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/566-covid-19-cases-in-capital/article37957676.ece
15 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Rare cuckoo wasp spotted||A rare species of cuckoo wasp has been spotted in the county for the first time, from two sacred groves in Kasaragod district and from Vadakara in Kozhikode district. Researchers of the Shadpada Entomology Research Lab (SERL), Christ College, Irinjalakuda, Thrissur, have reported spotting ‘ Chrysidea falsa ’ from the sacred groves of Koyithatta Sree Dharmashastha Kavu and Edayilakkad in Kasaragod and from Vadakara in Kozhikode. Aswathi P.G., research scholar, and Bijoy C., assistant professor and Research Supervisor of the SERL, are behind the discovery. The study has been published in the latest issue of the international journal, Taprobanica . The study was funded by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). This species had previously been reported from China, Malaysia and Philippines and this discovery had extended the known range of this species, Dr. Bijoy said.  121 species With this, 121 species of cuckoo wasps have been reported from the country. Of this, seven are discovered by this research team of the Shadpada Entomology Research Lab. “More cuckoo wasps are being identified and the studies are yet to be published,” said Dr. Bijoy. The researchers collected six specimens of ‘ Chrysidea falsa ’ — five from Kasaragod and one from Vadakara. The specimens were found from small rock crevices and on the brick walls of an abandoned house respectively. Though the sacred groves in Kasaragod had a rich biodiversity, the area where the wasp was spotted in Vadakara has lesser vegetation, implying that the species occurs in a variety of habitats. Therefore a wider distribution of the species was expected, they said. According to the recent faunal checklist published, studies on Chrysididae are still scarce in the country and more species of Chrysididae can be expected in the diverse ecosystems of the country, according to the researchers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rare-cuckoo-wasp-spotted/article37957531.ece
15 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Programme on soil health management organised||Madhu Subramanian, Director of Research, Kerala Agricultural University, has stressed the importance of agro-ecological unit-based package of practices and recommendations for soil conservation, soil health management and making policy decisions. While addressing a capacity building programme on soil analytical methods to technical officers of Department of Soil Survey and Soil Conservation at College of Agriculture, Vellanikkara, recently, he insisted on usage of the database created by the Department of Soil Survey and Soil Conservation. The Department of Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, College of Agriculture, Vellanikkara, and Central Training Institute, Mannuthy, Kerala Agricultural University jointly organised the programme which was sponsored by the Department of Soil Survey and Soil Conservation. Durga Devi, K M., Professor and Head, Department of Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, College of Agriculture, Vellanikkara emphasised the importance of soil testing and explained about facilities available in the Department of Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry and Radio Tracer Laboratory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/programme-on-soil-health-management-organised/article37957639.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Holy visit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/holy-visit/article37957569.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tide of misery||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tide-of-misery/article37957533.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Traditional ritual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traditional-ritual/article37957679.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pulling with faith||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pulling-with-faith/article37957681.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Demand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand/article37957683.ece
15 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed in accident at workshop||Two people were killed on the spot and two injured in an accident at a plastics workshop at NTR Marg in Anantapur on Tuesday evening. The deceased were identified as Lingeswara Reddy (45) and Rasool Bee (62), Deputy Superintendent of Police G. Veeraraghavaiah said. Lingeswara and Rasool were cutting old plastic vegetable crates when splinters from a large steel blade that broke due to overheating struck them at a very high speed, causing them to bleed profusely. They died while being taken to hospital, the DSP said, adding that they were not given protective gear. Another woman named Chowdamma (45) was undergoing treatment for injuries. A fourth unidentified person was in shock and is undergoing treatment. Police said the establishment has been sealed and a case filed against the owner for causing death due to negligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-killed-in-accident-at-workshop/article37957620.ece
15 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. college official accused of cheating||A vice-principal at the Government Arts College in Anantapur, identified as Padma Sri, was on Tuesday accused of cheating several people of Rs. 7 crore over a period of two years by promising them high interest rates. A woman named Sujatha, working as a teacher at the Kadiri ZP High School, said in a written complaint submitted to the Kadiri police that she had invested an amount of Rs. 1.20 crore in a company named Sigma Six, which was allegedly promoted by a relative of Padma Sri, after being promised a return of 30%. Ms. Sujatha said that she had deposited the money with Padma Sri and her partner Shamima. Out of the Rs. 1.20 crore, she was returned only a small amount, Ms. Sujatha said, adding that she was yet to get back Rs. 87 lakh. Kadiri Circle Inspector K. Srinivasulu said that they had filed an FIR against Padma Sri and Shamima. Padma Sri is absconding and we are interrogating Shamima, the CI said. The Inspector said that Shamima acted as a channeling agent for Padma Sri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-college-official-accused-of-cheating/article37957621.ece
15 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB raids town planning office||Anantapur Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Kulasekhar Reddy raided the offices of Town Planning and Revenue wings of the Anantapur Municipal Corporation on Tuesday afternoon. The searches are likely to continue till Wednesday. The ACB DSP said that large-scale irregularities were noticed and many deviations in building plans were flagged in several complaints made by the public. “We are ascertaining as to when were these deviations allowed and who was responsible. Depending on the total quantum of deviation, and if any financial gratification was involved, we will have to frame charges,” the DSP added. “Complaints were made against the Revenue wing as well, so searches are going on there,” Mr. Kulasekhar said on Tuesday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-raids-town-planning-office/article37957146.ece
15 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP is a seat short in Karnataka Council||The ruling BJP on Tuesday fell one seat short of gaining a simple majority in the Karnataka Legislative Council. The party bagged 11 of the 25 seats from 20 Local Authorities’ constituencies for which the biennial election was held on December 10, and counting was taken up on Tuesday, poll officials said. The opposition Congress also managed to clinch 11 seats, while the JD(S) has won the Hassan seat and is leading in one of the seats in Mysuru. An independent candidate has managed to win one of the two seats in the prestigious Belagavi constituency, the officials said. With these results, the BJP’s strength in the 75-member ‘Upper House’ has gone up from 32 to 37, while the Congress’ tally declined from 29 to 26, and the JD(S)’ numbers came down from 12 to 10 (if it wins Mysuru). Over 99% voter turnout was recorded in the December 10 elections from all the 25 seats, for which 90 candidates were in the fray, including 20 each from the BJP and the Congress, and six from the JD(S). The electorate comprised elected representatives, including members of urban and rural local bodies. Unlike legislative Assembly or Lok Sabha polls, the council contests are decided by preferential votes. Poor show by JD(S) In what can be termed a dismal performance by the JD(S), the regional party has lost three out of four seats — Tumakuru, Kolar, Mandya, other than Mysuru — it had won last time, which comes under the party bastion of the old Mysuru region. However, a win by former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda’s grandson Suraj Revanna in Hassan came as a respite for the party. In a blow to the BJP, independent candidate Lakhan Jarkiholi, one among the Jarkiholi brothers, emerged victorious during the counting of second preferential votes in Belagavi, bagging one of the two seats from the constituency, while the Congress’ Channaraj Hattiholi won the other in the first preferential votes. M.K. Pranesh, Deputy Chairman of the Legislative Council, Leader of the House and Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary won from Chikmagalur and Dakshina Kannada respectively on a BJP ticket, while the ruling side’s chief whip Mahantesh Kavatagimath lost from Belagavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-wins-big-in-karnataka-council-polls/article37957101.ece
15 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maharashtra team all praise for A.P’s land resurvey project||The resurvey and resettlement project being implemented in the State is beginning to catch the imagination of many. A 10-member team from Maharashtra, led by its Commissioner, Survey and Settlement, Niranjan Kumar Sudanshu, and Director of Land Records, visited the State to study the ‘YSR Jagananna Bhukakku Mariyu Bhuraksha Pathakam’ that seeks to ensure permanent land rights and land protection to the beneficiaries. “The land resurvey project has been completed in 51 villages. In addition to updating records immediately after sale, measures required to secure survey data are also integral to the project,” Commissioner, Survey Settlement and Land Records, Siddharth Jain, explained the visiting team members. “We are providing farmers with a document containing all details,” he told the members. Briefing the team members on various aspects of the the project being implemented in the State, Mr. Siddharth Jain said, “The new title registration process ensures an integrated land information system by following mirror, curtain and insurance principles. The new system helps create, administer, organise and manage all aspects of land information, control, usage in a unified manner.” “Besides ensuring security of title to the owner, the new system eliminates land litigation and reduces the burden on courts. It also facilitates quick and secure land-based marketing, speedy land transactions, and opens up the land market,” he said. “The continuous process to update land records will also boost the confidence of the farmers, and help them invest in high-yielding varieties. In the urban areas, it will bring transparency in and predictability to property tax values,” he explained. “It is not a trivial matter to designate an employee for the survey, especially at the village level, and formulate a policy to complete the registration process there as well,” Mr. Niranjan Kumar said. “Deploying the latest technology used at the international level to carry out the programme successfully without any shortcomings is commendable,” Mr. Niranjan Kumar said. Kakinada Regional Deputy Director P. Kezia Kumari briefed the team members in Jaggayyapeta about the SOPs involved in resurvey of agriculture lands. Andhra Pradesh Survey Academy vice-principal C.H.V.S.N. Kumar gave a presentation on the training programmes. Kurnool Regional Deputy Director Venkateswara Rao briefed about the CORS network. Jhansi Rani, Deputy Director, Headquarters, gave a presentation on the Land Titling Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maharashtra-team-all-praise-for-aps-land-resurvey-project/article37957628.ece
15 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fireworks in GMC meet over allegations of corruption||The two-day session of the Guntur Municipal Corporation council ended on Tuesday with several corporators venting their frustration against GMC officials over allegations of corruption. Allegations centred on the Town Planning Department dominated the proceedings with MLA of Guntur East Md, Mustafa alleging that a shadow person was indulging in corruption on behalf of the City Planner. While the common man was put to lot of difficulties over delay in approval of plans, those bribing the town planning department were walking away with their applications approved within no time, he alleged. MLC Lella Appireddy said it was time civic officials became more responsive to public needs. MLC K.S. Lakshmana Rao said the UGD project was yet to be over even after the Centre had provided a one-time financial grant of Rs. 540 crore. The contractor left the town after failing to complete the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fireworks-in-gmc-meet-over-allegations-of-corruption/article37957702.ece
15 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employee outfits pin hopes on meet with CM today||Expressing displeasure over the recommendations pertaining to 11 aspects of the Pay Revision Commission, including grating of 14.29% as fitment, the employee associations said in a meeting with Adviser Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy on Tuesday that they were hoping for a better deal during their meeting with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday. The three employee associations headed by Bandi Srinivas, Bopparaju Venkateswara Rao and Venkatrami Reddy met Mr . Ramakrishna Reddy separately, and expressed their views on the report submitted by Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma on Monday. ‘Unhappy, disappointed’ Mr. Srinivas said anything less than 55% fitment to be implemented retrospectively from July 2018 was not acceptable. He also said that employees were disappointed and unhappy over the report submitted by the Chief Secretary. Mr. Venkateswara Rao said the committee had not taken into consideration the recommendations of the Ashutosh Mishra Committee, and added that employees would continue their agitation. Mr. Venkatrami Reddy, president of the Secretariat Employees’ Association, said they would demand 35% fitment, but his views were not accepted by the other two associations. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy later had a meeting with the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/employee-outfits-pin-hopes-on-meet-with-cm-today/article37957626.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||CSIR-NGRI study shows up 45-km-long buried river||A high resolution airborne electromagnetic study in the Ganga-Yamuna region, supplemented with drilling and logging data to address the groundwater crisis, by scientists of the CSIR-National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI), has unravelled an exhaustive aquifer information with discovery of a 45-km-long buried river equal to these two rivers. This ancient river, likely to be extending toward the Himalayas, is characterised by porous and permeable structures and is hydro-geologically linked with Ganga and Yamuna through an underlying principal aquifer, which could help in replenishing groundwater resources in the region. The location of this paleoriver falls within a region where a lost mythological river ‘Saraswati’ was believed to be flowing in the past, says the CSIR-NGRI study - ‘Airborne Electromagnetic Signatures of an Ancient River in the Water-Stressed Ganga Plain, Prayagraj, India: A Potential Groundwater Repository’ - findings, were published in the latest American Geophysical Union - Advancing Earth & Space Science’ .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/csir-ngri-study-shows-up-45-km-long-buried-river/article37957624.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Committee to assess Omicron prevalence||Citing spread of Omicron in United Kingdom, South Africa and a few other countries, Health Minister Harish Rao directed officials to be on alert. Health staff were instructed to keep a watch on the situation in Maharashtra and Kerala, where Omicron cases were going up. At a review meeting here on Tuesday to discuss prevalence of the new variant and third wave, among others, a decision was taken to form a committee to assess prevalence of COVID cases, and Omicron across the country, every day. As part of preparations to face the third wave, Health officials were asked to ready 21 lakh home isolation kits, and ensure 545 metric tonnes of oxygen to 27,996 beds. 210 more COVID cases The State registered 210 COVID cases on Tuesday, taking the total to 6,78,688. One more COVID patient died. The new cases include 87 from GHMC, 21 from Hanamkonda, 18 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, and 12 from Rangareddy. From March 2, 2020, to December 14 this year, a total of 2.90 crore samples were tested and 6,78,688 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 3,833 were active cases, 6,70,846 recovered, and 4,009 people died. Genome sequencing results of samples collected from three fliers were still awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/committee-to-assess-omicron-prevalence/article37957448.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TRS bags all 12 seats||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti made a clean sweep of the elections for seats in Legislative Council under the local authorities constituencies, bagging all the 12 seats for which polls were notified. TRS candidates L. Ramana and T. Bhanuprakash Rao from Karimnagar, D. Vittal (Adilabad), V. Yadava Reddy (Medak), M. Koti Reddy (Nalgonda), T. Madhusudan (Khammam) won the elections with comfortable majorities. Mr. Yadava Reddy defeated Nirmala Turupu, wife of TPCC working president T. Jayaprakash (Jagga) Reddy with a margin of over 500 votes. LAC quota The election was conducted for 12 seats, including two seats under LAC quota – one each from the erstwhile Medak, Nalgonda, Adilabad, Nizamabad. Warangal Khammam and two seats each from the erstwhile Karimnagar, Rangareddy and Mahbubnagar districts. The term of the sitting members in these seats including TRS president K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s daughter Kalvakuntla Kavita is set to expire on January 4. Of the 12 seats for which elections were notified, candidates of the ruling party were declared elected uncontested in six seats — one each in Nizamabad and Warangal and two each in Mahbubnagar and Rangareddy districts. Election was conducted for the remaining five seats on December 10 with the electors, including ZPTC and MPTC members and MLAs, MPs and MLCs as ex-officio members, casting their votes. Karimnagar registered highest voting of 99.66 % followed by Medak with 99.1 % in the election. The results of the elections were declared on Tuesday after completion of counting of the first and second preference votes cast by the electors. In addition, S. Madhusudana Chary has been nominated to the Council under the Governor’s quota, the notification for which has been released on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trs-nominees-bag-all-12-council-seats/article37957108.ece
15 December 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Most visitors to Odisha from Telangana’||As foreign tourist arrivals dipped in India over the past two years, domestic tourism has picked up. “COVID has hurt the travel and tourism sector in a big way. But domestic tourists have not stopped travelling. We had 75% bookings last year for glamping (glamorous camping) in Odisha. This year, we are expecting better business,” said Rina Mohapatra, an Odisha tourism official. Making a presentation at a road show to promote tourism to the coastal State with temples, Eastern Ghats and stunning landscapes, she spoke about how the State was trying to draw domestic tourists. “From December 15, Eco Retreats will offer world-class amenities for camping in luxury tents, complemented by experiences ranging from jungle trails to water sports, camp fires to boat rides and cycling tours to paragliding,” she said. Interestingly, tourists from Telangana form a major chunk of visitors. “Telangana ranks third in the number of tourist footfalls to Odisha. With cross border tourism, road trips and caravan tourism getting popular, more road trippers are coming from TS,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-tourists-form-major-chunk-of-visitors-to-odisha/article37957440.ece
15 December 2021||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Contractors take out a rally seeking clearance of pending bills||The contractors of civil, mechanical, electrical and public health works on Tuesday took out a rally in Kakinada under the banner of the East Godavari District Contractors Association (EGDCA) against the inordinate delay in clearing the pending bills of various State and Central government works in the district. According to the EGDCA, pending bills worth Rs. 1,200 crore are yet to be released by the State government to the 200 registered contractors in the district by December. Led by EGDCA president R. Santaram, the contractors took out a rally from the RTO office to the Dharna Chowk with placards. The contractors have alleged that the State government did not release the funds for the works which have been taken up by them under the SC, ST sub-plan, Panchayat Raj Department, Rural Water Supply Department and the municipal general fund. The bills pertaining to the works completed with the 14th and 15th Finance Commissions grants have also not been released by the State government, they alleged. Mr. Santaram has stated that the State government should cancel the works which are in progress if it could not afford the project cost. The contractors have appealed to the State government not to invite tenders for the works without having sufficient funds, land for the work and proper work drawings. EGDCA vice-president K. Balakrishna, secretary P. Satyanarayana and other contractors were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/contractors-take-out-a-rally-seeking-clearance-of-pending-bills/article37957654.ece
15 December 2021||KODURU (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Child run over by bus||A three-year-old boy, K. Dinesh Kumar, died on the spot when a private school hit him while he was playing in front of his house in Koduru village of Krishna district on Tuesday. The school bus that came into the colony to pick up students knocked down the boy, said the Koduru police. A case has been registered and the driver was arrested, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/child-run-over-by-bus/article37957699.ece
15 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tiger spotted on Srisailam forest pathway||Four devotees going on foot to Srisailam Bhramarambika Mallikarjuna Swamy temple reportedly spotted a tiger near Nagaluti base camp in Nallamala forest on Tuesday, creating a scare among the devotees going through Atmakur forest division. They told the Forest Department officials that the tiger was moving on the rocks on a hillock. They ran back from the spot and reached forest base camp and informed the officials. The forest staff rushed to the spot in a jeep and shifted the other devotees to safety, Forest Range Officer S. Chandra Sekhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tiger-spotted-on-srisailam-forest-pathway/article37957148.ece
15 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Power tariff in State lower’||The power tariff proposed and okayed by the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) for the 2022-23 financial year is much lower compared to Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, and there will be no hike in charges for the households consuming 0-30 units by following energy-saving measures, said Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited CMD H. Haranath Rao. Addressing a press conference after speaking to staff and consumers on the occasion of Energy Conservation Day on Tuesday, Mr. Haranath Rao said the focus of the consumers should be on saving power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-tariff-in-state-lower/article37957147.ece
15 December 2021||Madurai,ANDHRA PRADESH||FIR against YouTuber quashed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday quashed the FIR registered by the Madurai police against YouTuber Maridhas. He was booked following a tweet that questioned whether Tamil Nadu was turning into another Kashmir. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that Mr. Maridhas had posted the tweet following the tragic demise of the Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat. The tweet was posted as some people were celebrating the demise of the General. According to the petitioner, some followers of the DK and the DMK had shared emojis on social media, following which he had posted the tweet. Later, the tweet was deleted. The DMK IT Wing lodged a complaint against the YouTuber. While the petitioner said he had only voiced his concern and opinion, and was well within his right to freedom of speech and expression, the State submitted before the court that the right was not absolute and was subject to reasonable restrictions. It said the tweet was a bid to topple the government. “The petitioner's tweet was never intended to subvert the government. On the other hand, it calls for strengthening the foundations of government. He has merely vented out his anxiety. Hence, the tweet of the petitioner cannot be characterized as seditious,” the court said. It held that the charges against Mr. Maridhas were not attracted. A YouTuber or any social media personality regularly commenting on public affairs would also be entitled to the very same rights which are accorded to journalists and the media under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-quashes-fir-against-youtuber/article37957233.ece
15 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panchaloha idols stolen in series of thefts recovered||Police claimed to have achieved a breakthrough in a series of thefts at places of worship, with the arrest of six inter-district offenders at Kaligiri in Nellore district. Police recovered Panchaloha idols of Sri Devi, Bhoodevi and Achyuta Swamy worth over Rs. 1 lakh, Rs. 10,000 in cash and an auto-rickshaw reportedly used by the accused to commit the offence at five places of worship in Kaligiri, Kaluvoya and Varikondapadu mandals. Special teams formed by Superintendent of Police Ch. Vijaya Rao probed the thefts at the places of worship and nabbed the alleged offenders at Kaligiri late on Monday who had struck at the centuries-old Achyuta temple among other places. The offenders had also struck at places of worship in three places in neighbouring Kadapa district and two places in Prakasam district, Mr. Vijaya Rao told reporters on Tuesday. The accused were identified as Sk. Lal Basha (32), S. Balu (28), D. Pollaiah (35), D. Penchaliah (35), T. Gangadhar (38) and S. Praveen Kumar (40). An investigation by the police revealed that the idol-lifters used to conduct a recce a few days before committing the crime. They would break into places of worship situated in remote areas late in the night and would decamp with money stolen from the hundi and other valuables, including antique idols. The SP congratulated the police personnel for efficiently conducting the investigation with the latest investigation tools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panchaloha-idols-stolen-in-series-of-thefts-recovered/article37957623.ece
15 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan pats Nellore Collector||Chief Minister Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday appreciated District Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu for vaccinating all 23,77,724 people in the age group of 18 years and above in the district, thus ensuring 100% vaccination. “The effort of the staff at the grassroots level under the supervision of Joint Collector G. Ganesh Kumar and DMHO S. Rajyalakshmi made this possible,” the Collector said. Around 6.22 lakh people are yet to be given the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-pats-nellore-collector/article37957150.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC puts off hearing on CBI plea in ISRO case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday adjourned a hearing on the CBI appeal against anticipatory bail granted to accused persons in the ISRO frame-up case to January next year. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar posted the case after the Christmas vacations. The case may likely be listed on January 3. The adjournment was granted after the court was informed that one of the senior lawyers appearing in the case was unwell. Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju, for the CBI, did not object to the rescheduling of the hearing.  The court had issued notice to former police and Intelligence Bureau officials, who were granted the bail, on November 22. The CBI has challenged the bail granted at the “threshold” of the investigation. “The frame-up led to the arrest of scientists. The technology for the cryogenic engine was deliberately stalled for at least two decades... Maybe a larger conspiracy involving foreign powers. Grant of anticipatory bail at the threshold may harm the investigation,” Mr. Raju had submitted. The High Court had granted anticipatory bail to P.S. Jayaprakash, Thampi S. Durga Dutt, Vijayan and R.B Sreekumar. The CBI had arraigned 18 people, including the petitioners, as accused in the case after a Supreme Court-appointed Justice D.K. Jain Committee found fault with them for booking cases against the scientists without any proof of their involvement in the espionage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-puts-off-hearing-on-cbi-plea-against-bail-in-isro-case/article37957113.ece
15 December 2021||Ongole,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Uphold traditional fishermen’s rights’||Fishermen from across South Coastal Andhra Pradesh have decided to step up their agitation demanding that the State government ensure implementation of the Andhra Pradesh Marine Fishing (Regulation) Act in letter and spirit with a view to protecting the fishing rights of traditional fishermen along the vast coastline allegedly encroached upon by their counterparts from Tamil Nadu. Fishermen from over 250 coastal villages in the region, including more than 160 villages in Nellore district and over 70 villages in Prakasam district, suffered a huge loss followed alleged incursions by their counterparts in T.N. within eight nautical miles from the shore reserved for traditional fishermen, complained a group of fishermen who met here under the banner of ‘Samudra Theera Matsya Karima Union’ to chalk out an agitation programme. Using sophisticated boats fitted with high-speed engines, fishermen from Cuddalore, Nagapatinam and Thuthookudi in Tamil Nadu and from Puducherry are not only taking away their catch but are also damaging their fishing nets forcing them to incur huge losses, according to union president M. Zakaria.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uphold-traditional-fishermens-rights/article37957149.ece
15 December 2021||Rajamahendravaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanction roads under PMGSY, MP urges Centre||Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat has appealed to Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister Giriraj Singh to sanction 307-kilometre-length of roads under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY-III) in the Rajamahendravaram parliamentary constituency. On Monday, Mr. Bharat submitted a letter to Mr. Giriraj Singh in Delhi and appealed to him to sanction the proposed roads in both the Godavari districts. The State government has also forwarded the proposals of the respective roads to the Central government for sanction under the PMGSY-III. The roads have been proposed in Kovvuru, Gopalapuram, and Nidadavolu Assembly segments in the West Godavari district. In East Godavari, the roads have been proposed in Rajamahendravaram rural, Anaparthy and Rajanagaram Assembly segments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sanction-roads-mp-urges-centre/article37957653.ece
15 December 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal people bear the brunt of bad roads||Hundreds of tribal people in Palakonda mandal of Srikakulam district are reportedly facing hardships due to a lack of proper roads to many interior villages in the mandal. The condition of most roads has gone from bad to worse, complain the tribals. They also lamented the ‘repeated delays’ in sanctioning of funds by the government for repairs of damaged roads. “Tribal people who use their own vehicles to commute to Palakonda, Bhamini, Kotturu and other remote places are unable to travel for many weeks. Palakonda division received heavy rains under the impact of Cyclone Jawad. The stagnation of water has worsened the condition of roads in Kuddapalli, Palamanuguda, Bandhamanuguda, Chilakammaguda and other places,” CPI(M) Srikakulam district secretariat member M. Tirupati Rao said on Tuesday, urging the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA)-Sithampeta officials to commence repairs of damaged roads, particularly in hilly areas, at the earliest. “Many drivers are reluctant to operate vehicles to tribal villages. As there is no transport facility, many patients are unable to access medical care as they need to come to Palakonda for treatment,” Mr. Tirupati Rao added. The tribal farmers are unable to transport their produce to nearby towns, Mr. Tirupati Rao said, adding that the party would launch an agitation if the government failed to take remedial action within a week’s time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-people-bear-the-brunt-of-bad-roads/article37957658.ece
15 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IndiGo flight to Tirupati diverted to Bengaluru, ‘lands’ in trouble||In a sudden twist, the Rajamahendravaram - Tirupati flight 6E 7265 of IndiGo airlines scheduled to land at the Renigunta airport on Tuesday made an unexpected detour to the Bengaluru airport, citing technical snag. YSRCP Nagari MLA R.K. Roja and senior TDP leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu were among the 35 passengers on board. The actual reason for the change in destination was not clear, and there was no communication from the airline. The incident left the passengers peeved, as they were not given the specific reason for the inordinate delay. The airline “landed” in an unexpected controversy over the changed route and schedule. Ms. Roja released a selfie video to the media, in which she slammed the airline for risking the passengers’ lives. She also charged the cabin crew with keeping the passengers ‘deliberately’ in the dark for almost five hours and not informing them about the developments. Citing her recent surgery, which made sitting for long hours difficult, the Nagari MLA recalled her suffering as well as that of the fellow passengers, especially senior citizens. She said the request made by the passengers to disembark at the Bengaluru airport was also turned down. “To our plea to open the door, the flight attendants asked us to pay Rs. 5,000 each, which was unacceptable,” she alleged in the video. The passengers were finally let out of the aircraft in Bengaluru, forcing them to reach their respective destinations by road. Meanwhile, CPI secretary K. Narayana termed it an act of human rights violation, and demanded criminal action against the airline for not dropping the passengers at the designated terminal, but also for demanding Rs. 5,000 from each of them.  The passengers’ request to allow them to disembark at Bengaluru airport was turned down. To our plea to open the door, the flight attendants asked us to pay Rs. 5,000 each, which was unacceptable R.K. Roja Nagari MLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indigo-lands-in-trouble-after-flight-diversion/article37957110.ece
15 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ryots turn emotional as padayatra ends at Alipiri||It was an emotional end to the marathon padayatra by farmers of Amaravati capital region that ended on the 44th day on Tuesday. Titled ‘Nyayasthanam to Devasthanam’, the padayatra started on November 1 at Thullur to reach the abode of Lord Venkateswara. The walkathon not only signified the need to take it across the State as a people’s movement, but also to seek “divine intervention” to an issue that was hitherto dubbed as a legal battle “of a few” against the government. The 400-km-long journey culminated at the foot of Tirumala Hills on the 45th day, after traversing through Guntur, Prakasam, Nellore and Chittoor districts. Upon reaching the Garuda statue at Alipiri, the foot of Tirumala hills, the members turned emotional and shouted ‘Govinda Govinda’ at the top of their voice. Many of them prostrated and some knelt down on the floor in reverence to the sacred hills. Some farmers also broke coconuts at the spot, marking the end of their 44-day ordeal. Parties extend support All the political parties, barring the ruling YSR Congress Party, expressed solidarity to the marathon padayatra and appealed to the Chief Minister to review his stand on the issue, in view of the overwhelming support from all quarters. Telugu Yuvatha members led by state president Sriram Chinnababu carried placards with the message ‘Save Amaravati to save A.P.’. Politburo member R. Sreenivasa Reddy joined the farmers’ rally with 100 vehicles from Rayachoti to Tirupati. Congress working president N. Thulasi Reddy greeted the members at Ambedkar Circle, while BJP State spokespersons G. Bhanuprakash Reddy, Samanchi Srinivas and Kola Anand ushered the farmers into the city. CPI women’s wing general secretary Annie Raja, who joined the rally, felt it was wrong to tamper with the capital with the change of guard. CPI-M delegation led by district secretary Vandavasi Nagaraju received the farmers at Potti Sriramulu Junction and demanded that the government open its eyes to reality. After having a darshan at the Tirumala temple over the next two days, the Farmers’ JAC will hold a public meeting on December 17 to once again voice their demand for Amaravati as the sole capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ryots-turn-emotional-as-padayatra-ends-at-alipiri/article37957630.ece
15 December 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social media posts breaching line of decency: Tanikella Bharani||A blatant intrusion into one’s personal space, crossing the line of decency in the garb of ‘free speech’, opinionated comments and hate speech in the name of analysis, below-the-belt remarks in the name of trolls, and hyper-sensationalism for the sake of higher views. These are some of the traits attributed to the social media that has made people’s perception on reporting go astray. Concurring with the view, noted actor and writer Tanikella Bharani expresses pain at the way the social media targets and denigrates celebrities. Speaking to The Hindu , he sees a need for the bloggers and ‘media analysts’ to exhibit a sense of responsibility. “Media earlier meant only newspapers, magazines, radio and television channels, which function under a broad framework and with some curbs to ensure ethical reporting. The advent of social media has changed the way a news is covered. We need to have a rethink on bettering the functioning of social media,” he says. Mr. Bharani also expresses annoyance at the ease with which celebrities are targeted and their dirty linen washed in public. On the scant respect paid to the dead in the garb of ‘free speech’, Mr. Bharani finds the blogger’s speech and the views in the comments section as being so contemptuous. “There were times when obituaries recalled the great things about a departed soul. But today’s remarks bear negative shades against a person who was in our midst till the other day. How is this justifiable?” he wonders. ‘Negative energy’ Coming to the visual part, Mr. Bharani is of the view that gory and grotesque images / videos strewn across the web can trigger ‘negative energy’ in humans. “Even the 9/11 tragedy, considered one of the heinous incidents of our times, was responsibly covered with the help of suggestive images of buildings and avoiding bloodshed. But today, our ‘unrestrained’ social media channels show severed human parts without any qualms, causing a sense of uneasiness among the viewers. This has to be curtailed,” he observes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-media-posts-breaching-line-of-decency-tanikella-bharani/article37957633.ece
15 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||FAO, ICAR to help farmers in State adopt best practices, technology||The State Government entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) on the Technical Cooperation Project (TCP) for strengthening capacities of the Government of Andhra Pradesh to support farmers to adopt sustainable agri food systems. The MOU was signed by Special Chief Secretary (Agriculture) Poonam Malakondaiah, FAO Country Director Tomio Shichiri and ICAR Deputy Director General A.K. Singh, in the presence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday. The Chief Minister said RBKs were set up as part of an effort to weed out fake seeds, pesticides and fertilizers from markets. Measures were taken to ensure remunerative prices to farmers. He explained about e- cropping. Revolutionary changes would come about in the agriculture sector with the steps being taken by the government, he said. Later, addressing a press conference here, Mr. Tomio Shichiri said that the FAO would provide technical and financial assistance to the RBKs, and along with the ICAR, work towards strengthening them. The FAO would provide training to farmers, RBK staff, officials and scientists on new technologies and best cultivation practices. The total budget for the TCP in Andhra Pradesh was $2,67,000. The project would start this month, and was expected to be completed by November 2023, he said. The RBKs were role models and would bring revolutionary changes in agriculture. Integrated agri labs would stand out as good organisations in providing the best inputs to farmers, he said. Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kanna Babu, FAO Representative Dr. C. Konda Reddy, senior food safety and nutrition officer Sridhar Dharmapuri, national expert on agri. certification Nachiket Udupa, national expert on FFS Sudhakar Yarrakonda, Agriculture Commissioner C.H. Arun Kumar, Horticulture Commissioner Sridhar, Fisheries Commissioner Kanna Babu, AP Seeds Development Corporation VC and MD Shekar Babu and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fao-icar-to-help-farmers-in-state-adopt-best-practices-technology/article37957152.ece
15 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Another shocker on the cards for power consumers: Kala||TDP Polit Bureau member K. Kala Venkata Rao has accused the State government of adopting the “backdoor method” of changing slabs in order to increase power tariff. In a statement on Tuesday, Mr. Venkata Rao said the government was forced to withdraw the true-up charges following the intervention of the A.P. High Court. “The government is now all set to introduce the 0-30 slab, which is not in vogue in any State in the country,” he said. “Introducing the 0-30 slab in the place of 0-50 existing now is nothing but betraying the poor. If the poor and lower middle class people consume more than 30 units, they will be charged Rs. 2.80 against Rs. 1.45 in the past. This will be a big burden as even the poor are using about 150 to 200 units per month these days,” Mr. Venkata Rao said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, during his searing-in ceremony, had made tall promises that he would reduce the power tariffs. Later, the YSRCP government increased the power charges and imposed a burden of Rs. 11,611 crore on people, the TDP leader said. “Power charges in A.P. are the highest among the southern States,” he added. ‘Navamosalu’ Terming the government’s pet programmes ‘Navaratnalu’ (nine gems) as ‘navamosalu’ (nine betrayals), Mr. Venkata Rao listed them as follows – doubling power charges; four-fold increase in sand prices; five-fold increase in liquor rates; meters for farm motors; collections under OTS scheme; non-filling of 2.30 lakh vacancies; denial of PRC to employees; increasing garbage and property taxes; and diversion of SC, ST, BC and Minority sub-plan funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/another-shocker-on-the-cards-for-power-consumers-kala/article37957635.ece
15 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dies in Krishna, 132 new cases reported across State||The State reported one more death due to COVID-19 and 132 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The cumulative tally of cases and toll increased to 20,75,108 and 14,468 respectively.  The number of active cases came down to 1,823 as 186 patients recovered in the past day. The recovery rate and the total number of recoveries stand at 99.21% and 20,58,817 respectively. The daily test positivity rate of the 29,228 samples tested in the past day was 0.45% and that of the 3.08 crore samples tested to date was 6.73%. Krishna district again reported the lone death in the State. Also, the three deaths reported in the past three days in the State were from this district. Srikakulam district reported 36 infections in the past day. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (19), Guntur (14), East Godavari (13), Krishna (11), West Godavari (9), Anantapur (7), Chittoor (6), Nellore (5), Prakasam (5), Kadapa (4), Vizianagaram (2) and Kurnool (1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-dies-in-krishna-132-new-cases-reported-across-state/article37957700.ece
15 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Energy conservation week launched||Energy conservation week celebrations began here on Tuesday. Secretary (Energy) Nagulapalli Srikanth and Krishna Collector J. Niwas flagged off a rally in this connection. Vijayawada Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh, Joint Collector K. Mohan Kumar and others were present. The rally was taken out from the Collector’s camp office to the IGMC Stadium Complex. Mr. Srikant said that the State government had decided to encourage energy efficiency in all key energy-intensive sectors, particularly in industry, buildings, agriculture, municipal etc. The State government was contemplating achieving a saving of 10000 MU under phase one against the scope of saving around 15000 by implementing energy conservation and energy efficiency measures. All the government departments were requested to actively promote energy efficiency. The government had taken a major initiative to set up energy conservation cells to encourage efficient use of energy in various departments by motivating the employees. They had been set up in 42 departments so far, thus making A.P. the only State to do so. The target was to save 5,600 MU of power worth Rs. 3,800 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/energy-conservation-week-launched/article37957698.ece
15 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four ‘Chaddi gang’ members taken into custody in Gujarat||In a joint operation, the Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat police reportedly took four ‘Chaddi gang’ members into custody on Tuesday. The accused allegedly committed a series of thefts in Guntur and Vijayawada. Investigation officers, who observed the CCTV footages at the crime scenes, confirmed that ‘Chaddi gang’ members were involved, and constituted special teams to nab the gangs. “We suspect that more than one ‘Chaddi gang’ is operating in Andhra Pradesh. A team headed by an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), has been deputed to Gujarat to arrest the accused,” Vijayawada Police Commissioner Kanthi Rana Tata said. The AP Police, in association with Dahod district police of Gujarat, conducted raids in Garbada taluk and on borders villages of Madhya Pradesh in the last couple of days and reportedly took four ‘Chaddi gang’ members into custody. “The police will produce the accused in the local court and bring them to Andhra Pradesh on Prisoner’s Transit (PT) warrant. Investigation officers are trying to find out on how many offences the arrested members had committed in Andhra Pradesh,” a police officer said on Tuesday. The ‘Chaddi gang’ robbers struck at posh houses, apartments and villas, located in isolated places in Penamaluru, Guntupalli and other places under Vijayawada Police Commissionerate and in Tadepalli in Guntur Urban district, a few days ago. More than 25 teams launched search in Vijayawada, Krishna, Guntur and West Godavari districts to nab the gangs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-chaddi-gang-members-taken-into-custody-in-gujarat/article37957137.ece
15 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pensions to be hiked to Rs. 2,500 a month||The State government is taking steps to increase the social security pensions from Rs. 2,250 to Rs. 2,500 per month from January 2022 onwards. The government is providing social security pensions to old-age, widow, single women, weavers, toddy tappers, traditional cobblers, ART pension and People Living with HIV (PLHIV) and fisherman. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy made an announcement in this regard at Spandana video conference on Tuesday. Describing it as a New Year gift to the beneficiaries, the Chief Minister said the increased amount would be credited to their accounts on January 1. It may be recalled that Mr. Jagan, during his oath ceremony in 2019, said that every senior citizen would get a pension of at least Rs. 3,000 a month. “This would be my first signature after I assume the Chief Minister's office. The scheme would begin with Rs. 2,250 and it will be increased up to Rs. 3,000 within three years," Mr. Jagan had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pensions-to-be-hiked-to-rs-2500-a-month/article37957636.ece
15 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP flays arrest of former IAS officer||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national spokesman K. Pattabhi Ram said the arrest of former IAS officer Ghanta Subba Rao was a black day for democracy. Mr. Pattabhi Ram told the media on Tuesday that it was a ‘matter of deep shame’ for the Government to launch a smear campaign against an honest professional and expert like Mr. Subba Rao. The former IAS officer was targeted for rendering selfless services in creation of e-governance and training platforms, including the Jawahar Knowledge Centres (JKCs). ‘Not main signatory’ The training programmes under his leadership helped lakhs of students get jobs nationally and internationally. While IAS officer L. Premachandra Reddy was the main signatory in the agreement with the Siemens skill development centres, Mr. Subba Rao was only ‘witness signatory’, he said. The TDP leader challenged the CID officials to disclose the details of the inspections and inventory reports regarding all the 40 skill development centres. ‘No proof’ There was so far no proof of any in-depth investigation, he alleged, adding, “The Chandrababu Naidu regime took care to make sure all tools and facilities were provided at all the 40 skill development centres at that time. It was a 109-page agreement with Siemens.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-flays-arrest-of-former-ias-officer/article37957703.ece
15 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications invited for volunteer posts||The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation has invited applications from eligible candidates for the post of ward volunteers in the city. According to a release, there are 102 ward volunteer vacancies in the city and interested residents aged between 18 and 35 can apply by visiting gswsvolunteer.apcfss.in the website before December 18. For further details, Additional Commissioner (General) can be contacted at 8185 933 187.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/applications-invited-for-volunteer-posts/article37957701.ece
15 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Set up textile park under MITRA at Kopparthi’||The YSRCP has urged the Union government to establish one of the seven textile parks proposed under the Rs. 4,445-crore Mega Investment Textiles Parks (MITRA) scheme, in Andhra Pradesh’s Kopparthi mega industrial hub. Raising the issue in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, party member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy said the Kopparthi industrial hub, which was recently established in Kadapa district, had all the facilities in place, and was set to become the chosen destination for many investors. He said the State government had announced subsidies to encourage investors and promote the industrial hub. “A.P. is the second biggest producer of cotton and silk with over 4.5 lakh skilled handloom and powerloom workers,” Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said. He said the MITRA park would potentially become the nodal point for the textile industry of the State and contribute largely to the integration of the supply chain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/set-up-textile-park-under-mitra-at-kopparthi/article37957625.ece
15 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Handloom, handicraft fair, the new attraction in city from today||Replicas of iconic structures from around the globe, and robotic birds and animals amid natural settings and a huge ‘chimp beating the drum’ are set to enthrall visitors to the Handloom Handicraft Fun Fair Exhibition, at the AU Engineering College Ground, near Maddilapalem, here, from Wednesday. The big shoppers can also have their pick from over 200 stalls, showcasing handlooms and handicrafts from all over the country. The 200-foot main entry gate has been designed to reflect the Smart City of Visakhapatnam. Visitors can actually walk on the tastefully designed, iconic London Bridge and also go into the Disney World. The tallest building in the world the ‘Burj Khalifa’ of Dubai, the ‘Twin Towers’ of Malaysia, the ‘Disney World’ and the globe of ‘Universal Studios’ can all be seen at one place at the expo. 70 artistes “Over 70 artistes are working for the past one-and-a-half months on erection of the sets here. Art director Shekar from Tamil Nadu, who had designed the sets for films, including the blockbuster hit Telugu film ‘Bahubali’, is the set director. The erection of the sets will be completed by evening,” Raja Reddy, exhibition organiser, told The Hindu on Tuesday. “We utilised the trees and bushes, growing towards the rear side of the exhibition ground, to create the natural ambience for our ‘birds and animals’ and to depict a primitive tribal family living in the woods. It will take at least three hours for a visitor to leisurely go through the exhibits on display,” he says. The handloom and handicrafts exhibition showcases products from 23 States, including Kashmir, A.P., Telangana and Maharashtra, products made by DWACRA members, organic products and ceramic flower pots and crockery from Uttar Pradesh. While the entry fee is Rs. 60, there is no parking charge for vehicles. The expo will be on from 12 noon to 10 p.m. for the next 65 days. Visitors have to invariably wear a mask, failing which, they will not be allowed. Santiser is provided at the venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/handloom-handicraft-fair-the-new-attraction-in-city-from-today/article37957707.ece
15 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on saving power by using star-rated equipment: Discom CMD||Saving one unit of electricity is equivalent to producing two units and that is why everyone should focus on saving electricity at least by using star-rated electrical equipment, said Chairman and Managing Director of APEPDCL K. Santosha Rao. He was addressing a rally organised as part of the Energy Conservation Week that began on Tuesday. He also released a poster on the occasion. He said as a part of the National Energy Conservation week, the APEPDCL is organising awareness on energy conservation and energy efficiency to its consumers in the five districts under its jurisdiction, till December 20. Mr. Santosha Rao also said that energy-saving committees have been set up in all the five districts under the APEPDCL to promote energy-saving measures among consumers. To create awareness on saving electricity among the students, painting competitions, elocution/essay writing competitions and rallies are being organised in schools and colleges, he said. The APEPDCL will also be arranging lectures by experts in the subject, in some engineering colleges. Workshops will also be conducted for MSMEs and industries, said the CMD. B. Ramesh Prasad, Director (Operations), D. Chandram, Director (Finance), and other senior officers participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-saving-power-by-using-star-rated-equipment-discom-cmd/article37957661.ece
15 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) seeks stoppage of pipeline work by pharma firm||Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary K. Lokanadham has demanded that Hetero Drugs stop laying the new pipeline for release of effluents into the sea. He called on the striking fishermen, who were protesting against the laying of the new pipeline, on the banner of the Fishermen JAC, and expressed solidarity with them, at Nakkapalli in the district on Tuesday. Mr. Lokanadham said that the pipeline laid in the past has resulted in the depletion of marine fish resources, forcing the fishermen of Rajayyapeta, Boyapadu, Pedda Tinarla, Dondawaka, Amalapuram, DL Puram and Bangarayyapeta villages to leave their aged parents and children behind and migrate to far-off places for fishing. He alleged that the company without obtaining permission from the government was laying another 3 km pipeline into the sea. He also alleged that the company was polluting the waters and depriving fishermen of their livelihood. He called upon all political parties to fight against the injustice being done to fishermen. Mr. Lokanadham said that the new pipeline does not have the permission of the District Collector and the AP Pollution Control Board. The company has not even obtained the CRZ approval , he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-seeks-stoppage-of-pipeline-work-by-pharma-firm/article37957709.ece
15 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bankers get support for proposed strike||The two-day strike being observed by bank employees and officers, in response to the call given by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), on December 16 and 17 is getting support from various quarters. The strike is being organised with the main objective to demand repeal of the decision of the Centre to privatise public sector banks and to demand their strengthening. The All India Insurance Employees’ Association (AIIEA) general secretary Shreekant Mishra called upon employees of LIC and public sector general insurance companies to hold solidarity meetings on December 16. The CITU has also extended its support to the strike and called upon the people to extend their solidarity with the bank employees and officials. CITU general secretary M. Jaggu Naidu recalled that the nationalisation of banks had resulted in a steady growth of the banking sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bankers-get-support-for-proposed-strike/article37957705.ece
15 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Implement wage agreement in RINL: INTUC chief||Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) national president G. Sanjeeva Reddy, along with INTUC leaders Mantri Rajasekhar, Gandham Venkata Rao, Murali Raju and Neerukonda Ramachandra Rao, met the RINL Operations Director Saxena and HR Chief General Manager Srinivasa Rao on Monday and sought that the wage agreement for steel workers should be implemented without any further delay. Mr. Sanjeeva Reddy said that adhoc payments were being made in all units of SAIL from November itself and the new basic pay was being implemented from December 1. He said it was strange that the RINL management was not making any efforts to implement the new wages. The INTUC leaders said in a statement that the RINL management has agreed to implement the new wage agreement soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/implement-wage-agreement-in-rinl-intuc-chief/article37957708.ece
15 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanction funds for development of Agency areas, companies told||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has called upon corporate companies, located in the city, to sanction funds under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) for the development of the Agency areas of the district. At a meeting representatives of various companies, here, on Tuesday, the Collector said that though the nation has achieved progress in all areas during the last 75 years of Independence, the tribal areas were still lagging behind in development. Many of the tribal villages do not even have proper roads due to which pregnant women were unable to get timely medical attention. Dr. Mallikarjuna said that the district administration was ready to improve the conditions in the Agency areas, according to a comprehensive plan, with public-private partnership. Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Gopalakrishna, Sub-Collector V. Abhishek and District Industries Centre (DIC) GM Ramalinga Raju were among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sanction-funds-for-development-of-agency-areas-companies-told/article37957710.ece
15 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Why criticise Pawan for deeksha on VSP issue?’||JSP president Pawan Kalyan has already expressed his willingness to join the all-party delegation to meet the Prime Minister against privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP), but the onus of leading the team is on the Chief Minister, according to JSP Political Affairs Committee member Kona Tata Rao. Addressing the media, along with party leader S. Vijaya Kumar, here on Tuesday, Mr. Tata Rao objected to the statements of YSRCP leaders Gudivada Amarnath and Ambati Rambabu ridiculing Mr. Pawan’s protest in Mangalagiri. He alleged that the YSRCP leaders were criticising the JSP for supporting the steel workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-criticise-pawan-for-deeksha-on-vsp-issue/article37957637.ece
15 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Contract, outsourcing staff seek better deal||The Joint Action Committee (JAC) of State Government Contract and Outsourcing Employees, Teachers and Workers leaders P. Mani, V.V. Srinivasa Rao and R. Sankara Rao (CITU) alleged that it was wrong to note in the PRC report that minimum time scale was being implemented for Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan employees and to say that only 30% wage hike would be given to outsourcing employees. It was also against the judgment of the Supreme Court, they said. The PRC report, instead of doing justice to the contract and outsourcing employees, was doing further injustice to them, they alleged. They sought that measures taken to regularise contract and outsourcing employees, provide them job security, implement minimum time scale and provide ‘equal pay for equal work’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/contract-outsourcing-staff-seek-better-deal/article37957704.ece
15 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Omicron patient tested negative, says AMC Principal||The man from Vizianagaram, a foreign returnee, who tested positive for the new COVID-19 variant Omicron was declared as negative, after treatment. Not only he, but all the six primary contacts and about 43 secondary contacts whose samples were collected, were also declared as negative, said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. The samples were sent to the CCMB (Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology) and the results have shown negative. On Tuesday, another 50 samples from secondary contacts were collected and sent to the CCMB and the results are awaited. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna said that the development is being closely monitored. Meanwhile, the district recorded 39 new COVID-19 cases in the last 48 hours, ending Tuesday morning. With this, the total number of cases has gone up to 1,59,188. As many as 30 persons undergoing treatment were declared as negative and free from the virus, during the same period. This takes the total number of discharges to 1,57,887. No deaths have occurred during the same period, keeping the total death count to 1,105. The active cases, as on date, stand at 196.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/omicron-patient-tests-negative-says-amc-principal/article37957662.ece
15 December 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||MILAN 22 website launched||The official website of the forthcoming multinational naval exercise, MILAN 2022, was formally launched by Rear Admiral Sanjay Sadhu, Chief Staff Officer (Technical), Eastern Naval Command, on Monday. The website is available atwww.in-milan.inand offers information on various MILAN events. MILAN 22 is scheduled to be held in Visakhapatnam from February 25 to Mar 4, 2022, and over 45 countries have been extended invitations for participation. The theme of MILAN 22 is ‘Camaraderie, Cohesion, Collaboration.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/milan-22-website-launched/article37957711.ece
15 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cochlear implant surgeries done on child||Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) has become the first government hospital in the State to perform cochlear implantation surgeries for both ears at the same time. The 30-month-old Bhuvaneswari, of Makkuva village in Vizianagaram district, could not hear sounds from birth and hence was unable to speak. Her father Sankara Rao learnt that surgeries were being done at VIMS to overcome hearing defects and consulted doctors at the hospital. Annapurna Rao, Cochlear Implantation Operations Chief of the hospital, convinced her parents about the surgery, and with their consent, he performed the operation for both ears at the same time on December 2. The baby overcame her hearing loss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cochlear-implant-surgeries-done-on-child/article37957659.ece
15 December 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make optimum use of time, students told||West Bengal Director General of Police B.N. Ramesh on Tuesday said that optimum utilisation of time would ensure success in life for everyone. He delivered a lecture on ‘The importance of Ethics for a Successful Life’ in Centurion University-Vizianagaram. “Apart from academic lessons, morals and ethics should be taught for college students so that they would become good citizens and move in a right path throughout their career and life. The people who follow morals and ethics in workplace would certainly taste the success. They will be rewarded with more work and responsibilities within no time,” he added. Mr. Ramesh, 1988 batch IPS officer, suggested that the students should have a dream and clear vision about achieving the target from the college days. Registrar P.S.V.R. Ramana Rao said that the university was giving utmost priority to improve skills apart from academic studies to the students to meet the expectations of the companies. Deans M.L.N. Acharyulu and G.Pushpalata, and Deputy Registrar R.S.Varma were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-optimum-use-of-time-students-told/article37957656.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power utilities preparing ground for tariff hike?||Ahead of filing retail supply tariff (RST) proposals before the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC), the power utilities in the State, which have already sought clearance from the government for increasing the tariff that remained unchanged for the last four years, appear to be preparing ground by building up mood. Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao and Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy held discussions with senior executives of the four power utilities including Special Chief Secretary (Energy) Sunil Sharma for the second day on Tuesday. The focus was on the increasing burden forced upon by the Centre in the name of green/clean energy cess, coal prices, coal transport charges, renewable energy purchase obligation and exposure to burden in the form of some power purchase agreements such as Krishnapatnam during the discussions held on Tuesday. The meeting was of the view that the increase of clean energy cess from Rs. 50 per tonne to Rs. 400 per tonne of coal had alone burdened the power utilities by Rs. 7,200 crore during that last seven years. Further, increase in coal prices by 6% to 10% every year was also burdening the two power distribution companies (Discoms) by about Rs. 725 crore every year. In addition, increase in the coal transportation charges had also added to the burden of Discoms as the transport charges had gone up by 40% during the last seven years. When the Discoms were struggling to plug the losses due to such charges, the compulsion of renewable power purchase obligation (RPPO) was also showing a telling impact on the plant load factor of the generating stations of the Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TSGenco). The meeting has also put on record that the Discoms had to bear an additional burden of Rs. 2,763 crore for purchasing energy in the open market following scrapping of PPAs of Krishnapatnam by Andhra Pradesh and taking over Lower Sileru denying low-cost energy to Telangana immediately after bifurcation of AP. Stoppage of energy supply from other AP generation stations had also burdened Telangana Discoms by another Rs. 2,502 crore. The Telangana Discoms had Rs. 12,185 crore as on the date of formation of State and Telangana losses and in addition the State government was providing a subsidy of Rs. 18,167 per every agriculture pump-set connection every year with uninterrupted power supply and the connections had gone from 19.03 lake to 25.92 lake with a spending of Rs. 3,375 crore on the 6.89 lake new connections. It was spending another Rs. 3,200 crore on lift irrigation schemes. Subsidies given to all domestic consumers with consumption up to 200 units a month, free power given to SC, ST consumers with consumption up to 100 units, to hair saloons, dhobi ghats and laundry shops with consumption up to 250 units and subsidy of Rs. 2 per unit given to power looms, poultry units and spinning mills was also being given. Collection of energy charges of Rs. 4,374 crore was also affected due to the COVID-19 impact causing more burden on Discoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-utilities-preparing-ground-for-tariff-hike/article37957452.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Confusion among employees over re-allotment||Confusion prevails among the State government employees over whether they would be allotted to their choice of the district in the new local cadres constituted in line with the Presidential Order 2018. Employees, particularly those in the lower level, are complaining that there is no clarity in the guidelines issued for allotment of the employees according to the provisions under The Telangana Public Employment (Organisation of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct Recruitment) Order 2018. The order was issued following the Presidential assent received for dividing the posts into district, zonal and multi-zonal posts in seven zones and two multi-zones created. Employees are worried that the government was taking seniority, not nativity, as the criterion for re-allotment of the staff. “Doubts still persist over how seniority will be fixed as no specific orders have been issued in this direction,” an employees’ association leader said. As seniority is being taken as a criterion, genuine employees native to a particular area could lose the opportunity to work in their districts as seniors would be given postings first. The problem will be further complicated as a majority of the employees will prefer opting for either Hyderabad or neighbouring Rangareddy. “The cadre strength in districts like Hyderabad and RR will be completed with seniors getting the opportunity. This will in turn mean that there will be no recruitment in these districts in the near future thus denying the Hyderabad and RR natives an opportunity,” say the employees leaders. The issue would have a cascading effect in that the nativity of the children in admission into schools/colleges too would be affected. House rent allowance There was also no clarity about the House Rent Allowance component of the salary which was different for different areas. During their ongoing discussions with senior officials and Ministers concerned, employees are demanding that the government consider implementation of the new Presidential Order in respect of employees recruited after 2018. Status quo should be maintained in respect of old employees for whom the old Presidential Order 1975 should be taken as criterion for their allocation to district, zonal and multi-zonal posts. The government should start allocation process taking one district as nodal district and extend it to others based on the results. Steps should be taken to create super-numerary posts in the event of more applications received for posts in particular districts than the sanctioned strength. The government should also set up a helpline to clarify doubts of the employees at the time of their allocation to different district and zonal/multi-zonal posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/confusion-among-employees-over-re-allotment/article37957473.ece
15 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Ekluvya to right a lot of wrongs in learning’||Chief national badminton coach Pullela Gopichand launched Ekluvya, an Edtech company that aims to maximise a child’s learning potential, on Tuesday. MP G. Ranjith Reddy and director of SR Hatcheries Tirupathi Reddy were also present. “In Ekluvya, I saw a hungry team that wants to right a lot of wrongs happening in our childhood learning,” Gopichand said. “Only about 12-15% children are really interested in studying. There is a huge set of children that are distracted. They pursue learning only because their parents ask them to,” said chairman of Ekluvya A. Santhosh Reddy. “The biggest challenge is not in lecturing about various subjects, but engaging them. Firing up curiosity propels them to self education. That’s our endgame,” he said. “We want our children to rise in life, but we don’t gift them the tools to achieve this. Ekluvya School of Superpowers aims to fill that gap. We are offering 12 courses,” co-founder and CEO Aneil Deepak said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ekluvya-to-right-a-lot-of-wrongs-in-learning/article37957443.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GPO is ‘seven star post-office’||The Hyderabad General Post-Office (GPO) on Tuesday was declared a ‘seven star post-office’ in a move which is a first. In a statement issued to the media, Chief Postmaster A Subrahmanyam said that T.M. Sreelatha, Postmaster General, Headquarters Region, Telangana Circle, made the announcement. According to the statement, the title reflects achievement of seven targets – the first being RD, SSA, PF accounts (94% achievement), the second being IPPC accounts (80% achievement), the third being Aadhaar Enabled Payment System, Digital Life Certificates, Bill Payments (100% achievement), Child Enrolment Lite Client (264% achievement), Postal Life Insurance/Rural Postal Life Insurance (363% achievement) and Postman Mobile Application utilisation (98% achievement). A customer relationship management programme ‘Anubandham’ aims to improve contact of customers with the local postmaster as well as the beat postman who will double up as a ‘doorstep banker’. The postmaster will interact with privileged customers over the phone. Customers will be informed of the identity of the ‘doorstep banker’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gpo-is-seven-star-post-office/article37957461.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR responsible for suicide by farmers: Sharmila||YSRTP president Y.S. Sharmila has held Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao responsible for suicide by farmers and demanded that the government should come forward to extend assistance to the families of farmers who had ended their life. On Tuesday, Ms. Sharmila visited the family of Chintala Swamy, who had ended his life few weeks ago as his land holding in Dandupalli village in Wargal mandal of Siddipet district was not reflected in Dharani portal and despite repeated appeals the records were not corrected. “A farmer Swamy committed suicide by hanging himself in the constituency being represented by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. A year ago Swamy’s close relative Narsaiah had died after being unable to get a similar problem addressed. He too failed to trace his land in Dharani portal despite repeated efforts. Every one knows about the problem but no one tried to address it. Improper functioning of Dharani was responsible for the death of two farmers in the family,” alleged Ms. Sharmila after meeting the families of Swamy and Narsaiah. The YSRTP president asked what might be the conditions in other constituencies if such was the situation in the constituency represented by the Chief Minister. She has demanded that the government pay a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh to both the families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-responsible-for-suicide-by-farmers-sharmila/article37957469.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC issues notices to govt. on reallotment of teachers||Telangana High Court on Tuesday issued notices to State government in a couple of writ petitions seeking a direction to stay re-allotment of teachers to different districts to create new local cadres in compliance with the Presidential Order 2018. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy instructed the government to file counter affidavits in the matter within four weeks. The petitions were filed by teachers serving in government schools from various districts of the State. The petitioners challenged Government Order Ms. No. 317 issued on December 6. The order explains about constitution of committees for re-allotment of employees to the posts which were sought to be re-organised into local cadres. The appendix of the GO contains the guidelines to be followed. One of the main contentions of the petitioners was taking seniority of the teacher for allotment to a district. The petitioners’ counsel contended that would be against the interests of a teacher having lesser service or who is a junior. In fact, the criteria of seniority in allotment of the districts would defeat the purpose of the Article 371-D of the Constitution, the petitioners said. They stated that, for example, if a person got recruited as teacher after clearing Adilabad District Selection Committee exam would have been working in any part of that district. With reorganisation, three new districts of Kumrambheem Asifabad, Mancherial and Nirmal got created in addition to the erstwhile Adilabad. A senior teacher working in Mancherial would get priority in allotment to Mancherial district. But a person who was born, brought up and studied in Mancherial but working in Adilabad was likely to be allotted to Adilabad by virtue of being a junior. The petitioners also raised the issue of special categories in re-allotment of teachers. While a widow appointed under compassionate ground would come under special categories, a woman who lost her husband while being in service was not included in that special category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-issues-notices-to-govt-on-reallotment-of-teachers/article37957467.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Employee allotment schedule notified||The State government has notified the schedule for completion of allotment of employees to new local cadres. Accordingly, heads of departments at the district level and HoD for zonal/multi-zonal posts should obtain preferences of the employees by December 16. This will be followed by issue of orders based on the proceedings of the allotment committees for posts at district and zonal-multi-zonal posts by December 20. Employees should join duties at their respective locations within one week of the issuance of orders allotting them to particular district, zonal/multi-zonal offices. The exercise follows the State government’s decision to re-allot employees to new local cadres in line with the new Presidential Orders 2018. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said in a memo circulated to the departments that allotted personnel should report to the zone concerned consequent on their allotment to various zones by the State level committee and issuance of orders accordingly. He directed the Secretariat departments/HoDs having zonal posts should designate an authority in each zone called “reporting authority” to which these allotted employees of all zonal posts should report. The secretariat departments/HoDs should appoint reporting authority for each zone accordingly in a specified format given to them and report about the progress to the General Administration department by Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/allotment-schedule-notified/article37957472.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Graft eating into our moral fabric’||Principal Secretary of Government of Kerala Raju Narayana Swamy opined that corruption has become order of the day. “In a system there will be obstacles. It is nature. The gangrene of corruption is unfortunately eating into the moral fabric of the nation. The need-based and greed-based corruption has become order of the day. It is the duty of a civil servant to fight against corruption to make sure the people get their due. If that is done, nothing can stop this country from achieving its fruitful destination” said Dr. Raju Narayana Swamy while interacting with the students of GITAM on Tuesday on ‘ A Bird’s Eye View of New Frontiers of CSE.’ The programme was organised by DISHA (a forum for competitive exams) and Computer Society of India. Prof. N. Seetaramaiah, Associated Director, School of Technology, Prof. S. Phanikumar, Prof. P. Eswaraiah, Dr. Joseph Jayakar, Dr. P. Narasimha Swamy, M. Kiran Sastry and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/graft-eating-into-our-moral-fabric/article37957456.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR busy with tours leaving farmers in distress: Revanth||TPCC president and MP, A. Revanth Reddy criticised Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for his ‘religious and political’ tour to Tamil Nadu without bothering about the lakhs of farmers in distress. The Chief Minister doesn’t have time to meet the farmers in distress and instil confidence in them, but has all the time to go to temples and indulge in politics outside the State, Mr. Reddy alleged in a statement here. Mr. Reddy took to Twitter claiming that more than 200 farmers committed suicide in the last two-and-a-half months alone and attached media reports to add credence to his claim. Every eight hours a farmer is losing life in Telangana, he said. “They are unable to clear off their debts as the authorities are not buying their produce or offering them MSP,” he said. The Congress chief alleged that the Chief Minister has directed the police authorities to restrain from registering cases of farmers’ suicides and family members are being threatened of losing Rythu Bima if they insist on cases registered as suicides. Mr. Reddy said that the families of farmers who committed suicide must get Rs. 6 lakh compensation and other assistance as per the provisions of GO Ms No. 421. However, the TRS government has stopped the implementation of the GO just to suppress the figures of farmers’ suicide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-busy-with-tours-leaving-farmers-in-distress-revanth/article37957458.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCTVs helped keep crime under control, says Anjani Kumar||Closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in Hyderabad City police limits have not only kept the crime rate under control, but also helped solve criminal cases and ensure evidence for conviction, Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar said in the city on Tuesday. “By maintaining peace and security, with more CCTVs, Telangana State’s GDP has increased. And installation of CCTVs is essential for the safety of our future generations,” the CP said, and reminded that every citizen is a policeman, and vice versa. Mr. Kumar was participating in the inauguration of 100 new CCTV units in Asifnagar division, which covers Humayunnagar, Asifnagar, Golconda and Langer House police limits. The units, worth Rs. 30 lakh, were sponsored by a few donors and the people in the division. According to Mr. Kumar, citizens should know the importance of CCTVs. He urged more communities to come forward to be part of ‘Nenu Saitham’, the CCTV installation project of the police commissionerate. In the wake of rising investments and population in the city, CCTV cameras too should increase in number, he professed. Jt. CP (West Zone) A.R. Srinivas and other police staff joined locals in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cctvs-helped-keep-crime-under-control-says-anjani-kumar/article37957464.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Harish Rao reviews infra at OGH||Any major programme or visit by a Minister to Osmania General Hospital begets questions about the long-delayed construction of a new building for the tertiary care facility. So, when Health Minister Harish Rao visited OGH to inaugurate medical equipment on Tuesday, the question was expected. Before media personnel could ask the question, Mr. Harish Rao said that they would try to resolve a court case related to the building at the earliest. Standing a few feet away from the century old building, he said that the first choice of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to construct a super-speciality hospital was OGH. “Heritage is a small hurdle. We will try to address it at the earliest,” he said after inaugurating a Cath Lab worth Rs. 7 crore and a CT Scanner worth Rs. 2.5 crore at the hospital on Tuesday. Two more issues at the government hospital that often come up for discussion are sanitation and condition of the mortuary. He acknowledged that there were major sanitation issues at the hospital. Mr. Rao said that a new contractor would be hired by floating tenders since the services of the present contractor were not good. Regarding the mortuary, he said that Rs. 5 crore was sanctioned for a latest mortuary. Around 4,500-5,000 Post Mortem Examinations (PME) are conducted in a year at the OGH mortuary. Union Health Ministry, a few months ago, had approved PMEs after sunset.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/harish-rao-reviews-sanitation-mortuary-issues-at-ogh/article37957445.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre adopting delaying tactics on MSP Act: CPI (M)||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has charged the BJP-led Central government with adopting delaying tactics in enacting a legislation assuring minimum support price (MSP) for farmers’ produce. This was evident from the manner in which the Centre had announced its decision to constitute an expert committee to study the issue rather than taking steps to draft a legislation in line with the demand of the farmers. Moreover, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s claim that the three “black laws” brought by the Centre were good but there were problems in convincing farmers on them was indicative of the Centre’s intentions, CPI (M) polit bureau member B.V. Raghavulu said. In an informal chat with reporters after the party’s two-day State Secretariat meeting here on Tuesday, Mr. Raghavulu cautioned farmers about the scope for the Centre bringing in the “black laws” in future. He expressed concern that the government was bent on privatizing godown space while there was no clarity on the government’s policy relating to procurement of foodgrain. Welcoming the struggle by farmers to ensure withdrawal of the agricultural laws, he said the CPI (M) would continue its support to the farmers’ agitation till MSP was given legal sanctity. “The Centre is on the defensive and hence, did not allow debate on the controversial Electricity Reform Bill,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-adopting-delaying-tactics-on-msp-act-cpi-m/article37957475.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre discriminating against TS’||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao has accused the Central government of adopting discriminatory approach towards Telangana’s projects, including the Mission Bhagiratha aimed at ensuring supply of protected drinking water to all households. The Minister said the Centre’s attitude was exposed yet again on the floor of Parliament with the response given by Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat. In a written reply to a query in Rajya Sabha, the Union Minister said the Centre had sanctioned Rs. 2,455.82 crore to Telangana from 2018-19 to 2021-22 under the NRDWP. However, the Centre had released just Rs. 311.41 crore out of the sanctioned amount so far and the funds were being utilized for the ongoing works sanctioned under the NRDWP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-discriminating-against-ts/article37957474.ece
15 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Complete seniority lists in a time-bound manner: CS||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has stressed the need to complete preparation of seniority lists of employees for their re-allotment to the new local cadres. The process should be done in a transparent manner strictly adhering to the timelines. Utmost care should be taken to ensure that all employees were allocated and no one was left behind. The Chief Secretary, accompanied by senior officials, held a video conference on Tuesday with district collectors to review the progress of re-allocation of employees in line with the new Presidential Order. He said employees working on deputation in other departments would have to be shown in their parent department. Close coordination and monitoring is essential to ensure the smooth completion of the entire process. He complimented the collectors of Rangareddy, Nizamabad, Warangal and Mahabubnagar for completing seniority lists in the erstwhile districts in a time-bound manner. The administration of the remaining five erstwhile districts (excluding Hyderabad) should compile the seniority list in all categories duly taking preference by all employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ready-seniority-lists-in-a-time-bound-manner-cs/article37957466.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Justice for ‘Telangana Martyrs’ sought||Demanding justice to the ‘Telangana martyrs’ AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan held a protest along with the families of those who lost lives in the agitation at the Gun Park here on Tuesday. He demanded that Rs. 10 lakh assistance, a government job, should be allotted immediately as promised in the TRS manifesto.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/justice-for-telangana-martyrs-sought/article37957666.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mechanic, friends held for theft at garage||A young automobile mechanic and his two friends, all residents of Asifnagar, were arrested by Madhapur police on Tuesday for stealing large sum of money at the workplace. The special operation team joined efforts in tracing the suspects through the CCTV installed on the premises of the luxury car service centre on the 100-foot road at Madhapur. According to Madhapur DCP M. Venkateshwarlu, who displayed the recovered Rs. 55 lakh for media persons, Md. Tahir, a mechanic at the said service centre knew the amount was kept in the almirah. Along with friends Syed Jawed and Saif Mohiuddin, both 19-year-olds, they broke open the rear-side entrance by unscrewing the door in the wee hours of October 10 and made away with the cash. All the 35 workers at the garage were questioned and Tahir was suspected. CCTV footage also helped zero out suspects and arrest the accused, the police said. The trio were booked for house-breaking and theft. Contract employee in ACB net Anti-Corruption Bureau officials on Tuesday caught a contract employee at the Mandal Parishad Development Office, Dharmasagar mandal, Hanmakonda district, for demanding and accepting bribe of Rs. 10,000. Ande Yadagiri, a technical assistant at the office, the ACB said, demanded money from one Majjiga Lingaiah to sanction his bill amounts towards maintenance of drumstick plantation. He was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mechanic-friends-held-for-theft-at-garage/article37957453.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2 held for selling fake gold||Intezargunj police of Warangal arrested a two-member gang from Mandya district of Karnataka for selling fake gold. Along with sets of the fake gundla mala, police also recovered Rs. 10.45 lakh and other materials. The accused, Mohanlal Parmar and Solanki Dharma, Police Commissioner Tarun Joshi said, had reached Warangal in October and got in touch with a fertilizer dealer at Enumamula market. Introducing themselves as road contractors, they purchased fertilizer for household plants. And the next day, they presented the gundla mala, as lost and found, to the dealer and accepted to sell it for just Rs. 12 lakh. They had handed him the original gold for checking. However, when the dealer went to Khammam to hand over the cash, he was delivered fake gold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-held-for-selling-fake-gold/article37957462.ece
15 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. mulling lead agency on road safety||The TS Government is actively considering constitution of a lead agency with domain experts for road safety. The expert group will be stationed in Hyderabad and the terms of reference will be as per the recommendations of the Supreme Court committee on road safety. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting on road safety presided over by CS Somesh Kumar on Tuesday. The meeting resolved to create a non-lapsable road safety fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-mulling-lead-agency-on-road-safety/article37957465.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1st homograft done at OGH||The first homograft procedure was conducted at Osmania General Hospital on Tuesday. Homograft is a procedure where skin harvested from a brain-dead donor is used for grafting on another patient. Usually, skin is taken from thighs or posterior trunk (back) of the patient who suffers burns, which is called autograft. When autograft is not possible, homograft is performed to increase survival chances. In charge head of Plastic Surgery department Dr. N. Nagaprasad said that if skin is not grafted, patients with severe burns can lose fluids. The procedure was performed on a 21-year-old youth who suffered burns due to an electric shock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1st-homograft-done-at-ogh/article37957438.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||LTI sets up new delivery centre in city||Global technology consulting and digital solutions company Larsen & Toubro Infotech (LTI) has set up a new delivery centre in Hyderabad. The facility will focus on delivering digital, data, and cloud solutions to global clients. The 1.10 lakh sq ft centre is designed and equipped to house over 3,000 employees and hosts new-age amenities related to the safety, security, and overall well-being of employees, LTI said on Tuesday. Executive Board member and COO of LTI Nachiket Deshpande said that the new centre will strengthen the company’s operations and play a critical role in its growth aspirations. “Hyderabad has a special place in global technology space that is further complemented by the vast talent pool and an encouraging support by the government,” he said in a release after inauguration of the facility. Telangana IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao said that the State government is keen to consolidate Telangana’s position as the preferred destination for technology solution providers and talent. “We have backed this resolve by the highest order of Ease of Doing Business, resulting in increased entry of global corporations like LTI, which in turn augment the overall ecosystem. I congratulate LTI on the launch of this new facility,” he said. LTI, in the release, said that it has also signed an MoU with ISB to conduct a research on digital readiness of firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lti-sets-up-new-delivery-centre-in-city/article37957449.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dalmia withdraws petition in HC||Dalmia Cements managing director Puneeth Dalmia withdrew his petition filed in Telangana High Court seeking a direction to quash the First Information Report issued against him by CBI in a quid pro quo case involving Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy. Justice Ujjal Bhuyan of the High Court dismissed the petition resulting in cancellation of the interim stay against investigation into the case. Supreme Court senior counsel P.V. Kapoor, who had presented his contentions appearing for Mr. Dalmia in the matter earlier last week and this Monday, told the bench of Justice Ujjal Bhuyan that his client wanted to withdraw the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dalmia-withdraws-petition-in-hc/article37957450.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||16 children rescued from printing press at Nacharam||Nacharam police, along with the anti-human trafficking wing and the district child protection unit, on Tuesday rescued 16 minor boys from a printing press company in the Industrial Development Area limits. According to the police, SP Hi-Tech Printers Private Limited at IDA Nacharam was raided based on a tip-off. It was found that the owners S. Sudhakar and S. Purnachander Rao along with contractors Hasibul Islam and Jalaluddin brought the boys for manufacturing packaging material, dangles, posters and labels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/16-children-rescued-from-printing-press-at-nacharam/article37957454.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CSIR-NGRI Director given INSA Fellowship||CSIR-NGRI Director Virendera M. Tiwari has been bestowed with the prestigious Fellowship of Indian National Science Academy (INSA), New Delhi, on Tuesday. A post-graduate in geophysics from Benarus Hindu University, he began his scientific career in NGRI and specialises in exploration geophysics, hydrology and geodynamics. Dr. Tiwari has contributed significantly to important R&D projects for the oil and mineral industries. He is also an elected fellow of National Academy of Sciences India, Indian Academy of Sciences and Telangana Academy of Sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/csir-ngri-director-given-insa-fellowship/article37957457.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rythu Avedana Yatra from Dec. 19: Sharmila||YSRTP president Y.S. Sharmila has announced taking up ‘Rytu Avedana Yatra’ from December 19. Disclosing this at a press conference here on Tuesday, Ms. Sharmila said that they will visit the houses of every farmer who had committed suicide and console the families and extend the possible help. “As many as 37 farmers had committed suicide in 34 days in the State and my team provided all the details. I was shocked to see this. There were youth who have not crossed even 30 years. Why is Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao not responding?” she asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rythu-avedana-yatra-from-dec-19/article37957470.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Congress will ensure SC categorisation’||Congress will bring in a Bill for categorisation of Scheduled Castes as soon as it comes to power, TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy assured in New Delhi. Speaking at the “Madiga Vidyarthi Mahasabha” in New Delhi on Tuesday, he pointed out that the TRS MPs have not raised the issue in Parliament even once and it shows the TRS government’s sincerity on categorisation. “Moreover, the TRS MPs have not even visited this huge meeting for a just demand,” he said. “I have come as a representative of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and I assure the party is in full support of categorisation.” He recalled that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao came to power promising a Dalit would be the first Chief Minister of Telangana and also three acres to land to each Dalit family. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-will-ensure-sc-categorisation/article37957476.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Atal Catalysts launched at ISB||The Indian School of Business (ISB) on Tuesday announced the launch of Atal Catalysts, a mentorship programme seeking to scale, improve and potentially take to market digital ventures of Atal Tinkering Labs (ATL) Tinkerpreneur’s top 100 high-school student teams. Atal Catalysts has been launched by I-Venture @ ISB, umbrella brand of the business school for fostering entrepreneurship and nurturing start-ups, in partnership with Atal Innovation Mission (AIM), NITI Aayog. It is one of its kind programmes designed to transform Tinkerpreneurs into Digital Product Entrepreneurs aka Digipreneurs, ISB said in a release. Under the programme, top 100 high school students/teams of ATL Tinkerpreneur Summer Bootcamp will be mentored one-on-one by ISB’s expert alumni and students for five weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/atal-catalysts-launched-at-isb/article37957439.ece
15 December 2021||JAGTIAL,TELANGANA||Residential school students take ill after dinner||Around 20 students of the State-run residential school for girls at Bhavani Nagar in Jagtial town were taken ill in the early hours of Tuesday. Some students complained of vomiting and severe stomach ache hours after taking dinner at the institution on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, sources said. They were shifted to the government hospital and kept under observation for a few hours. They were sent back home on Tuesday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/residential-school-students-take-ill-after-dinner/article37957665.ece
15 December 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Adani Green Energy inks pact with SECI for supply of 4,667 MW||Gujarat-based Adani Green Energy Ltd (AGEL) has signed an agreement with Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) to supply 4,667 MW of green power. This is the world’s largest-ever green power purchase agreement, the company said in a statement. “We are pleased to have signed the world’s largest PPA with SECI,” said Gautam Adani, group chairman. “This is yet another step in our journey to enable India’s dual objective to accelerate its renewable energy footprint as well as promote domestic manufacturing under the Atmanirbhar Bharat programme,” he added. According to Mr. Adani, the Adani Group has committed $50-$70 billion of investment in the renewables space in coming years. “This agreement keeps us well on track to our commitment to become the world’s largest renewables player by 2030.” The AGEL-SECI agreement to supply 4,667 MW is part of a manufacturing-linked solar tender of 8,000 MW awarded to AGEL by SECI in June 2020. So far, AGEL has signed PPAs with SECI for generation capacity of 6,000 MW of the 8,000 MW awarded in 2020. The company expects to close the balance in two to three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/adani-green-energy-inks-pact-with-seci-for-supply-of-4667-mw/article37957609.ece
15 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Cong., AAP, Akali MLAs will soon join party: Amarinder||Ahead of the Punjab Assembly election, former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said several sitting and former MLAs from the Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party and the Shiromani Akali Dal shall be joining his party, the Punjab Lok Congress, soon. Addressing a meeting of the party workers and the office-bearers, after inducting several leaders, including a former MP and some ex-legislators into the party here, Capt. Amarinder said, “We will soon be holding a similar function but at a large scale as several leaders will be joining us.” Pointing out that the State was under a massive debt of about Rs. 5 lakh crore, which was about 70% of the total GDP of the State, Capt. Amarinder said he wondered where Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was going to get the money for his populist announcements. “Probably he knows that the Congress is not going to come back.” On other political parties in the State, Capt. Amarinder said, “The Congress was in a state of civil war with the CM and the PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu pulling in different directions.” The AAP, he said, was down in the dumps, with half of its legislators having deserted the party, and others ready to leave. The Shiromani Akali Dal, he said, was yet to find it’s feet again after being punished by the people. Elaborating on his party’s plan of action, he said, the PLC will go for seat adjustment with the BJP. He said the BJP was also in consultation with Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). On the threat from the neighbouring country, he said India did not want enmity with any country. He said he doesn’t have anything personal against the people of Pakistan, but he has problems with the Pakistan Government and its military establishment which is sponsoring terror.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-aap-akali-mlas-will-soon-join-party/article37957554.ece
15 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Akali Dal plays regional card at party’s centennial function||As the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday held an event to mark the centennial commemoration of the party in Punjab’s Moga, it announced to implement a Rs. 50,000 per acre crop insurance scheme and revive the pre-2004 pension scheme for the Government employees if the party was voted to power in the 2022 Assembly election. Playing the regional card, former Chief Minister and party patron Parkash Singh Badal said, “The choice before the Punjabis is straight and simple. It’s one between having a government of the Punjabis, for the Punjabis and by the Punjabis or having puppets remote-controlled by outsiders.” Mr. Badal said it was sad to see the Congress humiliating the poor and the Scheduled Caste sections of society by first letting it be known that the current Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was not their first choice. Mr. Badal warned the Centre against “dangerous adventurism” of the past and said nothing should be done to disturb the peace and communal harmony in Punjab and outside. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced that farmers would be offered an insurance cover of Rs. 50,000 per acre for crop damage. He said the SAD-BSP alliance government would revive the pre-2004 pension scheme for Government employees. “We would end monopolies in sand and liquor business. We would also waive off electricity bills of all religious places of worship.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/akali-dal-plays-regional-card-at-partys-centennial-function/article37957555.ece
15 December 2021||Dharamshala,||Cong. stages walkout in Himachal Assembly||The Opposition Congress staged a walkout from the Himachal Pradesh Assembly on Tuesday as it was not allowed to raise the issue of leasing out some properties of the Tourism Department to private players. Raising slogans against the Government, the Congress legislators came into the well of the House before staging a walkout. Reacting to the allegations, Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur said the previous Congress dispensation had sold several Government properties, including Wildflower. He said the present BJP government is only leasing out them. He said that Mandi Convention Centre is being leased out for 10 years for Rs. 25 lakh per annum and Tourist Cultural Centre at Janjehli for 15 years for Rs. 17.52 lakh pa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-stages-walkout-in-hp-assembly/article37957550.ece
15 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram students, parents want reopening of schools||Many parents and students held a demonstration at Galleria Market here on Tuesday demanding that the schools be reopened. One of the parents at the demonstration, Anju Kapur, said shopping malls, market places, and offices were all open and weddings were being held, but only schools were shut. “Keeping the schools closed during the pandemic was understandable, but shutting them down due to rise in pollution levels in not the solution. The Government must fix the problem. It seems education is the least priority for the Government,” said Ms. Kapur, a lawyer. “With ‘work from home’ having ended, parents are finding it increasingly difficult to make safe and suitable arrangements for children, who are at home,” she said. Another parent, Supreet, said at least hybrid mode of classes should be allowed and the decision to send their wards to schools should be left to the parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gurugram-students-parents-want-reopening-of-schools/article37957327.ece
15 December 2021||Mumbai,||In a major jolt to MVA Govt., BJP wins two Council seats||In a major jolt to the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) Government in Maharashtra, the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has won both Legislative Council seats, elections for which were held on December 10. One of the seats was earlier held by the Shiv Sena. With this victory, the BJP has won four of the six Council seats while the rest of the seats were already declared unopposed. Term expiring “This victory has busted the myth that the MVA can win any election if all three parties contest unitedly,” said former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. Of the six, one seat each went to the Sena and the Congress. The term of eight sitting MLCs is set to expire in January. However, with regard to the local authorities’ constituencies election, the ECI’s guidelines say if at least 75% of them in the constituency are functioning and in addition at least 75% of the voters are available, then the electorate is treated as available for electing the MLC. Only five of the local authorities fulfil the criteria leading to election to only six seats instead of eight. State’s former Energy Minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule defeated Congress candidate Mangesh Deshmukh in Nagpur seat by securing 362 votes against the latter’s 186. Mr. Deshmukh, who had earlier filed the nomination as an Independent, was supported by the Congress after its candidate Ravindra Bhoyar expressed inability to contest. The big blow to the Sena came in the form of the defeat of three-term MLC Gopikishan Bajoriya from Akola-Washim-Buldhana seat by BJP’s Vasant Khandelwal who won 443 votes against Sena candidate’s 334 votes. ‘Horse trading’ After his victory, Mr. Bawankule slammed Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole saying the latter’s party got into horse-trading of voters in the last two days. “These Congress leaders are behaving in an autocratic manner. He [Mr. Patole] does not have the right to remain in his post,” he said. Two seats in the Brihanmumbai Muncipal Corproation (BMC) had gone unopposed with Sunil Shinde of the Sena and Rajhans Singh of the BJP wining them respectively. The Kolhapur and Nandurbar-Dhule seats were won by Satej alias Bunty Patil of the Congress and Ambrish Patel of the BJP unopposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jolt-to-mva-govt-as-bjp-wins-two-council-seats/article37957344.ece
15 December 2021||Mumbai,||BMC to test guests at film-maker’s party||The Mumbai civic body on Tuesday prepared a list of guests present at a party attended by actor Kareena Kapoor Khan, who has contracted COVID-19, and their immediate contacts for testing all of them, an official said. “Those who attended have been also asked to remain isolated at home and avoid any exposure to other people until the RT-PCR results are out. We have to seal the building where Kareena Kapoor Khan lives,” Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s Additional Commissioner (western suburbs) Suresh Kakani said. Ms. Khan had attended a party at the residence of film-maker Karan Johar. According to the BMC officials, four persons who attended the dinner party have so far tested COVID-19 positive. The civic body has prepared a list of guests who were present at the dinner party and their immediate contacts in the last one week and will test all of them. Some of them have given their swab samples, an official said. “We have so far tested 15 people. The details of their immediate contacts and others are being collected,” Mr. Kakani said. The city civic body on Monday said Ms. Khan and actor Amrita Arora had tested positive for the coronavirus and those who came in contact with them were traced and their tests conducted. Later, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said it was not right to be carefree when the pandemic has not ended. She said if people flout COVID-19 norms, why strict action should not be taken against them. The BMC staff has also contacted the physician of the two actors and both are under home isolation, she said. The Mayor said the new variant Omicron has also posed new challenges. “It is our appeal to the people to adhere to COVID-19 norms. As part of the unlock guidelines, we have been allowing relaxations in terms of gatherings and attendance at events. It seems some people and hotels are taking undue advantage of it,” Ms. Pednekar said. She said some political parties were also taking advantage of the relaxed norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bmc-to-test-guests-at-film-makers-party/article37957551.ece
15 December 2021||Mumbai,||Exam fraud: Maharashtra Govt. turns to ‘rejected’ TCS||The Maharashtra Government’s woes over the leaked papers for recruitment in Maharashtra Housing Area Development Authority (MHADA) are far from over. With two out of five companies empanelled by it as service providers for the Optical Marks Recognition (OMR)-based examination management system embroiled in a controversy, the Government is now forced to turn to the company whose bid was earlier rejected. After the arrest of a director and officers of GA Software Technologies Private Ltd., State Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad said the exam will now be conducted by MHADA with help from Tata Consultancy Services Ltd (TCS). According to documents accessed by The Hindu, through an application under Right to Information Act, the tech giant was one of the bidders when the Information and Technology Department floated the proposal in August 2020. In all, 18 companies participated in the process, four of which were initially empanelled, including GA Software. However, TCS did not make it to the final list. A fifth company — Nysa Communication Pvt Ltd — was added later after it approached the Bombay High Court. But Nysa too landed in controversy after Health Department’s Grade C and D recruitment examinations, assigned to it, had to be postponed a day before the scheduled date. “ We want a company which has experience of conducting such exams without a controversial past,” Mr. Ahwad told The Hindu . Questions are also being raised over the selection criterion applied by the IT department while empanelling companies which could not be satisfied by an industry leader such as TCS, but achieved by the other five. “There needs to be a thorough review on what basis these companies were empanelled,” a Government official said. Only empanelled companies can conduct recruitment examinations for which they are allowed to charge Rs. 210.04 from each candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/exam-fraud-maharashtra-govt-turns-to-rejected-tcs/article37957558.ece
15 December 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai NCB seizes drugs worth Rs. 13 crore||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) seized amphetamine, opium and zolpidem tablets in varying quantities from different locations in suburban Andheri and south Mumbai and arrested an Ivorian national, an officer said on Tuesday. The collective value of the seizure is estimated at Rs. 13 crore. These substances, seized over the last four days, were supposed to be smuggled out of India to Australia, Maldives, Dubai, the USA, New Zealand and Switzerland by members of drug syndicates through airways, the officer said. The federal anti-drugs agency seized a total of 2.296 kg amphetamine, 3.906 kg opium and 2.525 kg zolpidem tablets during the raids. The NCB suspects the role of employees of some private air courier companies, he said. The operation was led by Mumbai NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede during which raids were conducted at eight places in Mumbai, he said. The NCB team seized 490 gm amphetamine concealed in a stethoscope in Andheri (East) on Friday, the officer said, adding that the consignment was destined for Australia. The NCB arrested an Ivorian national in this case. On Monday, the NCB seized 3.906 kg opium concealed in an oven, also in Andheri, the officer said. Later, the NCB seized 2.525 kg of zolpidem tablets concealed in eatables and grocery items.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mumbai-ncb-seizes-drugs-worth-rs-13-crore/article37957552.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||Disclose all ingredients used in food items, manufacturers told||The use of non-vegetarian ingredients, even in a miniscule amount, in food articles would render them non-vegetarian, which would offend the religious and cultural sentiments of strict vegetarians, the Delhi High Court observed while ordering manufacturers to disclose the full and complete list of all ingredients that goes into the making of any food article. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh ordered that food business operators, which manufacture food items, to disclose on the packaging all the ingredients not only by their code names but also by disclosing as to whether they originate from plant, or animal source, or whether they are manufactured in a laboratory, irrespective of their percentage in the food article. “It should also be fairly disclosed as to what is the plant source, or animal source — as the case may be, in respect of all the ingredients in whatever measure they are used,” the Bench added. Clause advantage The High Court said that some food business operators are taking advantage of a clause in the Food Safety and Standards Regulations which exempts manufacturers from making a declaration about the compound ingredients in any food article, if it constitute less than 5% of the food. It drew attention to an ingredient coded in the trade as E631 which denotes disodium inosinate. This is used as a food additive and often found in instant noodles, potato chips, and a variety of other snacks. “It is commercially prepared from meat or fish. A little search on Google search engine shows that it is often sourced from pig fat. Even though it is a food additive, yet, the food business operators often do not disclose in their packaging... that the food article wherein the said ingredient is used, is a non-vegetarian product,” the Bench said. Warns food authority The court ordered the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) to verify all such claims made by the food business operators. Any connivance or failure on the part of the FSSAI or its officers to perform their duties shall expose all such officers to claims by the aggrieved parties, and prosecution under the law, the court warned. It said the failure of the authorities, including the FSSAI in checking such lapses is leading to not only non-compliance of the laws and regulations but also leading to “deceit” by such the food business operators of the public at large, particularly those who wish to profess strict vegetarianism.  It should be fairly disclosed as to what is the plant source or animal source, in respect of all the ingredients in whatever measure they are used HC Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/disclose-all-ingredients-used-in-food-items-manufacturers-told/article37957326.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||I am scared, depressed, says Manipuri woman||The 38-year-old Manipuri woman, who has been living in Delhi for over a decade, is distraught with what happened to her on December 10. She was abused, slapped, and called an obscene word by a stranger, she said. The accused has been arrested. The woman, a resident of Neb Sarai  where she recently shifted, said the incident was a hate  crime. “I am from the north-east but I am an Indian. We deserve respect. We are also human beings,” she said, adding that the incident has left her “scared and depressed”. Narrating what happened on December 10, the woman said she was going to Safdarjung Hospital around 1 a.m. to visit her ailing sister. “I stopped at a paan shop to buy a few things and while I was waiting, a ‘strange man’ came on his bike, ‘hit me and slapped me’. He also used an obscene word for me. He then rode off,” she said, adding that she noted his bike’s registration number. Case registered She reported the matter to the police and a case under Sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code was registered and the investigation handed over to a sub-inspector rank officer. Without divulging details of the accused “because of the nature of the case”, a senior police officer said he has been arrested and the north-east cell of Delhi Police has been informed. The woman said, as a professional handicraft designer, she has recently recorded her name in India Book of Records for her craftwork. “My father is a policeman in Manipur and is serving the nation and this is what happens with us here,” she said. Abusive language According to a study commissioned by the Indian Council of Social Science Research, offensive and abusive language was reported to be most common across six cities and Delhi stood at number 4. Mumbai recorded the highest offensive and abusive language-related crime (74%), followed by Chennai (72%), Pune (67.3%), Delhi (64%), Hyderabad (48.7%), and Bengaluru (43.3%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/i-am-scared-depressed-says-manipuri-woman/article37957335.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||The costly waiting time||On December 16, 2012, a 22-year-old woman was gang-raped and brutally assaulted and later thrown on the roadside in south Delhi’s  Munirka. That night, Delhi police officers took the victim, who was drenched in blood, to a hospital in a Police Control Room (PCR) van. The woman succumbed to her injuries a fortnight later but her trauma remains etched in the memory of the nation as the “Nirbhaya case”. Nine years since the incident, nothing much has changed on the ground when it comes to rushing to the aid of an injured victim. On November 5, Rakesh, a 26-year-old man, died after being hit by a truck in south Delhi. His body lay on the spot for an hour and a half till it was finally taken to a hospital. The police have taken innumerable initiatives to improve their response time over the years, including the latest – attaching PCR unit with districts and enabling the police stations to have their own PCR vans and Emergency Response Vehicles (ERVs). To reduce delays, the Delhi police introduced Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS). But on the ground, none of these initiatives seem to make a difference. Narrating how Rakesh died, his brother Harish Kumar said Rakesh was getting his bike repaired at a shop around 9.30 a.m. when the truck hit him from behind. “The repair shop was a minute away from my house and I rushed hearing the commotion. I saw my brother unconscious. Two police officers from a nearby booth also reached the spot on their bike. Rakesh was not breathing, so they presumed he was dead,” he said.  Delay, refusal  A PCR van arrived about 20 minutes later and told him that his brother was already dead. The PCR officers called an ambulance, which came half an hour later and refused to take the body. “There was an argument between the policemen and the driver after which the latter left. The policemen called another ambulance, which arrived half an hour later,” Mr. Harish said. He complained that even if Rakesh was breathing after the accident, “he would have died because of the delayed response by the police and ambulance”. The Delhi Government has outsourced operations of CATS ambulance to GVK-EMRI Pvt. Ltd. Pankaj Kumar, its finance head in Delhi, said there is no delay in an ambulance reaching the spots. “On a daily basis, we get about 1,200 calls and there are 262 ambulances in Delhi. Each vehicle attends to 5-6 calls,” he said. Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said the decision to integrate Police Control Room MPVs and personnel with the districts was aimed at reducing the response time and it has “effectively done so”. The MPVs and ERVs reach within 3-4 minutes as compared to 8-10 minutes, which is a significant improvement, he said, adding that it is an ongoing process of increasing efficiency. He also said that an automated system is in place at PCR to inform CATS control room if an ambulance is required at once. An official of CATS ambulance is stationed at the PCR who shares information with their control room, which finally dispatches the ambulance. A PCR officer analyses the situation at the spot and informs if an ambulance is required, after which the information is promptly relayed. This prompt response, however, did not reach Poonam, 22, a resident of north-east Delhi’s Bhajanpura, who was attacked by two bike-borne snatchers. “I fell on the floor and for a minute or two didn’t realise what had happened,” she recalled. Poonam, who was robbed of her phone, sought police help and within five minutes, two policemen arrived at the spot. “I told them what had happened and they asked me to come to the police station,” she said. Poonam, however, said that there was no provision for her to go to the hospital. “They treated me politely at the police station but there was no provision to take me to a medical centre,” she said. There are many like Harish and Poonam who have faced delayed response from the police. The Delhi police had in 2019 launched a single emergency helpline number 112 through which information could be relayed to the police, fire and ambulance for response. Despite the facility, victims’ ordeal continues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/the-costly-waiting-time/article37957343.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||Soon, new vehicle buyers in Delhi can receive RCs directly from auto dealers||In a move that could benefit an estimated six lakh citizens annually, the Delhi Government will soon allow new vehicle purchasers to get their Registration Certificates (RCs) directly from auto dealers. Vehicle owners will now no longer have to visit the Transport Department offices. The initiative, the Government said, is an extension of its “Faceless Services” project. Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Tuesday inspected the RC printing facility at Rana Motors, Bhikaji Cama Place, and handed over the new RC to a customer. Senior officials, including Transport Commissioner Ashish Kundra, were present. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will soon dedicate the service to Delhiites. The department had in March started a pilot project by enabling self-registration of dealers for printing RCs. The first RC as part of the scheme was issued on March 17, following which the service was extended across the city and, by September, all self-registered dealers were empowered to print RCs. Delhi has a total of 263 dealers who print RCs and the Transport Department has already issued 1,44,395 RCs as part of the pilot project. New QR code-based smart card for RC has the owner’s name printed on the front while the microchip and the QR code are embedded at the back. This enables unification in linking and validating one’s information with Vahan, the nationwide vehicle registration database, and it also has the added advantage of acting as a safety feature on the smart card. Zonal DCs issue blank RCs with a unique hologram number to the dealers, which will prevent tampering and duplication. The data entry, verification and approval of vehicle registrations will be done at the dealer’s end, and the authorisation, login credentials, and e-sign facility will all be Aadhaar-based, the Government said. “We’ve simplified the public service delivery in a way no other State has. This is actually an extension of the ‘Faceless Services’ project launched earlier this year, which has already been availed of by lakhs of Delhiites and is being replicated in other States,” Mr. Gahlot said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/soon-new-vehicle-buyers-in-delhi-can-receive-rcs-directly-from-auto-dealers/article37957338.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||Deliberating on booster doses of COVID vaccines: Govt. to HC||The Centre has informed the Delhi High Court that the National Technical Advisory Group of Immunization (NTAGI) and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) are deliberating on the possible need and justification for booster doses of COVID-19 vaccines. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in an affidavit, told the court that “the current knowledge about duration of immunity offered by COVID-19 vaccines in India is limited and will clearly be known over a period of time only”. The Ministry submitted that the SARS CoV-2 infection and the resulting disease has impacted India since 2020 as a new infectious disease, complete biological characteristics of which are yet unknown and under such circumstances, the necessity of a booster dose of COVID vaccine is yet to be decided. It added that the “current priority” of the national COVID-19 vaccination programme is to cover the entire eligible population with full vaccination and that there are no guidelines yet regarding the administration of booster doses from the two expert bodies — NTAGI and NEGVAC. The NTAGI examines the technical aspects like usage of different varieties of COVID vaccines, the interval between vaccine doses, contraindications, etc. and recommends the same to the NEGVAC, which provides overall guidance on all aspects of vaccination to the Ministry. The Ministry’s affidavit was filed before a Bench comprising Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh. The court had on November 25 ordered the Government to respond on the need for administration of booster dose of COVID-19 vaccines and the timeline within which the same is proposed to be rolled out on the Aarogya Setu application, if considered necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/deliberating-on-booster-doses-of-covid-vaccines-govt-to-hc/article37957333.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. puts ‘overage’ buses to test||The Delhi Government has begun subjecting its aged buses to random fitness tests based on odd-even rotation to ensure that they keep in line with the required safety standards. Ashish Kundra, transport secretary-cum-commissioner, said the buses — the ones owned by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and those plying under the cluster scheme — are being tested at the DTC facility in south-west Delhi’s Jhuljhuli. Barring a few buses, the entire 3,700-strong fleet of the public transporter is “overaged”. The Government has time and again come under fire from the Opposition in this regard. On Tuesday, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri (BJP) questioned why the Government recently announced that it would go after diesel vehicles older than 10 years and petrol vehicles older than 15 years, in connection with a 2018 NGT directive, even as its own buses were beyond the threshold of operational age. “While private vehicles are not allowed to ply on the roads, who will remove the overage buses of the DTC that have reached the end of their life in September? These buses are being run at the risk of the lives of DTC staff and the public,” Mr. Bidhuri said. According to Mr. Kundra, public buses are being subjected to fitness tests on the one hand, while the Transport Department merely reiterates earlier NGT directions related to old diesel and petrol vehicles. A senior Transport Department official said, “We are conducting fitness tests on buses; these are CNG-run and, hence, their emission levels are not comparable to private diesel and petrol vehicles. In any case, only buses fit to ply are being allowed to operate and they can run only up to the limit of 15 years.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-puts-overage-buses-to-test/article37957337.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||Doctors warn of pen down strike||As many as 450 medical officers, who had joined the Delhi Government in 2014 and had not been promoted till now and they would be forced to go on a pen down strike if the authorities did not take action, the Delhi Medical Officers Welfare Association said on Tuesday. As per rules, these doctors are eligible for promotion after four years in service. “During the pandemic, we medical officers, who are junior doctors, were the backbone of the healthcare system. But now the authorities are not even giving us our basic right,” Dr. Jyoti Prakash, vice-president of the association, told The Hindu . The Delhi Government says it will recommend names of doctors for the Padma awards, he said. “We are not even asking for big things like it. We are asking for our promotion, which is not anything extra. It is very demotivating to work like this,” Dr. Prakash said The association has written several letters to the authorities since 2018 and met officials and Health Minister Satyendar Jain, but in vain. “If nothing works out then we will be forced to resort to a pen down strike,” the vice president said. When contacted, a Delhi Government spokesperson refused to comment. Leaving job “Around 550 doctors had joined in 2014 and were appointed in hospitals, dispensaries, and the administration. Close to 100 of them have left and many more are planning to leave due to current issues,” Dr. Prakash said. “I am from a lower middle-class family in Odisha and I am still staying in a rented accommodation in Delhi,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/doctors-warn-of-pen-down-strike/article37957339.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nursery admissions to begin in Delhi today||Nursery-level admissions to private schools across the Capital will begin on Wednesday. Like previous years, to ensure transparency, schools will award points based on various criteria and will upload the details of children who have applied and points allotted to each of them on their websites. Applicants have time till January 7 to submit the application forms after which the first list of selected children will be out on February 4, followed by a second list on February 21. The entire admission process is set to conclude on March 31. As per a notice released by the Directorate of Education (DOE), schools have to develop and adopt criteria for admission, which shall be “fair, reasonable, well defined, equitable, non-discriminatory, unambiguous and transparent”.  Most schools have given maximum weightage to the admission criteria of distance from school while others are giving preference to applicants with siblings studying in the same school.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nursery-admissions-to-begin-in-delhi-today/article37957334.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Rename Akbar Road after Gen. Rawat’||A member of the New Delhi Municipal Council has proposed that Akbar Road in Lutyens’ Delhi be renamed after late Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. Girish Sachdeva has sent the proposal to the NDMC, urging that it be included in the agenda for the council’s meeting on December 22. Delhi BJP’s media department head Naveen Kumar had made the same request to the NDMC on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rename-akbar-road-after-gen-rawat/article37957328.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||4 more cases of Omicron detected||Four more cases of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 have been reported in Delhi, taking the total cases till now to six, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday. “Of the six cases of Omicron, one patient has been discharged from the hospital, and the rest are in stable condition. Currently, 35 COVID patients and three suspected cases are admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital,” Mr. Jain said. The first patient with Omicron, who travelled to Delhi from Tanzania, was discharged as per hospital authorities. The Minister urged the people to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour. Meanwhile, the city reported no new COVID-19-related death in 24 hours and the total number of deaths stood at 25,100, as per a bulletin released by the Government on Tuesday. Forty-five new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 14,41,793.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/4-more-cases-of-omicron-detected/article37957329.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||DTC service to Kathmandu back||The Delhi Transport Corporation’s (DTC) bus service to Kathmandu will resume on Wednesday after a year and a half during which it was halted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A notification issued by the DTC on Monday said that the bus will depart from Ambedkar bus terminal at 10 a.m. on December 15. The DTC has tied up with Skyline India (Motors) Pvt. Ltd. for operation of the bus. “The latest COVID-19 protocols/guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs are to be followed in true spirit,” the notification said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dtc-service-to-kathmandu-back/article37957341.ece
15 December 2021||Panaji,||PM remembers Ganga only during polls; he can do anything for votes: Mamata||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a ritualistic dip in the Ganga before inaugurating the Kashi Vishwanath Dham in Varanasi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said he remembers the, which is regarded as the mai (mother) by lakhs, only during elections to get votes. Addressing a public meeting at Assnora village on the last day of her two-day visit to Goa, the TMC supremo said the Mr. Modi can do anything to get votes and recalled his visit to Uttarakhand for performing meditation. She also alleged that the BJP Government in Uttar Pradesh made the Ganga ‘impure by throwing unclaimed bodies of COVID-19 victims’. Ms. Banerjee said around 23 lakh people visit Gangasagar in West Bengal to participate in the Gangasagar mela. “But we don’t worship the Ganga only during the time of elections,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pm-remembers-ganga-only-during-polls-he-can-do-anything-for-votes-mamata/article37957557.ece
15 December 2021||Jakarta,||Blinken vows to expand U.S. military might in Indo-Pacific||The United States will expand its military and economic relationships with partners in Asia to push back against China’s increasing assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Tuesday. Mr. Blinken said the U.S. government is committed to maintaining peace and prosperity in the region and will do that by boosting U.S. alliances, forging new relationships and ensuring that the U.S. military maintains “its competitive edge.” “Threats are evolving, our security approach has to evolve with them. To do that, we will lean on our greatest strength: our alliances and partnerships,” Mr. Blinken said in a speech in Indonesia, outlining the administration’s Indo-Pacific plans. “We’ll adopt a strategy that more closely weaves together all our instruments of national power — diplomacy, military, intelligence — with those of our allies and partners,” he said. That will include linking U.S. and Asian defence industries, integrating supply chains and cooperating on technological innovation, he said. Later, he signed a series of three agreements with Indonesia’s Foreign Minister, including one that extends until 2026 an existing maritime cooperation pact that among other issues calls for enhanced joint U.S.-Indonesian naval exercises. “It’s about reinforcing our strengths so we can keep the peace, as we have done in the region for decades,” he said. He did not elaborate further but the administration made waves earlier this year by agreeing to a pact that will see Australia produce nuclear-powered submarines. Mr. Blinken insisted that the U.S. is not trying to force countries to choose between the U.S. and China, or seeking conflict with China. But he laid out a litany of complaints about “Beijing’s aggressive actions” from “Northeast Asia to Southeast Asia and from the Mekong River to the Pacific Islands.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/blinken-vows-to-expand-us-military-might-in-indo-pacific/article37956931.ece
15 December 2021||Moscow,||Putin wants ‘immediate’ talks with NATO on Russia’s security||Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday that he wants “immediate” talks with the U.S. and NATO over security guarantees, as tensions soar between Moscow and the West over Ukraine. The U.S. and its allies have for weeks accused Russia of planning an invasion of its neighbour, warning of a massive coordinated sanctions should Mr. Putin launch an attack. Tens of thousands of Russian troops are stationed near the borders of ex-Soviet Ukraine, where the West has accused the Kremlin of backing pro-Moscow separatists since 2014. In a phone call with the Finnish President — whose country has traditionally served as middle ground between Russia and the West — Mr. Putin said he wanted security talks to begin without delay. He told President Sauli Niinsto that Moscow wants “to immediately launch negotiations with the U.S. and NATO in order to develop international legal guarantees for the security of our country,” the Kremlin said in a statement. Russia’s demands, it said, included stopping NATO from expanding east and the deployment of weapons in neighbouring countries, including Ukraine. Mr. Putin reiterated the same demands in a phone call with French President Emmanuel Macron later on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/putin-wants-immediate-talks-with-nato-on-russias-security/article37956936.ece
15 December 2021||Port-au-Prince,||62 killed in Haiti tanker blast||At least 62 people were killed when a gas tanker truck exploded in the Haitian city of Cap-Haitien on Tuesday morning, a local official said, with overwhelmed medics saying the toll was set to rise. The blast is the latest disaster to hit the poverty-wracked Caribbean nation, riven by gang violence, political paralysis, and acute fuel shortages. “We have now counted 62 deaths,” Deputy Mayor Patrick Almonor said, adding that authorities were still searching for victims amid the charred debris in Cap-Haitien, Haiti’s second-largest city located on the northern coast. Scores of people were injured, and Prime Minister Ariel Henry said he was heading to the scene along with extra doctors and health workers. According to Mr. Almonor, the truck is believed to have flipped over after the driver lost control while swerving to avoid a motorcycle taxi. Fuel spilled onto the road and pedestrians apparently rushed to collect the tanker’s gas, a precious commodity as Haiti grapples with a severe fuel shortage caused by the tightening grip of criminal gangs on the capital Port-au-Prince. Mr. Almonor said around 40 houses in the area also caught fire in the explosion, but that no details were yet available on possible victim numbers inside the homes. “We don’t have the ability to treat the number of seriously burned people,” a nurse said. “I’m afraid we won’t be able to save them all,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/at-least-60-people-killed-as-gas-tanker-explodes-in-haiti/article37956929.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Human rights to be a ‘core’ part of Garcetti’s India engagement||Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, U.S. President Joe Biden’s nominee for the position of Ambassador to India, told a Senate committee that human rights, including in the context of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), will be a “core” part of his work in India. Speaking before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee during his confirmation hearing on Tuesday, Mr. Garcetti said he had fought for human rights (he was on the board of Human Rights Watch, in California) and that he would bring up human rights and discrimination such as via the CAA as a “core” piece of his engagement , rather than as an obligation. He was responding to a question from Senator Ben Cardin on human rights and also specifically the CAA, as being discriminatory against Muslims. On the question of how he would balance the need to work with India as a strategic partner with advancing human rights, Mr. Garcetti said the relationship between the countries was underpinned by a commitment to human rights, democracy and civil society. “It’s a two-way street on these, but I intend to engage directly with civil society,” he said, adding, “There are groups that are actively fighting for human rights of people on the ground in India that will get direct engagement from me.” Setting the stage in his initial remarks, Senator Bob Menendez, who chairs the Committee, said that as the U.S. and India deepen their relationship, there would “inevitably” be areas of friction, citing India’s purchase of Russian defence equipment and “democratic backsliding and discrimination against religious minorities.” Mr. Menendez told Mr. Garcetti that he expected him to be frank with New Delhi about not just aspects of cooperation but also areas of concern. “New Delhi will need to address our concerns if it seeks to deepen our partnership even further,” Mr. Menendez said. “... Respect for human rights and strong democratic institutions are key elements of our relationship and values that are enshrined in both of our Constitutions and if confirmed, I will engage regularly and respectfully with the Indian government on these issues,” he said at one point during the hearing. Denies allegations Asked by Senator Jeanne Shaheen about his role in a lawsuit brought by a former bodyguard against his deputy Rick Jacobs, Mr. Garcetti denied allegations that he was witness to but did not stop Jacobs’s sexual advances towards his bodyguard. He had also previously denied these allegations. The Mayor also said he had a policy of zero tolerance for sexual harassment and that he would raise sexual harassment (in the context of women) if confirmed to the Ambassador role in India. ‘India vital’ “Few nations are more vital to the future of American security and prosperity than India,” Mr. Garcetti said, adding that he would seek to advance a shared vision of a “ free and open Indo-Pacific region,” and support “free trade” to help generate middle class American jobs. He also said he would endeavour to strengthen India’s border security, via counter terrorism coordination, information sharing and joint military exercises and freedom of navigation patrols. Mr. Garcetti expressed his condolences on the death of General Bipin Rawat. Mr. Garcetti suggested a focus of his work would be climate action, as he highlighted his credentials as the chair of a global network of city Mayors confronting climate change. He also said he would work with India via the International Solar Alliances (which is headed by India and which the U.S. joined in November) and the climate partnership. “But my friends, in the end, the bedrock of our relationship are the warm and deep ties between our peoples,” he said. On CAATSA (Countering Americas Adversaries Through Sanctions Act), Mr. Garcetti did not commit to a position on a sanctions waiver for India for buying the Russian S-400 missile defence system, saying instead that he did not want to prejudge the Secretary of State’s decision on the matter. He did, however, say that he would advocate for India to continue to diversify its defence purchases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/human-rights-to-be-a-core-part-of-garcettis-india-engagement/article37957131.ece
15 December 2021||Washington,||‘No punishment for U.S. troops over Kabul strike’||The Pentagon said on Monday that no U.S. troops or officials would face disciplinary action for a drone strike in Kabul in August that killed 10 civilians, including seven children. Spokesman John Kirby said Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin had received a high-level review of the strike that made no recommendation of accountability. “There was not a strong enough case to be made for personal accountability,” Mr. Kirby said. Aimal Ahmadi, 32, who lost his three-year-old daughter, his brother and six nephews and nieces in the strike, expressed anger at the decision on Tuesday. “God will take revenge,” Mr. Ahmadi said, adding “what if the US had lost a child? What would the reaction have been?” The Taliban urged Washington to reverse the decision, with a spokesman saying the U.S. should punish the culprits and compensate the victims”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kabul-strike-us-troops-to-face-no-action/article37956933.ece
15 December 2021||Copenhagen,||NATO chief eyes central bank top job||NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Tuesday that he has applied to be the next Governor of Norway’s central bank in an appointment that would last for six years if he gets the job. The current Governor of Norges Bank, Oeystein Olsen, is retiring in early 2022 after holding the position since January 1, 2011 for two terms. Mr. Stoltenberg’s tenure at NATO ends next year. Mr. Stoltenberg said he was contacted by Norway’s Finance Ministry in November and asked if he would consider applying for the position. “I have now done that, and this is a job I am very motivated for,” the NATO chief said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nato-chief-eyes-central-bank-top-job/article37956932.ece
15 December 2021||Maumere,||7.3-magnitude quake strikes Indonesia||A 7.3-magnitude earthquake struck eastern Indonesia on Tuesday, the U.S. Geological Survey said, causing panic but no deaths or major damage were reported. The epicentre was in the Flores Sea, north of East Nusa Tenggara province.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/73-magnitude-quake-strikes-indonesia/article37956928.ece
15 December 2021||MANILA,||AS--Philippines-Elections||Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte on Tuesday withdrew his senatorial candidacy in next year’s elections in his latest change of mind over what he plans to do after his turbulent term ends. Meanwhile, his former aide, Sen. Bong Go, withdrew his presidential candidacy, which he said his family opposed.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-philippines-elections/article37956935.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Going back to the foundation of the Republic||The recent speech by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Jaipur, drawing a distinction between Hinduism and Hindutva, echoes arguments that have become familiar in recent years, as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rule has given broad currency to the idea of India as a Hindu nation and in turn provoked a backlash from secularists. But in fact the issue raises a debate that goes back to the very foundation of the Republic, and to the heart of the questions our Constitution sought to answer. A new understanding The most important contribution of the Constitution to Indian civic nationalism was that of representation centred on individuals. As the legal scholar, Madhav Khosla, explains in his impressive book of legal history, India’s Founding Moment , the political apparatus of establishing a constitutional democracy in postcolonial India — a land that was poor and illiterate, divided by caste, creed, geography and language, and burdened by centuries of tradition — involved asking Indians to have a new understanding of authority. They would be liberated from British imperial despotism through submission to a new idea of Indianness that saw them as equal agents. The founders of the republic chose — as the chairman of the Constitution’s Drafting Committee, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, recognised — to impose a liberal Constitution upon a society which was not liberal, hidebound as it was by traditional customs and entrenched prejudices relating to caste, religion, and social hierarchies. They saw the principles of liberal constitutionalism — the centrality of the state, non-communal political representation, and so on — as essential to Indian democracy. In keeping with contemporary liberal thought, they committed India to a common language of the rule of law, constructed a centralised state, but instituted a model of representation whose units were individuals rather than groups. This was an attempt to free Indians from their prevailing understanding of their place in society and to place citizens in a realm of individual agency and deliberation that was appropriate to self-rule. That was never going to be easy. Constitutions are, as Ambedkar pointed out, tools to control and restrain state power. The challenge lies in reconciling restrictions on state power with popular rule — to prevent temporary majorities (since in a democracy, a majority is temporary, though some people forget that) from completely undoing what the Constitution has provided. The founders of the Indian republic held a conception of democracy that went beyond majority rule. They subordinated politics to law. As Ambedkar put it, the rights of Indian citizens could not ‘be taken away by any legislature merely because it happens to have a majority’. Basis of representation It is particularly striking, in today’s context, that the Constitution makers explicitly rejected the notion of religion playing any role in citizenship, arguing that each individual voter exercised agency in the democratic project and should not be reduced to the pre-existing loyalties of religious affiliation. This was far removed from the assumptions that have animated the BJP’s Citizenship (Amendment) Act and their threat to introduce a National Register of Citizens. The Constitution granted representation not to one’s predetermined religious identity but to one’s individual expression of political agency. That was why the individual vote was so important. Democratic politics could not be reduced to the advocacy of pre-set interests. At the same time, the Constitution acknowledged group rights, such as the right of religious denominations to establish and maintain institutions for religious and charitable purposes (Article 26(a)), or the right of a ‘section of the citizens’ to conserve a distinct language, script or culture (Article 29(1)). There were also provisions to protect the interests of Scheduled Tribes (Article 19(5)) and a specific provision in Article 25 stating that a ‘heavy responsibility’ would be cast on the majority to see that minorities feel secure. But though the Constitution recognised groups as bearing constitutional rights, Justice Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud of the Supreme Court of India has argued (in his Justice P.D. Desai Memorial Lecture last year) that this ‘was nested in the understanding that membership of groups had a unique role of crafting and determining individual identity... In elevating groups as distinct rights holders as well as empowering state intervention to address historical injustice and inequality perpetrated by group membership, the framers located liberalism within the pluralist reality of India and conceptualized every individual as located at an intersection between liberal individualism and plural belonging. .. At the time of its birth, the nation was conceptualized as incorporating its vast diversity and not eliminating it.’ [emphasis added]. Privileging the individual This ability to recognise groups and yet adjudicate the rights of their individual members, and the adaptability of the Constitution to the ever-changing realities of national life, have effectively made it a vehicle of social change. But the leitmotiv, from the start, remained privileging the individual citizen above the group. It is striking, for instance, that the Constituent Assembly rejected separate electorates, weighted representation, and reservations on the basis of religion. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, in his capacity as Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Minorities and Fundamental Rights, wrote to the President of the Assembly, Rajendra Prasad, to explain that differentiated citizenship on the basis of religion had already been tried in the colonial era and had led to Partition. The answer lay in moving away from a representative framework that recognised identities that were regarded as stable and fixed, and towards a model of citizenship centred on the political participation of individuals. Such a model would allow the categories of majority and minority to be constantly defined and redefined within the fluid domain of politics and it would thereby offer the greatest form of security to all citizens. Key debate The key intellectual division among the Constitution-makers, therefore, was not between those who wanted a united territorial India and those who did not; that issue was settled by Partition, which occurred soon after the Assembly began its work. The key debate in the Constituent Assembly was between those who wanted to assert a conception of individual citizenship in India that went beyond immutable identities (like religion or caste) and those who insisted on Indian nationhood being defined as a confederation of such inescapable identities. Many nationalists who argued passionately outside the Constituent Assembly for a united India nonetheless thought that India was indeed a collection of distinct communities, who could flourish together in amicable coexistence. But the Constituent Assembly, led by Nehru and Ambedkar, went in the opposite direction, consciously opting for individual citizenship as the root of nationhood, transcending the limitations that India’s communities imposed on their members. Ambedkar made this clear: ‘I do not believe there is any place in this country for any particular culture, whether it is a Hindu culture, or a Muhammadan culture or a Kanarese culture or a Gujarati culture. There are things we cannot deny, but they are not to be cultivated as advantages, they are to be treated as disadvantages, as something which divides our loyalty and takes away from us our common goal,’ he argued. ‘That common goal is the building up of the feeling that we are all Indians. I do not like what some people say, that we are Indians first and Hindus afterwards or Muslims afterwards. I am not satisfied with that… I do not want that our loyalty as Indians should be in the slightest way affected by any competitive loyalty, whether that loyalty arises out of our religion, out of our culture or out of our language. I want all people to be Indians first, Indians last and nothing else but Indians....’ Divided between two ideas This fundamental difference of opinion — whether people are Hindus or Muslims first, or Indians first — continues to haunt our politics today. The nationalist movement was divided between two ideas; that held by those who saw religious identity as the determinant of their nationhood, and those who believed in an inclusive India for everyone, irrespective of faith, where rights were guaranteed to individuals rather than to religious communities. The former became the Idea of Pakistan, the latter the Idea of India. Pakistan was created as a state with a dominant religion, a state that discriminates against its minorities and denies them equal rights. But India never accepted the logic that had partitioned the country: our freedom struggle was for all, and the newly independent India would also be for all. Reducing India to a Hindu Rashtra would be a repudiation of that essential conception of India, the India that our founding fathers fought to free. Shashi Tharoor is a third-term Member of Parliament (Congress) representing Thiruvananthapuram and an award-winning author of 23 books, including most recently, Pride, Prejudice and Punditry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/going-back-to-the-foundation-of-the-republic/article37956917.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Needed: repeal of AFSPA, not regret||The demand for the repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act of 1958 (AFSPA) is gathering momentum throughout the Northeast. Massive rallies are being held against the law in Nagaland. The Chief Minister and his Cabinet have backed the demand and Meghalaya’s Chief Minister has also joined in. In Assam, large rallies are being held by student organisations against the Act. The Centre has tried to convey the impression that the Mon incident of December 4, which claimed the lives of 14 civilians, was a “mistake” because of intelligence failure. But the Union Home Minister tried to justify the Army’s action by saying that the firing was resorted to only when the vehicle under question refused to stop at a signal and tried to flee. The people of the Tiru and Oting villages of Tizit subdivision of Mon district are used to checks carried out by the security forces. One of the survivors of the shooting has said that the Army personnel began firing without any signal whatsoever, in daylight. The FIR filed by the Nagaland Police against the 21 Para Special Forces involved in the firing states that the security forces did not “make requisition to police station to provide police guide for the operation” and that they “blankly opened fire at the vehicle without any provocation”. The Army’s statement that its operation had been carried out on the basis of “credible intelligence of the likely movement of insurgents” only shows once again how vulnerable the civilian population is in areas under the AFSPA. Pattern of civilian killings The Mon incident cannot be seen as an exception or a mistake because it fits into a general pattern of civilian killings that have been taking place ever since the AFSPA was first invoked in the then Naga Hills district of Assam in 1958. This particular incident came to light only because of the quick intervention of the villagers. Moreover, it took place when the situation in Nagaland was largely peaceful and the State was celebrating the annual Hornbill Festival. It would perhaps have been a different picture had these killings taken place while an Army operation was in progress in the area. Nagaland has seen numerous cases of civilian killings by the security forces which have gone unpunished because of the AFSPA. In his book Nagaland and India: The Blood and the Tears, Kaka Iralu documents the extra-judicial killings and the suffering of the common people under the draconian provisions of the AFSPA which gives total immunity to the security forces for their actions. There have been scores of civilian killings in the region over the last several decades since the AFSPA came into force. In the long list of the roll call of the dead, some incidents stand out in memory. In 1995, nine innocent civilians were killed by Central Reserve Police Force personnel in front of the RIMS hospital in Imphal. In 2000, 10 civilians were gunned down by the 8th Assam Rifles at Malom Leikai following a blast at Imphal’s Tulihal Airport. It was this incident that triggered the famous 16-year fast by Irom Sharmila for the repeal of the AFSPA. The Manipur High Court later declared those killed as innocent and announced compensation for their families. One also cannot forget how in 2004, a group of women launched a nude protest in front of the Assam Rifles Headquarters at Kangla Fort, Imphal, after Thangjam Manorama was allegedly tortured, raped and brutally killed by security personnel. This was followed by several months of continuous protest by the people of Manipur eventually forcing then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to visit Imphal and assure the people that he “sympathised with the legitimate aspirations of the people regarding the Act” and would replace it with a “more humane law” which would “take into account” the legitimate aspirations of the people and national security concerns. Herein lay the catch. Though Dr. Singh’s assurance was followed by the setting up of the Justice Jeevan Reddy Committee, which recommended the repeal of the AFSPA, finally, national security concerns made the Commission’s recommendations infructuous and the AFSPA continued as it was. In 2016, a two-judge Bench of the Supreme Court of Justices Madan B. Lokur and U.U. Lalit passed a historic judgment on a plea by hundreds of families in Manipur for a probe by a Special Investigation Team into 1,528 cases of alleged fake encounters involving the Army and the police between 1979 and 2012. The Court held that “there is no concept of absolute immunity from trial by a criminal court.” Assam, which has been under the AFSPA since November 1990, has had its own share of killings by the security forces since the days the United Liberation Front of Asom insurgency began in the early 1990s. Gunning down young men in “encounters” became so common that Army dispatches on these incidents appeared to be carbon copies of one another. Such killings have been documented by organisations such as the Manav Adhikar Suraksha Samiti. The many who go scot-free However, at least in one case, because of the dogged perseverance of former legislator and present Assam Jatiya Parishad leader Jagadish Bhuyan and some activists of the All Assam Students’ Union, the security personnel involved in the cold-blooded murder in February 1994 of five young men of the Talap area of Tinsukia district were finally court-martialled. In that incident, nine youths were picked up by the Army on the suspicion that they were involved in the killing of the general manager of the Assam Frontier Tea Limited, Rameshwar Singh, at his Talap office. Following a habeas corpus petition at the Gauhati High Court, the Army handed over five bodies to the Dhola police while freeing the other four. As usual, the deaths were attributed to an encounter, while the police claimed them as killings. Finally, after the Gauhati High Court ordered a Central Bureau of Investigation inquiry, which indicted the Army personnel of murder of the five youths, the Army was forced to order a court martial in July 2018. Seven Army personnel, including a Major General, were dismissed and sentenced to life imprisonment. This is just one case where the protective cover given by the AFSPA wasn’t enough to hide the murders committed by the security forces. However, hundreds of extra-judicial killings under the AFSPA have gone unpunished throughout the State. For decades now, the people of the Northeast have been living under the shadow of a draconian law which makes a travesty of the rights of the citizen guaranteed by the Constitution. The Centre has expressed its regret over a botched operation. A mere regret is not enough. What is needed is an immediate repeal of the AFSPA. Udayon Misra is a writer, professor and former National Fellow of Indian Institute of Advanced Study, Shimla||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/needed-repeal-of-afspa-not-regret/article37956927.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The NMP is hardly the panacea for growth in India||The National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) envisages an aggregate monetisation potential of Rs. 6-lakh crore through the leasing of core assets of the Central government in sectors such as roads, railways, power, oil and gas pipelines, telecom, civil aviation, shipping ports and waterways, mining, food and public distribution, coal, housing and urban affairs, and stadiums and sports complexes, to name some sectors, over a four-year period (FY2022 to FY2025). But the point is that it only underscores the need for policy makers to investigate the key reasons and processes which led to once profit-making public sector assets becoming inefficient and sick businesses. To unlock value Eight core industrial sectors that support infrastructure such as coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertilizers, steel, cement, and electricity have a total weight of nearly 40% in the Index of Industrial Production (IIP). According to NITI Aayog, the strategic objective of the asset monetisation programme is to unlock the value of investments in public sector assets by tapping private sector capital and efficiencies. The NMP policy advocates unlocking idle capital from non-strategic/underperforming government owned assets and reinvesting the funds, thus received, into new infrastructure projects and augmentation of assets such as greenfield infrastructure creation. This reportedly first-of-its-kind initiative claims that it will boost the economy, generate better employment opportunities, and drive the competitiveness of the Indian economy. Notwithstanding the merit of this decision by the government of the day, it becomes imperative for policy makers to introspect the decline of profit-making government assets in the backdrop of the Government contemplating reinvesting the funds received to create fresh assets, post the NMP exercise. It is quite likely that the nation may find itself in a vicious cycle of creating new assets and then monetising the same when they become liabilities for the Government at a later stage. Going by the annual report (2020-2021) of the Department of Public Enterprises, Government of India, there are 256 operationally-run central public sector undertakings (CPSUs), employing about one million people; they posted a net profit of Rs. 93,294 crore (FY 2019-20). Out of these, 96 have been conferred the Ratna status (72, 14, and 10 are Miniratnas, Navaratnas, and Maharatna companies, respectively). As India needs to invest about $1.5 trillion on infrastructure development in order to aspire to become $5 trillion economy by the year 2024-25, according to the Economic Survey 2019-20, public enterprises should be in focus. Some reasons for PSU decline The primary reasons for the failure of public sector enterprises is no secret. Cost overruns, inter alia , is one of the major reasons. In some cases, project completion time is exceeded, leading to elevated project cost so much so that either the project itself becomes unviable at the time of its launching or delays its break even point. Besides, optimum input-output ratio is seldom observed in a majority of government infrastructural projects leading to their overcapitalisation. A reluctance to implement labour reforms, a lack of inter-ministerial/departmental coordination, poor decision-making, ineffective governance and excessive government control are other reasons for the failure of public infrastructural assets. Recently, the “Pradhan Mantri Gati Shakti National Master Plan” for multi-modal connectivity was launched by the Prime Minister with an aim ‘to synchronise the operations of different departments of 16 Ministries including railways and roadways for seamless planning and coordinated execution of infrastructure projects in a timely manner’. It is essentially a digital platform for information sharing among different Ministries and departments at the Union and State levels. It also entails analytical decision-making tools to disseminate project-related information and prioritise key infrastructure projects. Besides, it fosters a periodical review and monitoring of the progress of cross-sectorial infrastructure projects through the GIS platform in order to intervene if there is a need. Essential steps In addition to it, as enunciated in the Economic Survey 2020-21, an important step for the Government to take to strengthen public sector businesses would be to completely revamp their corporate governance structure in order to enhance operational autonomy augmented with strong governance practices including listing on stock exchange for greater transparency and accountability. The Department of Public Enterprises has reportedly initiated revamping of the performance monitoring system of central public sector enterprises to make them more transparent, objective and forward looking, based on sectoral indices/benchmarks. The Economic Survey also highlights the Government’s initiatives as part of the Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan (campaign for self-reliance) in order to boost domestic production in the steel sector, viz . inclusion of “speciality steel”, recommending four different types of steel for incentives under the production linked incentive (PLI) scheme; selling steel to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), affiliated to Engineering Export Promotion Council of India at export parity price under the duty drawback scheme of the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT); measures to provide preference to domestically produced iron and steel in government procurement, where aggregate estimate of iron and steel products exceeds Rs. 25 crore; protecting industry from unfair trade through appropriate remedial measures including imposition of anti-dumping duty and countervailing duty on the products on which unfair trade practices were adopted by the other countries. More such out-of-the-box policy initiatives are needed to rule out public asset monetisation schemes such as the NMP in future. Milind Kumar Sharma teaches in the Department of Production and Industrial Engineering, M.B.M. Engineering College, Faculty of Engineering and Architecture, Jai Narain Vyas University, Jodhpur, erstwhile University of Jodhpur. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-nmp-is-hardly-the-panacea-for-growth-in-india/article37956919.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Losing the art of critical thinking||We in India are destroying the spirit of education — the spark of engaged pedagogy, critical thinking and humanistic sensibilities. Possibly, the dominant political culture — often celebrated by sections of the media in this ‘post-truth’ age — is not in tune with the art of debate and dialogue. Furthermore, as the ‘will to power’ often characterises our leaders, it becomes difficult to acknowledge solid facts and truth that might unsettle their images as the ultimate saviours of the nation. It is no wonder that the escape from truth becomes the new normal. And this pathology seems to have crippled the educational sensibilities of our academic bureaucrats. Poverty of imagination Is it, therefore, surprising that the CBSE issued an apology for the “inappropriate”“ question on the Gujarat riots asked in the Class XII Sociology board exam paper? The question read: “The unprecedented scale and spread of anti-Muslim violence in Gujarat in 2002 took place under which government?” Why is this inappropriate? Students of the social sciences ought to reflect on the dynamics of culture, politics and society. They ought to learn, unlearn and think critically of the complex trajectory of sociopolitical ideals like secularism, cultural pluralism and religious nationalism. What is the point of studying sociology if they do not become aware of, say, the violence implicit in caste hierarchy or the tyranny of majoritarianism? However, our academic bureaucrats are not spirited teachers or pedagogues. See the poverty of imagination in their justification for the apology. We are told that this “inappropriate” question is in violation of the CBSE guidelines. A question, we are told, should be purely “academic oriented”, “class and religion neutral”, and not touch upon domains that could “harm sentiments of people based on social and political choices”. If we go by this strange logic, our children should not be told about, or encouraged to debate on, the historical/political episodes which affected the trajectory of the postcolonial Indian state — the propagation of the ‘two-nation theory’ by V.D. Savarkar and Muhammad Ali Jinnah; the brutalisation of human consciousness in the Partition violence as depicted with immense sensitivity by a literary figure like Saadat Hasan Manto; the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi by a Hindu fanatic; the horror of Emergency; the anti-Sikh riots in Delhi in 1984; the demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992; or the rise of feminist/Dalit/working class/environmental/civil society movements in the country. It is possible that the techno-managers of the CBSE might argue that all these episodes are “political” and therefore not “academic”. Furthermore, they would argue that debates on these would hurt some group or other. They might say don’t refer to anti-Sikh riots because it would hurt the sentiments of Hindus or don’t talk about Gandhi’s assassination because it might hurt the sentiments of many Hindu nationalists. Hence, children, as the CBSE logic seems to suggest, should grow up with the notion that no one demolished the mosque in 1992; no riot took place in Gujarat in 2002; and no COVID-19-related deaths due to the scarcity of oxygen cylinders took place during the pandemic. The potential of critical pedagogy Imagine the likes of Paulo Freire and Bell Hooks responding to the CBSE’s logic. They would possibly make three points. First, they would demythologise the notion of value-neutral academics. They would argue that in the name of value-neutrality, we often end up legitimising the status quo. In fact, the spirit of critical pedagogy awakens young minds and makes them capable of reflecting on the discourse of power. Hence, a young student should not merely memorise the Preamble of the Constitution as a fact; instead, they should be inspired by teachers to see the harsh reality and wonder why our secular, socialist republic is characterised by gross inequality and caste/gender violence. Education is about asking difficult questions and striving for a just social order. Second, they would stress on the creative agency of a young learner. The idea is neither to memorise facts like a parrot nor to master the strategy of cracking the multiple-choice questions pattern of standardised tests. In our classrooms, they must find their voice, their argumentative spirit, and their urge to walk with teachers as co-travellers and critical thinkers. There is no harm if in our classrooms they ask: Does the cult of narcissism negate the ethos of democracy? And third, they would remind us of the art of building the bridge between the ‘self’ and the ‘world’, or ‘personal’ and ‘political’. When you are introduced to the ideas of Gandhi, B.R. Ambedkar and Savitribai Phule, you undergo a process of inner churning; you begin to strive for a new world. Our political masters seek to negate this liberating potential of critical pedagogy. And ironically, our academic bureaucrats abhor the spirit of emancipatory education. Avijit Pathak is Professor of Sociology at JNU, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/losing-the-art-of-critical-thinking/article37956922.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The fight over coal in Telangana||Barely three days after the largely successful strike by all the trade unions of the state-owned Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL), the Union Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi defended in Parliament the Centre’s decision to auction four coal blocks. This drew the ire of some of the major workers’ unions of the SCCL. Mr. Joshi’s statement evoked condemnation from the Centre of Indian Trade Unions-affiliated Singareni Collieries Employees Union (SCEU), one of the constituent trade unions of the Joint Action Committee (JAC) that spearheaded a 72-hour strike from December 9 to 11. All the trade unions of the SCCL across the political spectrum observed the strike to send out a strong message to the Centre to stop the auction of four coal blocks in Telangana for commercial mining. The SCCL is the sole government coal mining company in south India. It is jointly owned by the Telangana government and the Centre on a 51:49 equity basis. The 72-hour strike by the JAC comprising the Singareni workers’ unions affiliated to five central trade unions paralysed operations in the company’s 45 coal mines spanning six districts. The strike resulted in production loss of over 4.50 lakh tonnes of coal and a revenue loss of about Rs. 120 crore to the company. The JAC’s main demand is the withdrawal of the Coal Ministry’s move to auction the four coal blocks in the State. The SCCL caters to the coal needs of various thermal power stations in Telangana and the neighbouring States. The Centre’s move comes at a time when the SCCL has ambitious plans to open new coal mines and expand its operations outside the State. The company has set itself an ambitious target of enhancing coal production to 850 lakh tonnes per annum within three years. Its coal output target for the current fiscal is 680 lakh tonnes. The SCCL evolved into a growth engine of Telangana by embracing sophisticated technologies, increasing productivity and by foraying into thermal and solar power generation. Surmounting the pandemic-induced production disruptions last fiscal, it posted sales of Rs. 11,920 crore in the first half of the 2021-22 fiscal, 67% higher compared to the sales achieved during the first six months of the last financial year.  The unions are up in arms against what they term as the “rigid stand” of the Centre over the issue which could hamper the SCCL’s growth plans. Taking strong objection to Mr. Joshi’s statement, the SCEU warned of an intensive agitation involving all the trade unions and political parties in Telangana to stall the “privatisation” of coal blocks in the State. The unions’ demand stems from the fact that the SCCL incurred huge expenditure on coal exploration in the four coal blocks which have an overall coal reserve of 470 million tonnes and by virtue of being the government-run coal company with a distinguished track record, the SCCL deserves them. The Indian National Trade Union Congress has long been demanding that the State government pay the share capital value to the Central government to take over the SCCL to avoid the risk of privatisation. The RSS-affiliate Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh is critical of the increasing “contractualisation” in the SCCL’s coal mines. The SCEU is mulling another round of agitation to secure the four coal blocks for the SCCL. It is imperative to halt the entry of private companies into the Singareni coal belt region to save the largest public sector undertaking, the livelihoods of thousands of workers, and avoid serious socioeconomic and environmental consequences. Unions are bracing for a sustained struggle to ward off the “threat of privatisation” and save the SCCL, the lifeline of thousands of coal workers and the growth engine of the State. sridhar.ponnam@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-fight-over-coal-in-telangana/article37956924.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Pain from prices||The latest inflation data, both retail and wholesale, point to accelerating price gains that could potentially undermine the fragile economic recovery by pushing up costs and depleting consumers’ purchasing power. November’s Consumer Price Index (CPI) shows year-on-year inflation at the retail level quickened to a three-month high of 4.91%, from 4.48% in October. Even on a sequential basis, last month’s CPI reveals prices are estimated to have risen 0.73% from October with as many as 10 of the 12 constituents of the food and beverages category witnessing month-on-month inflation. Food was in fact a major driver of the quickening in price gains on an annual basis. Vegetable prices surged from October, logging 7.4% month-on-month inflation. Also, the Union government’s belated and marginal reduction in excise duty on petrol and diesel, which was followed by cuts in local value added taxes by many States, barely slowed the pace of inflation in the transport and communication category: the rate eased 88 basis points from 10.90% in October, to 10.02% in November. Clothing and footwear, housing, health, education and recreation were among the other key product and service categories that contributed to the sequential trend in price gains underlining the fact that inflation excluding food and fuel, otherwise known as core inflation, remains disconcertingly sticky and elevated at around 6%. Nor does the data on wholesale prices provide any reason for cheer, with provisional inflation based on the wholesale price index racing to a record 14.2% in November, from October’s 12.5%. The fuel and power sub index surged 39.8% year-on-year, and all three major groups comprising the WPI posted sequential accelerations as well. Persistently high and climbing wholesale prices of basic metals, chemicals and chemical products, and textiles among manufactured products have the potential to feed through down-the-line to retail prices and add to inflationary pressure for consumers. While manufacturers in some sectors may opt to absorb rising input costs, at least in the short term till demand gets more entrenched, the signs including from automobile makers are far from reassuring. The tariff increases announced by telecom service providers last month are also expected to feed through into retail inflation in December and international semiconductor shortages and logistics bottlenecks are roiling the outlook for prices of electronics and other products reliant on global supply chains. With the rupee continuing to weaken against the U.S. dollar, policymakers also face the challenge of contending with imported inflation including the landed cost of crude oil shipments. The onus is clearly on the Centre to deepen the fuel tax cuts and address other supply-side issues to prevent inflation from hurting the recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pain-from-prices/article37956912.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Troubling question||The road to gender equity is long and hard, and despite the fact that each generation has paved a better way for the next, the struggle to overcome disparities is far from over. Through this difficult journey, the school’s role in sensitising young minds towards building a non-discriminatory world cannot be overstated. In this context, a comprehension passage in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) English examination conducted on Saturday for Class 10 students must be condemned for its regressive and sexist stance. The passage, which created a furore across all sections of society and in Parliament where Congress president Sonia Gandhi called out the misogyny, contained outrageous sentences, including one which said “women gaining independence is the main reason for a wide variety of social and family problems”. Young impressionable teenagers, girls and boys, already stressed because of the pandemic, did not know how to tackle the question. Another sentence shockingly read “that the emancipation of the wife destroyed the parent’s authority over the children... In bringing the man down from his pedestal the wife and mother deprived herself, in fact, of the means of discipline”. The multiple answers to one question that followed the passage asking children to comment on the tone had this choice: “Writer takes a light-hearted approach to life”. The initial response from the CBSE was tone-deaf, although the Board later said it was dropping the question. It was eventually forced to express “regret” and it vowed to review its paper setting processes. Already because of COVID-19, the 2020-21 syllabi for Classes 9-12 were truncated by 30% with glaring omissions of core concepts in subjects such as Mathematics. From the social sciences and other humanities subjects, topics such as federalism, citizenship, nationalism, secularism, democracy, and diversity, were slashed. In the real world it will be tougher for children if they are not taught the basics in school, and if they grow up with anxieties related to gender, for instance. In India, misogyny has long roots. Inequalities of class, caste, gender already exist in the school system, worse in the villages and among the urban poor. Many girls are pushed to drop out for myriad reasons, from the lack of toilet facilities in school to forced labour or marriage. If men, as Claudia Goldin says in her book, Career & Family , must start doing what women have always done, provide personal support, lend a ear, and help, education has to begin when they are young. Instead of teaching them to cast off stereotypes, school authorities are reiterating old wrongs. At a time when it is imperative for the Board to lighten children’s burden, the CBSE has sent out the worst possible message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/troubling-question/article37956913.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Why Devaswoms are in distress||There is hardly any dispute that the devaswoms (temples) in Kerala are in straitened circumstances because of the crippling losses they have suffered, one after another, in respect of their properties endowed by rajas, chieftains, jenmis and village communities. Sweeping tenancy laws worsened their misery. The agitation of the Travancore Devaswom Board and its President’s token fast before the State Assembly for increased Government grants has served to draw attention to this distressing state of affairs. It was in 1812 that Col. Munro as Resident-Dewan issued an executive order assuming the wholesale management of devaswoms in Travancore State along with their properties. Devaswoms in Cochin too came under State management when he was Dewan there also subsequently. In course of time, the income derived from the devaswom properties in Travancore became absorbed in the general State revenues and their lands became incapable of separation from Government lands. Though this did not happen in Cochin, the income from devaswom lands nevertheless became attenuated considerably on account of Government policies at the time of settlement of the lands with the tenants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/why-devaswoms-are-in-distress/article37956920.ece
15 December 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI ushers in corrective action scheme to better control NBFCs||The Reserve Bank of India on Tuesday announced a Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) Framework for Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs), to strengthen applicable supervisory tools. This is in line with the PCA framework for banks, whose aim was to help improve their financial condition and governance issues. The framework will apply to all deposit-taking NBFCs, all non-deposit taking NBFCs in the middle, upper and top layers, including investment and credit firms, core investment firms, infrastructure debt funds, infrastructure finance firms and microfinance institutions. It has excluded NBFCs not accepting or not intending to accept public funds, primary dealers and housing finance firms, along with government-owned ones. This will take effect October 1, 2022, the RBI said in a circular. The objective of the framework is to enable supervisory intervention at the appropriate time and require the supervised entity to initiate and implement remedial measures in a timely manner, so as to restore its financial health, the RBI said. Among large NBFCs (assets exceeding Rs. 25,000 crore), rating agency ICRA noted that three entities were in breach of the net NPA criterion as of September. However, all the entities have established parentage.( With PTI inputs )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-ushers-in-corrective-action-scheme-to-better-control-nbfcs/article37956894.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Netflix reduces prices by up to 60% to widen reach in India||Streaming platform Netflix on Tuesday said it was cutting tariffs by up to 60% for its subscription services in India as it aims to widen its user base and compete better with offerings from Amazon and Disney. The company’s mobile-only subscription plan would now cost Rs. 149 a month, instead of Rs. 199, The biggest price reduction of about 60% is in the platform's basic plan: to Rs. 199 a month, from Rs. 499. “The idea behind it is to really get our members and the audiences who will be coming on Netflix through all this new content that we are doing… to be able to experience Netflix on any device of their choice,” said Monika Shergill, VP-Content, India. “Which is why the difference between the mobile plan and the all devices plan is a smaller margin,” she added. Additionally, the subscription price for the standard plan has been cut from Rs. 649 a month to Rs. 499, and the premium plan will now cost Rs. 649 as against Rs. 799. Ms. Shergill noted that in the past, Netflix had programmed a lot more for a ‘core base of audience’, which had been expanding. “As we are ready with a whole new content line-up, which talks to a very different and broader audience, it is the right time for us, in tandem with the content strategy, to have a new pricing strategy also,” she said. “India is now fairly competitively priced,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/netflix-reduces-prices-by-up-to-60-to-widen-reach-in-india/article37956901.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Panel backs Brazil’s plaint on India’s sugar subsidies||A World Trade Organisation dispute resolution panel has ruled against India’s sugar subsidies, and in favour of complainants Brazil, Guatemala and Australia. The Commerce Ministry refuted the findings of the panel, which were circulated on Tuesday, as “completely unacceptable to India”. Stating that it had initiated all measures necessary to protect its interests and to file an appeal, the Ministry said current subsidy policies would continue as ‘India believes they are consistent with its WTO obligations’. The dispute dates back to 2019, when the three major sugar-exporting nations challenged some of India’s policies for the sugar sector at the WTO. The complainants alleged that the domestic support given by India to cane farmers exceeded the limit set by the WTO, and that India also provided prohibited export subsidies to mills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/panel-backs-brazils-plaint-on-indias-sugar-subsidies/article37956896.ece
15 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Asus eyes 20% of India consumer PC market||Tech firm Asus on Tuesday unveiled a laptop series aimed at content creators as it eyes 20% share in the Indian consumer PC segment in 2022. The firm expects to grow 33% in its consumer and gaming PC business this year in the country. “After the pandemic, the content creators segment… whether YouTube or Podcast or even traditional artists, music producers; their requirements to have a better laptop is increasing dramatically,” Arnold Su, business head, Consumer and Gaming PC, System Business Group, ASUS India, told The Hindu . As there was no ‘creator series’ in the market, customers chose gaming machines. The India market for gaming PCs is 7 lakh units, of which 30% is bought by the creators. As per IDC’s Q3 report, Asus had achieved 16.5% market share, he said. Asus on Tuesday unveiled the ‘ProArt series’ laptop at a price of Rs. 1,69,990. “This year we expect to close at 800,000 units; next year, [our] target is 1.3 million units,” he said. Leon Yu, regional director, System Business Group, Asus India & South Asia, added, “We are ... evaluating Electronics Manufacturing Services in India to [make] products and start collaborating.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/asus-eyes-20-of-india-consumer-pc-market/article37956898.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Natco to buy U.S. firm Dash in $18-mn deal||Drugmaker Natco Pharma is planning to acquire U.S. firm Dash Pharmaceuticals LLC, for a cash consideration of $18 million, through one of its subsidiaries. The acquisition, which is likely to be completed by January, will provide a front-end to engage with its customers directly in the U.S., the largest pharmaceutical market in the world, Natco Pharma said on Tuesday. In a filing with the stock exchange, following a meeting of the Board, Natco said it proposed to enter into an agreement to acquire 100% stake in Dash Pharmaceuticals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/natco-to-buy-us-firm-dash-in-18-mn-deal/article37956892.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Privatisation to result in loss of bank jobs’||The All India Bank Officers’ Confederation on Tuesday said privatisation of public sector banks (PSBs) would result in job losses, branch closures and financial exclusion. “PSB mergers have brought down the number from 27 to 12; total employee strength of PSBs has fallen from 8.57 lakh in March 2017 to around 7.7 lakh in March 2021,” the organisation said. The statement comes in the backdrop of the government listing the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the current session of parliament to facilitate PSB privatisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/privatisation-to-result-in-loss-of-bank-jobs/article37956897.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||Nov. exports jump 27.2% to $30.04 bn||India’s merchandise exports jumped 27.2% to $30.04 billion in November on the back of good performance by sectors like petroleum products, engineering goods and electronic items, official data showed on Tuesday. The exports of goods stood at $23.62 billion in November 2020. Imports in November were at $52.94 billion, showing an increase of 56.6% over inbound shipments of $33.81 billion in the year-earlier period. Gold imports rose almost 40% to $4.22 billion, from $3.02 billion in November 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nov-exports-jump-272-to-3004-bn/article37956899.ece
15 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||TN, Karnataka make the grade despite losing||Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, despite suffering defeats in their last round matches, qualified for the knockouts from Elite Group B in the Vijay Hazare Trophy cricket tournament here on Tuesday. The last round of upsets in the group meant that four teams — Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Bengal and Pondicherry —finished with 12 points each. However, Tamil Nadu by virtue of better net rate rate became the group champion and qualified for the quarterfinals while Karnataka, the runner-up, qualified for the pre-quarterfinals. On a high At the KCA Stadium, Murukumpuzha, Baroda defeated Tamil Nadu by 41 runs to end its disappointing campaign on a high. The Baroda spinners defended a paltry 114 by bundling out Tamil Nadu for 73. With the ball turning square in the second innings, the Tamil Nadu batters were left clueless with left-arm spinner Bhargav Bhatt picking up three wickets. Krunal Pandya started the slide by trapping in-form B. Indrajith (1) and Jagadeesan (11) in the seventh over. The run out of Washington Sundar further deepened the crisis as TN crumbled in just 20.2 overs. In the morning, the TN spinners stuck to their task after medium-pacer Sandeep Warrier gave the customary early breakthrough. Krunal waged a lone battle to top-score with 38 and put on 30 runs for the fifth wicket with Shashwat Rawat (11). His dismissal brought a quick end to the Baroda’s innings. At the St. Xavier’s College ground, Bengal defeated Karnataka by four wickets for its third win. Left-arm spinner Pradipta Pramanik (four for 48) pulled things back for Bengal with a twin strike in the 40th over. Karnataka lost the momentum and ended up making 252 for eight, much lesser than anticipated. Bengal opener Abhisek Das (58) counter-attacked to give his side a good start but medium-pacer Pratik Jain struck twice in the same over to give Karnataka some hope. However, Sudip Chatterjee (63) and Ritwik Roy Chowdhury (49) figured in a match-winning 113-run stand for the fourth wicket to shut out Karnataka’s chances. Another big fish At the Sports Hub, Pondicherry scalped another big fish by defeating Mumbai by 18 runs. Chasing 158, Mumbai was dismissed for 139 with off-spinner Fabid Ahmed (four for 16) doing the damage. Opener Aakarshit Gomel (70) and Dhawal Kulkarni (18) nearly pulled it off for Mumbai, adding 49 runs for the ninth wicket. However, both fell in quick succession to hand Pondicherry an unlikely win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-karnataka-make-the-grade-despite-losing/article37957158.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,||Karthik, Ashwal and Jerome hit the limit||He went for Rs. 5.6 lakh at the last auction three years ago but this time, international A. Karthik struck it rich at the Prime Volleyball League's player auction here on Tuesday, going for Rs. 15 lakh, the maximum allowed. Middle blocker Karthik, picked by Kochi Blue Spikers, was one of the three who were sold for Rs. 15 lakh, the others being internationals Ashwal Rai (Kolkata Thunderbolts) and Jerome Vineeth (Calicut Heroes). “I thought I'd get Rs. 10 lakh maximum, I didn't expect this,” the 32-year-old Karthik, India's captain at the Asian championship in Japan in September, told The Hindu . “Playing for teams in Kerala, which is a hot place for volleyball, is something I wanted very much.” After the international player draft, where the seven sides picked two foreigners each, the teams were left with Rs. 45 lakh each. Kochi, also the PVL host city early next year, had spent the most in the platinum category which had the top Indian stars. “This particular auction is a celebration of the players of India, we are very happy to see 400 of them out here. The last time we had a volleyball player auction, we had some 114 players,” said Joy Bhattacharya, the PVL's CEO.  Players picked by teams (foreigners; and Indians from platinum and gold category only):   Calicut Heroes: Foreigners: Aaron Koubi (France, attacker), David Lee (USA, blocker); Indians: C. Ajithlal (attacker, Rs. 8.5 lakh), Jerome Vinith (universal, Rs. 15 lakh).   Kochi Blue Spikers: Colton Cowell (attacker), Cody Caldwell (attacker, both USA); Deepesh Kumar Sinha (blocker, Rs. 10.75 lakh), A. Karthik (blocker, Rs. 15 lakh).   Ahmedabad Defenders: Ryan Meehan (USA, blocker), Rodrigo Villalboa (Argentina, attacker); Muthusamy (setter, Rs. 10 lakh), Hardeep Singh (attacker, Rs. 4.4 lakh), Shon T. John (attacker, Rs. 7.25 lakh), L.M. Manoj (middle blocker, Rs. 7.25 lakh) and P. Prabakaran (Libero, Rs. 4 lakh).   Hyderabad Black Hawks: Luis Antonio Arias Guzman (Venezuela, universal), Henry Bell (Cuba, attacker); V. Hariharan (setter, Rs. 5 lakh), Vipul Kumar (setter, Rs. 4.5 lakh), Rohit Kumar (attacker Rs. 5.3 lakh) and Amit Gulia (attacker, Rs. 10 lakh).   Chennai Blitz: Fernando David Gonzalez Rodriguez (Venezuela, attacker), Bruno Da Silva (Brazil, attacker); G.S. Akhin (middle blocker, Rs. 9.75 lakh), Naveen Raja Jacob (attacker, Rs. 8 lakh), M. Ukkrapandian (setter, Rs. 7.75 lakh), G.R. Vaishnav (middle blocker, Rs. 4 lakh).   Bengaluru Torpedoes: Noah Taitano (USA, universal), Kyle Friend (USA, attacker); Ranjit Singh (setter, Rs. 4.4 lakh), Pankaj Sharma (attacker, Rs. 7.5 lakh), Lavmeet Katariya (middle blocker, Rs. 4.6 lakh), P. Rohith (middle blocker, Rs. 7.5 lakh), B. Midhun Kumar (libero, Rs. 5.6 lakh)   Kolkata Thunderbolts: Matthew August (USA, blocker), Ian Satterfield (USA, universal); Vinit Kumar (universal, Rs. 8.75 lakh), Ashwal Rai (middle blocker, Rs. 15 lakh) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karthik-ashwal-and-jerome-hit-the-limit/article37956903.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||Will Kohli take a break from ODI leg?||India Test captain Virat Kohli has not put in any formal request for a break from the One-Day International leg of the upcoming South Africa tour, a top BCCI official has said. Kohli will be leading India in a three-Test series starting on December 26, while the three-match ODI series begins on January 19. Speculations There have been reports that Kohli would take a break to spend time with his family given that once India is back home, the team will again be inside an extended bubble for three weeks with the Sri Lanka series coming up. “As of now, Kohli hasn’t sent any formal request to skip the ODIs to either BCCI president Sourav Ganguly or secretary Jay Shah,” a senior official told PTI. “As things stand today, he is playing the three ODIs on January 19, 21, 23.” The official also said all the players’ families were travelling to South Africa aboard the same charter flight due to bio-bubble restrictions. “The skipper is travelling with his family. But yes, if he feels bubble fatigue after the Test series and wants to take a break, he would inform the chairman of selectors and secretary (Shah), who is the convenor of the selection committee,” the source added. There was also talk that Kohli might want a break as his daughter Vamika’s first birthday is on January 11 and he will be playing his 100th Test on that day. Workload management Kohli has been an advocate of workload management in bubble life, which he thinks isn’t sustainable for long periods as it can take a toll on one’s mental health. In the past year, he was on paternity break during the 2020-21 Australia series, and during the three T20 Internationals against New Zealand at home. And now, it remains to be seen if Kohli takes a break in South Africa or more likely skips the T20 series against Sri Lanka at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-kohli-take-a-break-from-odi-leg/article37957119.ece
15 December 2021||Chandigarh,||Batters fail to fire as Hyderabad bows out||A batting debacle against Jharkhand, in a must-win Vijay Hazare Trophy fixture, saw Hyderabad bow out of the tournament. Even though Chama Milind registered a six-wicket haul as Jharkhand scored 276 at the Sector 16 Stadium here, Hyderabad could only reply with 240. Hyderabad’s top-order struggled, even as skipper Tanmay Agarwal dished out a gritty 59 before being trapped leg before by Anukul Roy. What hurt the side most was the fact that none of its middle-order batters could counter-attack Jharkhand's Varun Aaron (3-50) and Shahbaz Nadeem (3-32) and build a solid partnership. B. Rahul (45), K. Sumanth a and Milind came up with cameos, but they weren’t enough. With Saurashtra having already qualified for the quarterfinals as the table-topper in Group C, three sides — Hyderabad, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh — were vying for a pre-quarterfinal berth. As both Hyderabad and Delhi suffered defeats, Uttar Pradesh beat Haryana by 78 runs to make it to the knockout stage. Not making an impact  Earlier, Hyderabad won the toss and opted to field, a decision that did not benefit the side as the bowlers failed to make an early impact. Making the most of it, the seasoned Ishank Jaggi (44, 62b) and Mohammad Nazim (32, 26b) forged a 58-run opening stand. While Jaggi rotated the strike, Nazim hit six boundaries off Milind and Ravi Teja to put the pressure back on Hyderabad. Nazim would have added to Hyderabad’s woes had he not been caught behind by K. Sumanth off Milind. While Jharkhand did lose a couple of quick wickets, it rebuilt with a 93-run partnership between Virat Singh (65, 59b) and Saurabh Tiwary (42, 67b). The two seasoned cricketers went after the spinners, a strategy that helped them regain momentum. Losing steam Virat hit six fours and a couple of sixes as the Hyderabad bowlers lost steam. Though Milind's late strikes did destroy the Jharkhand tail, poor fielding and a couple of dropped catches hurt Hyderabad.   At Mohali, Saurashtra defeated Delhi by four wickets. The latter was restricted to 201 for eight in 50 overs, with Anuj Rawat top-scoring (45). Prerak, Vyas shine In reply, Prerak Mankad (73) and Samarth Vyas (52) came good as Saurashtra reached the target in the 39th over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/batters-fail-to-fire-as-hyderabad-bows-out/article37957312.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The captaincy issue is a board-generated storm in a teacup||The kerfuffle over the Indian captaincy could have been avoided had the Board of Control for Cricket in India acted with grace and kept everybody in the loop. When such things happened in the past there was usually a cry for having a cricketer at the head of the administration. Now we have one, and that does not seem to have made a difference. As things stand, an injured Rohit Sharma will not be available to play the Tests in South Africa under Virat Kohli, while the latter, for “personal reasons” will not be available to play the One-Day Internationals under Rohit Sharma. At the time of writing, there is official word on Rohit’s withdrawal, none on Kohli’s. We’ll leave it there, and move on to the bigger issue of the captaincy itself. How important is the captain? Traditionally, cricket was the one sport where the man leading had the most crucial role to play; in other sports, the coach called the shots. School of thought There was always a school of thought which held that any senior player should be able to lead a side especially in a Test match, and that the captaincy was invested with unnecessary importance. In touring Indian teams of the past, the captain was entitled to a single room while the others shared theirs, but today everybody gets a single room. Captains do tend to attract more contracts for endorsing products, though. Today’s captain is not just the head of the playing eleven but thanks to the support staff is the leader of a committee that is constantly feeding him with information, numerical, graphic and analytical. He makes the final decision but has enormous data at his disposal. So once again that old question: when it is captaincy by committee, do we need to look for special qualities in an experienced player that trumps the data? It is possible for a captain to do everything right and still lose a match. Sheer luck can sometimes overcome tactical nous. Give me generals who are lucky, as Napoleon said. You cannot decide how good a captain is based on his success rate alone, but that is the only metric we have. Yet what of things that didn’t happen — a bowling change not made, a fielder not moved in time? These things might turn out to be crucial. What might have been ought to be considered for a rounded assessment. But that of course is impossible. Judgement is based on what did happen, although captains are often praised or criticised for what they didn’t do but should have done. Access to same information So what do we mean when we say someone is a good captain? Is Ajinkya Rahane a better captain than Kohli because he won two Tests, and the series in Australia? Both captains had access to the same information churned out by the support staff, each knew the opposition as well as the other did. Or do we conclude that Rahane had the luck to carry forward the system that Kohli had put in place? A system that works, as Kohli showed in England later? Is winning the most important thing for a captain, or is it creating a system that leads to wins? This latter would involve picking the right players, deciding early who is worth persevering with and who not, tweaking the team’s approach and priming it for victory. Two captains in India who did exactly that have been justly celebrated. Tiger Pataudi, and V Subramanyam. The former prepared the team that his successor Ajit Wadekar led to series win in the West Indies and England, while the latter built the Karnataka team that, under Erapalli Prasanna, toppled Mumbai and went on to win the Ranji Trophy. Would Subramanyam have been able to replicate his success had he led India? He did play nine Tests, but despite tours to England, Australia and New Zealand was not a regular, and in any case Pataudi was already in charge. Subramanyam was a hard-hitting batsman who once clean bowled Geoff Boycott in a Test, but never did get a chance to put in action for India the theories that had worked so well for Karnataka. It shouldn’t matter who leads India, except perhaps in the shorter formats where decisions have to be made quickly and the data translated into outcomes. The selectors might have decided that having three international captains might be — in BCCI President Sourav Ganguly’s words — “too much leadership”. A decade back England had three — Stuart Broad (T20I), Eoin Morgan (ODI) and Alastair Cook (Test), so it is not unheard of. There is no need for India to copy that of course. In any case, Rohit appears to be the better white ball captain while Kohli has put his stamp on Test cricket. Objectively, therefore, this is the best deal for India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-captaincy-issue-is-a-board-generated-storm-in-a-teacup/article37956905.ece
15 December 2021||Chennai,||A Mavericks superstar, and fan for life||NBA championship winner in 2011, Most Valuable Player in 2007 and 14-time All Star Dirk Nowitzki spoke to a group of journalists over a conference call on being named among the best 75 who have played in the league as it commemorates its 75th year. Nowitzki was one of only six international players in the list and his achievements — 31,560 points for sixth place among scorers in particular — ensured that his inclusion was a no-brainer. Internationalisation Nowitzki, who is from Germany, was excited about the internationalisation of the NBA: “It’s been incredible to watch. When I first got in the league, I think every team had maybe one international guy, and [now there are numerous]. It’s guys that have an impact, not only on their team, but they’re franchise players, [who have an] impact on the communities where they come to.” Nowitzki also holds the record of having the longest tenure for a player who played for only one team — 21 years with Dallas Mavericks. When asked by The Hindu why only two active players — Stephen Curry (Golden State Warriors) and Udonis Haslem (Miami Heat) — have stayed with their franchises for more than a decade, he responded: “the NBA is a big business and everybody has a platform and a brand [which they want to maximise]... I’m more old school. “I was strictly focused on basketball, and I wanted to make it work here in Dallas. When I first got here and Mark [Cuban] bought the team, we got really close, and he was always loyal to me. He made me his franchise player. “The fans were incredibly loyal to me and wanted me to succeed. It was easy for me to stay here and be a Mavericks fan, a Mavericks player for life.” Praise for Doncic Nowitzki was gushing in his praise for his successor as the franchise player of the Mavericks — 22-year-old Luka Doncic. “He still has so much upside and stuff to learn, and I get to basically see him every other night. His creativity, the way he reads the game, the way he spreads the ball, the way he can score, really from the post all the way out to half court, there are no holes in his game. That at 22 is unbelievable,” Nowitzki said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-mavericks-superstar-and-fan-for-life/article37957124.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Kerala through to last eight||On a final day of league matches that saw many twists and turns across three venues in Rajkot, Kerala came on top. It finished first in Elite Group D, on net run-rate, and moved into the quarterfinals of the Vijay Hazare Trophy one-day tournament. Kerala and the other contenders, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, all won their matches and thus ended with 16 points apiece. Kerala’s net run-rate of 0.974 was better than those of Madhya Pradesh (0.485) and Maharashtra (0.104). Madhya Pradesh, which edged out Chhattisgarh by three runs, qualified for the pre-quarterfinals on account of its second place. Maharashatra missed out, despite its captain Ruturaj Gaikwad’s fourth century in five matches; the five-wicket win, chasing down Chandigarh’s 309 for seven, didn’t prove enough. Kerala’s five-wicket victory against Uttrakhand was fashioned by a disciplined display on the field and a sterling knock, under some pressure, from Sachin Baby (83 not out, 71b, 7x4, 2x6). Chasing 225, Kerala was in a spot of bother at 78 for three, when it lost two set batsmen in the form of opener Rohan Kunnummal (26, 36b) and captain Sanju Samson (33, 36b). But Baby added 71 with Vishnu Vinod (34, 25b) and 65 with Vinoop Manoharan (28, 27b) for the fourth and fifth wickets respectively to ease the nerves in the Kerala dressing room. Fittingly, he played the winning shot, lofting off-spinner Deepesh Nailwal over extra-cover for a boundary. Earlier, Kerala fielded and caught just about everything that the Uttarakhand batters offered. But for opener and captain Jay Bista’s 93 (114b, 6x4, 3x6), they would have struggled to justify their decision to bat first. It was his 100-run partnership with Dikshanshu Negi (52, 68b, 4x4) for the fifth wicket that lent respectability to the innings. Medium-pacer M.D. Nidheesh was the pick of the Kerala bowlers, with figures of three for 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-through-to-last-eight/article37957524.ece
15 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||TN, Karnataka make the grade||Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, despite suffering defeats in their last round matches, qualified for the knockouts from Elite Group B in the Vijay Hazare Trophy cricket tournament here on Tuesday. The last round of upsets in the group meant that four teams — Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Bengal and Pondicherry —finished with 12 points each. However, Tamil Nadu by virtue of better net run rate became the group champion and qualified for the quarterfinals while Karnataka, the runner-up, qualified for the pre-quarterfinals. On a high At the KCA Stadium, Murukumpuzha, Baroda defeated Tamil Nadu by 41 runs to end its disappointing campaign on a high. The Baroda spinners defended a paltry 114 by bundling out Tamil Nadu for 73. With the ball turning square in the second innings, the Tamil Nadu batters were left clueless with left-arm spinner Bhargav Bhatt picking up three wickets. Krunal Pandya started the slide by trapping in-form B. Indrajith (1) and Jagadeesan (11) in the seventh over. The run out of Washington Sundar further deepened the crisis as TN crumbled in just 20.2 overs. In the morning, the TN spinners stuck to their task after medium-pacer Sandeep Warrier gave the customary early breakthrough. Krunal waged a lone battle to top-score with 38 and put on 30 runs for the fifth wicket with Shashwat Rawat (11). His dismissal brought a quick end to the Baroda’s innings. At the St. Xavier’s College ground, Bengal defeated Karnataka by four wickets for its third win. Left-arm spinner Pradipta Pramanik (four for 48) pulled things back for Bengal with a twin strike in the 40th over. Karnataka lost the momentum and ended up making 252 for eight, much lesser than anticipated. Bengal opener Abhisek Das (58) counter-attacked to give his side a good start but medium-pacer Pratik Jain struck twice in the same over to give Karnataka some hope. However, Sudip Chatterjee (63) and Ritwik Roy Chowdhury (49) figured in a match-winning 113-run stand for the fourth wicket to shut out Karnataka’s chances. Another big fish At the Sports Hub, Pondicherry scalped another big fish by defeating Mumbai by 18 runs. Chasing 158, Mumbai was dismissed for 139 with off-spinner Fabid Ahmed (four for 16) doing the damage. Opener Aakarshit Gomel (70) and Dhawal Kulkarni (18) nearly pulled it off for Mumbai, adding 49 runs for the ninth wicket. However, both fell in quick succession to hand Pondicherry an unlikely win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-karnataka-make-the-grade/article37957521.ece
15 December 2021||Huelva (Spain),||Sindhu begins with easy win||Defending champion P.V. Sindhu breezed past Slovakia’s Martina Repiska 21-7, 21-9 to make a resounding start to the BWF World Championship here on Tuesday. The fast-rising Lakshya Sen prevailed over 15th-seeded Japanese Kenta Nishimoto 22-20, 15-21, 21-18, while K. Srikanth rallied to defeat China’s Li Shi Feng 15-21, 21-18, 21-17. In the men’s doubles, Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty beat Chinese Taipei’s Lee Jhe-Huei and Yang Po-Hsuan 27-25, 21-17 in 43 minutes. World No. 7 Sindhu took just 24 minutes to beat the unseeded opponent on court number 3 of Palacio de los Deportes Carolina Marin Stadium here. Seeded sixth in the tournament which she won in 2019 — when it was last held — the two-time Olympic-medallist began on a rousing note and raced to a 4-1 lead, which she stretched further to 11-4 at the break. She continued her dominance and kept accumulating points to widen the lead, eventually pocketing the first game in only 10 minutes. The script remained the same in the second game as well, with Sindhu maintaining her firm grip over the proceedings to race to a 6-0 lead in just two minutes. At midpoint, Sindhu was leading 11-1. Lakshya was made to toil one hour and 22 minutes. However, the mixed doubles pairing of Saurabh Sharma and Anoushka Parikh suffered a straight game defeat to Malaysians Tan Kian Meng and Lai Pei Jing, going down 21-8, 21-18.  The results: Women: P.V. Sindhu bt Martina Repiska (Svk) 21-7, 21-9.   Men: K. Srikanth bt Li Shi Feng (Chn) 15-21, 21-18, 21-17; Lakshya Sen bt Kenta Nishimoto (Jpn) 22-20, 15-21, 21-18.   Doubles: Satwiksairaj Rankireddy & Chirag Shetty bt Lee Jhe-Huei & Yang Po-Hsuan (Tpe) 27-25, 21-17.   Mixed doubles: Tan Kian Meng & Lai Pei Jing (Mas) bt Saurabh Sharma & Anoushka Parikh 21-8, 21-18 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-begins-with-easy-win/article37957117.ece
15 December 2021||Dhaka,||Korea holds India to 2-2 draw||Defending champion and Olympic bronze-medallist India was held to a 2-2 draw by a fighting Korea in their opening match of the Hero Asian Champions Trophy men’s hockey tournament here on Tuesday. Playing their first tournament after the Tokyo Olympics campaign, the Indians started brightly and scored in the fourth minute through Lalit Upadhyay before vice-captain Harmanpreet Singh converted a penalty corner in the 18th minute to double the lead. Turning the tide Korea fought back after the change of ends and scored through Jang Jong-hyun in the 41st minute and Kim Sung-hyun in the 46th minute to draw level. Korea grew in confidence as the match progressed and pressed the Indian defence hard. India also had numerous chances, including penalty corners, but failed to utilise the opportunities. The match ended in a stalemate as Kim Jae-hyeon in the Korean goal pulled off numerous brilliant saves to help his side steal a point from the game. The last encounter between the two sides ended in a 1-1 draw in the last edition of the tournament. India will next play Bangladesh on Wednesday. It did not take long for India to surge ahead through Lalit, who elegantly controlled the ball just outside the circle and dodged past three Korean defenders to slot in past Kim. While the Indians played their natural attacking game from the outset, the Koreans preferred to sit back and defend deep and rely mostly on counter-attacks. India continued its dominance in the second quarter and secured back-to-back penalty corners. While the first effort by Varun Kumar was brilliantly saved by Kim, Harmanpreet converted the next. Down by two goals, the Koreans tried to force their way back into the game in the remaining minutes of the second quarter but India defended doggedly. But the picture was completely different after the cross-over as Korea looked more purposeful and secured three consecutive penalty corners in the 41st minute and Jang was bang on target with the last try. Minutes later, Gursahibjit Singh’s shot from top of the circle went wide of the target. Equaliser The Koreans continued to put pressure on the Indian defence in search of the equaliser and they succeeded when Kim Sung-hyun tapped in a drive at the near post from a drive from the left flank. A shocked India had its chances in the form of three more penalty corners but failed to cash in on any.  The result:   India 2 (Lalit Upadhyay 4, Harmanpreet Singh 18) drew with Korea 2 (Jang Jong-hyun 41, Kim Sung-hyun 46).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/korea-holds-india-to-2-2-draw/article37957121.ece
15 December 2021||Rome,||Roma heaves a sigh of relief||Roma relieved a bit of pressure on Jose Mourinho by beating relegation-threatened Spezia 2-0 in Serie A on Monday. Chris Smalling and Roger Ibanez scored in separate halves for Roma, which moved into sixth spot. Although it is still eight points below fourth-placed Napoli and the final Champions League qualifying spot. Spezia remained just two points above the bottom three. Mourinho was already feeling the pressure at Roma after just two wins in his previous six Italian league matches, including a hefty 3-0 loss at home to Inter Milan last time out. Cadiz and Granada hardly improved their positions after drawing 1-1 in the Spanish league on Monday. Both southern clubs are struggling, and the seventh league draw for each maintained their status. Cadiz was still in the relegation spots and Granada was still only three points above the drop zone.   The results: Serie A: Roma 2 (Smalling 6, Ibanez 56) bt Spezia 0.   La Liga: Cadiz 1 (Arzamendia 32) drew with Granada 1 (Molina 88) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/roma-heaves-a-sigh-of-relief/article37957129.ece
15 December 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai racing season from tomorrow||Finally, the roar of the thundering hooves will be heard once again at the Mahalaxmi Race Course after a break of eight months, as the Mumbai Racing Season will commence from December 16, 2021 and will end on April 24, 2022. Owing to unseasonal rains earlier this month, the Royal Western India Turf Club (RWITC) was forced to reschedule the start of Mumbai season. In all 22 race days will be held during the season. The highlight The highlight of the season would be the Indian Turf Invitational races which were scheduled to be held in April this year but were not conducted, due to the cancellation of Mumbai racing season following the pandemic lockdown. Now all four group one Invitational races will be held on December 19, 2021 at the Mahalaxmi race course, and the Invitation Cup will be known as the Zavaray S. Poonawalla Indian Turf Invitation Cup. First classic Also the first classic of the season, the Indian 1000 Guineas will be held on the same day. Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Chairman, RWITC, stated that “the Managing Committee is pleased to announce that another landmark achievement during the darkest year of Indian racing history was to assemble a remarkable prospectus of 22 race days with a fabulous purse of Rs. 20 crores, averaging nearly to one crore a day, guaranteed by me.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-racing-season-from-tomorrow/article37957605.ece
15 December 2021||KOCHI,||Hyderabad tries out a different strategy||The bidding was hot and fast at the Prime Volleyball League's player auction here on Tuesday. But after the eight-player platinum category, which had the top Indian names, was gone through, home team Kochi Blue Spikers had spent the most (Rs. 25.75 lakh) and had the least amount (Rs. 19.25 lakh) to buy its remaining 10 players. But three teams — Ahmedabad Defenders, Hyderabad Black Hawks and Bengaluru Torpedoes — did not pick a single player from the platinum category and waited with a Rs. 45 lakh purse for the gold, silver and bronze categories where promising players were available cheaper. And one of them, Hyderabad owner Abhishek Reddy, had a different kind of strategy too. “What we did was, instead of going for local coaches... and most of them don't have the experience of running a league, we decided to go out and scout for a coach with 20 to 25 years experience. “And we found Ruben Wolochin from Argentina, who has coached five Olympic players, who will be our head coach,” Reddy, who also owns teams in badminton, boxing and golf leagues, told The Hindu here on Tuesday. “He coaches teams in Hungary, Germany, Denmark and Spain. What we felt is, we needed professionalism in the league, we are just in year two of the league but if you look at European countries like Germany and Italy they have been doing it for 30 to 40 years. There is a lot to learn from that.” Incidentally, Wolochin will be the only foreign coach in the PVL which will be held in Kochi early next year. “We do have another arrangement with him. He is also looking at picking up some of the Indian players and putting them in leagues in Europe,” revealed Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hyderabad-tries-out-a-different-strategy/article37957561.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,||TN-born Nivethan in Australia u-19 squad||The 18-year-old Tamil Nadu-born all-rounder Nivethan Radhakrishnan has been named in the Australian squad for the under-19 World Cup to be held in the West Indies in January 2022. Nivethan is a left-handed top-order batter and an ambidextrous bowler who bowls off-spin and left-arm spin. The youngster, who immigrated to Australia in 2013, has played in the TNCA first division for Swaraj CC and been part of two TNPL squads in recent times. Earlier this year, he was handed a First Class contract by Tasmania for the 2021-22 season and was also a net bowler for Delhi Capitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-born-nivethan-in-australia-u-19-squad/article37957223.ece
15 December 2021||Bhopal,||Ishpreet, Amee corner glory||Ishpreet Singh Chadha and Amee Kamani clinched the men’s and women’s snooker titles respectively in the billiards and snooker national championship here.  The results (finals):   Men: Ishpreet Singh Chadha bt Malkeet Singh 6-60, 80-40, 78-26, 52-69, 59-68, 85-04, 79-22, 71-32, 73-20   Women: Amee Kamani bt Anupama Ramchandran 79-66, 45-68, 67-15, 75-29 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ishpreet-amee-corner-glory/article37957164.ece
15 December 2021||GUWAHATI,||Gavaskar conferred with SJFI Medal||The Sports Journalists’ Federation of India (SJFI), at its Annual General Meeting (AGM) on Tuesday, decided to confer the prestigious SJFI Medal on legendary cricketer Sunil Gavaskar. Neeraj Chopra, who won India’s lone gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics, was named the SJFI Sportsman of the Year award while weightlifter Mirabai Chanu, who clinched a silver at the quadrennial extravaganza, was adjudged SJFI Sportswoman of the Year. The Indian men's team which won the hockey bronze in Tokyo was declared SJFI Team of the Year. Sumit Antil and Pramod Bhagat, the stars of India’s Paralympics campaign, were declared the SJFI Parathletes of the Year in the men’s category while shooter Avani Lekhra was named the SJFI Parathlete of the Year in the women’s section. OGQ, which has been supporting Indian athletes at the Olympics for more than a decade, won the Special Recognition Award. Vinod is SJFI President The AGM also elected A. Vinod (Kerala) as the new SJFI President. Vinod is Deputy Editor (Sports) with The Hindu in Thiruvananthapuram.   The SJFI office-bearers:   President: A. Vinod (Thiruvananthapuram); Vice Presidents: Devendra Pandey (Mumbai), Vikas Pandey (Indore), Sambit Mohapatra (Odisha), and Saraju Chakraborty (Tripura); Secretary: Prashant Keni (Mumbai); Treasurer: Bidyut Kalita (Assam); Joint Secretary: Amitabha Das Sharma (Kolkata).   EC members: Amol Karhadkar (Mumbai), C. Santhosh Kumar (Tamil Nadu), Suprabhat Debnath (Tripura), Partha Chakraborty (Assam), Sushim Ghosh (Assam), Nilesh Deshpande (Nagpur), and Tushar Trivedi (Gujarat); Coopted: Sanjeev Samyal (Mumbai) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gavaskar-conferred-with-sjfi-medal/article37956909.ece
15 December 2021||Adelaide,||Pink ball and lights take centrestage||England heads into the day-night second Ashes Test here on Thursday under pressure and facing an ominous task against an Australian team which has won all its eight pink-ball matches. The tourists’ capitulation by nine wickets in the opening Test in Brisbane exposed their batting and fielding frailties, exacerbated by rain-hit preparations and lack of match practice. Poor decisions It wasn’t helped by poor decision-making — notably captain Joe Root choosing to bat after winning the toss on a juicy Gabba pitch and the widely criticised omission of pace veterans Jimmy Anderson and Stuart Broad. Root knows his team must find a way to improve, and fast, to stand a chance at a ground where Australia has posted five of its eight Test wins under lights. Seamers Broad and Anderson are tipped to return given the extra movement found with a pink ball. That would mean one of Ollie Robinson, Mark Wood or Chris Woakes missing out, and England must also decide what to do with spinner Jack Leach, who was hammered for one for 102 in 13 overs at the Gabba. There are also concerns over Ben Stokes, who failed to fire in his first competitive match in six months after a break to deal with a finger injury and mental health issues. Root insisted England’s star all-rounder would bounce back and warned Australia: “You write Ben Stokes off at your own peril.” Usman Khawaja is a likely replacement to open alongside Marcus Harris if David Warner, who has been nursing bruised ribs, is rested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pink-ball-and-lights-take-centrestage/article37957115.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Stewart runs hot as Jamshedpur routs Odisha||Greg Stewart produced one of the best individual performances of the eighth edition of the Indian Super League as Jamshedpur FC blitzed Odisha FC 4-0 at the Tilak Maidan, Vasco, on Tuesday. Owen Coyle’s Jamshedpur kept up with its impressive start by climbing to the second spot after six matches. Vastly superior It was a case of men against boys with Jamshedpur being superior in all departments and out-muscling, out-running and out-pressing its opponent. Despite a good start to the season, Odisha averaged 12.5 shots per game against it — the worst record in this category — and Jamshedpur punished it for the defensive shortcomings with clinical finishing in the first half. The result was beyond doubt after the opening 35 minutes with Jamshedpur’s second striker Stewart scoring a first-half hat-trick and also providing an assist. Stewart’s corner in the third minute was turned in by Peter Hartley and in the very next minute, the Scotsman curled the ball into the top corner with his weaker right foot from 25 yards out. Stewart then scored off a sublime free-kick, bending the ball over the wall in the 21st minute, before completing a treble with a dribbling run from the halfway line and finishing with his weaker foot again. Odisha’s problems were emblematic of skipper Vinit Rai’s struggles. Hartley, who passed a fitness test to make the XI, overpowered Rai inside the box to net the opener. Vinit was dispossessed repeatedly and left chasing the shadows of the Jamshedpur attackers. When Stewart added Jamshedpur’s fourth, Odisha head coach Kiko Ramirez looked shell-shocked. Jamshedpur threatened to score more but Odisha got away with last-minute blocks and poor finishing by the former.  The result: Odisha FC 0 lost to Jamshedpur FC 4 (Hartley 3, Stewart 4, 21 & 35).   Today’s match: CFC vs MCFC, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stewart-runs-hot-as-jamshedpur-routs-odisha/article37957126.ece
15 December 2021||BENGALURU,||Padikkal, Gowtham and Prasidh for Hazare Trophy||Devdutt Padikkal, K. Gowtham and Prasidh Krishna have been added to the Karnataka squad for the knockout rounds of the Vijay Hazare Trophy. Padikkal and Gowtham missed the league stage of the tournament as they were with the India-A squad which toured South Africa. Prasidh was in the Test squad which took on New Zealand at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/padikkal-gowtham-and-prasidh-for-hazare-trophy/article37957160.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Unbeaten Chennaiyin faces its sternest test||Chennaiyin FC will face its sternest test on Wednesday when it takes on defending champion and current leader Mumbai City FC at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda. This is an important week for Chennaiyin as it is scheduled to play three matches, including this fixture. Right approach The team’s philosophy has been to be tight and compact in defence and it has paid dividends having conceded only two goals in the first four matches. Importantly, the team has so far not been threatened or consistently come under pressure in its final third of the pitch and is the only unbeaten side in the competition. But things will be different on Wednesday as in Mumbai City, it faces a team that plays an extremely attacking brand of football. “We will take every game, one at a time. We did not get carried away after our first game, and we did not get carried away after our second when we had one win and one loss,” said Mumbai City coach Des Buckingham. “They are the only team in the league who are unbeaten, so it’s a challenge,” he added. No let-up The Islanders have rammed in 16 goals from five matches and have four wins and a defeat so far. The team’s high-press game is sure to put the Chennaiyin defence under pressure and any lapse can prove costly. CFC coach Bozidar Bandovic said, “They are not only a high-pressing team but also good technically in attack. You need to have a good balance between attack and defence and that is very important because if you don’t defend well and concede chances then they (Mumbai City) will score for sure.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unbeaten-chennaiyin-fc-faces-its-sternest-test/article37957264.ece
15 December 2021||Coimbatore,||Ragavender-Sidhartha duo triumphs||Ragavender R. Naidu and S. Sidhartha combined well to tally 66 points for the top spot in the nett category of the 10th Casagrand Golf Classic Trophy tournament at the par-72 Coimbatore Golf Club (CGC) course in Chettipalayam recently. The two-day event, played in doubles medal round and best ball format, attracted 112 golfers. “We are extremely happy to have associated with CGC for the 10th consecutive year and support their mission of popularising the sport, motivate more players and make it available to people of all classes,” said Senthil Kumar, director, Casagrand, Coimbatore zone.  The results: Nett (0-24): 1. Ragavender R. Naidu & S. Sidhartha 66; 2. P.R. Ramakrishnan & A. Nesarajan 66.   Gross: 1. R. Gopinath & J.J. Chakola 72; 2. R. Vignesh & Senthilanthan 75.   Closest to the pin: Hole No. 4: S. Sidhartha (4.2 ft). Closest to the pin : Hole No.16: S. Sidhartha (6.2 ft). Straightest drive: Hole No. 3: R. Gopinath (1.25).   Feet longest drive: Hole No.18: P. Harish Visahan (255 yards) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ragavender-sidhartha-duo-triumphs/article37957282.ece
15 December 2021||Los Angeles,||Celtics snaps losing run||Jayson Tatum had 42 points as Boston Celtics beat Milwaukee Bucks 117-103 to snap a three-game NBA losing streak.  The results: Cavaliers 105 bt Heat 94; Pacers 100 lost to Warriors 102; Raptors 124 bt Kings 101; Celtics 117 bt Bucks 103; Hawks 126 lost to Rockets 132; Grizzlies 126 bt 76ers 91; Mavericks 120 bt Hornets 96; Nuggets 113 bt Wizards 107; Clippers 111 bt Suns 95; Pistons vs Bulls postponed . AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/celtics-snaps-losing-run/article37957161.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Sailor Naveen in critical condition||Naveen Vashist of Army Yachting Node is in critical condition at a private hospital in Mumbai after his 49er boat capsized on Monday in a sudden gust of wind during the Yachting Association of India Senior National sailing championships at the Girgaum Chowpatty beach. Co-sailor safe The 25-year-old slipped and his head hit the hull in the process. His co-sailor Vishal Singh is, however, safe. “It was a freak accident. The conditions weren’t bad. We had adequate precautions and he was taken in a coach boat immediately. We hope he recovers,” said a YAI official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sailor-naveen-in-critical-condition/article37957155.ece
15 December 2021||New Delhi,||Inaugural Indian Chess League in June||The inaugural six-team Indian Chess League is set to start in June next year. Announcing this here on Tuesday, All India Chess Federation president Sanjay Kapoor said the league would be played on a double round-robin format over two weeks, with the top two teams clashing for the title. The cap for each team is set at Rs. 2 crore to pick an eight-member squad at the auction. Each team should comprise two elite Grandmasters, two Indian GMs, two Woman GMs and two Indian juniors — a boy and a girl. The minimum bid for the elite GMs is Rs. 30 lakh. “The idea is to not only draw the best players from around the world but also provide India’s players a formidable platform to sharpen their skills,” said AICF secretary Bharat Singh Chauhan. Much will depend on the availability of players for the auction and the window available for the league to take place regularly. AICF has signed a deal with Gameplan Sports Private Limited, as the rights holder, to organise and market the league. At this stage, the modalities are yet to be worked out in detail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/inaugural-indian-chess-league-in-june/article37957156.ece
15 December 2021||Vadodara:,||Lakra’s puts Delhi in command||Dev Lakra scored a double century (206) to put Delhi in command against Kerala in the Cooch Behar Trophy cricket tournament at the GSFC cricket ground here on Tuesday. Dev Lakra stitched century stands with Shreeyans Mahey (31) and Divij Mehra (62).  The scores: Delhi 541/7 decl in 138 overs (Dev Lakra 206, Yugal Saini 119, Divij Mehra 62, Kavya Gupta 57, Shreeyans Mahey 32, Vijay S. Viswanath 3/156) vs Kerala 84/2 in 40 overs (Abhishek J. Nair 30) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakras-puts-delhi-in-command/article37957310.ece
15 December 2021||Patiala,||Asab shoots double trap gold||Former national champion Mohd. Asab won the double trap gold with a score of 128 in the 64th National shooting championship which concluded at the New Moti Bagh Gun Club on Tuesday. After starting with a below par round of 22, Asab stepped it up to shoot 27, 26, 28 and 25 in the next four rounds. Asab pipped Shaikh Mosin by one point. Vinay Pratap Singh won the junior gold, seven points ahead of Shardul Vihan.  The results:   Double trap: Men: 1. Mohd. Asab 128; 2. Shaikh Mosin 127; 3. Vinay Pratap Singh 123.   Juniors: 1. Vinay Pratap Singh 123; 2. Shardul Vihan 116; 3. Sehajpreet Singh 112 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/double-trap-gold-for-asab/article37957313.ece
15 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Double ton by Ayaz||Ayaz Khan cracked a double century (205, 217b, 16x4, 5x6) to help Mumbai score 555 for nine declared against Jammu & Kashmir on the second day of the four-day Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) cricket championship Elite Group E match at Dr. YSR-ACA-VDCA Stadium here on Tuesday. In reply, J&K was struggling at 110 for seven at close of play.  The scores:   Group E: Mumbai 555/9 decl in 135 overs (Ayaz Khan 205, Himanshu 52 n.o., Suryansh Shedge 30, Amanullah Manihar 31, Mohammad Manzir 5/135) vs J&K 110/7 in 43 overs (Amanullah Manihar 4/24) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/double-ton-by-ayaz/article37957604.ece
15 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Onat scores another double ton||Vishal Onat cracked his second double century of the championship when he slammed 290 (403b, 42x4, 2x6) and put on a mammoth 339-run stand for the fourth wicket with N.A. Chinmay (167, 264b, 28x4) to help Karnataka score an imposing 607 for six declared against Haryana in the first innings on the second day of the four-day Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) cricket championship Elite Group E match at Kandukuri Cricket Academy here on Tuesday.  In reply, Baroda was 109 for two at close of play.  The scores: Karnataka 607/6 decl in 133.4 overs (Vishal Onat 290, N.A. Chinmay 167, P. Raghuveer 77 n.o., Yashovardhan Parantap 39, Karan Umatt 4/157) vs Baroda 109/2 in 44 overs (Bhavishya Bhavesh Patel 61 batting, Harsh Desai 33) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/onat-scores-another-double-ton/article37957159.ece
15 December 2021||Limoges (France),||Ankita loses||Ankita Raina put up a brave fight against former World No. 4 and French Open doubles champion Caroline Garcia before being beaten 7-6(7), 4-6, 6-4 by the third seed in the €92,742 WTA tennis tournament here. In doubles, Ankita and Kimberley Zimmermann ran into the top seeds Monica Niculescu and Vera Zvonareva of Russia in the quarterfinals and managed to eke out four games.  The results: First round: Caroline Garcia (Fra) bt Ankita Raina 7-6(7), 4-6, 6-4.   Doubles: Pre-quarterfinals: Monica Niculescu (Rou) & Vera Zvonareva (Rus) bt Kimberley Zimmermann (Bel) & Ankita 6-0, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankita-loses/article37957166.ece
15 December 2021||PUNE,||Maharashtra, Bihar share top spot||Host Maharashtra, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh kept themselves in line for quarterfinal berths after registering wins at the 11th Hockey India senior men’s National championship here on Tuesday. Maharashtra downed Chhattisgarh Hockey 9-2 and Bihar defeated Mizoram 4-0 to share the top spot in Pool H. Both have six points and will clash on Thursday to decide who progresses. Maharashtra has a better goal average (+25) compared to Bihar (+6). The home side was led by a three-goal effort by Taleb Shah (4th, 30th, 55th), Pratap Shinde (34th, 42nd) and Mohd. Nizamuddin (47th, 50th) in a match it dominated. For Maharashtra, Venkatesh Kenche (11th) and Tikkaram Thakulla (15th) were the other scorers. Chhattisgarh found the target through Kartik Yadav (16th) and Junaid Ahmed (35th).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maharashtra-bihar-share-top-spot/article37957122.ece
15 December 2021||KARACHI,||Shadab seals series win for Pakistan||Shadab Khan’s allround show (28 n.o., 12b, 1x4, 3x6 and 4-0-22-0) was the highlight of Pakistan’s nine-run win against the West Indies in the second T20I on Tuesday. The victory helped it take an unassailable 2-0 lead in the three-match series. Chasing a target of 173, West Indies opener Brandon King smashed 67 off 43 balls with six fours and three sixes. Romario Shepherd made an unbeaten 35 (19b, 2x4, 2x6). However, those efforts weren’t enough.  The scores: Pakistan 172/8 in 20 overs (Mohammad 38, Iftikhar Ahmed 32, Haider Ali 31, Shadab Khan 28 n.o.) bt West Indies 163 in 20 overs (Brandon King 67, Romario Shepherd 35 n.o., Shaheen Afridi 3/26) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shadab-seals-series-win-for-pakistan/article37957127.ece
15 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Second win for Karnataka men||Karnataka men scripted their second successive victory in the South Zone National basketball qualifiers at the Nehru Indoor Stadium here on Tuesday with a 98-67 win over Telangana.  The results:   Men: TN 86 (Justin 14, B. Soorya 13, Lokeswaran 11) bt Puducherry 23; Kerala 106 (Sejin 24, Pranav 19, Jishnu 17) bt AP 47; Karnataka 98 (Anil Kumar 19, Aravindh Kumar 17, Priyan 14) bt TS 67 (Raju 12, Rajat 10).   Women: TS 90 (Pushpa 18, Suthesha 18, Gulabsha 13) bt AP 53 (Dhanalakshmi 10, Pallam 10); Kerala 68 (Stephy Nixon 17, Aneesha 16, Sreekala 11) bt Karnataka 58 (Sanjana 19, Sandhya 15) .    Kickstart FC blanked Bangalore Soccer Galaxy 5-0 in the KSFA Karnataka women’s football league here.  The results: Kickstart FC 5 (Sibani Sharma 12, Aarushi Santhosh 29, Khunumayuni Devi 41, Kshetrimayum Devi 45, Sushmita Lepcha 89) bt Bangalore Soccer Galaxy 0.   Misaka FC (Lalbiak Diki 27, Lalrinmuani 50, Lalthansangi 83, 87) bt Slamzers 0.   Bangalore United FC 3 (Husaina Lodhgar 22, 68, Sanfida Nongrum 84) bt Bangalore Rebels 1 (Adika Bhosale 45).   Maatru Pratistana FC 0 drew with Bangalore Braves FC 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-men-win-again/article37957154.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||MOP Vaishnav wins basketball title||MOP Vaishnav College for Women defeated PES University 71-28 in the final to bag the basketball crown in the INFINI National Sports Fest in Bengaluru. PES University finished second.   Ethiraj College won the Madras University B-zone kabaddi tournament, defeating Nazareth 64-38 in the final held here.   The 25th-Sethu Bhaskara Rolling Trophy-Tiruvallur District selection chess tournament for men, women, sub-junior open (u-15), u-9 open and girls will be held on December 19 and 20 at Sethu Bhaskara MHSS, Ambattur. The top four players in men, women, junior, sub-junior and sub-junior open and girls and two from u-9 open girls, will represent Tiruvallur in the forthcoming State championships. Register at 9444751432 through Google Pay/ww.easypaychess.com.    Women IM B. Savitha Shri won the boys’ under-19 title in the Chengalpattu District Chess Association-conducted district championships at the Valluvar Gurukulam recently. C.R. Reshma bagged the girls’ under-19 crown. The top players in each category will represent Chengalpattu district in the TN State championship.  The results:   Under-8: Girls: 1. S. Srinika, 2. P. Ananya Rajan.   Boys: 1. Y. Sai Hridhay, 2. S.C. Sanjiv.   Under-15: Girls: 1. M. Divya Shaanti, 2. M. Sowmiya, 3. K. Sindhusree, 4. Swetha.   Boys: 1. A.R. Ilamparthi, 2. B. Adhithya, 3. M.S. Midilesh, 4. P. Anirudh Rajan.   Under-19: Girls: 1. C.R. Reshma, 2. R. Sananda, 3. V. Rithika, 4. D. Snekha.   Boys: 1. B. Savitha Shri, 2. Raaghav Rajesh, 3. C.S. Ashwath, 4. R. Ashwin Bala .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mop-vaishnav-wins-basketball-title/article37957220.ece
15 December 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Arjun, Ronith shine||A double century by Arjun Reddy (210 n.o., 122b, 25x4, 5x6) for Hyderabad School of Excellence and a good spell by left-arm pacer Ronith Narayana (seven for 18) for All Saints High School the highlights of the HCA under-16 inter-school/ colleges one-day cricket tournament here on Tuesday.  The scores: HCA U-16 schools/colleges knockout: Hyderabad   School of Excellence 400/5 in 40 overs (Arjun Reddy 210 n.o., Basamullah 35, Zubair-Uz-Zaman 59) bt St. Paul’s, Hyderguda, 76 in   22.1 overs. Urooj Model School 36 in 10.5 overs (Ronith Narayana 7/18, Arhaan Satwalekar 3/10) lost to All Saints, Abids, 37/1 in 7.2 overs.   Tribal Welfare School 101 in 30.2 overs (C. Pravas 4/19, Keshav Khandewal 3/19) lost to Slate The School, Abids, 102/7 in 26.5 overs (R. Mitra 43 n.o.).   Phoenix Greens 142 in 41.2 overs (Arshdeep Singh 31, Reneshwar 3/19) lost to Karimnagar Dist. 143/6 in 23.2 overs.   Bhavans Sri Aurobindo Jr. College-B 190 in 35.4 overs (M. Vishal Goud   37, Vikas Goud 72, Gnaneshwar 34, Arjit 5/38) bt Indus Universal School 112 in 34 overs (Santosh Reddy 4/19).   Sri Aadhya Jr. College 68 in 27.3 overs (A. Sai Chandra 4/22) lost to St. Peter’s HS 60/0 in 6.2 overs.   IICT ZMHS 198 in 40 overs (D.S.D.K. Price 68, Rohitaksh 3/31) lost to Sri Chaitanya Jr. Kalasala 202/2 in 36.3 overs (P. Raghava 83 n.o., Dhruva 47).   Olivemount Global School 109 in 37.5 overs (Mudasir Abdullah 64, Yashaswi Yeles 5/12) lost to Sreenidhi Intl. School 112/1 in 9.4 overs (Yashaswi Yeles 61 n.o.).   St. Marks Boys Town 130 in 36.5 overs (Farees Shareef 62, Avinash 6/32) lost to Vignan Vidyalaya, Nizampet, 133/1 in 15.3 overs (K. Sriniketh 104 n.o.).   St. Mary’s Jr. College, Basheerbagh, 62 in 20.5 overs (Hrithik Raj 3/10, Vithesh 3/15, Parthiban 4/12) lost to Warangal Dist 63/1 in 9 overs.    K. Hruthik and O. Harsha Karthika bagged a double each in the boys and girls’ categories respectively of the TSTA State-ranking tennis tournament at the Secunderabad Club here. Hruthik won the U-12 and U-14 titles while Karthika clinched the honours in the U-10 and U-12 sections.  The results: Boys: U-10: Final: A.L. Sanheeth bt P. Sujai 8-5. Semifinals: Sanheeth bt M. Nirvan Sai 8-5; Sujai bt V. Tanish Reddy   8-3.   U-12: Final: K. Hruthik bt P.V. Aryan 8-1. Semifinals: Hruthik bt P.   Nikhilesh 8-1; Aryan bt D. Abhiram 8-2.   U-14: Final: K. Hruthik bt Sai Jayanth Choudary 8-3. Semifinals: Hruthik bt Vedant Goud 8-0; Sai Jayanth bt Darsh Agarwal 8-3.   Girls: U-10: Final: O. Harsha Karthika bt Zoha Qureshi 8-2. Semifinals: Karthika bt Dhrutee Indrasen Gundu 8-0; Zoha bt Ch. Venya 8-0.   U-12: Final: O. Harsha Karthika bt E. Yashitha 8-6. Semifinals: Karthika bt E. Nethrika Reddy 8-6; Yashitha bt Ananya Ankem 8-3.   U-14: Final: Nysa Sharma bt E. Yashitha 8-2. Semifinals: Yashitha bt Divya Laxmi Jadhav 8-7(1); Nysa bt Dugyala Shloka 8-7(6) .    Mohd. Bhashiq Imrose of Nalgonda and V. Sarayu of Warangal won the boys and girls’ titles in the UCCF Telangana State junior chess championship here. Four players from both categories will represent the State at the junior Nationals in Delhi.  Final placings: Boys: 1. Mohd Bhashiq Imrose (Nalgonda) 6.5 pts, 2. S.   Srinivas Einstein Reddy, 3. S. Chidvilas Sai (Hyd), 4. K. Sarath Chandra.   Girls: 1. V. Sarayu (Warangal), 2. G. Kheerthi, 3. Durga Karhika, 4. A. Sai Mahathi .    City-based Syeda Falak will represent India at the 17th AKF senior karate championship to be held at Almaty (Kazakhstan) December 17 to 22 in the 68kg and above category. This will be the former National champion’s first major competition after the pandemic.   S. Srikanth’s 93 n.o. helped Shamshabad post a 15-run win over Serilingampally in the TCA-KV Ranga Reddy Memorial Cup limited-overs cricket tournament at Gachibowli Cricket Ground here.  The scores: Shamshabad 162/5 in 15 overs (S. Srikanth 93 n.o.) bt Serilingampally 147/5 in 15 overs (Yash Raj 67, Pralav 39, R. Tyagi 3/23). MoM: Srikanth.   Vikarabad 109/9 in 15 overs (Venu Gopal 32) lost to Medchal 112/5 in 12.3 overs (G. Tharun 47, Dayakar 3/24). MoM: Tharun.   Shamshabad 146 in 15 overs (K. Naveen 3/23) lost to Tandur 147/7 in 14.3 overs (K. Praveen Kumar 46, Vinay Raj 34). MoM: Praveen Kumar .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjun-ronith-shine/article37957433.ece
15 December 2021||Mysuru:,||Yashaswin, Vishwanath hit centuries||Centuries by V. Yashaswin Gowda (134, 20x4) and A. Vishwanath (110, 12x4, 1x6), for Saraswathipuram SC, was the highlight of the drawn two-day KSCA Mysore zone first division league match played on Saturday and Sunday.  The scores:   I div.: Saraswathipuram 345 in 58 overs (inclusive of 30 penalty runs for three overs short) (V. Yashaswin Gowda 134, A. Vishwanath 110, Sandesh Jain 4/82, K.V. Chethan 3/47) drew with Mysore 196 in 74 overs (P. Rahul 73, K. Harish 48, Abhinith Gowli 26, S. Ankith 4/66, M.R. Raghu 3/38) & 113/7 in 54 overs (Abhinith Gowli 28). Saraswathipuram 3 points, MCC 1.   II div.: Sunny Side 255/8 in 50 overs ( Kabir Khan 41, H.S. Praveen 39 n.o., J. Diwakar 39, M. Chirag 29, Likith 26, K. Raghavendra 3/53) bt SKRSC 52 in 20 overs (Kiran 5/14, M. Poornesh 4/11).   Star 249 in 44.4 overs (Zeeshan 52, Muzamil Pasha 48, Rajendra 33, D. Vinay Prasad 4/42) lost to Bellur 251 for six in 47.2 overs (B.C. Rohan 75, V. Chiranth 50, R. Raaj 31 n.o., Dhanush Vishu 30, Zeeshan 3/50).   III div.: Vijaya 225 in 36.5 overs (M.N. Deepak 64, P. Sandesh 41, Maneesh Gowdam 38, P.A. Chandru 4/19) bt Rising Star 199 in 41 overs (S. Praveen 48, Piyush Bafna 39, M.N. Deepak 3/21).   Parashuram 215 in 48.4 overs (B.M. Poovaiah 46, B. Rahul 42, P.R. Sankreeth 29, C.B. Balaraju 5/41) bt City Cricketers 152 in 41.2 overs (Abdul Kareer Parvez 27, Sheik Hammaad 28, K.P. Surya 3/35).   IV div.: New National 139 in 37.4 overs (G. Rakshith 35, Vibodh Ramesh 28, Praveen Kumar 3/32) lost to Jaihind-B 140 for four in 33.1 overs (Abhishek 50 n.o., Ganesh 35 n.o.) .    Karnataka men scripted their second successive victory in the South Zone National basketball qualifiers here on Tuesday with a 98-67 win over Telangana.  The results:   Men: TN 86 (Justin 14, B. Soorya 13, Lokeswaran 11) bt Puducherry 23; Karnataka 98 (Anil Kumar 19, Aravindh Kumar 17, Priyan 14) bt TS 67 (Raju 12, Rajat 10).   Women: Kerala 68 (Stephy Nixon 17, Aneesha 16, Sreekala 11) bt Karnataka 58 (Sanjana 19, Sandhya 15) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yashaswin-vishwanath-hit-centuries/article37957590.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Basketball: South Zone qualifiers, Nehru Indoor Stadium, 8 a.m. & 4 p.m.   Cricket: CDCA league, II div., Chrome vs The Cricketers Club (12.30 p.m), Sumangali ground, Santosapuram turf ‘A’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article37957221.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Dhritarashtra’s sorrow||The Kurukshetra war is over, and the Kauravas have been totally wiped out. An anguished Dhritarashtra expresses his sorrow to Sanjaya, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. Dhritarashtra says he never wanted the war, for he was afraid that the Kuru clan would come to an end. Dhritarashtra says he had no animosity towards the Pandavas. But his sons were angry with him on this count. Duryodhana lacked sense, Dhritarashtra says. Dhritarashtra could have advised his son against taking a disastrous route. But Dhritarashtra was equally foolish. He admits that he had been wrong to have allowed Duryodhana to wage war against his cousins. Had he thought about the consequences of the war, he would have acted decisively. But Dhritarashtra’s common sense deserted him at the crucial moment. This, Dhritarashtra says, was due to his karma. Responding to Dhritarashtra mourning the death of his sons, Sanjaya asks why Dhritarashtra should cry for such unworthy sons. Death is a part of life, and many people die, including those who are educated, who have jnana, and who are ethical. Kings who gave generous daanas like Manu and Manthatha too died eventually. But Dhritarashtra’s sons had none of these good attributes. Why does Dhritarashtra shed tears over them, asks Sanjaya. As for Dhritarashtra’s role in the war that left so many dead, he, as a father, had failed to guide his sons to take the right path. Brahma sends us to earth having charted the course of our lives. Kaala is witness to all this. We cannot win against Kaala. Dhritarashtra had not realised this and had thought he could change the course of events. That was his major failure. Dhritarashtra’s sons had been the embodiment of adharma, and yet he had failed to take note of this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/dhritarashtras-sorrow/article37957090.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 07:17 IST,||Sudoku — December 15, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-15-2021/article37957724.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The slow and joyous art of pottery||For Samina Ekhlas, it is the childlike joy of messing her hands with mud and creating something spontaneously that attracts her to pottery. “It is almost therapeutic and a big stress buster. I don't realise how time flows,” she says. Samina is one of the participants of the ongoing wheel thrown pottery workshop being conducted by the newly-opened Madhyamaka Studio at Peda Waltair in Visakhapatnam. The studio is the initiative of Chindhu Hari and her husband Rohit Vijjapu. Located on the ground floor of their house, it has three electric pottery wheels set up in the throwing room and another room for pinch pottery and hand building. There is also an electric kiln room where bisque firing and glaze firing are done. Chindhu gets her clay and glazes from suppliers in Bengaluru. “There seems to be a lot of interest in pottery, especially during the pandemic. Pottery has a universal appeal across age groups. Anyone can sit at a potter’s wheel and bring out something utilitarian,” she reckons, adding that she received quite a few enquiries for the workshop. Due to limited pottery wheels, she enrols a maximum of three per batch. An IT professional, Chindhu has always been drawn to ceramics. “I started off by going for a weekend pinch pottery course in 2018 in Bengaluru. Later, in 2019-2020, I did a course in slow pottery. Though I wanted to continue, the pandemic put a pause. That's when we got a wheel at home and I started learning new skills on my own and continued practising what I learnt from my teachers,” she says. Working with wood In August this year, she along with Rohit, started Madhyamaka Studio for carpentry and pottery. “Our intention is to design and create art in different media and make it more accessible to people by way of conducting workshops,” says Chindhu. She also wants to collaborate with local potters and wood crafters. “We’ve had some success connecting with wood workers. But we couldn’t find any potters in the city who are practising this art now. It is a sad state. We’re trying to encourage the new generation of potters to come and join us at least once a week because the skill set that they have is precious,” she adds. In January, Chindhu and Rohit are planning a woodworking workshop with Japanese joineries. “It is a wooden building technology where grooved wood pieces are joined together to form three-dimensional objects,” says Rohit. This will be followed by a workshop on Lino printmaking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-slow-and-joyous-art-of-pottery/article37957545.ece
15 December 2021||December 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Motwane’s seven for MUBI||Though he can’t remember who recommended The Usual Suspects almost three decades ago, for Vikramaditya Motwane, the passion behind the “you must watch it!” made him watch the film. He invested as much emotion when he picked seven films for and from MUBI: Raj Kapoor’s Awaara , Christian Petzold’s Transit , Sameh Zoabi’s Tel Aviv On Fire , Satyajit Ray’s Mahapurush , Jay and Mark Duplass’s Baghead , and Archana Phadke’s About Love . Given the size of the MUBI library, Motwane had his work cut out. Through multiple revisions, he consciously picked the “non-obvious”, leaving out films like Fight Club and Three Colours trilogy that most cinema fans would have already seen. The selection reflects Motwane’s appreciation for the film streaming platform’s library, which has “movies that go back in time and also from around the world; that’s what is amazing for me: multiple languages, multiple genres”. Right balance He aimed for a balance of titles from India and abroad, as well as between narrative features, documentaries, and genres such as thriller and comedy. Motwane wanted to pick films that people don’t know are available on the platform. Speaking of Awaara , he says, “Most people won’t even know that a classic Bollywood film exists on MUBI.” Ray’s “funny and entertaining” Mahapurush was a non-obvious choice compared to those such as Charulata and Nayak . Ray’s films, he says, have aged “amazingly”. Other films he struggled to exclude are Yorgos Lanthimos’s “terrific” and “incredible” Dogtooth , Kiyoshi Kurosawa’s Wife of a Spy , Asif Kapadia’s documentary Diego Maradona, and the Sundance prize-winning documentary, The Wolfpack . Realising he had given away one title too many, he laughs, “ Arre, bohot acchi filme hai yaar [There are too many good films to pick from].” Curated vs algorithmic lists For Motwane, curation entails much more personal choice than film direction, which is expensive and almost always on someone else’s money. While directing a film, he has to know the size of the audience for a particular type of film and justify the film’s budget. Whereas curation is “a purely personal choice. It’s about your taste. Movies that you like, and you think people will like”, he shares. He concedes that not everyone would like every film on his list. Even his filmmaker friends might agree with 50%-60%, but there will never be 100% consensus, which for him is the entire point of individual curation. While, for Motwane, curation is about the beauty of individual taste, the algorithmic lists on most streaming platforms take individuality to another extreme. He explains, “The algorithm recommends something for you versus I recommend these films for everybody.” With the former, the focus is more on the individual’s preferences than good content. Given the tremendous clutter of content today, for Motwane, the number one reason to watch something is the passion with which someone recommends it. Alongside, you must think of who is recommending and how much you trust this person. “Over time, you learn whether the person has a taste and if your tastes match,” he suggests. And finally, a decisive factor is many people recommending the same thing. So, if you trust Motwane’s ‘passion’ for making and watching films, these are the seven he’d say, “You must watch!”  The ‘Handpicked by Motwane’ selection is streaming on MUBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/motwanes-seven-for-mubi/article37957546.ece
