16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet approves Rs. 76,000 crore push for semiconductor makers||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a Rs. 76,000 crore scheme to boost semiconductor and display manufacturing in the country, taking the total amount of incentives announced for the electronics sector to Rs. 2.3 lakh crore, the government said in a statement. The comprehensive programme for the “development of sustainable semiconductor and display ecosystem in the country” was aimed at making India a global hub of electronic system design and manufacturing, the government added. It said the programme would usher in a new era in electronics manufacturing by providing a globally competitive incentive package to companies in semiconductors and display manufacturing as well as design. The scheme would provide fiscal support of up to 50% of the project cost for setting up semiconductor and display fabrication units. The Union government will work with the States to set up high-tech clusters with the required infrastructure such as land and semiconductor-grade water. “In order to drive the long-term strategies for a sustainable semiconductors and display ecosystem, a specialised and independent ‘India Semiconductor Mission’ will be set up,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-approves-rs-76000-crore-push-for-semiconductor-makers/article37965539.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Post SIT report, Opposition seeks Ajay Mishra’s ouster||The Lok Sabha on Wednesday witnessed multiple disruptions following the Congress-led Opposition’s demand for the sacking of Minister of State (MoS) for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra ‘Teni’ in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence that claimed the lives of eight people, including four farmers. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi set the tone of the Opposition’s aggressive stance as he submitted a notice of an adjournment motion seeking the dismissal of Mr. Mishra. He referred to the report of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Uttar Pradesh Police, which claimed that the October 3 incident was a “pre-planned conspiracy and not a negligent act”. Mr. Ajay Mishra’s son, Ashish Mishra, is a key accused in the case. As soon as the proceedings began , the Opposition members trooped into the Well of the House, waving newspaper reports on the findings of the SIT and demanding the resignation of the Minister. “I always give adequate time to members to raise issues. You [protesting members] are disrupting the Question Hour. It is not a good tradition and does not respect the dignity of the House,” Speaker Om Birla told the Opposition members. He assured them that he would allow them to raise the issue later. Four questions, along with their supplementaries, were taken up in the din for about 30 minutes, but the Opposition members did not relent. They continued to wave placards and posters amid constant sloganeering. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi urged the Speaker to direct the Opposition members to wear masks while protesting in the Well as they posed a health risk to Parliament officials. Failing to restore order, Mr. Birla then adjourned the House until 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/post-sit-report-opposition-seeks-ajay-mishras-ouster/article37965543.ece
16 December 2021||Chennai,||Flaw on voters’ portal fixed||An independent security researcher has come across a critical vulnerability in the National Voters Service Portal (NVSP) and alerted the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) that worked with technical experts to plug the loophole. Sai Krishna Kothapalli, founder/chief executive officer of Hackrew, a Hyderabad-based cybersecurity firm, said he stumbled upon the vulnerability while downloading his Elector Photo Identity Card (EPIC) that gave him access to the registered mobile phone numbers of other voters. A simple script could make available the phone numbers of all the voters in a Lok Sabha or Assembly constituency. An alumnus of the Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati, Mr. Kothapalli sent the alert by way of vulnerability submission to the CERT on October 22, 2021. Though an acknowledgement was supposed to be given within 72 hours, he received a reply only on December 7, 2021, saying that the emergency response team was in touch with the authorities concerned to take appropriate action. On December 14, 2021, he confirmed that the vulnerability had been patched. “The plugging of the loophole has not only prevented a major data leak — exposing the personal mobile phone numbers of several crores of voters across the country — but averted a possible scam during the process of elections. By accessing a mobile number, and using another vulnerability I found, we can send an SMS that will appear as if it came from credible government IDs. So one can imagine this on a larger scale, impacting crores of votes across India,” Mr. Kothapalli said. The security researcher said he had visited the NVPS portal to download his e-EPIC. After entering the EPIC number and State name, the system would send an OTP to the registered mobile number for authentication. “This is where the vulnerability got exposed. While the OTP went to the voter’s mobile number, the response sent to the browser had the voter’s un-redacted phone number. While this is not visible on the screen, any person with the basic technical know-how of how websites work can figure out how to get it,” he said. Since electoral rolls containing EPIC numbers, names and other election-related and personal details of a voter are published and available online for anybody to access, all that’s needed is to write a simple script to get the personal phone numbers, names, father/husband’s name, EPIC numbers, and constituency names of all voters in a constituency. “This is the most dangerous and highly effective way you can abuse the vulnerability. Since names are visible, huge sections of the country can be targeted based on religion, caste or language in election-related scams,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/researcher-finds-security-flaw-in-voter-database/article37965544.ece
16 December 2021||KOCHI,||HC upholds reappointment of VC||In a major relief to the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government, the Kerala High Court on Wednesday upheld the reappointment of Gopinath Ravindran as Vice Chancellor of Kannur University. Dismissing a petition against his reappointment, Justice Amit Rawal observed that for reappointment as per Section 10(10) of the Kannur University Act, 1996, there was no need to constitute a selection committee as was done during the initial appointment. At the time of the initial appointment in 2017, all the parameters were considered for appointment as per the procedure laid down under the University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations. Besides for reappointment, the criteriion of age would not be applicable. According to a quo warantto writ petition filed by Premachandran Keezhoth, member, Senate, Kannur University, and Shino P. Jose, member, Academic Council (Management Studies), Kannur University, the reappointment was not based on an independent evaluation or consideration of the contributions of Dr. Ravindran and that the decision was taken on the State government's request. Therefore, the reappointment was in violation of the UGC regulations. The State government contended that it was not a fresh appointment but a reappointment as per the provisions of Section 10(10) of the Kannur University Act and, therefore, the procedure of constitution of the selection committee which was followed at the time of initial appointment in 2017 was not required to be followed for the continuation of the term. The court rejected a plea by the petitioners to call for the records leading to the appointment of the Vice Chancellor, which were in the custody of the Chancellor, on the ground that the Chancellor had written a detailed letter to the Chief Minister on so many unhealthy practices in academic appointments in the State, including the appointment of the Kannur University Vice Chancellor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-upholds-reappointment-of-vc/article37965847.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,||TPR in students far below State average||The State’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) is in favour of continuing physical classes with strict COVID-19 appropriate behaviour (CAB) for schoolchildren in the 6-18 years group. This is based on the low test positivity rate (TPR) of 0.05% in this group, which is far less compared to the State’s seven-day average TPR of 0.31%. TAC members, who deliberated on surveillance of schoolchildren for COVID-19 at the committee’s 139th meeting held on Monday, examined the data on RT-PCR testing of schoolchildren in the 6-18 years group from December 1 to 10. Of the 4.28 lakh children screened, 29,675 samples were collected for COVID tests. Of these only 15 tested positive, which accounts for 0.05%. “The low TPR (0.05%) in schoolchildren favours continuation of physical classes with strict CAB,” stated the TAC report. Decline in TPR The TPR in schoolchildren declined from 0.08% in mid-September to 0.04% by November 30. Although it marginally increased to 0.05% in the first 10 days of December, it is still lesser than the State average. This indicates that the transmission in children is under control despite reopening of schools, a TAC member said. Following reopening of classes VI to VIII (from September 6) and classes IX to XII (from August 23), schoolchildren were being subjected to random RT-PCR testing regularly. Although the Health Department had announced that 10% of the daily tests will be in children, the testing rate in September had dropped from 9% to 3%. Concerned over this, TAC had recommended that the 10% testing rate in children should be maintained. Subsequently, the testing rate increased to 7% by November 30. Veena V., deputy director, Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram, said efforts are being made to ramp up testing. “Our testing staff are regularly visiting schools. We are testing only symptomatic children now,” she said. Testing in schools TAC chairman M.K. Sudarshan said testing children in schools has its own epidemiological significance. “If a child tests positive in a school, it does not mean the infection has been picked up in school. The child’s contacts at home can be easily traced and tracked, thereby curbing the transmission. What is most important is that CAB should be followed strictly in schools,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-tpr-below-state-average/article37965580.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Rajan pitches for govt.’s tie up with start-ups||Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Wednesday said there are many start-ups which have immediate applications for problems that the government is grappling with. At a virtual conference on “R&D as an engine of growth of Tamil Nadu” organised by the Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry, he said it was important to promote start-ups as there were many problems that were unique to the State. Pitching for collaboration between the State government and the start-ups, Mr. Rajan said the government should encourage people by giving them more problem statements and scenarios where it had the intent but did not have the tools or technology to resolve it and call them for developing solutions. In his address, Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu pointed out that if the State had to reach the target of $1 trillion economy by 2030 and $100 billion exports, it could not be complacent with the current level of R&D. “Tamil Nadu has tremendous potential and aspiration levels are high. It is a mature economy and we have to move up in our growth process. We need to create high value employment, export worthy and environmentally sustainable products. Strengthening of R&D is critical,” Mr. Thennarasu said. Industries Secretary S. Krishnan said there was a need to create more value-added jobs in the State in the years to come and one of the most potent areas where this could happen was R&D. The State is one of the big economies and R&D would give it an edge to grow even larger and be the number one economy in the county, he added. In his concluding remarks, Raghuram Rajan, Member, Economic Advisory Council, Government of Tamil Nadu, said there were a number of things a State government could look at. It should focus on creating an ecosystem conducive for the R&D. Mr. Rajan said a number of the diaspora members were looking to come back and the government should bring them back in some areas. It should invite foreign universities to set up base which would help in upgrading the home grown talent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/finance-minister-pitches-for-tie-up-between-government-and-start-ups/article37965641.ece
16 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Talks inconclusive, medicos to continue stir||The postgraduate medical students or junior residents in government medical college hospitals (MCHs) in the State who have been on an indefinite strike boycotting all hospital services including emergency services (except COVID duty) for the past five days have decided to continue their strike as the talks with Health Minister Veena George on Wednesday remained inconclusive. Talks will, however, continue on Thursday with Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Asha Thomas. “The discussion was productive and we could air all our grievances with the government. However, as no common ground could be reached, we have decided to continue our strike in its current form for the time being,” Kerala Medical Postgraduates Association State president Ajithra said. The talks were centred around two points, that of the appointment of more non-academic junior residents to reduce the workload of junior residents and hike in the stipend of postgraduate medicos. During the talks, the government offered to appoint a committee to examine the working hours of postgraduate medicos and see if the current schedule of junior residents was in accordance with the residency manual. Regarding the stipend hike, the Minister said the issue had been put up with the Finance department and that the government would once again request the Finance Minister to consider the issue positively. Residency manual Ms. George said in a statement here that the residency manual, which guides the working pattern of postgraduate medicos, would be strictly implemented and that a committee would be appointed within a month to examine the issue of heavy workload of students. Ms. George said that as per the initial round of discussions held with the medicos, the government had decided to appoint 373 non-academic junior residents, of whom over 300 had already been appointed. The postgraduate medicos, however, pointed out that this number was woefully inadequate to meet the requirements of major tertiary care hospitals such as medical college hospitals and that at present, there was a shortage of at least 1,000 doctors in MCHs. “The government says that the appointment of more non-academic junior residents is not possible because of funds insufficiency. But we have said the funds requirement calculation is erroneous and that it should be discussed further,” Dr. Ajithra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/talks-inconclusive-medicos-to-continue-stir/article37965854.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||Lone survivor of IAF chopper crash passes away||Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor of the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash at Coonoor in Tamil Nadu last week, died of his injuries at a military hospital in Bengaluru on Wednesday, the Indian Air Force (IAF) said. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 armed forces personnel were killed in the accident on December 8. “IAF is deeply saddened to inform the passing away of braveheart Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed this morning to the injuries sustained in the helicopter accident on December 8. IAF offers sincere condolences and stands firmly with the bereaved family,” it said on social media. The Mi-17V5 was on its way from the Sulur Air Force Station to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC), Wellington, when it crashed in the Nilgiris close to the destination. Group Captain Singh, who was the Directing Staff at the DSSC, was taken to the Military Hospital, Wellington, and later moved to the Command Hospital, Bengaluru, where his condition remained critical. He had sustained severe burns in the accident, officials said. Group Captain Singh, who hailed from Bhopal, graduated from the National Defence Academy in 2003. He was commissioned as a fighter pilot in 2004 and mainly flew Jaguars and Tejas during his flying career. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leaders across the political spectrum condoled the demise of Group Captain Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lone-survivor-of-iaf-chopper-crash-succumbs-to-injuries/article37965541.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC dismisses plea for SECC raw data||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said the law negated a caste Census and “the Constitution believes in population and not in caste or religion” even as the Centre insisted that data collated during a Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) in 2011 was “fraught with mistakes and unusable” for any purpose whatsoever. The court’s observations came moments before it dismissed a writ petition filed by Maharashtra to direct the Centre to part with the raw data collected in the SECC-2011. The State said it wanted to use the data for implementing reservation to OBCs in its local body polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-dismisses-plea-for-secc-raw-data/article37965903.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||Two Omicron cases detected in State||Two cases of Omicron were detected in Telangana on Tuesday night, one being a 24-year-old woman from Kenya and the other a 23-year-old man from Somalia. Both of them came to the city from ‘non-risk’ countries on December 12, were partially vaccinated, and known to be residing in Tolichowki. While the woman was traced in few hours after receiving the genome sequencing results, it took more than 12 hours to trace the man, who was the attendant of a patient. Covid tally Telangana registered 186 COVID cases on Wednesday, taking the total to 6,78,874. One more patient died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-omicron-cases-detected-in-state/article37966027.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,||14 Congress MLCs suspended for a day||The Legislative Council witnessed uproarious scenes on Wednesday asChairman Basavaraj Horatti suspended 14 Opposition Congress members for a day when they resorted to a dharna demanding that Minister for Urban Development Byrathi Basavaraj should either resign or be sacked in the wake of a court directing the police to register criminal case against him and BJP MLC R. Shankar for allegedly grabbing land by using forged documents. When the protesting Congress members refused to leave the House even after being suspended, Mr. Horatti adjourned the House. The case pertains to the allegationthat Mr. Basavaraj and Mr. Shankar got 22 acres and 43 guntas of land at Kalkere village in K.R. Puram hobli of Bengaluru East taluk, on the basis of fake documents in May 2003. The owner of the land has moved the court with a private complaint and the city court has ordered registering a criminal case. Furore began in the Council with Congress member M. Narayanaswamy, who is also chief whip of the party, raising the issue, but the Chairman convinced the Opposition to raise the issue only after the Question Hour was over. Later in the day, Leader of Opposition S.R. Patil, Congress members B.K. Hariprasad, M. Narayanaswamy and others urged the Chairman to allow them to debate the issue. Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs J.C. Madhuswamy maintained that the issue could not be discussed as the matter was sub judice . The court had ordered a trial in the case and the next hearing had been scheduled on December 23, he pointed out. However, Mr. Hariprasad, Mr. Narayanaswamy and others continued to demand permission to debate the issue. When the House reassembled post lunch, Congress members began a dharna in the well of the House demanding that they be allowed to debate the issue. They did not relent, even as the Chairman appealed to them to return to their seats. As they continued with the dharna, Mr. Horatti suspended 14 members — Mr. Patil, Mr. Hariprasad, Mr. Narayanaswamy, Gopalaswamy, Naseer Ahmed, C.M. Lingappa, U.B. Venkatesh, Aravind Arali, Pratap Chandra Shetty, C.M. Ibrahim, Harish Kumar, Veena Achaiah, R.B. Thimmapur and Basavaraj Itagi — for a day. The House was adjourned for the day when they continued their dharna even after suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-congress-mlcs-suspended-for-a-day/article37965563.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu reports first case of Omicron variant||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday reported the first case of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 after whole genome sequencing of the sample of a 47-year-old man, who had travelled from Nigeria to Chennai, detected it. The genome sequencing results of the samples lifted from six family members and a co-passenger are awaited. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said the sample of the Chennai resident, who had travelled through Doha, was analysed at the State Public Health Laboratory’s genome sequencing facility during which the S-gene dropout was identified. It was sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, which made the confirmation, he told reporters here. The man was admitted to the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy. Six of his family members, including a 16-year-old, had also tested positive, and were in hospital isolation. The initial analysis of their samples also identified the S-gene dropout, he said. Mild symptoms “All of them have mild symptoms but are being monitored closely. In the last two days, the Health Department has taken up tracing and monitoring of the contacts of the person whose preliminary gene test had revealed the S-gene dropout and found a 42-year-old co-passenger, who had also tested positive for COVID-19. An analysis found the S-gene dropout in his sample too,” he said. All samples were sent for genomic sequencing to INSACOG laboratories. The Minister said the contacts of the co-passenger were also being traced. Except for the 16-year-old, all seven persons had received two doses of vaccines. Hence, they had mild symptoms, he said. Tamil Nadu stepped up surveillance over the last 10 days, he said. At present, 41 persons who had tested positive on arrival were undergoing treatment at hospitals, while three persons were discharged, he said. While all travellers from at-risk countries were being subjected to testing, 2% of travellers from non-risk countries were randomly tested at all international airports in the State, he said. The Minister said the State had improved its health infrastructure with over a lakh additional beds and increased the oxygen capacity. “The State’s current oxygen capacity is 1,400 metric tonnes,” he said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan stressed the need to continue compliance with wearing masks, maintaining physical distancing and hand hygiene, avoiding crowded places and get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-reports-first-case-of-omicron-variant/article37965629.ece
16 December 2021||KANNUR,||Justice served: Ravindran||Kannur University Vice Chancellor (VC) Gopinath Ravindran on Wednesday said justice had been served and there was nothing illegal in his reappointment. Responding to the court verdict on a petition challenging his reappointment, he said an academician should not have been dragged into such an unnecessary controversy. Prof. Ravindran said he was always ready to step down. The appointment was in compliance with the norms. “However, a normal procedure turning into such a controversy is politically motivated,” he said. “As Vice Chancellor of a university, I should not speak or comment about the Chancellor,” he said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/justice-served-ravindran/article37965849.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Minister loses cool at reporter||Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra ‘Teni’ landed in a fresh controversy on Wednesday as he was caught on camera allegedly hurling abuses at a reporter who asked him about the additional charges slapped on his son, Ashish. Mr. Mishra, the MP from Kheri, who had been calmly responding to questions till then, lost his cool and asked the reporter to not ask “stupid questions”. “ Aisa hai, bewakoofi ke sawaal mat kara karo. Dimaag kharab hai kya bey [Look, don’t ask stupid questions. Are you mad or what],” Mr. Mishra is heard saying on camera.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minister-loses-cool-at-reporter/article37965562.ece
16 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||More Omicron cases in State||Four more COVID-19 cases of Omicron virus variant have been confirmed in the State, taking the total number of Omicron cases to five. These include two travellers who flew into the State from abroad, while the other two are the primary contacts of the Kochi native who was the first case of Omicron to be documented in the State. Health Minister Veena George told the media here on Wednesday night that genetic sequencing of the samples of four COVID-19 positive cases had turned out to be Omicron cases. Two of the samples belonged to the primary contacts – wife and mother-in-law – of the Kochi native who had been the State’s first Omicron case. The other two samples are of a person who flew into Kochi from Congo and another who had flown in from the United Kingdom to Thiruvananthapuram. All have been isolated and are undergoing treatment in separate care facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-omicron-cases-in-state/article37965850.ece
16 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||After 383 days, farmers vacate Ghazipur protest site||Three hundred and eighty three days after they began gathering at Delhi borders to protest the farm laws, farmers have vacated both Ghazipur and Singhu borders, connecting the Capital to western U.P. and Haryana respectively, making way for a hassle-free traffic movement. Farmers camping at the Ghazipur border returned to their respective towns and villages on Wednesday after holding a “fateh” (victory) march, commemorating their success of getting the farm laws repealed. At the Singhu border, traffic movement resumed after over a year, the police said. DCP (Outer North) Brijendra Yadav confirmed the development at the Singhu border and said that traffic has been opened for all vehicles from the Delhi side as well. All barricades that were erected at the border have been dismantled now. At the Ghazipur border, the Bharatiya Kisan Union held a ritual in the morning before the convoy of its national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait headed towards his village Sisauli, stopping for receptions in Ghaziabad and Meerut along the way. Sisauli and Soram — the headquarters of different khaps in the region — were decorated with lights, and sweets were distributed as Mr. Tikait visited his village for the first time since the agitation started last year. Graffiti on flyover As an abiding memory of the 13-month struggle, the farmers have painted a graffiti on the wall of the flyover that mentions the period of their stay on the border. “It’s a victory of our will and determination,” said a group of farmers, packing their belongings that ranged from cots to tarpaulin sheets to motorcycles. Ikram, an aged farmer from Garh area of Hapur district, said he was satisfied with the outcome of the agitation. “ Der aaye, durust aaye [better late than never]. We can’t say we are happy as we have lost many of our brothers in the last one year, but I thank the Government for responding to our voice.” The rest of the demands, he said, could be fulfilled in the due course. “It is a process and there is an election on the horizon,” he said. In his late 80s, Gandharv Singh from Auraiya in Etawah district spent eight months at the border. “We have not forgotten the pain we suffered in the last one year. It is simmering like these ashes,” he said, pointing to the remains of the ritual that were keeping him warm in the NCR winter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/traffic-opens-at-singhu-farmers-leave-ghazipur/article37965713.ece
16 December 2021||ELURU,||10 killed as bus falls into rivulet in W. Godavari||Ten passengers, including five women, were killed nad 26 others suffered injuries when an Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) bus fell in a rivulet, near Jangareddygudem in West Godavari district, on Wednesday. The injured have been admitted to Jangareddygudem Government Hospital. About 47 passengers were travelling by the bus that was coming from Bhadrachalam and proceeding to Jangareddygudem, said Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma. The accident reportedly occurred when the driver hit the railing and fell into Jalleru rivulet. Jangareddygudem Revenue Divisional Officer Y.V. Prasanna Lakshmi will conduct an enquiry into the mishap, said Collector Kartikeya Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-bus-falls-into-rivulet-10-killed/article37965495.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,||SEC reviews local body poll preparation||Tamil Nadu State Election Commissioner V. Palanikumar on Wednesday chaired a video conference with officials to review the steps being taken towards conducting urbal local body polls, in line with an order of the Supreme Court. The selection of counting centres, uploading of details about polling officers online, selection of centres for training officials and the stock of polling materials were among the things discussed at the meeting, an official release said. Tamil Nadu State Election Commission Secretary E. Sundaravalli; Greater Chennai Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Vishu Mahajan; principal election officer (municipalities) G. Dhanalakshmi; principal election officer (panchayats) K.A. Subramoniam; legal adviser K. Venkatesan, and Assistant Commissioner (Election) A.K. Sree Sampathkumar were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-poll-chief-chairs-review-meeting/article37965675.ece
16 December 2021||Srinagar,||Security forces gun down Hizb ‘commander’||Security forces shot dead a ‘commander of the Hizbul Mujahideen in Pulwama on Tuesday night. A police spokesman said Hizb ‘commander Feroz Ahmad Dar from Shopian’s Heff-Shrimal was killed during an anti-militancy operation in the Uzrampathri area of Pulwama. The police said an AK rifle was recovered from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/security-forces-gun-down-hizb-commander/article37966047.ece
16 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||AAP steps up its election campaign in Punjab||Stepping up his party’s election campaign in Punjab, Delhi Chief Minister and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday led a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Jalandhar district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aap-steps-up-its-election-campaign-in-punjab/article37965697.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||OBC quota: SC ruling a blow to Uddhav||In a blow to the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Government, the Supreme Court directed the State poll panel to revert 27% seats res- erved for OBCs in local body polls to the general category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/obc-quota-sc-ruling-a-blow-to-uddhav/article37965904.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,||State hikes festival advance for its staff||The Karnataka Government has increased the festival advance of its employees from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 25,000 following a rise in the prices of essential commodities. The decision was taken following a demand from KSGEA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-hikes-festival-advance-for-its-staff/article37965773.ece
16 December 2021||KALABURAGI,||KPSC to re-conduct exam for those who missed it||The Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) will re-conduct the competitive examination for the posts of Assistant Engineer in the Public Works Department (PWD) for those candidates who had missed the exam on Tuesday owing to the delay of their trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kpsc-to-re-conduct-exam-for-those-who-missed-it/article37965774.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Students’ TPR below State average||The State’s Technical Advisory Committee is in favour of continuing physical classes with strict COVID-19-appropriate behaviour for schoolchildren in the 6-18 age group. This is based on the low test positivity rate (TPR) of 0.05% in this group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-tpr-below-state-average/article37965565.ece
16 December 2021||Chennai,||T.N. reports first case of Omicron variant||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday reported the first case of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 after whole genome sequencing of the sample of a man, who had travelled from Nigeria to Chennai, detected it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-reports-first-case-of-omicron-variant/article37965671.ece
16 December 2021||Ghaziabad/Delhi,||Traffic opens at Singhu; farmers vacate Ghazipur||Over 380 days after they began their protest against the three farm reform laws on Delhi borders, farmers have vacated the Ghazipur site, while traffic movement has resumed at the Singhu border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/traffic-opens-at-singhu-farmers-vacate-ghazipur/article37965698.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects Maharashtra plea for census raw data||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said the law negated a caste census and “the Constitution believes in population and not in caste or religion” even as the Centre insisted that data collated during a Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) in 2011 was “fraught with mistakes and unusable” for any purpose whatsoever. The court’s oral observations came moments before it dismissed a writ petition filed by Maharashtra to direct the Centre to part with the raw data collected in the SECC-2011. The State stated it wanted to use the data for implementing reservation to the Other Backward Classes (OBC) in its local body polls. “The law is that there should be no caste census.. The Constitution believes in population, not in caste or religion,” the court addressed the Maharashtra counsel, senior advocate Shekhar Naphade. ‘Executive act’ “Caste, religion, all come within the spectrum of census. They [Centre] are showing extreme reluctance to pass on the data [SECC] to us,” Mr. Naphade submitted. The Centre, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, clarified to the court that the SECC was not a “census” undertaken under the Census Act of 1948 by the office of the Registrar General of India. It was an “executive act”, independent of the census exercise, and done on the orders of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. The SECC was organised not as an OBC survey but to get the caste status of all in the country in order to improve the delivery of targeted benefits. An affidavit filed by the Social Justice Ministry in the Supreme Court in September maintained that a caste census of the Backward Classes was “administratively difficult and cumbersome”. The Centre had clarified in the affidavit that “exclusion of information” regarding any other caste - other than Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes - from the purview of the census is a “conscious policy decision”. The Centre’s position in court had come amid a growing clamour by political parties for a caste-based census, and the ruling BJP’s silence. Senior advocate P. Wilson, who is also a Rajya Sabha member and advocate for an intervenor in the case, said Rs. 4,893 crore and two years were spent on the SECC. Maharashtra said the State had a right to know about the data collected in the SECC, regardless of whether the census was done on the basis of an executive fiat or under the Census Act. Mr. Naphade said the Centre ought to produce the Ministry order for conduct of an SECC. ‘Can’t issue mandamus’ But the court observed that it cannot issue a mandamus to produce the raw data if the SECC was inaccurate and had no “force of law”. “The affidavit [of the Centre] emphatically states that the data which is collated is not accurate and is unusable for any purpose whatsoever. If that is the stand taken by the respondents [Centre], we fail to understand as to how mandamus can be issued to the respondents to permit State of Maharashtra to use the data for any purpose. Such a direction, if issued, would lead to more confusion and uncertainty which cannot be countenanced,” the court noted in its order. While rejecting Maharashtra’s plea, the court clarified that the State could pursue other remedies permissible in law. It noted that merely because Maharashtra was obliged to comply with the “triple test” requirement before enforcing the reservation for OBCs in the local bodies did not mean that the Centre could be ordered to share information which it itself had classified unusable. The State could not be allowed to employ wrong data in the SECC for reservation in its local body elections. “They [Centre] say the data is wrong. How can we issue mandamus for something which has no force of law,” the court said orally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-rejects-maharashtra-plea-for-census-raw-data/article37965485.ece
16 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Nadda leads CMs of BJP-ruled States to Ayodhya||A day after Prime Minister Narenda Modi concluded a two-day tour of Varanasi rich with Hindu symbolism, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief J.P. Nadda on Wednesday led an entourage of a dozen Chief Ministers and Deputy Chief Ministers of BJP-ruled States to another significant town in Uttar Pradesh, Ayodhya, where they visited the site where the Shri Ramjanmabhoomi temple is being constructed. They also offered prayers at the makeshift Ram temple. The BJP leaders offered prayers at the Hanuman Garhi temple and offered puja on the banks of the Sarayu river. Mr. Nadda along with his wife offered prayers at the makeshift Ram temple. He tweeted: “Through the attempts of honourable Narendra Modi ji, a grand temple for Shri Ram Lalla is being constructed.” Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said his heart was filled with joy upon witnessing the construction work of the Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Temple, describing it as a “symbol of the reconstruction of the country” and “restoration of the glorious history of Sanatan Dharma”. Tripura CM Biplab Kumar Deb tweeted: “Along with Chief Ministers of the BJP ruled States, visited the place where a grand Ram Temple will be built soon. I consider myself to be fortunate to have had the chance to visit this sacred place.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nadda-leads-cms-of-bjp-ruled-states-to-ayodhya/article37965443.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||President to open renovated Hindu shrine in Bangladesh||In a symbolic gesture, President Ram Nath Kovind will on Friday inaugurate a famous Hindu shrine that was destroyed by the Pakistani forces during the war of 1971. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said in Dhaka on Wednesday that President Kovind held a wide-ranging discussion with the leadership of Bangladesh during the first day of his 3-day visit and assured them that travellers from Bangladesh will be able to get Indian visa almost “immediately”. “On December 17, President Ram Nath Kovind will inaugurate the renovated Sri Ramna Kali Mandir, which was completely destroyed by Pakistani forces during heinous Operation Searchlight in 1971,” said Mr. Shringla. The Ramna Kali Bari used to be a famous landmark of Dhaka where a Kali temple stood for centuries. The temple and the temple complex housing many residents were targeted on March 27, 1971, a day after the beginning of the Operation Searchlight of the Pakistan army that targeted the political Opposition and the religious minorities of East Pakistan. The temple was destroyed in shelling and many men and women were killed. India supported the renovation and conservation of the historic temple with the help of the Government of Bangladesh. The inauguration comes 50 years after Pakistan was defeated in 1971. Mr. Kovind will participate in the celebrations of Thursday which will mark the victory against Pakistan. President Kovind who reached Dhaka on Wednesday was welcomed at the airport by his counterpart Abdul Hamid. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Foreign Minister A. K. Abdul Momen met him. Easing travel curbs Mr. Shringla said travel by citizens of Bangladesh to India will become easier in the coming months depending on the pandemic situation. He said the visa procedure in the Indian High Commission in Dhaka has become efficient. He also said Bangladesh is an important stakeholder in the Indo-Pacific region and it is for Dhaka to decide if it will join any regional grouping to increase the importance of the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kovind-to-inaugurate-renovated-hindu-shrine-in-bangladesh/article37965466.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||1971 was Indira’s finest year: Sonia||The 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War was an example of perfectly executed political, diplomatic and military strategy that occupies a distinctive place in the history of the sub-continent and shaped geography under Indira Gandhi’s leadership, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said on Wednesday. Ms. Gandhi made these observations while delivering the keynote address at an event organised by the Congress on the eve of the 50th anniversary of India’s victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war and the liberation of Bangladesh. Recalling the boldness and resilience of the former Prime Minister, the Congress chief said, “ ... it will not be an exaggeration to say that 1971 was, in many ways, Indira Gandhi’s finest year — starting with the massive mandate she received in March.” The Congress president said Indira Gandhi understood the implications when the brutal crackdown in Dhaka started and swung into action by reaching out to all political parties, public figures, writing to Presidents, Prime Ministers, dispatching emissaries abroad and having the Soviet Union on India’s side. “And how can we ever forget the manner in which she stood up with the greatest fortitude to the crass insensitivity and crude bullying of the then President of the United States and some of his advisers, and did India proud,” Ms. Gandhi said. The Congress chief also congratulated Bangladesh for graduating from being categorised as a “Least Developed Nation” to a “Developing Nation” by the United Nations. Among those who shared their views on the war included Lieutenant General A.R.K. Reddy, Vice-Admiral S.K. Bhasin and Air Vice Marshal Kapil Kak, distinguished members of the defence forces who participated in the war.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1971-was-indiras-finest-year-sonia/article37965472.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Unlike IPKF, India had an end date to withdraw troops from Dhaka||A date to pull out the Indian troops from Bangladesh was agreed upon even before the troops entered the country in December 1971. This was critical to ensure that India retained its goodwill in Bangladesh, former Indian diplomat Chandrashekhar Dasgupta said. Edited excerpts:  India prepared for nine months for a war that lasted for about nine days. How did this happen? The Government machinery functioned effectively because India had a grand strategy, arguably for the first and only time since 1947. My [new] book shows how in April-May 1971, India formulated a comprehensive plan, which encompassed military, diplomatic and domestic initiatives, with the aim of bringing the Bangladesh liberation war to a successful conclusion by the end of the year. The committee of secretaries worked to this plan in coordination with the armed forces. How would you compare India’s Bangladesh mission with that of the Indian Peace Keeping Force (IPKF) going to Sri Lanka in 1987? Strategic planners often fail to work out a clear exit strategy before they send troops into a foreign country. When planning the Sri Lanka operation in 1987, we seemed to have a vague idea that our troops could be brought home quite soon, but obviously they had no clear plan. In 1971, it was very different. While drawing up plans for joint operations with the Bangladesh authorities — this was in November — we pressed them to indicate the earliest date by which our troops could be withdrawn. When [Sheikh] Mujib passed through Delhi in January, Mrs. [Indira] Gandhi seized the opportunity to discuss the question with him and, in February, Mujib and Mrs. Gandhi agreed on March 31,1972, as the date for completing the withdrawal. Subsequent to that, on Mrs. Gandhi’s request, the date was advanced to March 15. I think it was very, very important to withdraw our troops as soon as it became possible … If our troops were to stay on in Bangladesh for an indefinite period, I think we would have lost much of the goodwill that we earned in December 1971. You point out that India’s external intelligence agency R&AW, in the form of its chief R.N. Kao, had correctly assessed that the West Pakistan establishment would never accept a dominant role for the eastern wing. The R&AW chief Kao offered the assessment that the Pakistan Army and the West Pakistan establishment would never accept a dominant role for Bengalis of the eastern wing. This assessment was offered after the Awami League won an absolute majority of seats in the Pakistan National Assembly elections, which took place in December 1970. The MEA and the Prime Minister’s Office felt that the only hope of a breakthrough in India-Pakistan relations as a whole lay in the Awami League forming a Government in Islamabad as the Pakistan Army and the West Pakistan establishment were so fixated on a policy of perpetual hostility towards India. The hope that the Awami League would be allowed to form a Government at the Centre was dashed on March 25 when the Pakistan Army launched a savage crackdown in which hundreds of thousands were killed and 10 million Bengalis were driven across the borders as refugees in India. Can you specifically tell us about the role of Mrs. Gandhi’s Principal Secretary P.N. Haksar? Mrs. Gandhi largely followed the advice of a set of advisers led by P.N. Haksar, but including also P.N. Dhar, R.N. Kao, the Foreign Secretary T.N. Kaul, on the civilian side, and all these people worked in very close coordination with General [Sam] Maneckshaw, the Army Chief. The principal adviser certainly was Haksar. And it was Haksar who selected D.P. Dhar to coordinate with Bangladesh. Mrs. Gandhi, in most cases, followed their advice. Not in all cases. For example, her advisers favoured signing the treaty of friendship with the Soviet Union even before [U.S. Secretary of State Henry] Kissinger had returned from Beijing. Mrs. Gandhi held out. The credit for 1971 does not go to any single individual, not to Mrs. Gandhi, not to Maneckshaw. It’s shared by innumerable people. To the extent possible, she rose above the temptation of depicting the victory as a personal triumph or a triumph for her party.  (To listen to the podcast, log on to bit.ly/BanglaBook)   The credit for 1971 does not go to any single individual, not to Mrs. Gandhi, not to Maneckshaw. It’s shared by innumerable people||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unlike-ipkf-india-had-an-end-date-to-withdraw-troops-from-dhaka/article37965478.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||Outsiders bought 7 plots in J&K: Home Ministry||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) informed the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that “seven plots of land” have been purchased by persons from outside the Union Territory (UT) of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). “All the seven plots are located in Jammu division,” Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said in a written reply. He was responding to a question by Jharna Das Baidya (CPI-M) on the status of purchase and sale of land in the UT and whether any person who is not a resident can also purchase land there. When Article 370 was read down by Parliament in August 2019, the Home Minister, participating in a debate in the House on August 5 same year, said no industry could be set up and tourism could not develop in the State because of restrictions on land purchase owing to Articles 370 and 35A. In October 2020, the Ministry issued a notification and amended the Land Revenue Act, paving the way for anyone from other parts of the country to buy land in J&K, including agricultural land. Restrictions in 12 States There are 12 States, including Himachal Pradesh, which have provisions to regulate ownership and transfer of land under Article 371 of the Constitution. Earlier, only permanent residents — as defined by the Assembly — were eligible to buy immovable property. In a separate reply to a question by Congress’s K.C. Venugopal in the House, Mr. Rai stated that “the numbers of civilian killings have remained in the range of 37-40 every year during the last five years — 2017 to 2021 [till November 30, 2021].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/outsiders-bought-7-plots-in-jk-home-ministry/article37965456.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition bid to end RS logjam fails||A fresh attempt by the Opposition to find a way out of the impasse in the Rajya Sabha has failed. An opposition delegation met Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday demanding that he arrange a meeting of the two sides. According to informed sources, when Mr. Naidu declined the plea, there was a big showdown and the leaders walked out. At 11 a.m. when the House met, senior Congress leaders Anand Sharma and P. Chidambaram tried to move a motion to terminate the suspension of 12 MPs. The House was adjourned within six minutes by the Chairman after the Opposition insisted that the motion be taken up. Following the adjournment, Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge along with Deputy leader Mr. Anand Sharma, Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh, RJD leader Manoj K Jha and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut met Mr. Naidu. The Opposition leaders urged Mr. Naidu to convene an all-party meeting to resolve the 15-day stalemate on the suspension issue. According to the sources, the Opposition pointed out that Mr. Naidu’s predecessors like Bhairon Singh Shekawat and Hamid Ansari had taken the initiative in the past when faced with similar situations. But Mr. Naidu was unmoved, and said such a meeting would serve no purpose when the suspended members or the leaders of their respective parties were not repentant about their actions and willing to express regret, the sources said. There was a war of words between the two sides and the Opposition delegation walked out in huff. Pawar’s initiative It is also learnt that NCP patriarch Sharad Pawar’s attempt to reach out to Mr. Naidu also failed. At a meeting at Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s residence on Tuesday with the NCP, the Shiv Sena, the CPI(M) and the National Conference, the leaders had urged Mr. Pawar to take the lead to resolve the issue. On Tuesday, Mr. Pawar, according to sources, spoke to Mr. Naidu, but was told that he can do precious little in this case without the suspended members expressing regret. When the House met at noon, the Congress leaders again pushed for the motion to terminate the suspension. But the motion was rejected on technical grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-bid-to-end-rs-logjam-fails/article37965454.ece
16 December 2021||Pune,||BJP targets MVA’s ‘delay’ tactics||The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party and OBC leaders in Maharashtra blamed the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition’s “delay tactics” and “inefficiency” for losing out on reservation for the Other Backward Classes (OBC) in the forthcoming local body polls. The Maharashtra government had sought the socio-economic caste census (SECC 2011) data from the Centre for implementing reservation in the local body polls. However, the apex court quashed the plea on grounds that the Centre had already submitted that the SECC 2011 data had mistakes. Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said, “The OBC community has already suffered as five Zilla Parishad polls were held earlier. The SC’s verdict means elections to two more ZPs [Bhandara and Gondia] and 105 panchayat elections will take place without OBC reserved seats. The Centre clearly said today that it had only socio-economic backwardness data and not any political backwardness data which is required for political reservation. Even if the Centre gives, it won’t fit into the triple test as mandated by the apex court in 2019. But the State had not done the triple test,” Mr. Fadnavis said. BJP leader Chandrashekhar Bawankule, an important OBC leader from Vidarbha region, said the State government did not give adequate funds to the Maharashtra State Backward Classes Commission to complete its survey to prove the political backwardness of the OBCs. The issue was sacrificed due to politics between NCP and the Congress, whose leader Vijay Wadettiwar was in charge of OBC affairs. In damage control mode, senior NCP leader Chhagan Bhujbal said attempts were on to collect data by January 17 (the next date of hearing) and urged Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to look into this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-targets-mvas-delay-tactics/article37965906.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indigenous efforts to make UAVs crosses a milestone||The indigenous Medium Altitude Long Endurance (MALE) Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) development programme by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has crossed a milestone by reaching an altitude of 25,000 feet and an endurance of 10 hours, Secretary R&D and DRDO Chairman Dr. Sateesh Reddy said. Within two months, we will demonstrate an altitude of 30,000 feet and 18 hours endurance meeting the requirements of the Services, said Dr. Tessy Thomas, Director General (Aeronautical Systems), DRDO. It has advanced capabilities and meets the requirements of the three Services, Dr. Thomas said. Once the capabilities are demonstrated in two months, it should be ready to be handed to the Services. A programme for a more capable High Altitude Long Range (HALE) UAV is also in the works, Dr. Thomas said. It technologically matches contemporary UAVs available and will also be cheaper than the imported ones, officials said. With some delays in development, the Rustom-2 last year successfully flew for eight hours at an altitude of 16,000 feet. It has been designed and developed by the Aeronautical Development Establishment (ADE), Bengaluru with production partners being the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd and the Bharat Electronics Limited. It is being developed to carry out surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) roles and is capable of carrying different combinations of advanced payload and capable of auto landing among others. High endurance UAVs are a priority requirement for the armed forces especially in the standoff with China in Eastern Ladakh. The armed forces rely heavily on the Israeli Searcher and Heron drones and need more such UAVs. Fire-fighting suit On Tuesday, among several systems Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had handed to the Home Ministry over a structural fire-fighting suit developed by DRDO’s Centre for Fire, Explosive and Environment Safety (CFEES), Delhi. The suit weighing 2.8 kg is an ensemble of several layers, with the outer layer being the most durable and protects against heat, flames, water, chemicals and also against cuts and abrasion, according to the DRDO. Such a suit has been developed for the first time in the country and meets European standards while at the same time lowering import costs, said Dr. Prasun Roy from CFEES.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indigenous-efforts-to-make-uavs-crosses-a-milestone/article37965464.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Ensure medical-grade oxygen plants are fully operational’||The Health Ministry has directed that States should schedule and conduct mock drills of all installed and commissioned pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generating plants which are a source of medical-grade oxygen. This it said is to ensure that the plants are in fully operational status, so that the oxygen with the required quantity, pressure and purity reaches the intended patients at their bedside. These drills are to be completed by the end of December and report submitted to the Ministry through designated portals for live tracking and monitoring of the functional status of the equipment. States have also been requested to complete the pending oxygen audit reports and submit them through the designated portal by the end of December. States have now been asked to review and monitor the status of the PSA plants, oxygen concentrators, ventilators, cylinders, liquid medical oxygen (LMO) plants and medical gas pipeline systems (MGPS) on a daily basis to ensure that the gap between the equipment and systems delivered to the districts and installed at the healthcare facilities is reduced to zero. ECRP-II funds have been sanctioned to States for installation of LMO storage tanks and MGPS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ensure-medical-grade-oxygen-plants-are-fully-operational/article37965480.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Webinar on art integrated learning to be held tomorrow||A webinar on ‘Art Integrated learning’ presented by Pidilite and Fevicreate Idea Labs along with The Hindu EducationPlus will be held on December 17 at 5 p.m. Envisaged as a pedagogy applicable to all levels of school education, Art Integrated Learning (AIL) is a framework of experiential learning which aims to develop the cognitive, socio-emotional and psychomotor domains of the learner. In AIL, art becomes a key to understanding concepts within a subject in the curriculum and becomes the medium of teaching and learning. It has opened spaces for the existence of learning that is both inter-disciplinary and holistic in nature, at multiple levels. Gautam Suri, president, Consumer Products, Pidilite Industries Ltd; Rajesh Mahajan, Principal, Jan Gan Man English Secondary School, and Arundhati Ghosh, Executive Director, India Foundation for the Arts (IFA), will speak as part of a panel moderated by Soma Basu, Deputy Editor, The Hindu . To register for the webinar, visit https://bit.ly/FEVITH or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-on-art-integrated-learning-to-be-held-tomorrow/article37965448.ece
16 December 2021||Srinagar,||Hizb ‘commander’ killed in Pulwama||A Hizbul Mujahideen ‘commander’ was killed and a missing policeman held in two separate incidents in Kashmir on Wednesday. A police spokesman said Hizb ‘commander Feroz Ahmad Dar from Shopian’s Heff-Shrimal was killed during an anti-militancy operation launched in Uzrampathri area of Pulwama on Tuesday night, following a specific input. “During the search operation, he was given repeated opportunities to surrender. Later, the police and the security forces neutralised the ‘A+’ categorised terrorist,” the spokesman said. The police said Dar was behind several attacks including killing of four police personnel in 2018 and a non-local labourer, Charnajeet, in 2019. The police said one A-K rifle and three magazines were recovered from him. Missing policeman held A Personal Security Officer of a BJP activist and his associate, who were reported missing along with two service rifles from north Kupwara, were arrested on Wednesday. The duo went missing during the intervening night of December 12-13 when they were deployed at the house of Abdul Rashid Zargar. The police have not officially confirmed their arrest. They had announced a cash prize of Rs. 5 lakh for those who could provide information about them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hizb-commander-killed-in-pulwama/article37965445.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||Columbia Journalism School award for Malini Parthasarathy||The Columbia Journalism School on Tuesday named The Hindu Group chairperson Malini Parthasarathy as one of its alumni award recipients for 2022. In a statement, the Columbia Journalism School Office of Alumni and Development said: “As head of The Hindu Group, which publishes several daily newspapers and bi-monthly magazines, Malini Parthasarathy is steering a journey of digital transformation of the company’s editorial products, particularly the 143-year old flagship national daily newspaper, The Hindu .” Dr. Parthasarathy, who was in the class of 1982, had earlier served separate stints as the Editor and Executive Editor of The Hindu , the statement added. “She led the launch of the Mumbai edition of the paper and helped increase readership by 20%. Parthasarathy has been a political journalist for over three decades, writing news stories and editorials on major themes in Indian politics, including the rise of Hindu nationalism and the consequent challenges to the existing political consensus,” the statement read. Responding to the announcement, Dr. Parthasarathy said in a tweet: “Am deeply honoured by and grateful for this recognition by my iconic alma mater @columbiajourn. This is certainly one of my happiest moments in my long journey in journalism. It makes all the struggles so worthwhile!”. Think tank founder Dr. Parthasarathy also founded a think tank, the Hindu Centre for Politics and Public Policy, “intended as a credible and independent platform for an exploration of ideas and public policies with the aim of rebuilding public faith in India’s democratic process,” the Columbia Journalism School statement added. Other recipients of the awards include Eric Marcus, the founder and host of ‘Making Gay History’ podcast; Stuart Schear, the vice-president for communications and marketing at American Jewish World Service; and Thomas Maier, an investigative journalist with Newsday and author.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/columbia-journalism-school-award-for-malini-parthasarathy/article37965462.ece
16 December 2021||Kolkata,||Durga Puja gets intangible cultural heritage tag||Durga Puja in Kolkata, one of largest cultural carnivals and street art festival of the country, on Wednesday received an important international recognition by making it to UNESCO’s Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. “Durga Puja in #Kolkata has just been inscribed on the #IntangibleHeritage list! Inscriptions to the Representative List are one of the several ways by which #UNESCO advocates the promotion and safeguarding of intangible cultural heritage,” the UNESCO office in New Delhi tweeted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the West Bengal government welcomed the announcement. “A matter of great pride and joy for every Indian,” Mr. Modi tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/durga-puja-gets-intangible-cultural-heritage-tag/article37965473.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||Cabinet nod likely for electoral reforms Bill||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday is learnt to have cleared a Bill on electoral reforms, including the one to link electoral roll with Aadhaar on a voluntary basis to root out multiple enrolments. The Bill is likely to be introduced in the ongoing winter session. According to the Bill, the electoral law will also be made “gender neutral” for service voters. An Army man’s wife is entitled to be enrolled as a service voter, but a woman Army officer’s husband is not, according to provisions in the electoral law. But this may change once the Bill gets Parliament’s nod. The poll panel had asked the Law Ministry to replace the term ‘wife’ with ‘spouse’ in the provision in the Representation of the People Act related to service voters. Four days for enrolment Another provision of the proposed Bill will allow the youth to enrol as voters on four different dates every year. As of now, those turning 18 on or before January 1 of every year are only allowed to register as voters. The Election Commission of India (ECI) had been pushing for multiple cut-off dates to allow more eligible people to register as voters. Currently, only an individual who has attained the age of 18 as on January 1 of that year or before is eligible to be enrolled in the voters’ list. The EC had told the Government that the January 1 cut-off date deprives several youth from participating in the electoral exercise held in a particular year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-nod-likely-for-electoral-reforms-bill/article37965525.ece
16 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Ajay Mishra caught on camera abusing scribes||Union Minister Ajay Kumar Mishra ‘Teni’ landed in a fresh controversy on Wednesday as he was caught on camera allegedly hurling abuses and attempting to pounce at a journalist who asked him on additional charges slapped against his son Ashish Mishra, an accused in the killing of four farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri in October. The Minister was giving media bytes to journalists after inaugurating an oxygen plant in a children hospital in Oel when a journalist Naveen Awasthi asked him, “Mantriji, what do you have to say about the new charges added against your son?” ‘Stupid questions’ Mr. Ajay Mishra, the MP from Kheri, who had been calmly responding to the questions till then, suddenly lost his cool and asked the reporter to not ask “stupid questions.” “ Aisa hai, bewakoofi ke sawaal mat kara karo. Dimaag kharab hai kya bey [Look, don’t ask stupid questions. Are you mad or what],” Mr. Ajay Mishra asked the journalist. The Minister abused the journalist fraternity with an expletive and referred to them as “ chor ” (thieves) and tried to snatch the phone of another reporter. He also asked the reporter to stop recording the conversation and pointed out that the chargesheet was yet to be filed in the Tikonia case in which his son Ashish, currently lodged in jail, is the main accused. Journalist’s charge Another journalist Himanshu Srivastava alleged that BJP workers who were present there snatched his phone and did not return it. Opposition parties as well as farmer outfits have been demanding that Mr. Ajay Mishra be sacked as Minister after his son was accused of murder. The Special Investigation Team probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence of October 3 has described the killing of four farmers and a journalist as a “pre-planned conspiracy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ajay-mishra-caught-on-camera-abusing-scribes/article37965469.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||CBSE stops same day evaluation at exam hubs||More than halfway through its first term Board examination schedule, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has decided to change its evaluation system and stop same day correction of answer sheets in examination centres for the remaining Class 12 exams. In a circular issued by CBSE Controller of Examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj on Wednesday, about 14,000 exam centres were given directions for a new system starting on December 16, until the exams conclude on December 30. “All the Centre superintendents will pack and seal the OMR [optical mark recognition] sheets within 15 minutes after the examination is over, in the presence of the Observer. The Centre Superintendent and Observer will sign on the sealed parcel and mention the time of packing also. Once OMRs are packed and sealed, the same will be dispatched to the concerned Regional Office,” said the circular. It also had instructions for printing question papers after students have entered the exam centre. Apart from machine scanning, the answer sheets were also manually evaluated at the exam centre itself within the two-and-a-half-hours following the exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-stops-same-day-evaluation-at-exam-hubs/article37965527.ece
16 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Yogi to include people’s suggestions in manifesto||With just a couple of months left for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, the ruling BJP is preparing to draft its election manifesto, the process for which was launched on Wednesday with the “UP number one” campaign. Claiming that the BJP had fulfilled all promises made in its 2017 election manifesto, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the BJP would now seek fresh suggestions from people across all 403 constituencies to draft a Lok Kalyan Patra for 2022 under the “ Sujhaav aapka , sankalp hamara ” (‘your suggestion, our resolve’) campaign. Issues on cow protection, law and order, farmers, and alleged caste and minority appeasement, ranged high in Mr. Adityanath’s address as he juxtaposed his performance with that of the previous Samajwadi Party (SP) government. Every appointment made in U.P. before 2017 would be “controversial” because of one family’s eagerness for “ vasooli ” (extortion), he said, taking at dig at the family of SP president Akhilesh Yadav. Referring to the 2015 controversy over the appointments of sub divisional magistrates and the results of the U.P Public Service Commission, Mr. Adityanath accused the SP regime of favouring Yadavs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-bjp-gets-ready-to-draft-poll-manifesto/article37965444.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nod to extend irrigation scheme for five years||The Cabinet has given its approval to extend its umbrella scheme for irrigation, water supply, ground water and watershed development projects for another five years. Less than half of the identified irrigation projects have been completed since the scheme began in 2015, said Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. The extension of the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana till 2026 will cost Rs. 93,068 crore, benefit 22 lakh farmers and fund dams critical for water supply to Delhi and five other States in the upper Yamuna basin, said an official statement from the Cabinet Committee for Economic Affairs. “In 2015-16, 99 projects were identified which were completed more than 50% but had been pending for years. Of the 99 projects, 46 have been completed. The rest will be completed by 2024-25,” Mr. Shekhawat said. The additional irrigation potential creation target over the next five years is 13.88 lakh hectares. Additional projects can be taken up with relaxed inclusion criteria being brought in for projects in tribal and drought-prone areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nod-to-extend-irrigation-scheme-for-five-years/article37965449.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Rs. 76,000 crore push for semiconductor makers||“The India Semiconductor Mission will be led by global experts in semiconductor and display industry. It will act as the nodal agency for efficient and smooth implementation of the schemes on semiconductors and display ecosystem,” it added. Trusted sources of semiconductors and displays had strategic importance in the current geopolitical scenario and were “key to the security of critical information infrastructure”, the government said. “The approved programme will propel innovation and build domestic capacities to ensure the digital sovereignty of India. It will also create highly skilled employment opportunities to harness the demographic dividend of the country,” it added. Announcing the scheme at a press briefing, Electronics and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said electronics manufacturing in the country had increased to $75 billion over the past seven years and was expected to reach $300 billion in the next six years. The “chips to start-ups” programme would develop 85,000 well-trained engineers, he said. Semiconductor designers would be given the opportunity to begin start-ups. The government would bear 50% of the expense under the design-linked incentive scheme. The entire programme would lead to 35,000 high-quality direct jobs and indirect employment for 1 lakh persons. Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said the scheme was expected to attract investment of Rs. 1.67 lakh crore and lead to production worth Rs. 9.5 lakh crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-76000-crore-push-for-semiconductor-makers/article37965457.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Lone survivor of IAF chopper crash dies||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh tweeted that he was pained beyond words. “He was a true fighter who fought till his last breath. My thoughts and deepest condolences are with his family and friends. We stand firmly with the family in this hour of grief,” he said. The Mi-17V5 was on its way from Sulur to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC), Wellington, when it crashed in the Nilgiris close to the destination. Group Captain Singh was posted at the DSSC as an instructor when he passed away. Group Captain Singh, who belongs to Bhopal, graduated from the National Defence Academy in 2003. He was commissioned as a fighter pilot in 2004 and mainly flew Jaguars and Tejas during his flying career. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. After the crash, Group Captain Singh, who was the Directing Staff at the DSSC, was taken to the Military Hospital, Wellington, and later moved to the Command Hospital, Bengaluru, where his condition remained critical despite best efforts by doctors. He sustained severe burns in the accident and remained unconscious, officials said. Paying tributes to Group Captain Singh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on social media, “Group Captain Varun Singh served the nation with pride, valour and utmost professionalism. I am extremely anguished by his passing away. His rich service to the nation will never be forgotten. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti.” In August, he was conferred Shaurya Chakra, India’s third-highest peacetime gallantry award, for exceptional gallantry as a Wing Commander in October 2020 when he was posted with a LCA squadron. On October 12, 2020, he was flying a test sortie in the LCA when an emergency developed due to the failure of cockpit pressurisation at high altitude. “He displayed extraordinary courage and skill to safely land the fighter aircraft. The pilot went beyond the call of duty and landed the aircraft taking calculated risks. This allowed an accurate analysis of the fault on the indigenously designed fighter and further institution of preventive measures against recurrence,” the citation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lone-survivor-of-iaf-chopper-crash-dies/article37965458.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Opposition seeks Ajay Mishra’s ouster||Leader of the Rajya Sabha and Minister Piyush Goyal said the matter was sub judice and could not be discussed in Parliament. But Mr. Gandhi asserted that Mr. Mishra had to resign and the Congress would continue to fight until “he lands in jail”. “Its obvious who is behind this conspiracy and how it was done. We wanted to discuss this in Parliament, want the resignation of the Minister, but the government isn’t allowing it,” Mr. Gandhi told reporters. The Congress alleged that the Minister was involved yet Prime Minister Narendra Modi hasn’t sacked him from his Council of Ministers. “When I had gone there, I had promised to them [families of the victims] that I will ensure justice. Without pressure, there won’t be justice. In the end, the Minister has to resign and we wont relent until he lands in a jail, even if it takes 5,10 or 15 years,” Mr. Gandhi stated. As soon as the proceedings began , Opposition members trooped into the well of the House, waving newspaper reports on the findings of the SIT and demanded the resignation of the MoS Home. “I always give adequate time to members to raise issues. You [protesting members] are disrupting the Question Hour. It is not a good tradition and does not respect the dignity of the House,” Speaker Om Birla told the Opposition members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-seeks-ajay-mishras-ouster/article37965459.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Researcher finds security flaw in voter database||An alumnus of the Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati, Mr. Kothapalli sent the alert by way of vulnerability submission to the CERT on October 22, 2021. Though an acknowledgement was supposed to be given within 72 hours, he received a reply only on December 7, 2021 saying that the emergency response team was in touch with the authorities concerned to take appropriate action. On December 14, 2021 he confirmed that the vulnerability had been patched. “The plugging of the loophole has not only prevented a major data leak — exposing the personal mobile phone numbers of several crores of voters across the country — but averted a possible scam during the process of elections. By accessing a mobile number, and using another vulnerability I found, we can send an SMS that will appear as if it came from credible Government IDs. For instance, we can send a message to a voter giving some misleading information that could deprive him/her of casting the vote. So one can imagine this on a larger scale, impacting crores of votes across India,” says Mr. Kothapalli. Explaining how he came across the vulnerability, the security researcher said he had visited the NVPS portal to download his e-EPIC. After entering the EPIC number and State name, the system would send an OTP to the registered mobile number for further authentication. “This is where the vulnerability got exposed. While the OTP went to the voter’s mobile number, the response sent to the browser had the voter’s un-redacted phone number. While this is not visible on the screen, any person with the basic technical know-how of how websites work can figure out how to get it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/researcher-finds-security-flaw-in-voter-database/article37965460.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Investigative reporting fading: CJI||Investigative journalism is vanishing from the media canvas and “everything in our garden appears to be rosy”, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana commented drily. A former journalist himself, the country’s topmost judge said barring one or two, he could not recall a single article in the media which had created waves recently. “The collective failures of individuals and institutions entrusted with the role of protectors need to be highlighted by the media. People need to be made aware of deficiencies in the process,” Chief Justice Ramana said at the launch of a book, Blood Sanders: The Great Forest Heist , by journalist Sudhakar Reddy Udumula. The CJI reminisced of a time when people would look to newspapers for exposing big scandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/investigative-reporting-fading-cji/article37965467.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Secondary agamas||The 28 Saiva Agamas are classified into two categories — Siva bheda and Rudra bheda. Agamas in both categories have upa agamas or secondary agamas, said R. Narayanan in a discourse, and went on to list them. The upa agamas for Agamas from Vijaya to Siddha, which come under the Rudra bheda category are as follows: Vijaya, Udbhava, Saumya, Aghora, Mrutyunasana, Kubera, Mahaghora and Vimala for Vijaya agama; Nisvasa, Nisvasottara, Nisvasa Subhodaya, Nisvasanayana, Nisvasakarika, Nisvasaghora, Nisvasaguhya, Mantra Nisvasa for Nisvasa; Prajapati mata, Padma and Nalinodbhava for Swayambhuva; Agneya for Agneya; Prastara, Pulla, Amala, Prabodhaya, Amogha, Mohasamaya, Sakata, Sakatadika, Bhadra, Vilekana, Veera, Hala and Bodhaka for Veera; Kaalaagnya, Kaaladahana, Raurava, Ravuravottara, Mahakaalamata and Aindra for Raura; Makutottara and Makuta for Makuta Agama; Ananta, Bhoga, Akranta, Vrushapinga, Vrushodara, Vrushadbhuta, Sudanta, Raudra, Bhadravidha, Arevata, Atikranta, Attahasa, Alankruta, Arcita, Dharana and Vimala for Vimala Agama; Brahma, Sthanu, Mahanta, Varuna, Nandikesvara, Ekapada purana, Saankara, Nilarudrakama, Sivabhadra, Kalpabheda, Srimukha, Sivaasana, Sivasekhara and Devimata for Chandrajnana; Chaturmukha, Samstobha, Pratibimba. Ayoga, Atmalankara, Vayavya, Pattasekhara, Trautika, Tutiniraka, Kuttima, Tulayoga, Kaalatyaya, Mahasaura, Nairuta and Mahavidya for Mukhabimba; Vaaraaha, Kavaca, Pasabandha, Pingalamata, Ankusa, Dandadara, Dhanurdara, Sivajnana, Vijnana, Srikaalajnana, Ayurveda, Sarpada, Staravibhedana, Gitaka, Bharata and Atogya for Prodgita; Lalitha, Lalitottara and Kaumara for Lalitha; Saarotttara, Aushana and Sasimandala for Siddha Agama.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/secondary-agamas/article37965483.ece
16 December 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmers leave Ghazipur protest site||Farmers at the Ghazipur border returned to their respective towns and villages after holding a ‘fateh’ (victory) march on Wednesday, celebrating their success in getting the three Central farm laws repealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-leave-ghazipur-protest-site/article37965526.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||CJI slams Govt. on use of ED in petty cases||The Supreme Court on Wednesday criticised the indiscriminate use of the Enforcement Directorate under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) even for cases involving “Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 100 cases”. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said the Act would get diluted and lose its relevance if not used sparingly. “You are diluting the Act... If you start using it as a weapon against 10000 rupees case and 100 rupees case, what will happen? You cannot put all people behind bars. You have to use it sparingly,” the court addressed Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju, for the Government. The Bench said “this is not the way it (PMLA) works... It is not for every case”. The court was hearing an appeal by steel company Usha Martin Limited against a Jharkhand High Court order relating to export of Iron Ore Fines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-slams-govt-on-use-of-ed-in-petty-cases/article37965468.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||RS discusses spike in cases of Omicron||Increased transmissibility of COVID-19 variant Omicron, need for booster dose and measures to offer protection to unvaccinated children were among the topics discussed in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday during a “short discussion on the situation arising out of Omicron variant”, with the Opposition continuing to demand revocation of the suspension of 12 members. Tamil Maanila Congress’s G.K. Vasan said the States and the Central Government should work together to ensure that the general population stayed protected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-discusses-spike-in-cases-of-omicron/article37965481.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||OBC quota: SC ruling a blow to Uddhav||In a blow to the Uddhav Thackeray Government in Maharshtra, the Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the State Election Commission (SEC) to revert 27% seats reserved for Other Backward Classes (OBC) in local body elections to “general category”. The court ordered the Commission to denotify the 27% seats as OBC and issue fresh notification declaring them as belonging to the general category within a week. The court said the final results of the remaining 73% seats, for which the local body elections process were already on, and the freshly notified 27% should be declared on the same day. Following triple test The court had, on December 6, stayed the elections to the 27% OBC reserved seats. It had allowed the local body election process for the remaining 73% to continue. The order came in a petition challenging a Maharashtra Ordinance which introduced 27% reservation for OBC category in local elections. The SEC had subsequently issued notifications to give effect to the ordinance. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar found that the Maharshtra Government had not complied with the “triple test” requirement before reserving the local body seats for OBC. It said a “triple test” has to be followed before deciding on the extent of quota to a category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/obc-quota-sc-ruling-a-blow-to-uddhav/article37965490.ece
16 December 2021||Kolkata,||Give Pegasus probe details, Governor tells Mamata govt.||In a fresh face-off between the West Bengal Government and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, the latter on Wednesday said he had not been informed of Pegasus inquiry panel set up by the State and sought documentation on it. Mr. Dhankhar tweeted: “As no documentation was brought to his notice regarding WB Govt Notification #Pegasus Inquiry Panel, WB Governor has directed Chief Secretary @MamataOfficial to make available the same by tomorrow 5 p.m., indicating his earlier failure is not in accord with constitutional norms.” In July this year, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced the setting up of a two-member Commission of Inquiry comprising retired Supreme Court Justice Madan Bhimrao Lokur and former Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court Jyotirmay Bhattacharya to probe the Pegasus spyware row. “Everyone is under surveillance…We had hoped that Centre will start an inquiry into the Pegasus row under the supervision of the Supreme Court. But this Government did nothing even when Parliament is in session. Therefore, before going to Delhi, we have taken the decision to set up a Commission of Inquiry...,” Ms. Banerjee had said at that time.  Details sought Communications shared by the Governor on social media pointed out that he had sought details on the matter on December 6. However, since there had been no response from the Government, Mr. Dhankhar has provided “one final opportunity” to make available the notification and related proceedings by 5 p.m. on December 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/give-pegasus-probe-details-governor-tells-mamata-govt/article37965452.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||SC grants relief for Raghav Bahl||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted protection to media baron Raghav Bahl from any coercive action of the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case. The case arises from a complaint by the Income Tax department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-grants-relief-for-raghav-bahl/article37965470.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||NHRC orders Rs. 15 lakh compensation in 19 cases||The National Human Rights Commission has recommended compensation of Rs. 15 lakh in 19 rights violation cases in Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura, including the case of rape of a minor by a paramilitary official, an NHRC statement said on Wednesday. Holding a two-day camp in Shillong on Tuesday and Wednesday, its first since the pandemic began, the full Bench of the commission heard six cases from Meghalaya, three from Mizoram and 10 from Tripura. The matters included two cases of death of workers in illegal mines and one case of death in judicial custody in West Jaintia Hills in Meghalaya. In the case of rape of a girl by a paramilitary person in Tripura, the NHRC recommended Rs. 7 lakh be paid to the survivor. In cases where compensation had been recommended earlier, including Rs. 3 lakh in the case of an encounter death in Meghalaya and Rs. 5 lakh in the case of rights violation in police custody in Mizoram, the commission asked the States to submit proof of payment, the statement said. The NHRC said it would hold its next camps on Thursday and Friday to hear 31 cases pertaining to some northeastern States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-orders-rs-15-lakh-compensation-in-19-cases/article37965482.ece
16 December 2021||Mumbai,||Charges against Deshmukh: HC dismisses Maharashtra plea for SIT||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea filed by the Maharashtra Government seeking to form a special investigation team (SIT) to probe corruption allegations against Anil Deshmukh, former Home Minister. The petition also raises a grievance that the CBI and its officers are harassing the senior-most officers of the State and therefore an intervention is required from the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/charges-against-deshmukh-hc-dismisses-maharashtra-plea-for-sit/article37965488.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED seizes Rs. 51.22 crore in micro loan scam||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has seized over Rs. 51.22 crore lying in the bank and virtual accounts of PC Financial Services Private Limited, taking the total seizure so far to Rs. 288 crore in a case involving the alleged extortion of high interest rates against micro personal loans given via mobile apps. The agency, which has taken the latest action under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), is already probing several NBFC and fintech firms under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-seizes-rs-5122-crore-in-micro-loan-scam/article37965441.ece
16 December 2021||Kolkata,||Calcutta HC refuses to stay Kolkata civic polls scheduled for Sunday||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday refused to stay the election to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation scheduled on December 19. The Bharatiya Janata Party had approached the court seeking simultaneous polls to all 112 municipalities. A division bench set aside the petition but directed the State Election Commission and the State Government to take steps to hold polls to the remaining 111 municipal bodies at the earliest. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee started campaign for her party’s candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/calcutta-hc-refuses-to-stay-kolkata-civic-polls-scheduled-for-sunday/article37965451.ece
16 December 2021||Mumbai,||HC refuses to quash FIR against senior Maharashtra IPS officer||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday refused to quash the FIR against senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla for allegedly leaking confidential data and directed the Maharashtra Government to give seven days advance notice to her before taking any coercive action. “Since the FIR discloses a cognisable offence, the police have a duty to investigate. No ground is made out to quash the FIR and to prevent any further investigation,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-refuses-to-quash-fir-against-senior-maharashtra-ips-officer/article37965486.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||Nexus between asset reconstruction companies and borrower groups detected||The Income-Tax Department has conducted searches at 60 locations linked to four asset reconstruction companies in multiple cities, on the charge that they adopted fraudulent trade practices in acquiring the non-performing assets (NPA) from lender banks and had nexus with the borrower groups. “More often than not, the underlying assets had been re-acquired by the same borrower group, albeit at a fraction of their real values,” said the agency. The searches took place in Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nexus-between-asset-reconstruction-companies-and-borrower-groups-detected/article37965440.ece
16 December 2021||Belagavi,TAMIL NADU||Bommai holds meet on anti-conversion Bill||Preparing ground for the introduction of the controversial anti-conversion Bill in the ongoing Winter session, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday chaired a meeting with senior Cabinet colleagues and officials to give final touches to the proposed legislation. Meanwhile, Opposition Congress is getting set to oppose the Bill, arguing that it is being sneaked in without the draft Bill being shared. The Janata Dal (Secular) too is set to oppose the Bill when it is introduced. Powers to DCs Sources said the provisions include powers to be given to the Deputy Commissioner to take suo motu action if he/she gets information of mass conversions taking place. Besides, action is being proposed against any individual or organisation propagating religion by decrying the other religions. Punishment for conversion based on coercion or inducement could range from three to 10 years. Sources said that Home Minister Araga Jnanendra and Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy attended the meeting to brief the Chief Minister before the Bill is brought before the Cabinet. “The Bill is almost in the final stages and we will introduce it as early as possible. The Cabinet clearance is awaited. We are ready for discussion,” Mr. Jnanendra told The Hindu . “We are committed to introducing the Bill.” Differences of opinion Alleging difference of opinion in the State Cabinet on introducing the Bill, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar accused the Government of attempting to introduce the Bill in a hushed manner. “We know that the Government will introduce the anti-conversion Bill at the last moment. The Government is deliberately trying to divert attention by raising religious issues as elections are approaching,” he told reporters in Belagavi after a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) on Wednesday. “The Government is not circulating the draft Bill, and there are differences of opinion in the Cabinet.” Stating that the Congress would oppose the Bill both in the House and outside, Mr. Shivakumar added: “We will oppose the Bill. This Bill is against the Constitution. We already have a law, and there is no need for a new law. When many religions exist, the State cannot have a law that targets one particular religion.” Expressing fear of the Bill giving rise to law and order problems, Mr. Shivakumar said, “This will impact investments coming to the State. Investments are expected to come down over the law and order issues. Currently, we are a preferred industrial destination.” JD(S) too JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Wednesday told reporters in New Delhi that the party was opposed to the Bill. Deputy Leader of the JD(S) Legislature Party Bandeppa Kashempur said the legislature party meeting in Belagavi on Wednesday also decided to oppose the Bill since it was not consistent with the constitutional provisions. However, the party did not clarify whether it will vote against theBill in the Legislative Council where its support to the BJP is crucial. The support of the JD(S) that has 12 members is crucial for the passage of the Bill in the 75-member Upper House where the BJP, with 32 members, is short of majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bommai-holds-meet-on-anti-conversion-bill/article37965496.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Velu inaugurates work on Singaperumal Koil overpass||Work to construct a road-over-bridge to replace level crossing no. 47 near Singaperumal Koil will resume shortly with Minister for Public Works, Highways and Minor Ports E.V. Velu on Wednesday laying the foundation for the remaining work taken up at a cost of Rs. 90.74 crore. The work on the overpass was taken up under Railway Works Programme 2006-07 and it commenced in February 2011 with a sanctioned amount of Rs. 52.89 crore. After completion of work on the Sriperumbudur side, it had to be stopped in October 2014 for obtaining NoC from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). This, because, the rotary part of the ROB had to be constructed over the GST Road, which is under the control of the NHAI. Later, when the government decided to form the Chennai Peripheral Ring Road connecting Mamallapuram with Ennore Port, it was decided to integrate the overpass. Accordingly, the design of rotary was modified to link it with the Chennai Peripheral Ring Road. The NHAI accorded its in-principle approval for the same in June 2016. Mr. Velu said that the 740-metre overpass with a 130-metre long rotary and 48 spans will be completed in 30 months. On completion, motorists proceeding to Sriperumbudur and Kancheepuram would benefit. The Minister laid the foundation stone for the construction of a grade separator on the Vandalur-Walajabad Road at the Singaperumal Koil that will be completed in 18 months at an estimated cost of Rs. 26.64 crore. The four lane-wide facility with 11 spans would be 690.95-metre long. Relief for motorists Once the grade separator is completed, it would be of great help to vehicles to reach Padappai and Oragadam. Although it had been proposed to form a bypass, the proposal was changed to a grade separator to reduce land acquisition. The inaugural function was attended by Minister of Rural Industries T.M. Anbarasan, Member of Parliament for Kancheepuram Selvam Sree Ganesan and Member of the Legislative Assembly of Chengalpattu M. Varalakshmi Madhusoodanan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/velu-inaugurates-work-on-singaperumal-koil-overpass/article37965659.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Experts lay stress on reliable data||Highlighting that inadequate and unreliable data crucially affected policy making, former Chief Economic Advisor (CEA) Arvind Subramanian on Wednesday said that the brutal way in which the second wave of COVID-19 affected the country was partly due to the under-reporting of deaths during the first wave. During a virtual panel discussion on the recently launched book ‘Whole numbers and half truths,’ authored by journalist S. Rukmini, he said the complacency the country showed in early 2021 before the second wave was in a way fed by the lack of data on excess deaths. Recalling the discussions around growth and policy interventions during his tenure as the CEA, he said his concerns over the economy and the need for expansionary fiscal and monetary policies did not find traction within the government as the official numbers showed that the country’s economy was growing around 7%. He said the openness needed while approaching and understanding science, data, research and statistics was becoming more difficult and challenging in the modern era due to the social media, echo chambers and the rise of identity politics all over the world. “There is a sense that the citizens for whatever reasons have already made up their mind,” he said. As an example, he said that if he were to say that the gross domestic product was mismeasured, and if the people had already made up their mind that he belonged to a particular camp, then the battle was already lost. ‘Publish raw data’ Ms. Rukmini said one of the ways for journalists to improve trust was to publish the raw data that they used for their articles on public domains for interested people to check and arrive at their own understanding. Stressing on the importance of explaining the data to the public, she, however, said that publishing raw data alone should not be seen as a shorthand to transparency. Cherry picking of data was a problem on all sides of the political spectrum. There was a need for journalists to be cautious against cherry picking data, she said. While acknowledging that there were several issues with government data, she said that hard evidence on large scale manipulation or fudging of data had not been found yet. A.S. Panneerselvan, former Readers’ Editor of The Hindu and fellow of Roja Muthiah Research Library, who moderated the discussion, said a major problem with journalism was that media organisations had stopped investing in in-house domain expertise. The problem was only partially due to the financial stress the media organisations were facing. Elaborating on the twin roles of journalism that included ‘bearing witness’ and ‘making sense,’ he said while bearing witness was to happen through reporting, making sense was supposed to happen via the opinion pages. There was a worrying trend of views trumping news as the idea of bearing witness, which involved reporting, cost money.  There is a sense that the citizens for whatever reasons have already made up their mind||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/experts-lay-stress-on-reliable-data/article37965667.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State likely to experience dry weather for next few days||Most parts of Tamil Nadu may remain dry for the next 10 days except for isolated rain in southern parts till December 19, indicating the weakening phase of the Northeast monsoon. The Meteorological Department has predicted that light to moderate rain may occur at isolated places over south Tamil Nadu due to wind convergence. Dry weather is likely to prevail over northern parts, Puducherry and Karaikal area till December 19. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday, Agaram Seegoor in Perambalur district and Maduranthakam in Chengalpattu district received 3cm of rainfall each, which was the day’s highest volume in the State. Nagapattinam recorded 2.3 cm of rain between 8.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. on Wednesday and Yercaud and Karaikal too experienced light rain. Though a low pressure area is likely to form over equatorial Indian ocean and southwest Bay of Bengal around Friday, it may not have an impact over Tamil Nadu, the officials said. The department has issued a warning to fishermen in the southern parts of Tamil Nadu as strong winds of speed reaching 35-45 km per hour may prevail over Comorin area till Sunday. N.Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, said once the weather system forms, winds may move towards the direction and this may reduce prospects of rain over the State. Wind speed may also decrease. Chennai too may begin to experience dry weather and mist cover during early morning hours may occur in three or four days. Trend may continue On Wednesday, the weather stations in Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded a maximum temperature of 30.1 degree Celsius and 30.3 degree Celsius, which is one degree above the normal for the day. The same weather trend may continue till Friday. Though monsoon was subdued this December, the seasonal rainfall still remains surplus in the State because of the remarkable downpour last month. Tamil Nadu has recorded 70.1 cm rain, which is 69% more than its average since October 1. Similarly, 2021 could end up as one of the wettest years as Chennai has already received 206 cm against its annual share of 140 cm. Similarly, Meenambakkam has recorded 201 cm against its yearly average of 138 cm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-to-experience-dry-weather-for-10-days/article37965731.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC directs Koyambedu committee to allow concession to tomato traders||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Managing Committee to continue the interim arrangement of having allotted one acre out of a three-acre vacant land inside the market complex for exclusive use of licensed tomato traders till Pongal. The court wanted to check whether the arrangement helps reduce tomato prices. Justice R. Suresh Kumar made it clear that the Thanthai Periyar Tomato Traders’ Association cannot claim any equity on the basis of the interim arrangement, which was purely made on the basis of a court order in public interest. The judge told M. Velmurugan, counsel for the marketing committee, that the allotment of the land would be reviewed by the court after Pongal. Mr. Velmurugan told the court that tomato prices were dependant upon the price at which they were procured and not on the quantity that arrived in Koyambedu. He said the prices had not dipped though the quantity brought to Koyambedu had increased. On his part, the counsel for traders association told the court that in the usual course, tomatoes were procured only from States such as Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. However, now traders had begun to procure from Maharashtra and Chattisgarh too. Yet, the price across the country was very high, he said. The Market Committee pointed out that the land ordered to be allotted by the court as an interim arrangement was used only by the members of the petitioner association, who were illegally using the unloading site for sale too, whereas the other tomato traders in the wholesale market continued to use the truck bays close to their shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-koyambedu-panel-to-allow-concession-to-tomato-traders/article37965652.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu records 640 fresh COVID-19 cases, 11 fatalities||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday logged 640 COVID-19 cases and 11 deaths. With this, its tally touched 27,37,335 and toll 36,644. For the second day in a row, the State’s positivity rate stood at 0.6%. Chennai continued to top the table, with 126 people testing positive, when compared with 123 the previous day. This took the city’s case tally to 5,59,832. Coimbatore reported 106 cases, while Erode and Chengalpattu saw 49 and 48 cases respectively. There were 45 cases in Tiruppur, 41 in Salem and 39 in Namakkal. Kallakurichi, Theni and Virudhunagar reported no COVID-19 case. Twenty districts logged cases in single digits. Eleven more people succumbed to the infection. All of them had co-morbidities. There were three deaths in Coimbatore and two each in Chennai and Tiruppur. Kanniyakumari, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam and Thanjavur saw a single fatality each. With 692 people being discharged after treatment, total recoveries stood at 26,93,143. The active caseload fell to 7,548, with 22 districts accounting for fewer than 100 active cases each. In Chennai, 1,343 people are under treatment, while Coimbatore accounts for 1,148 active cases. With 1,02,775 more samples being tested, the total count reached 5,58,02,775. Vaccination coverage The coverage of government vaccination centres reached 7,53,43,522, with 1,68,362 more people getting jabs on Wednesday. They included 95,764 people aged 18 to 44, 45,499 people in the 45-59 age group and 26,983 senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-records-640-fresh-covid-19-cases-11-fatalities/article37965631.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Activity book preview on Dec. 18||CPB Prism and Sphere Arts Education will conduct a special preview of “Peer Ponder Play”, an activity book for children and young adults. Inspired by the Chennai Photo Biennale Edition 3, this book will aid students in exploring various things from nature and popular culture to people, spaces, and their neighbourhoods, according to a press release. “Activities involve making comics, hand-made portraits and maps, (re)discovering everyday creatures, and drawing and sculpting their imaginations, all the while learning to question, create and look more closely at the world,” the release said. A virtually curated tour and the preview of the book will be held on December 18 at 11 a.m. For more details, contact: sakshi@chennaiphotobiennale.com or call +91 7092681870.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/activity-book-preview-on-dec-18/article37965650.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amarnath Ramakrishna working on report on first two phases of Keeladi excavations||Amarnath Ramakrishna, the ASI Superintending Archaeologist who oversaw the first two phases of the Keeladi excavations that have now completed seven phases, has started writing the report for the first two phases with his team of archaeologists. Mr. Ramakrishna is currently the Superintending Archaeologist for the Temples Survey Project in the Chennai Circle. He is credited with initiating the Keeladi excavations that have thrown up a treasure trove of artefacts and spotlighted an ancient civilisation that flourished in Tamil Nadu. He told The Hindu that he had begun documentation of the phases done in the 2014-15 and 2015-16 seasons. During these phases, the ASI had unearthed more than 1.5 lakh pots, antiquities and more than 5,600 artefacts. The preparation of the report for these two phases involves documentation, classification of the artefacts, analysis and a detailed report. Mr. Ramakrishna said he would submit the report to the ASI Director-General, but there was no time frame to complete the process. Ten carbon samples from the first two phases have been sent to Beta Analytic in Florida, U.S., for carbon-dating. This has been sponsored by the Tamil Nadu Government. Another 20 samples are being sent to the Inter University Accelerator Centre, New Delhi. The third phase, too, was carried out by the ASI before the Tamil Nadu Government took over the excavations. In fact, the State published a report on the fourth phase, placing the Sangam Age 300 years older than it was thought. The third phase was carried out by the ASI under P.S. Sriraman after Mr. Ramakrishna was transferred to Guwahati, a decision that sparked a controversy. In 2018, the Madras High Court, hearing a PIL petition that sought the preservation of the Keeladi site, ordered that Mr. Ramakrishna alone write the report on the first two phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amarnath-ramakrishna-working-on-report-on-first-two-phases-of-keeladi-excavations/article37965635.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seal restaurant used for cabaret performance: HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed Greater Chennai Police to seal a restaurant being used as a nightclub for cabaret performance since 2014. It also issued a direction to the DGP to conduct frequent inspections across the State in clubs, restaurants and associations where obscene dances and other illegal activities are suspected to be taking place. Justice S.M. Subramaniam also directed Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to cancel the licence granted to Pals Restaurant on Anna Salai while disposing of a 2015 writ petition filed by A. Jayaprakash against the restaurant owner S. Ramasamy. The petitioner said the restaurant was indulging in the illegal activity in the guise of conducting Indian cultural dance. About 25 to 30 women in the age group of 16 to 35 were made to dance half nude among the participants who fling currency notes at the dancers. Since the case was filed in 2015, the judge wanted to know the current status and asked Additional Government Pleader (AGP) M. Rajendran to ascertain the details. He said, in 2018, a case was registered against the restaurant and in 2014, the restaurant owner filed a writ petition and obtained an interim to restrain police from harassing him. An Assistant Commissioner inspected the restaurant on September 11 this year and found that the obscene dance performances were continuing. Another case was then registered. After recording the submissions, the judge said he was of the firm view that the restaurant was being used for illegal activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seal-restaurant-used-for-cabaret-performance-hc/article37965660.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Increase surveillance and testing’||All districts have been told to increase surveillance, testing and contact-tracing and do saturation tests in cluster areas, apart from routine testing of all symptomatic persons and additional random testing at places of crowding. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, in a communication to the Collectors, the Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation and the deans/joint directors and deputy directors of health services, said the Delta variant of the novel coronavirus was still prevalent, and the new variant of concern, Omicron, was being reported in over 70 countries and States. An analysis of the sample lifted from a returnee from Nigeria detected S-gene drop-target failure, while the samples of six of his contacts also had the S-gene dropout, the markers of Omicron. This had to be confirmed through whole genome sequencing, he said. Noting that this was the time to address the challenges and enforce public health guidelines, the official said mask-wearing and physical distancing were extremely low at public places and places of crowding, both outdoors and indoors. These norms should be enforced in coordination with all regulatory departments and NGOs. Dr. Radhakrishnan called for increasing the pace of vaccination of the unvaccinated and those due for the second dose. The officials were asked to review the inventory of health facilities — such as beds, oxygen beds, intensive care units, ventilators, medicines and human resources — and update the control room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-surveillance-and-testing/article37965746.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK supports two-day nation-wide strike of bank unions’||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) would support the two-day nationwide strike called by the bank unions under the United Forum of Bank Unions against the proposed public sector bank privatisation, its general secretary Duraimurugan announced on Wednesday. ‘Anti-democratic act’ "The consistent efforts taken by the BJP government to adopt the Banking Laws Amendment Bill, 2021 in the Winter Session of the Parliament in an anti-democratic act, which aims at exploiting the savings in the public banks," Mr. Duraimurugan contended in a statement. While bank administrations had resorted to extreme acts that violated human rights in order to collect loans availed by farmers, women entrepreneurs and students, who have obtained education loans. However, they do not choose to act in a similar manner in the case of major firms, Mr. Duraimurugan pointed out. He went on to extend his wishes to the two-day nationwide strike in which about nine lakh bank employees are expected to participate.  Banks resorted to extreme acts, violating human rights, to collect loans availed by farmers, entrepreneurs, women and students||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-supports-2-day-nationwide-strike-called-by-bank-unions/article37965668.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRMIST opens hi-tech centre for clinical trials||SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) at Kattankulathur near here, through its faculty of medical and health sciences, has set up a 5,000 sq. ft. research facility called the “Centre for Clinical Trials & Research”. The facility was inaugurated by Pro-Vice Chancellor (Medical & Health Sciences) A. Ravikumar, Registrar S. Ponnusamy, and Dean (Medical) A. Sundaram. Located at SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre (SRM MCH&RC), the centre is capable of handling clinical trials of drugs, vaccines, and medical devices, a release said. It has two wards with 12 beds and several rooms for sample collection, processing, data documentation, and monitoring. It has state-of-the-art equipment for preserving serum samples at -80 degrees Celsius and -20 degrees Celsius deep freezers. The centre is headed by Professor of Pharmacology Satyajit Mohapatra, and supported by a team of Investigators including Associate Professor Melvin George and Associate Professor Sangeetha Raja. The same team had conducted the Covaxin clinical trials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srmist-opens-hi-tech-centre-for-clinical-trials/article37965653.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Auto driver arrested under POCSO Act||The Flower Bazaar All Women Police on Wednesday arrested a 34-year-old auto driver of Pallikaranai for sexually harassing a 17-year-old girl. The accused, identified as G. Musagali Mullah, was produced before a judicial magistrate and sent to prison. The police said a girl missing complaint was filed in Seven Wells Station on December 11. The police team rescued the girl from him and found that the girl was molested. He was arrested under the POCSO Act.  ChildLine operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress -1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-driver-arrested-under-pocso-act/article37965655.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter, four others arrested||Krishnamoorthy alias S. Kicha, a 32-year-old history-sheeter against whom several criminal cases are pending, and four others, including a juvenile, were arrested on Wednesday in Kannagi Nagar police station limits. The police team seized five knives and materials for making country bombs. A senior police official said a complaint had been lodged by the owner of a flat in the Tamil Nadu Housing Board tenement in Kumaran Nagar who had rented it to Kicha that the accused was possessing deadly weapons. When the complainant asked him about it, the accused threatened him. Based on the complaint, a police team raided the houses on Wednesday morning. During the raid, the team found that Kicha had hidden five knives and also material for making country bomb in the flat. Auto, bikes seized The police rounded up R. Parthiban, 23, of Perungudi, S. Jagan, 24, of Seevaram, S. Rajararajan of Sholinganallur and a 17-year-old juvenile, besides Kicha. The police team also seized an autorickshaw, two two-wheelers and cellphones from the accused. Kicha has a murder case, five attempt to murder cases and several cases of ganja smuggling pending against him. While four of the accused were produced before a judicial magistrate, the juvenile was produced before the juvenile court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/history-sheeter-four-others-arrested/article37965656.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||War Memorial to be open till December 19||The War Memorial in Chennai will be open to the public from 10 a.m. on December 16 till 5 p.m. on December 19 to commemorate India’s victory in the 1971 India-Pakistan war. On Thursday, there will be a formal wreath-laying ceremony where members of all three services will lay a wreath. War veterans will lay wreaths too. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will pay his respects and lay a wreath, Lt. Gen. A. Arun, General Officer Commanding, Dakshin Bharat Area, said on Wednesday. To commemorate the “Swarnim Vijay Varsh” Golden Jubilee, the war memorial would be open, Lt. Gen. Arun said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/war-memorial-to-be-open-till-december-19/article37965662.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Udangudi power project could cause financial stress’||The Climate Risk Horizons (CRH) report “White elephants — new coal investments threaten Tamil Nadu’s financial recovery” has highlighted that going ahead with the Udangudi power project could cause “financial stress” for the State government. The report brings out the State government’s over-dependence on thermal power plants even while being a leader in wind energy generation. The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) is going ahead with the construction of the Udangudi thermal power plants of 1,320 MW and 1,600 MW at a cost of Rs. 26,627 crore. G. Sundararajan of Poovulagin Nanbargal pointed out that at a time when the power utility had a debt of Rs. 1,34,000 crore, it was not wise to spend on thermal plant whose utilisation could be minimal and the cost of power generated would be as high as Rs. 8.20 a unit. The power utility was executing four thermal power projects which were under various stages of construction having a capacity of 5,565 MW. The study says despite Tangedco having a renewable energy share of nearly 25%, the power utility had been promoting more thermal energy rather than exploring the option of solar combined with battery storage to meet the peak hour demand. The Udangudi project would not only add to the financial burden of the power utility but also leave a hole in the generation cost which could be as high as Rs. 8.20 a unit operating at a plant load factor of 55%, the study projects. The study says the power utility should opt for a mix of thermal power with renewable energy and help in fighting climate change. High cost However, a senior official of Tangedco said although the report had projected the solar power combined with storage cost to be Rs. 5 a unit, the cost was high for both solar as well as storage. The cost per unit could be Rs. 30 but could come down in future, he said. The electricity official said the State had proposed to freeze construction of any new thermal power plants and this had been announced in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/udangudi-power-project-could-cause-financial-stress/article37965669.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Students designated health ambassadors||Health and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian on Wednesday said that all the students of Queen Mary’s College will be designated health ambassadors to spread awareness on COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and vaccination. Speaking after participating in a special camp to vaccinate students on the college campus, he pointed out that of the 5,500 students, 3,800 have taken both the doses of the COVID-19 vaccine, while another 800 have taken their first dose. He said efforts were being made to vaccinate the remaining 900 students and 100% coverage with the first dose of vaccine in the college would be achieved in a few days. He said that all the students would be given identity cards by the Greater Chennai Corporation and the Health and Family Welfare Department as health ambassadors. They will create awareness among their family members and other people in their respective neighbourhoods, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-designated-health-ambassadors/article37965666.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Strengthen AIADMK’s bye-laws, says Sasikala||The AIADMK’s former interim general secretary, V.K. Sasikala, on Wednesday called for strengthening the bye-laws of the party, which were framed by the organisation’s founder, M.G. Ramachandran. In a statement, Ms. Sasikala referred to the rule that MGR had stipulated for the election to the post of general secretary of the party, which was that the incumbent of the post should be elected by all primary members of the AIADMK. The rebel leader did not mention the context against which she issued the statement. Recently, O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami were elected unanimously to the posts of coordinator and co-coordinator, which had been created in the place of general secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strengthen-aiadmks-bye-laws-says-sasikala/article37965747.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK gets HC’s nod to appeal against order quashing Veda Nilayam acquisition||A Division Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday permitted the AIADMK and former Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam to prefer a third party appeal against a single judge’s verdict setting aside proceedings initiated during its regime to acquire former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s residence Veda Nilayam and convert it into a memorial. Justices Paresh Upadhyay and Sathi Kumar Sukumara Kurup granted the leave after concurring with senior counsel A.L. Somayaji that the AIADMK will certainly have a right to agitate the order against converting its former leader’s residence into a memorial. Opposing the plea to grant leave for preferring the third party appeal, S.L. Sudarsanam, counsel for Jayalalithaa’s nephew J. Deepak, argued that the party had no locus standi to prefer the appeal since the acquisition was made by the State and not the party. He contended that the plea seeking leave to appeal had become infructuous since the present government had already handed over the keys to Mr. Deepak and his sister J. Deepa. “The keys were handed over to us on Friday, and we have taken possession, too,” the counsel said, and sought time to file a counter-affidavit to the application seeking leave to file the third party appeal. However, Mr. Somayaji told the court that the AIADMK was the ruling party in the State when the acquisition proceedings were initiated. The party would not have filed the present appeals at all if it had remained in power. Stating that there was a change of regime, and that the present DMK Government had not preferred any appeal against the verdict delivered on November 24, he said the AIADMK was naturally an aggrieved party since it considers its former leader to be a champion of social justice, whose residence deserves to be converted into a memorial so that future generations could get inspired by the phenomenal work done by her for the benefit of the people. The judges granted leave to appeal and directed the High Court Registry to number the writ appeal and list it for hearing on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-gets-hcs-nod-to-appeal-against-order-quashing-veda-nilayam-acquisition/article37965632.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Court dispenses with Irai Anbu’s appearance||The Madras High Court on Wednesday dispensed with the personal appearance of Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu before it for Thursday after he submitted a compact disc containing the details of waterbodies in all 313 taluks of Tamil Nadu, including their names, survey numbers and extent. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu allowed a petition for dispensing with his appearance after Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram submitted the CD and said the details were available on the Tamil Nilam website, too. He said the details run to 20,000 pages, and hence were submitted in a CD. He urged the court to reconsider its December 8 order summoning the Chief Secretary in order to seek an explanation for not having submitted the details. The court was told that the reasons for the delay in submitting the details were bona fide since the particulars had to be collated from all districts. Further, the government had identified the encroachments, too, and decided to evict all the encroachers in phases. Mr. Irai Anbu also said the Comptroller and Auditor-General had, in its report for the year ending in March 2017, highlighted certain shortcomings in the implementation of the Tamil Nadu Protection of Tanks and Eviction of Encroachment Act, 2007. He said the Government had now filed an action taken report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-dispenses-with-irai-anbus-appearance/article37965633.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NTK’ chief’s comments trigger controversy||NTK chief coordinator Seeman has stirred up a controversy by seeking to replace “caste” with “clan” when it comes to murders triggered by inter-caste love affairs. In a speech in Mannargudi, Mr. Seeman is heard saying that he will not refer to the murder of Dalits by upper caste family members of their partners as ‘ Saadhi aanava kolai ’ (caste killings). “I will call it ‘ Kudi perumai kolai ’ (murder because of pride over clan) because there are no castes in Tamil society... only clans,” he said. Critics said replacing “caste killings” with the term “murders due to Tamil clan pride” would not change anything. A VCK leader said Tamil nationalists must not simply stop with the declaration that there are no castes but must speak about how horizontal social divisions in Tamil society become solidified as vertical caste orders, according to the Varnashrama dharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ntk-chiefs-comments-trigger-controversy/article37965674.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life term for murdering wife||A Mahila Court on Wednesday sentenced to life imprisonment P. Sekar for murdering his 48-year-old wife Aravalli in 2014, and imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 on him. Sekar was the second husband of Aravalli, and had murdered her on June 13, 2014 on a suspicion that she was having a relationship with another person, a police official at the MGR Nagar station said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-life-term-for-murdering-wife/article37965657.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. submits report against Surappa in HC||The State Government on Wednesday submitted before the Madras High Court the report of a Commission of Inquiry that probed charges of corruption, malpractice, financial irregularities and irregularities in appointments at Anna University when M.K. Surappa was the vice-chancellor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-submits-report-against-surappa-in-hc/article37965661.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anbumani seeks clarity on Kurumans||PMK youthwing leader and Rajya Sabha member Dr. Anbumani Ramadoss, on Wednesday asked whether the Government is aware of the State’s proposal to the Central Government to take necessary steps to include the synonyms of Kurumans, such as Kurumba, Kurumbar and Kuruman, in the Kurumans of the Scheduled Tribe (ST) list of Tamil Nadu as this ensures social justice to the tribal people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anbumani-seeks-clarity-on-kurumans/article37965988.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chopper crash: CM condoles death of lone survivor||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday condoled the passing away of Group Captain Varun Singh, who was among the 14 persons on board the Air Force helicopter that crashed near Coonoor on December 8. In a social media post, Mr. Stalin said: “Deeply disturbed on hearing the sad news that Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor of the tragic helicopter crash near Coonoor, is no more. His valour and commitment shall serve as inspiration for all.” The Air Force officer was shifted to a hospital in Bengaluru for medical treatment. He passed away at the hospital on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chopper-crash-cm-condoles-death-of-lone-survivor/article37965636.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM flags off ‘Indco Tea Vandis’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday flagged off 20 tea-cum-food trucks, called ‘Indco Tea Vandis’, at the Secretariat. They would serve Indcoserve’s various tea varieties to customers with support from the Special Area Development Programme (SADP). They are to be deployed in Chennai, Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-flags-off-indco-tea-vandis/article37965637.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Incentive for cane farmers||The State Government, earlier this month, sanctioned Rs. 54.7 crore for providing a special incentive of Rs. 150 a tonne to sugarcane farmers for the 2020-21 crushing season. Only registered sugarcane farmers of cooperative, public and private sector sugar mills, who have supplied cane, including cane diverted to other mills based on proper diversion- /ratification orders obtained from the Commissioner of Sugar, from fields in the villages of Tamil Nadu, from October 1, 2020 to September 30, 2021, are eligible to receive the incentive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/incentive-for-cane-farmers/article37965638.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro cancels six tenders||Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) Phase II project could be delayed by another six months or more as six tenders for construction of underground stations have been cancelled as the lowest bidders had quoted high prices.  The Hindu had first reported in October that the CMRL planned to cancel the tenders for the construction of underground stations in phase II. With an estimated cost of Rs. 61,843 crore, the phase II construction began with work starting on corridor 4 between Poonamallee and Light House. In the two other corridors, Madhavaram to SIPCOT (corridor 3) and Madhavaram to Shollinganallur (corridor 5), tender process was in various stages for some stretches and in some, the work had begun too. For the stretch between Madhavaram and Taramani the tenders were awarded for tunnelling and work had begun. Then, they floated bids for construction of the underground stations between Madhavaram and Taramani, a portion of corridor 5 and Kolathur to Nathamuni, a part of corridor 3. As part of this, six tenders were floated in parts to monitor work better and ensure timely completion along the stretches of Madhavaram to Perambur, Ayanavaram to Kelly’s, KMC to Royapettah, Radhakrishnan Salai to Adyar, Adyar depot to Taramani and Kolathur to Nathamuni. According to CMRL sources, the awards had to be cancelled as the three contractors who got six contracts had given very high quotes that surpassed the estimates. “After carefully deliberating for a few months, we decided to cancel these six tenders because they had quoted about 40% over the actual estimate. We found this unreasonable. We have to be cautious about how much we spend,” an official said. CMRL will shortly call for fresh tenders for the construction of these underground stations. “This will alter the earlier deadlines. We will arrive at a revised deadline soon. We will certainly try to reduce the delay and see how soon the work can be completed,” another official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-rail-cancels-six-tenders/article37965649.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MLACDS fund hiked to Rs. 3 cr.||Nearly 20 months after it reduced the allocation of funds for the implementation of the Member of Legislative Assembly Constituency Development Scheme (MLACDS) to Rs. 2 crore, the Tamil Nadu Government has issued orders granting administrative sanction for the implementation of the MLACDS with a fund allocation of Rs. 3 crore per constituency per annum. ‘Release 50% of fund’ The government also accorded sanction to release 50% of the fund for the implementation of MLACDS for 2021-22. Detailed guidelines for the implementation of the scheme have been issued. Of the Rs. 3 crore allocated to an MLA, Rs. 90 lakh would be earmarked for priority works and the remaining Rs. 2.10 crore could be used for any work of their choice not falling in the ‘Negative List’. In April 2020, the State Government issued orders to reduce the allotment under MLACDS to Rs. 2 crore by way of a reduction in appropriation and orders to allocate Rs. 235 crore from MLACDS fund to the Health and Family Welfare Department for procuring medicines and materials to detect and contain COVID-19.  Rs. 90 lakh would be earmarked for priority works and the remaining Rs. 2.10 crore could be used for any work of their choice not falling in the ‘Negative List’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-sanctions-rs-3-cr-per-constituency-under-mlacds/article37965645.ece
16 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco to collect commercial tariff for STPs, RO plants in apartments and group houses||Residents of apartments and group houses may have to shell out more for common facilities such as sewage treatment plant and RO plant on their premises as the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) is issuing notices to the owners of these buildings, asking them to change the power supply connection to these facilities to commercial tariff. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said that in a communication last month, the Tangedco had asked its field officials to ensure that electricity connection to sewage treatment plant, RO plant, and firefighting system in apartments and group houses should be changed from domestic to commercial tariff. “We strongly oppose it since it is demanded after four years of tariff order and it is not practically possible to change to commercial service whenever the licensee says so,” he said. According to the tariff order of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission, dated August 11, 2017, the common supply under Low Tension tariff IA (domestic) shall be applicable for supply to lighting, water supply and lift provided to the residents of multi tenements / residential complexes. Other than the above, the common supply used for gymnasium, community hall, etc., inside the multi-tenement / residential complex shall be classified under commercial tariff. The Tangedco claims now that as per the TNERC order, water treatment plant, sewage treatment plant, and fire hydration system are added under Tariff V in LT Billing software. Mr. Kathirmathiyon said the TNERC had only asked the licensee to evolve a proposal with the details of the number of services obtained for water treatment plant, sewage treatment plant and fire hydration system and submit it at the time of filing of petition for determination of tariff. The fire fighting equipment, sewage treatment plant and water treatment plant in residential complexes are used only by the residents and are not used for commercial purpose. The residents of completed projects face several challenges in converting the supply connections to different tariff categories every time there is a change. Hence, the TNERC should intervene in this issue, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-to-collect-commercial-tariff-for-stps-ro-plants-in-apartments-and-group-houses/article37965679.ece
16 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs to strike work on December 20||Almost 200 industrial associations of MSMEs spread across different parts of the country, including Coimbatore, will go on a strike on December 20, demanding action from the Union government to reduce prices of raw materials. R. Ramamoorthy, spokesperson of the All India Council of Associations of MSMEs, said associations in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Assam, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, etc would take part in the strike. Owners of MSME units would stage a demonstration at the respective District Collectorates. Production loss for a day because of the strike was expected to be Rs. 25,000 crore, he said. In the last one-and-a-half years, raw material costs had doubled. Despite raising the issue with the government repeatedly, there were no efforts to control the prices. Hence, the MSMEs across sectors and in all the States were coming together for the strike, he said. Appeal The associations had appealed to the government to support the National Small Industries Corporation so that it could source raw materials in bulk and supply to MSMEs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-to-strike-work-on-december-20/article37965680.ece
16 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||More staff to patrol railway lines between Walayar and Ettimadai||The Forest Department has increased the number of staff for foot patrols on the railway lines between Walayar and Ettimadai stations for the safety of elephants. District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar told The Hindu that 12 staff are conducting foot patrols on the vulnerable stretch at night. During day, the patrolling was being done by seven persons. The number of staff for the patrol was increased on directions from Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj. Mr. Niraj had inspected the two railway lines -- line A, where three elephants were hit by a Chennai bound train on November 26 night, and line B on which many elephants had been killed due to train hits in the past. A chip that was retrieved from the speedometer of the train that knocked down the three elephants on November 26 was yet to be analysed to check the speed of the train at the time of the incident. The department had produced the chip before a judicial magistrate court. Mr. Kumar said that the department was waiting for the court's direction for the examination of the chip. The examination is expected to be done in a Railways facility in Erode, sources said. Meanwhile, the Central Monitoring Committee of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), which deals with Project Elephant, had given its suggestions to the Forest Departments in Tamil Nadu and Kerala to avert such incidents, sources said. A team of experts from the Project Elephant division had inspected the railway lines in September this year, after being tasked by the National Green Tribunal to look into the elephant fatalities. Sources said the experts suggested the construction of underpasses to enable elephants to cross below railway lines, laying of a road for easy access to railway track for the staff and early warning systems for loco pilots, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-staff-to-patrol-railway-lines-between-walayar-and-ettimadai/article37965684.ece
16 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Former MLA accused of usurping Panchami land||Former IAS officer P. Sivakami has accused former AIADMK MLA A. Shanmugam of usurping Panchami land. In her interaction with journalists after submitting a petition to Coimbatore district administration, she said the MLA was in wrongful possession of 20 acre Panchami land, which the State Government had given to Dalits. Likewise, a north Indian businessman was in possession of 65 acre Panchami land in Karamadai Union. These were a few examples of wrongful possession of Panchami land in the district. But there was no clear cut estimate of such wrongful possession as the administration had no records. Therefore the demand made to the administration was to identify the extent of Panchami land, how much of it was in illegal possession and take action to retrieve those. Ms. Sivakami, who was accompanied by Samuga Neethi Katchi leader Panneerselvam, said this was a State-wide problem as the Commission for Retrieval of Panchami Land was more or less defunct. In the 10 years from 2011, the Commission was only trying to collect records of Panchami land and its illegal possession from district collectors. Her prayer to the Chief Minister was to revive the Commission by appointing a retired judge, as was originally done by the DMK government in 2011, and then retrieve the Panchami land. The second appeal to the Chief Minister was to have a look at the draft Bill on Panchami land holding. At present the Panchami land distribution was governed by a government order of 1910. The State Government thereafter made an effort to enact a legislation. During the 10 years of AIADMK regime, an effort was made to introduce a clause to protect innocent buyers of Panchami land by allowing monetary compensation for the land and buildings on such land. This went against the very basis of the idea of distribution of land to Dalits and this clause should be done away with, Ms. Sivakami said and reiterated her appeal to the Government to enact a legislation on Panchami land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-mla-accused-of-usurping-panchami-land/article37965677.ece
16 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Couple seeks protection||Marudhamalai Balaji Nagar resident Karuppasamy and his wife Lakshmi went to the Coimbatore Collectorate with their household goods on a goods carrier on Wednesday seeking protection. Threatened The couple told the police personnel on duty that Karuppasamy’s brother was threatening their peaceful existence in the locality, had burnt their thatched roof house. Along with the house their documents and children’s books were burnt. They were left to fend for themselves and had nowhere to go, the couple said and sought a solution to their problem. On learning about the couple’s plight, the police personnel removed the vehicle from the spot after taking them to the Revenue Department officials. Sources said the officials were inquiring into their complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-seeks-protection/article37965672.ece
16 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports three deaths, 106 new cases||Coimbatore district on Wednesday reported 106 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 107 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,148 active cases on Wednesday. The district’s toll increased to 2,492 after three more persons died of COVID-19. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.2 % on Tuesday. School closed for disinfection The School Education Department ordered the closure of Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Pollachi on December 15 and 16 after two students were found with symptoms of COVID-19. Officials said that the two Class X girls did not attend physical classes after reportedly being diagnosed with fever. On Tuesday, a group of parents urged the school headmaster to prevent the possible spread of the disease. Following this, Pollachi District Educational Officer Rajasekar ordered that the school would remain closed on Wednesday and Thursday for disinfection, officials said. In Tiruppur district, 45 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. As many as 51 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 599 active cases on Wednesday. Two more persons from Tiruppur died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 1,007.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-three-deaths-106-new-cases/article37965686.ece
16 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Palakkad- Tiruchendur train service from today||Southern Railway announced on Wednesday that the train services between Tiruchendur and Palakkad Junctions via Pollachi, which was suspended during the COVID-19 lockdown in 2020, will be restored from Thursday (December 16). According to a release, Train No. 16732 Tiruchendur – Palakkad unreserved daily express will leave Tiruchendur Junction at 12.05 p.m. and reach Palakkad Junction at 10.30 p.m. In the return trip, Train No. 16731 will leave Palakkad Junction at 4.55 a.m. and reach Tiruchendur at 3.45 p.m. The stoppages will be at Palakkad Town, Pudunagaram, Kollengode, Muthalamada and Meenakshipuram in Kerala and at Pollachi Junction, Gomangalam, Udumalpet, Palani, Oddanchatram, Dindigul, Ambathurai, Kodaikkanal Road, Sholavandan, Madurai Junction, Thiruparankundram, Thirumangalam, Virudhunagar, Sattur, Kovilpatti, Kadambur, Vanchi Maniyachchi, Talaiyuthu, Tirunelveli, Palayamkottai, Alwar Thirunagar, Nazareth, Kanchanavillai, Kurumbur, Arumuganeri and Kayalpattinam in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palakkad-to-tiruchendur-train-from-today/article37965688.ece
16 December 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Sugarcane crushing season begins||Minister for Agriculture M.R.K.Panneerselvam launched the crushing activities at Subramania Siva co-operative sugar mill here on Wednesday. According to officials, 2.4 lakh tonnes of cane cultivated on 7,215 acres was aimed to be crushed at the co-operative mill. Farmers would be paid Rs. .2,929 for per tonne of cane. According to officials, over Rs. two crore has been has been transferred as incentive to the bank accounts of 1,538 member farmers who supplied cane to the mill. The mill is targeting to crush 4.3 lakh tonne of cane cultivated on 14,000 acres for the crushing period next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sugarcane-crushing-season-begins/article37965771.ece
16 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Residents want garbage to be collected regularly||Dumping of garbage on streets, roads and in vacant plots continues to be a perennial issue for the residents at Lakkapuram Panchayat in Modakkurichi Taluk as they wanted door-to-door garbage collection to be stepped up. The panchayat that has a population of over 12,000 lacks basic amenities as most of the residential areas do not have drainage facilities and sewage is let into ground or in vacant plots. There are 33 conservancy workers involved in garbage collection, segregation, disposing, desilting drains and carrying out other sanitation works. “All the dustbins were removed and workers collect garbage only once in a week”, said a resident in Nagaratchi Nagar. Hence, residents frequently dump garbage at street corners, roads and in vacant plots that were set on fire regularly by the conservancy workers. “Dumping domestic waste in residential areas is common here as we cannot store the waste for more than two days”, said another resident in Sanarmedu. However, panchayat officials said that there is a stiff opposition to dumping of collected garbage on vacant land in the panchayat and they were unable to deal with it. Also, shortage of workers and vehicles hit primary garbage collection severely, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-want-garbage-to-be-collected-regularly/article37965765.ece
16 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Water dispute: villagers asked to approach court||Talks to resolve the ongoing dispute over drawing water from a farm land near Gunderipallam Reservoir and utilising it in another area failed as the District Revenue Officer P. Murugesan asked the opposing people to approach the court. An individual had dug a well near the reservoir in Gobichettipalayam Taluk and had proposed to use it at farm lands located many km away. People of seven villages in the area said that the move would lead to depletion of ground water in their area and opposed the project. The individual obtained orders from the court for executing the project that irked the people who staged a protest last month. The DRO chaired a peace meeting at the Collectorate to resolve the issue in which the land owners and the villagers took part. Villagers said that the project would affect 1,700 families as the individual has proposed to draw 3.50 lakh litre water and transfer through pipelines for utilisation in other areas. “It would lead to acute water shortage and the district administration should cancel the permission given for the project”, they said. However, the land owners said that they had obtained orders from the court and refused to halt the project. The DRO asked the villagers to approach the court as the land owners had obtained court orders. Peace talk failed as villagers said that they could decide their next course of action soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-dispute-villagers-asked-to-approach-court/article37965762.ece
16 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Schools asked to strengthen management committees||Chief Educational Officer M. Ramakrishnan has asked schools to strengthen the school management committees (SMCs) in the district. Speaking at a review meeting at the Government High School at Millmedu in Sathyamangalam, he said that forming SMCs is mandatory as per the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, as they play a key role in the development of the schools. The State government had recently decided to strengthen the committees and initially 100 schools in the State were selected of which 10 schools were in Erode district. The committee has a key role to play in increasing the student’s strength and also in ensuring teacher-student ratio. K.C.P. Elango, chairman of the Sathyamangalam Panchayat Union, District Educational Officer Manvizhi, Block Education Officer Subbiyah, S.C. Natraj, Director, Service Unit for Development Activities in Rural (SUDAR), a Sathyamangalam-based NGO, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-asked-to-strengthen-management-committees/article37965767.ece
16 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Loan disbursed to 1,498 self-help groups in districts||Loans amounting to Rs. 67.15 crore were disbursed to 1,498 self help groups, comprising 21,985 members, in Erode district on Tuesday. Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy and District Collector H. Krishnanunni handed over the cheques to the SHGs at a function held in the city. Mr. Muthusamy said that for the first time in the country, Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women in 1989 with the assistance of International Fund for Agricultural Development disbursed loan to SHGs in Dharmapuri that helped them improve livelihood. He said that so far loans amounting to Rs. 1,04,013 crore were disbursed to 7.22 lakh SHGs in the State. In Salem, District Collector S. presented cheques for loans worth Rs. 104.19 crore to 2,137 women SHGs. In Dharmapuri, District Collector S .Divyadarshini presented loans to the tune of Rs. Rs.55.06 crore to 645 SHGs here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loan-disbursed-to-1498-self-help-groups-in-districts/article37965772.ece
16 December 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district logs 49 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Wednesday reported 49 new cases taking the total cases to 1,07,108. While 58 persons were discharged, 590 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 41 positive cases. According to health officials, 28 cases were indigenous and 10 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 39 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Seven indigenous cases were reported in Dharmapuri. Krishnagir district reported eight cases and one death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-logs-49-new-covid-19-cases/article37965761.ece
16 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||The busy Viraganoor roundabout needs to be made safer||Utter chaos prevails at the five-road junction at Viraganoor, one of the busiest roundabout in Madurai, where passengers wait on carriageways and buses stop in middle of the roads. With all the five roads being wider (four-lanes), vehicles usually move at a high speed while crossing the roundabout next to the parallel bridges across Vaigai river. But, encroachments by way of parking of two-wheelers, autorickshaws, cars and buses on the edges of the roundabout are posing a danger to vehicle users and passengers. While Tamil Nadu Road Infrastructure Development Corporation (TNRIDC) has put up bus stops on both sides of Aruppukottai Road (Ring Road) some 50 feet away from the roundabout, the buses continue to stop in the middle of the carriageways close to the roundabout. “The passengers do not come to the bus stops and find it easy to board the buses near the roundabout. Even two days back, some officials came here and forced drivers to stop the buses at the bus stops,” said watchman of a complex situated there. But, the drivers followed the rules only for a few hours on that day, he added. The bus stops, which do not have any lights, have turned into parking lot for two-wheelers. It is worse on new Ramanathapuram four-way highway as no bus stop is seen anywhere around the roundabout. When the buses stop on the edge of the roundabout to pick up passengers, the vehicles following them are often caught unawares. “They end up stranded in the middle of the road at the roundabout facing the threat of being hit by vehicles passing through the circular road,” a police officer said. Since the buses stop ahead of the zebra crossing, passengers are face the threat of being knocked down by speeding vehicles, when they cross the road. A small link road provided to allow free left for vehicles coming from Ramanathapuram Road to reach Aruppukottai Road has become an auto stand. No free movement The two-wheeler lane is fully encroached upon and the buses from Aruppukottai Road that stop in the corner invariably protrude into the roundabout hindering free movement of traffic on Aruppukottai Road and also those proceeding from other roads towards Teppakulam and Vaigai Bridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-busy-viraganoor-roundabout-needs-to-be-made-safer/article37965934.ece
16 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Safe workplace is woman’s legal right, says High Court||A safe workplace is a woman’s legal right. It is pertinent to note that ironically, women police are among the most vulnerable to workplace harassment, Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has observed. Dismissing an anticipatory bail petition filed by a suspended Inspector of Police from Dindigul district, Veeragandhi, who has been accused of sending inappropriate messages to a woman constable, Justice K. Murali Shankar observed that cases of sexual harassment at work place had become rampant in India. Recently the Madras High Court was constrained to take suo motu action against a top police officer for the alleged sexual harassment of an IPS Officer, the court said. The petitioner had appeared before the Vishaka Committee of the Police Department following allegations that he had sent inappropriate texts to a woman constable. He was transferred, and later suspended. The court took note of the fact that the Vishaka Committee conducted an inquiry based on a complaint by the constable and concluded that the petitioner had caused sexual harassment to the woman. Inspector booked A case was registered against the petitioner under various Sections of the IPC. The committee had perused the texts that were sent to the constable by the Inspector. The Judge said the woman constable had preferred a complaint against a superior officer of the police station where she was working. It was very unfortunate that the legacy of women being treated as secondary to men still continued. Sexual harassment had an adverse effect on the organisation or the work place as the working enthusiasm of the harassed female employee went down, and she was not able to work in the same way as she was before being harassed. Sending inappropriate messages to a subordinate staff would definitely constitute sexual harassment in workplace, the Judge added. Such a misconduct on the part of a superior officer could not be viewed lightly. Considering the seriousness and the gravity of the offence alleged and also the facts that the forensic report was yet to be received, the court was not inclined to grant anticipatory bail to the petitioner, the court said and dismissed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safe-workplace-is-womans-legal-right/article37965749.ece
16 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Man electrocuted||A 37-year-old man, T. Krishnan, of T. Valayankulam, was electrocuted and his wife K. Akkammal, 31, was critically injured when they came in contact with an electric fence illegally put up by a farmer near Kalligudi on Wednesday. Police said the couple were going to their agricultural field when they touched the fence erected by K. Kathirvel to keep away wild boars, which damaged crops. When Krishnan fell down on coming in contact with the electrified fence, Akkammal rushed to his help and she also suffered an electric shock. Krishnan died on the spot. Akkammal was admitted to Tirumangalam GH. Kalligudi police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-electrocuted/article37965932.ece
16 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Former Dindigul MLA Balabharathi seeks anticipatory bail||Former Dindigul MLA and CPI (M) leader K. Balabharathi has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking anticipatory bail. The former MLA and five others were booked after an advocate alleged that he was verbally abused by the members of All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA), who were staging a demonstration in front of Dindigul district court complex on December 6. The case of the prosecution was that the advocate, Devendran, accompanied his client to the court. At about 11 a.m. the AIDWA members AIDWA were staging a demonstration in front of the court. It is said that the advocate’s client questioned the demonstrators on the inaction on a grievance petition she submitted to the AIDWA. It was alleged that the AIDWA members questioned her, and accused the advocate of instigating his client. It was said that they verbally abused Mr. Devendran and also tried to attack him. The petitioners, Balabharathi and five others, denied the allegations levelled against them, and said a false complaint was lodged against them. The petitioners said they staged a protest in front of the court condemning the grant of bail, within a short span of time, to a college correspondent who was accused of sexually assaulting some students of the college. The accused was booked under the POCSO Act. They said while they were agitating, it was the complainant who used certain unwanted words against them and defamed the association. Annoyed by this, the AIDWA members raised slogans against the advocate, they said. Justice G. Ilangovan observed that a reading of the FIR showed that the petitioners had assembled in front of the court and staged a protest against its order. The act on the part of the petitioners in staging a protest in front of the court might not be appropriate. The counsel for the petitioners submitted that an undertaking affidavit would be submitted to the court that they would not stage such demonstrations in front of courts. The case was adjourned till December 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-dindigul-mla-balabharathi-seeks-anticipatory-bail/article37965754.ece
16 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor in Madurai||Tamil Nadu Governor R.N. Ravi arrived here on Wednesday. He was received by Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar and Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan. After overnight stay at Madurai Kamaraj University guest house, the Governor would visit Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple in the morning. He would then participate in the convocation of Mother Teresa Women’s University to be held on MKU premises. Later, he would leave for Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-in-madurai/article37965930.ece
16 December 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Kallazhagar temple to open at 4 a.m.||The Kallazhagar Temple in Madurai will open from 4 a.m. during the Tamil month of Marghazhi , which begins on Thursday. A statement said that tirupalliezhuchchi urchavam will be held throughout the month and darshan , with all COVID-19 precautions, will be allowed between 4 a.m. and noon and from 3.30 p.m. to 7 p.m. In other temples, like Prasanna Venkatachalapathy Temple at Tallakulam and Lord Veera Raghava Perumal Temple at Vandiyur, the temple will remain open between 5 a.m. and 11.30 a.m. and between 4.30 p.m. and 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kallazhagar-temple-to-open-at-4-am/article37965753.ece
16 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Special postal cover released||The Department of Posts has released a special cover on Geographical Indication (GI)-tagged Palani Panchamirtham . It was released by Senior Superintendent of Post Offices (Dindigul Division) T. Sahayaraju. The special cover was released under the ambit of Make in India and Aatmanirbhar Bharat. The special covers are printed with the GI logo and with the tagline ‘Invaluable Treasures of Incredible India’. Palani Panchamirtham got the GI status in 2019. Other special covers The Southern Region (Madurai) of the Department of Posts has already issued special covers on Nagercoil temple jewellery, Madurai Sungudi saris, Karaikudi Kandangi saris, Pattamadai mat, Eathamozhi tall coconut, Srivilliputhur palkova, Kovilpatti kadalai mittai, Sirumalai hill banana, Virupakshi hill banana, Dindigul lock, Chettinad kottan, Kodaikanal malai poondu, Malabar pepper, Alleppey green cardamom and Madurai malli, according to a press statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-postal-cover-on-palani-panchamirtham/article37965750.ece
16 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Disburse compensation amount, Collector told||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Madurai Collector to disburse the compensation amount of Rs. 5 lakh to the mother of a 17-year-old boy who died following custodial torture in the hands of S.S. Colony police in the city in 2019. The State submitted to the court a letter issued by the government stating that a compensation amount of Rs. 5 lakh was sanctioned. Justice G.R. Swaminathan took note of the submission and directed the Collector to disburse the amount in four weeks. The court was hearing the petition filed by M. Jeya of Kochadai. The petitioner said her son was picked up by S.S. Colony police on the pretext of an inquiry in a case of jewel theft. He was tortured at the police station in which he sustained grievous injuries. Later, he succumbed to injuries at Government Rajaji Hospital, she said. The probe into the case was transferred to the CB-CID by the High Court. The petitioner said four policemen had been named in CB-CID’s final report – Inspector Alexraj, Special Sub-Inspector Ravichandran, Head Constable Ravichandran and Grade I Police Constable Satheeshkumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disburse-compensation-amount-collector-told/article37966055.ece
16 December 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||2,500 litres of adulterated diesel seized||The Civil Supplies-CID seized 2,500 litres of adulterated diesel during vehicle checks on Trichy Road on Tuesday. The driver of the truck managed to escape. Police arrested the cleaner of the truck Kannan and also seized the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2500-litres-of-adulterated-diesel-seized/article37965768.ece
16 December 2021||NAMAKKAL/ERODE/COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DVAC searches 69 premises linked to ex-Minister||Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) sleuths on Wednesday launched simultaneous searches at 69 residential and commercial premises belonging to former Electricity Minister P. Thangamani, his family and acquaintances in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. The AIADMK’s Namakkal strongman, his son T. Dharanidharan and wife T. Santhi are suspected to have amassed assets to the tune of Rs. 4.85 crore, disproportionate to their known sources of income, during the check period from May 23, 2016 to March 31, 2020. The DVAC said that during the searches, Rs. 2.37 crore in cash, 1.13 kg of gold jewellery and 40 kg of silver [articles] were seized. Mr. Thangamani and his son had also invested a huge amount of money in crypto assets, the officers alleged. Mobile phones, bank locker keys, computer hard disks and documents related to the case were seized, the agency said. Vigilance sleuths reached the former Minister’s residence at Pallipalayam in Namakkal on Wednesday on the basis of a case registered by the DVAC, Namakkal, against the accused on December 14. Over 80 DVAC personnel began their searches at 7 a.m at Paari Street, Pannai Nagar, Pannai Street, Ganapathi Nagar, Muniyappan Kovil Street, Bhavani and Chithode. Sources said that while some residents were relatives of the former Minister, others were his associates. According to the FIR, Mr. Dharanidharan allegedly operated a fictitious firm, Murugan Earth Movers, “only to cover the illegal income” of Mr. Thangamani. Mrs. Santhi, a housewife with no known sources of income, was accused of aiding her husband and son “to acquire ill-gotten money” and hiding it by filing income tax returns when required. The searches were conducted at 33 locations in Namakkal, 14 places in Chennai, eight places in Erode, four premises in Salem, two each in Coimbatore, Karur and Bengaluru, and one each in Krishnagiri, Vellore, Tiruppur and Andhra Pradesh (Chittoor). These included Mr. Dharanidharan's residence in Nedunjalai Nagar and three other places in Salem. Sources said the places searched in Coimbatore were linked to Mr. Thangamani’s son-in-law Dinesh Kumar. ‘Politically motivated’ Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami alleged that the searches were politically motivated. He told journalists in Salem that the DMK Government conducted the searches to hide its various shortcomings. Claiming that there had been large-scale corruption in the last seven months of the DMK’s rule, he alleged that the DMK Government was once dissolved on charges of corruption. Currently, 13 Ministers were facing charges of corruption, but no action had been taken against them, he claimed. Addressing the media outside Mr. Thangamani's residence in Namakkal, former Minister S.P. Velumani claimed the police were being used to register cases against those criticising Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. Former Ministers M.R. Vijayabhaskar, R.B. Udhayakumar, K.A. Sengottaiyan, Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan, C.Ve. Shanmugam, K.C. Veeramani and K.P. Anbalagan visited Mr. Thangamani's residence during the course of the day. AIADMK cadre gathered outside the residence of Mr. Thangamani and his son, and raised slogans condemning the searches. They blocked a vehicle with DVAC officials in Namakkal. The police intervened and cleared the protesters. Mr. Thangamani on Wednesday night claimed Electricity Minister Senthilbalaji was instrumental in the DVAC searches targeting him and his family members. He denied that cash or jewellery were seized from his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-searches-69-premises-linked-to-ex-minister/article37965644.ece
16 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Akshaya Patra Foundation to start noon-meal scheme in Jan.||Akshaya Patra Foundation, a non-profit wing of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON), will take over the school noon-meal programme from the Education Department in the Union Territory of Puducherry in January. “The non-governmental organisation will start the programme next month [January]. They will start with a few schools and scale up the programme by the end of January or February,” Director of School Education P.T. Rudra Goud told The Hindu . Delayed start Mr. Goud had inked a memorandum of understanding with the foundation in 2018 for the supply of nutritious midday meals to over 50,000 students of 300 government schools. The programme was delayed, he said, because the foundation was establishing a modernised central kitchen at Lawspet. The COVID-19 pandemic was also behind the hold-up. Kodandarama Dasa, regional vice-president of Akshaya Patra Foundation, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, said the partly automated centralised kitchen was ready for commissioning. “Once the inaugural date is announced, we will roll out the programme.” The foundation will add more items to the menu and will change the dishes according to the requirements of children. “We are planning to provide rice, ‘sambar’, ‘poriyal’, ‘kottu’ and curd. There will be no compromise on hygiene and nutrition.” Modern facility The kitchen, constructed at a cost of around Rs. 15 crore and with the support of National Insurance Company and General Insurance Corporation, was utilised to serve food during the recent floods. Around 25,000 food packets were served to the affected persons, said a worker at the kitchen. The kitchen has automated vegetable- and rice-cleaning machines, cold-storage rooms, storehouses, a separate area for cleaning utensils, a bio-gas facility, an organic waste composter and an effluent treatment plant. In fact, the entry is through automated gates which will open only when a person completes a three-step process of hand sanitisation. Around 20 vehicles, which will carry insulated food containers to schools, have arrived at the kitchen. The containers can maintain the temperature for more than 6 hours, the worker said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/akshaya-patra-foundation-to-start-noon-meal-scheme-in-jan/article37965993.ece
16 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Drill tests readiness for response to calamity||The administration’s readiness for response to potential calamity was put to test in a tsunami mock drill, held near the French War Memorial on the Beach promenade on Tuesday evening. The exercise, as part of the commemoration of the 75th year of India's Independence, aimed at creating awareness on the protection of cultural and heritage buildings and assessing the preparedness, response and resilience of the administration during times of disaster. The simulation was jointly conducted by the Department of Revenue and Disaster Management and line departments led by Collector Purva Garg, in coordination with the 4th Battalion of NDRF, Arakkonam. According to a press note, the mock exercise was conducted simulating a real time event by playing out a scenario of tsunami threat to Puducherry coast due to an earthquake in the Indian Ocean, and evacuation of the people living along the coastline. All response, rescue and evacuation drills in the event of a real tsunami threat were carried out. Various line departments, like public works, electricity, health, fire, police, local administration, fisheries and social welfare among others, were involved in the exercise and more than 200 officers, volunteers and members of the public participated in the drill. On completion of the drill, the Collector reviewed preparedness and response level of line departments and called for further fine-tuning of efficiency of the administration's response to an emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drill-tests-readiness-for-response-to-calamity/article37965990.ece
16 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Reserve 25% seats for local students in varsity, says MP||BJP member of the Rajya Sabha S. Selvaganabathy on Tuesday pressed for 25% reservation for students belonging to Puducherry in Pondicherry University. Raising the long-standing plea during zero hour in Parliament, he said, “The Central universities in India are functioning with land, water, electricity and other infrastructure of the local governments. Yet, the students of Puducherry are not assured of a share in admissions to all the courses conducted by the Central university. This is unfortunate. I feel the privilege of the native students of Puducherry is denied.” Pointing out that the Pondicherry University was a Central university established by an Act of Parliament in 1985 and Rajya Sabha Chairperson M. Venkaiah Naidu is its Chancellor, Mr. Selvaganabathy said the people of Puducherry had been requesting the university for several years to reserve 25% of the seats for students of the Union Territory. The university is offering 78 courses. Now the reservation is given for Puducherry residents only in 21 courses, and the demand is to extend the quota to the other courses. “Denying reservation to the people of Puducherry is unreasonable. It is perplexing and defying natural justice. We don’t deny the university’s pan-India character and the right of students of the other States to join a Central government establishment. What we want is only a minimal reservation of 25%,” the MP said. Mr. Selvaganabathy said reservation for the local residents was hardly a new phenomenon. Moreover, the Union Territory was not having any State university and the people had to depend only on the Central university. “In my own State, JIPMER is a Central government organisation. It provides 25% reservation to the locals and the National Institute of Technology gives 50% reservation to the locals. Let such a policy be adopted not only for Pondicherry University but also for all 54 Central universities in India,” he said, urging the Union Minister for Education to take a positive decision.  People have been requesting the Pondicherry University to reserve seats for students belonging to the Union Territory||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reserve-25-seats-for-local-students-in-varisty-says-mp/article37965997.ece
16 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||PTDC to roll out food trucks in Puducherry and Karaikal||The government-owned Puducherry Tourism Development Corporation (PTDC), which operates the Seagulls Restaurant, is set to improve its presence in the city’s culinary scene by rolling out food trucks to cater to street food lovers in the former French outpost. The PTDC has already developed a model for food trucks and is finalising the private players who will run the trucks under the public-private partnership (PPP) model. With the tourist inflow picking up at the weekends, the PTDC has decided to allow the setting up of food trucks at popular hangouts. “This is the first time the PTDC will be rolling out such a venture. To start with, the PTDC has planned to set up three food trucks — two in Puducherry and one in Karaikal. The PTDC will provide the necessary infrastructure, with basic amenities, at prime locations in Puducherry, while the private players will operate the food trucks,” an official of the Tourism Department said. The food trucks will offer varied cuisine, including ‘chaat’ boxes, pan-Indian finger food, south Indian starters, traditional cuisine, and ‘chaats’. The second truck will offer culinary tales from across the globe such as pasta, pizza, grills, and Au Gratins, while another food on wheels will provide salads, soups, beverages . The PTDC has also planned to have one truck that will offer exclusive Puducherry cuisine, including seafood. The PTDC will provide prime space and ensure permission from time to time to park at places with high footfall, including the Chunnambar boathouse and the Promenade Beach. The players should have a statutory FSSAI licence, no objection certificates from the Fire Department, a municipal licence, insurance, and permits to set up the trucks, the official said. The menu will be strictly standardised. The units will be monitored by the PTDC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ptdc-to-roll-out-food-trucks-in-puducherry-and-karaikal/article37965991.ece
16 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Youth Affairs Secretary calls on CM||Usha Sharma, Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, called on Chief Minister N. Rangasamy at his chamber on Wednesday. She met Mr. Rangasamy to discuss the conduct of the National Youth Festival-2022 in Puducherry, a release from the Chief Minister’s Office said. Joint Secretary of Youth Affairs Nitesh Kumar Mishra; Deputy Secretary of Youth Affairs Pankaj Kumar Singh; Secretary to the Government, Education, Ashok Kumar; and Director of School Education P.T. Rudra Goud were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-affairs-secretary-calls-on-cm/article37965994.ece
16 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 13 new COVID-19 infections||No COVID-19- related death was reported in the Union Territory of Puducherry even as 13 fresh cases were detected on Wednesday. Puducherry accounted for 11 of the fresh cases, detected from 2,206 tests, followed by one in Karaikal and Mahe each. No fresh cases were reported from Yanam. With 17 patients recovering in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 173 (39 patients at hospital and 134 in home isolation). The test positivity rate was 0.59%, the case fatality rate 1.45% and the recovery rate 98.41%. The cumulative toll remained at 1,878, with Puducherry logging 1,466, Karaikal 251, Yanam 109 and Mahe 52. The Union Territory has registered a total of 1,29,261 cases and 1,27,210 recoveries. Of an estimated 20.16 lakh tests conducted so far, over 17.11 lakh were negative. Meanwhile, 5,944 persons took the vaccine in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has administered 13,29,716 doses so far. No death in Cuddalore Cuddalore district recorded no COVID-19-related deaths. Five persons tested positive, taking the tally of cases to 64,489. The district has so far recorded 63,548 recoveries and the active case count stands at 67. Villupuram reported three cases, taking the total number to 46,061. No fresh cases were reported in Kallakurichi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-13-new-covid-19-infections/article37965995.ece
16 December 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||SHGs give new lease of life to palmyrah trees||Four self-help groups for women are giving a new lease of life to palm trees by bringing back usage of their leaves with various utility products. The eco-friendly products, which fetch them good income, also indirectly help in preservation of palmyrah trees, which are being indiscriminately felled in recent years. With the advent of science, palm leave products that thrived three decades ago have been reduced to just mats used by cooks during big events. Slowly, steel and plastic relegated palm leaf products to the verge of their existence. But, the farm product value chain project by ICICI Foundation, which provided training to the SHGs and helped in marketing them, has brought a new lease of life to the palmyrah, the State tree of Tamil Nadu. “After brief training of 10 to 15 days, we now have four SHGs that regularly make various palm leaf products which have good demand in several States. We have even exported them to London,” said M. Kasturi, coordinator of the SHGs. Members of Panai Kakkam Mangayar started with making mats and baskets and have now turned to making other products including decorative wall hangings, bouquet baskets, table mats, packing boxes and marriage garlands. “We use only tender palm leaves and fibre from palmyra trees. Added colours make them beautiful and attractive,” said K. Sangavi, 25, involved in making the products. These are best and cheap alternatives for plastic and best suited for the environment. “We continue to innovate based on requirements from customers,” said Ms. Kasturi. A hotel in Hyderabad has asked for containers to serve chappatis and pizzas. “The palm leaves add to the aroma of the chappatis ,” she added. During the lockdown, the women started to make colourful marriage garlands which are also in great demand. The door hangings made of palm leaves have replaced flower garlands. “These hangings have longer life for up to 45 days,” Ms. Kasturi added. The income of women too have doubled with these products. The demand for palmyra crown has increased what with its price going up from around Rs. 12 to Rs. 40 now, said Ms. Sangavi. The members of Vidiyal, Puthu Yugam and Panai Karpagatharu work in the common facilities between 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. to make additional income after their regular chores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shgs-give-new-lease-of-life-to-palmyrah-trees/article37965758.ece
16 December 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Deities adorned with ‘vasthrams’||Adorning of presiding deities, Andal and Lord Rengamannar, with silk vasthrams was performed on the occasion of Kaisika Ekadasi at the famous temple here on Wednesday. The bhattars decorated the deities, including Periya Perumal, Garudazhwar, Bhoo Devi, Sridevi and Azhwars, with 108 silk v asthrams . “ Kaisaka Ekadasi marks the onset of winter season and that is why the silk vasthrams are wrapped around the deities,” said temple priest Rengarajan. Several devotees witnessed the event. Prior to the event, Andal, Lord Rengamannar and Garudazhawar were brought to Periya Perumal sannathi . Special pujas were performed to the deities. Special pujas will be held on Thursday morning to mark the commencement of the Tamil month of Marghazhi . The temple will remain open for the devotees from 4 a.m. throughout Marghazhi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deities-adorned-with-silk-vasthrams-at-andal-temple/article37965759.ece
16 December 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Constable arrested||Rajaguru from Subramaniyapuram near Puliyangudi, a Grade I constable attached to Kadayanallur police station, has been arrested as he created a ruckus while on duty in an inebriated condition near a Tasmac liquor outlet on Sankarankovil-Sernthamaram Road on Monday. Holding a beer bottle in his hand, he picked up a quarrel with another person near the Tasmac shop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-arrested/article37965743.ece
16 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Survey to identify encroachments begins||Survey of encroachments along surplus water outlet channel of Kadambakulam, the biggest irrigation tank under Tamirabharani irrigation system, has begun. As the channel has been strangulated by wild growth and encroachments, the excess water recently released from the waterbody submerged the Varandiyavel low-level bridge on Tiruchendur-Thoothukudi and entered nearby residential areas and farms. After the public appealed to Minister for Fisheries Anita R. Radhakrishnan to take immediate steps to remove the encroachments and the wild growth, the survey began recently to identify illegal structures along the 17-km-long channel. “The four survey teams involved in this exercise will complete the work within two weeks and encroachment removal will commence subsequently,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-to-identify-encroachments-begins/article37966050.ece
16 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||E-bike rental service introduced in Tiruchi||The Tiruchi division of Southern Railways has introduced an e-bike rental service at the Railway Junction here. The public can hire a bike on hourly, daily or weekly basis and is not restricted to railway passengers alone. As one exits the railway station, a counter of the newly set up e-bike rental could be found on the left side. Within the 12-hour duration from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., the public can hire a bike at Rs. 50 an hour and Rs. 1,000 as a security deposit. All that one requires is their driving license and Aadhaar card. The aim is to create awareness of electric bikes and provide a convenient travelling option to the public, said Praveen Kumar, proprietor of PNA Motors, whose bikes are being rented out. The service would be useful to people on a short trip to the city. ‘There are students who come here for examinations, workers for meetings and conferences. They do not need to depend upon autorickshaws or cabs and can travel on their own,’ he said. A 12-hour package costs Rs. 500, and a day-long package Rs. 750. Even weekly rental packages are available. All bikes have an in-built GPS facility and its location can be tracked at any given time. In the five days of its functioning, 30 persons have taken on rent the vehicles for various durations. While chargers are provided for vehicles hired for the day, the ones hired on hourly basis can run up to 100 km on a single charge. People curious about e-bikes and want to take a test drive also approach the counter. A few customers hired the e-bike for an hour to test-drive it to understand its functioning. The project is being run on a trial basis and PNA Motors has acquired a tender. ‘The tender period is for a year as it is a trial-run for us. We can scale up the number of vehicles here if the response is good,’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-bike-rental-service-introduced-in-tiruchi/article37965739.ece
16 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New trustees to be appointed in temples||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) P.K. Sekarbabu on Wednesday said that appointments to the post of trustees of temples would be completed within 2022. Speaking to reporters here after visiting Sri Subramanya Swamy Temple at Vayalur, he said that the previous government had failed to establish Boards of Trustees in various temples across the State. The HR&CE had taken steps to appoint trustees in about 300 temples. A number of people had aspired for the honorary posts. The process of appointing trustees had been started. A committee had been appointed to study the applications. New trustees would be appointed based on merits of the applicants. The process would be completed by 2022. To a question on the alleged discrimination against the priests of all castes appointed recently by the DMK government for performing pujas to the presiding deities at some of the leading temples, Mr. Sekarbabu said when a few such instances were brought to his knowledge he immediately intervened in the matter and ensured equal rights. There was no restriction on them performing poojas for the presiding deities. He said the kumbabishegam of Sri Subramanya Swamy Temple at Vayalur should have been completed in 2018. But, the previous government had not taken steps to perform it as per the schedule. The temple was said to be 1,200 years old. A few ‘mandapams’ were in poor condition. Repair works will be carried out within 12 to 15 months. A technical committee would be constituted to study the stormwater drainage issue. A rest house for the devotees would be constructed at a cost of Rs. 95 lakh. When asked whether the State Government would remove the boards kept at leading temples that disallow non-Hindus into the temples, he said the practice had been enforced in several temples for long. The question of removing the boards so as to allow the devotees of other faiths would have to be studied with the legal experts and the chief priests of the respective temples. A suitable decision would be taken on the issue after the consultation. Later, accompanied by J. Kumaraguruparan, Commissioner, HR&CE, he visited various temples in the district including Sri Mariamman Temple in Samayapuram and held a discussion with the officials on the ongoing development works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-trustees-to-be-appointed-in-temples/article37965737.ece
16 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Medical scientist gets high ranking||Philip A Thomas, Associate Director (Research), Institute of Ophthalmology, Joseph Eye Hospital, Tiruchi, has been ranked under ‘Life time career’ and ‘2020 citation’ in a study published by the Stanford University, USA. He has been ranked third among the stalwarts of ophthalmology at the national level, with a record of 173 research papers, H-index of 39 and an i10 index of 91. He has authored a textbook of clinical microbiology and published more than 14 books/ chapters in international textbooks besides presenting more than 100 papers at national and international meets. He has been an investigator in several multi-country studies, on bacterial and fungal keratitis, supported by the British Council for prevention of blindness and the Thrasher Institute, USA. The result of these studies have influenced patient treatment protocols, both in India and abroad, and have contributed to reduce the burden of blindness due to fungal keratitis in India, said Dr. Thomas whose contributions to medical sciences was recognised by the Tamil Nadu State Council for Science and Technology with the TANSA award in 1997. He was conferred with the FRC path degree by the Royal College of Pathologists, London in 2018. He heads the Ocular Microbiology Department in the hospital which is fully accredited by NABH, and figures among leading tertiary eye care facilities in south India for holistic management of the entire spectrum of microbial keratitis. R. Radhakrishnan, Assistant Professor of Botany, Jamal Mohamed College, finds a place among the top two percent of scientists in the recent release of Stanford Rankings for 2020. He has scored 91st rank in the specific category of arts and science universities (both Central and State) at the national level. His areas of research include plant microbial interactios, plant physiology and biotechnology. The ranking was based on a pattern of data mining and complex mixing of quality parameters from a publicly available database covering 22 main and 176 sub-scientific fields, a press release issued by the college said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-scientist-gets-high-ranking/article37965742.ece
16 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Focus on advances in transport engineering||The sixth four-day conference of transportation research group of India envisaging India’s overall growth through focused transportation research, education and policies got off to a start here on Wednesday. Hosted by National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T), it will witness interchange of ideas among researchers, educators, practitioners, managers and policy-makers in the field of transport in India and around the world providing the participants an opportunity to understand the recent advances in the different areas of transportation engineering. A total of 167 papers are to be presented during the conference, on themes such as pavements and materials, traffic flow and ITS, planning and travel behaviour, sustainable transport, traffic, intelligent transport system and mobility, and traffic safety and security, G Kannabiran, Director-in charge, NIT-T, said. Akhilesh Srivastava, Chief General Manager, NHAI (IT and Highway operation), inaugurated the conference in the presence of Guest of honor Kumares C. Sinha, Professor, Lyles School of Civil Engineering, Purdue University. The conference has an exhaustive line up of executive course sessions on various niche areas of transportation engineering to be delivered by eminent personnels from IITs, IISc and other leading institutions across the country and from abroad. Eminent experts from academia and industry have been roped in to handle various topics .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-advances-in-transport-engineering/article37965735.ece
16 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Need to tap India’s ancient knowledge’||Researchers should link ancient India’s knowledge in science, especially in the field of medicine, with modern technology to create credible solutions to health and other scientific issues, Governor R.N. Ravi has said. Speaking at the 28th convocation of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University here on Wednesday, Mr. Ravi said ancient Indians, through their experience, could grasp scientific ideas, especially in medicine, to find remedies. With the treatments and medicines available 3,000 years ago, the people’s lifespan crossed 100 years. However, the advent of modern science diverted the attention towards a different direction, leaving behind ancient India’s knowledge untapped. Hence, an integrated approach was the need of the hour to link ancient India’s knowledge in science with the modern technology to revolutionise scientific inventions. He urged teachers to equip students with employable skills required by industry. The Governor, who visited MSU’s solar power plant on Tuesday, lauded the university administration for generating green power. “It is so great to know that the plant generates more power than the MSU’s actual requirement,” he said. Vice-Chancellor K. Pitchumani, who highlighted the new facilities added to laboratories and the new buildings, said MSU had procured Single Crystal X-ray Diffractometer System with accessories and BET analyser with accessories with the grant of Rs. 20 crore sanctioned by the State government for the benefit of students of the university and affiliated colleges. “Moreover, we have placed orders for procuring Electrochemical Scanning Probe Microscopy, FT–IR Raman-coupled Confocal Microscopy and Spectroscopy, Multichannel Photo/Electrochemical workstation, Microbial Identification System and Ultra Centrifuge with all accessories and UV-VIS-NIR Spectrometer,” Mr. Pitchumani said. A total of 1,243 candidates received their degrees in person and 1,08,284 candidates in absentia. As many as 204 toppers received their medals from the Governor. Of the 1,039 Ph.D. scholars who received their degrees, 675 were women. Thangappan, 73, a retired postgraduate schoolteacher from Pudur near Eethamozhi in Kanniyakumari district, who did his Ph.D. on ‘Gandhian philosophy and its importance in today’s world’, also received his degree from the Governor. Secretary, Department of Higher Education, Karthikeyan, MSU Registrar (in-charge) R. Maruthakutti and Controller of Examinations Suruliyandi were present at the ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-to-tap-indias-ancient-knowledge/article37965752.ece
16 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Teaching mode should encourage students to be innovators’||The mode of teaching should equip and encourage students to become innovators and not ‘mark scorers’ so that they could serve a populous country like India in the best possible fashion, said A. Ajayaghosh, Director, National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, on Wednesday. Delivering the convocation address in Manonmaniam Sundaranar University’s 28th convocation held here, Mr. Ajayaghosh said though the country had over 1,000 universities, including IITs, NITs, Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research and institutions of national importance, and organisations such as ISRO, CSIR, BARC and DRDO, where research ecosystem was strong, they were not sufficient to meet the country’s demands. Hence, the universities should accept the changes happening in the education system across the globe and repurpose in the best way to cater to the present and future needs of the country. To achieve this goal, the teaching mode being followed in the higher educational institutions should change to equip and encourage the students to turn innovators. “The New Education Policy stresses this skill development strategy to encourage innovation and entrepreneurship. Establishment of Atal Tinkering Labs in schools and Atal Innovation Programmes will induce research aptitude among school students who should be further nurtured in colleges and institutions of higher education,” Mr. Ajayaghosh said. While batting for equal opportunities to all to get intellectually empowered, he said developmental activities and progress should not destroy the nature and the ecosystem, but identify the right sustainable utilisation of available resources. “Our university system has a greater role not only to empower our younger generation to achieve these goals, but also to mould them with good human character with patriotism, love, empathy, responsibility and charity. A good and responsible human being is more valuable to the nation than a merely educated person,” Mr. Ajayaghosh noted. Minister for Higher Education K. Ponmudi said his department was working towards giving more importance to research-oriented education system in colleges and universities as it was the need of the hour to win enviable employment opportunities. To fine-tune the proposal further, the teachers of these institutions would be exposed to refresher programmes by experts drawn from across the globe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teaching-mode-should-encourage-students-to-be-innovators/article37966052.ece
16 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Library opened in college||Sadakkathullah Appa College, Palayamkottai, has got modern library, built at a cost of Rs. 3 crore. Minister for Higher Education K. Ponmudi inaugurated the library, named after the founder president of the college, Haji M.N. Mohamed Saheb, in the presence of MSU Vice-Chancellor K. Pitchumani on Wednesday. Mr. Ponmudi appealed to teachers to utilise the library to the maximum possible extent to equip students with knowledge, especially the technical skills required for securing jobs in the highly competitive market. Mr. Pitchumani lauded the college administration’s effort in constructing a modern library on 12,000 sq. ft. “The library should be full-fledged digital library with audio–visual files that can be accessed by the students in no time.” Correspondent T.E.S. Fathu Rabbani, principal M. Mohamed Sathik and Palayamkottai MLA and alumnus M. Abdul Wahab spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/library-opened-in-college/article37966051.ece
16 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Couple found murdered at home||In a suspected case of murder for gain, an elderly couple from Kangeyam in Tiruppur district was found murdered in their house on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as M. Palanisamy (72) of Thammareddipalayam in Kangeyam and his wife P. Valliammal (68). The police said that a 7.5 sovereign gold chain worn by Valliammal was missing. The Kangeyam police said that only the couple lived in the house and their son P. Chandrasekaran (46), who works in a knitwear company in Tiruppur city, used to visit them. Ramesh, a resident of Thammareddipalayam, telephoned Mr. Chandrasekaran around 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday and informed him about the death of his parents. Mr. Chandrasekaran immediately rushed to Thammareddipalayam with his wife. The Kangeyam police, during inquest, found that Valliammal had a cut injury on head apart from stab wounds on ears and forehead. A towel was found around her neck, possibly used by the assailants to strangulate her. Palanisamy was found dead with a nylon rope around his neck and two cut injuries on his head. Two shelves in the house were found open and the articles inside them were scattered on the floor. The Kangeyam police registered a case under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 392 (punishment for robbery), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) and 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC based on his complaint. G. Shashank Sai, Superintendent of Police, Tiruppur district, said that six special teams were formed to investigate the murder and trace the assailants. He said that investigators have collected visuals from surveillance cameras in the locality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-found-murdered-at-home/article37965682.ece
16 December 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Court orders attachment of revenue divisional office||The Dharapuram Sub-Court on Tuesday ordered the attachment of the Revenue Divisional Office, Dharapuram, for the State Government’s failure to pay compensation to farmers whose lands were acquired for the construction of Nallathangal Dam two decades ago. Legal sources said that the State government acquired nearly 650 acres from over 100 farmers to construct the Nallathangal dam near Dharapuram in the year 2000. The farmers demanded enhanced compensation, which was not provided by the State government, sources said. On Tuesday, Subordinate Judge (Dharapuram) M. Dharmaprabu ordered that the Revenue Divisional Office – Dharapuram shall be attached as the State government failed to provide a compensation of Rs. 3.19 crore for the farmers. Former MP and senior lawyer S.K. Kharventhan appeared on behalf of 50 farmers whose lands were acquired, according to the sources. Revenue Department sources said on Wednesday that the Public Works Department and Revenue Department would appeal against this verdict at Tiruppur District Court and that the regular proceedings at the Revenue Divisional Office were not affected following this verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-orders-attachment-of-revenue-divisional-office/article37965673.ece
16 December 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Candlelight vigil for Varun Singh||Residents of Nanjappa Sathiram in Kattery near Coonoor held a candlelight vigil in memory of Group Captain Varun Singh who succumbed to injuries sustained in the chopper crash that killed CDS General Bipin Rawat and 12 others last Wednesday. The residents, most of whom were at work when news broke that Mr. Singh had passed away, held the vigil on Wednesday evening. They lit candles and prayed for him and his family. With Group Captain Singh’s death, the toll from the crash increased to 14, with no survivors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/candlelight-vigil-for-varun-singh/article37965691.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Addressing the gathering||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/addressing-the-gathering/article37966057.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple: Thirukarthigai and Markazhi mahotsavam, Kovaipudur temple premises, 9.30 a.m.  Keystone, Tamil Nadu Urban Sanitation Support Programme and Indian Institute of Human Settlements: Workshop on ‘Urban Sanitation’, Ball Room, The Residency Towers, 10 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Career Counselling, 10.30 a.m.; Inauguration of NSS Unit II, 11 a.m.; Peer learning session on market based management, 2.30 p.m.  KG College of Arts and Science: National Energy Conservation Day, 7 p.m.  Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan College of Engineering: Expert lecture on ‘Entrepreneurship for Young Innovative Minds’, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37965681.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||ERODE   Erode District Central Library and Nandha College of Technology: Book release and guidance programme, P. Sasikumar, Scientist/Chief Engineer, Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, chief guest, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37965763.ece
16 December 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘I was all set to expose DKS, but was stopped by party’||The much anticipated media conference by Ramesh Jarkiholi after elections to the Legislative Council in which he had vowed to expose Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar did not happen. The BJP MLA told journalists in Gokak in Belagavi district on Tuesday that he would not say anything about any opposition leader following instructions from the party. “Just as I was getting ready for the media conference, I got a call from a senior leader of the BJP. He is among the top leaders of the party in Karnataka. He directed me not to speak against anyone, and I will follow those orders,” he said. “Otherwise, I was going to give all incriminating details about Mr. Shivakumar. I was planning to speak openly about all I know about him. But I am constrained to remain silent,” he said. However, he did not hesitate to comment on Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah. “Mr. Siddaramaiah is a waste body. He is afraid of his political future. He is insecure about my growth. He thinks that I will grow as a Backward Class leader and unseat him. He is a loser. He is looking for constituencies other than his own. I will not comment on persons who are falling head down into a political ditch,” Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi said. He is not happy with the Congress winning the Belagavi seat in the council. “We wanted to defeat the Congress. But that did not happen. What to do?. Whatever I have to say, I will say in the party meeting. However, I knew this would happen. The reason is a particular development that happened a few days before polling. There was some political development in the district four days before polling, which changed everything. I will discuss this within the party before revealing it to the public,” he said. He promised to address the media again after a few days. Asked about why he was being targetted for the party’s loss, and not the 12 other BJP MLAs and three Lok Sabha members and a Rajya Sabha member, he said, “I welcome it as only strong leaders are blamed. Only a mountain can shoulder the burden of unlimited weight. I think they are blaming me as I am a powerful leader.” Meanwhile, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who returned to Belagavi from Uttar Pradesh said the party would not rush to conclusions about which leader to blame for the poor performance in some seats. “We will not take action against any leader hastily. The party is watching all developments and will take the right decisions at the right time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-was-all-set-to-expose-dks-but-was-stopped-by-party/article37965780.ece
16 December 2021||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Govt. announces transfer of tahsildar over breach of privilege charge||The allegationsof a tahsildar breaching the privileges of the local MLA created a furore in the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday with the Opposition Congress and JD(S) members staging a dharna demanding that she should be suspended from service. The issue was resolved after the Government held consultations with the Opposition members and announced its decision to shunt out Sandur tahsildar H.J. Rashmi besides ordering an inquiry against her following complaints of breaching privileges of local MLA Tukaram. Revenue Minister R. Ashok told the Assembly that the officer would not be given new posting till the probe against her was completed. Earlier, Mr. Tukaram (Congress) raised the issue and alleged that the official had behaved rudely with him and insulted him when he had gone to meet her at her office for an official work. Though Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had ordered her transfer in November itself, following his complaint, she had continued to stay in Sandur, he said. He also alleged that Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy’s instructions to take disciplinary action against her too had not been implemented so far. Making a complaint of breach of privilege against the official, the MLA appealed to Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri and Mr. Bommai to take stern action against her. While the Chief Minister assured the House of transferring her, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah demanded that she be suspended. The Chief Minister said decision on disciplinary action would be taken after the probe. Meanwhile,the Speaker announced that the matter would also be handed over to the Privileges Committee of the House for an inquiry. However, the Chief Minister took exception to it.He said either the departmental inquiry or a probe by the committee should be taken up into the episode. But the Opposition began a dharna, forcing the Speaker to adjourn the House for some time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-announces-transfer-of-tahsildar-over-breach-of-privilege-charge/article37965599.ece
16 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Belagavi result matter of concern: BSY||BJP leader and former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has expressed concern about the defeat of the party candidate in Belagavi in the election to the Karnataka Legislative Council. “It is a matter of concern that we lost despite having a large number of MLAs, MPs, and other leaders in Belagavi district. This needs to be discussed within the party. We need to introspect. We need to investigate into allegations about which leaders caused the defeat,” he said. He said that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai spoke to him about the issue and the discussions would continue to find the cause behind the result. Jarkiholi’s silence Meanwhile, the much-anticipated media conference by the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi after the Council elections in which he had vowed to “expose” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar did not happen. He said he had desisted from making revelations because top leaders did not want him to do so at this point in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-result-matter-of-concern-bsy/article37965596.ece
16 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||A record of sorts by the Gowda clan||Suraj Revanna’s victory in the election to the Karnataka Legislative Council has set a new record in electoral politics. For, the first family of the Janata Dal (Secular) will now have a presence in both the Houses of the State legislature as well as Parliament. Mr. Suraj Revanna’s grandfather and former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda is a member of the Rajya Sabha. His younger brother, Prajwal Revanna, was elected to the Lok Sabha in 2019, to represent Hassan. His father, H.D. Revanna, former Minister, is representing Holenarsipur constituency in the State Assembly. Two more members from the family — H.D. Kumaraswamy and his wife Anitha Kumaraswamy — are members of the Assembly. Though Mr. Gowda’s family has been into politics since 1961, for the first time one of its members has been elected to the Legislative Council. Mr. Suraj Revanna secured 2,281 votes of the total 3,478 polled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-record-of-sorts-by-the-gowda-clan/article37965597.ece
16 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Huge hike in gallantry award cash prize||The State Government has revised the one-time monetary allowance meant for gallantry award winners. The Param Vir Chakra winners will now get Rs. 1.5 crore in place Rs. 25 lakh. An official notification issued here on Wednesday stated that the allowance had been revised considering the amount prevailing in other States. The Department of Sainik Welfare and Rehabilitation had recommended the revision. Following is the list of awards and the revised one-time monetary allowance: Maha Vir Chakra – Rs. 1 crore (from Rs. 25 lakh), Ashok Chakra – Rs. 1.5 crore (from Rs. 25 lakh), Kirti Chakra – Rs. 1 crore (from Rs. 12 lakh), Vir Chakra – Rs. 50 lakh (from Rs. 8 lakh), Shaurya Chakra – Rs. 50 lakh (from Rs. 8 lakh), Army/Navy/Air Force Medal – Rs. 15 lakh (from Rs. 2 lakh), and Mention in Dispatches – Rs. 15 lakh (from Rs. 2 lakh).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/huge-hike-in-gallantry-award-cash-prize/article37965598.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bangalore Literature Festival at BIC this weekend||The city is set to host the Bangalore Literature Festival (BLF), which celebrates its landmark tenth edition this year. BLF will be held this weekend at the Bangalore International Centre, with a limited seating capacity like last year on account of COVID-19. ‘Multilingualism and endangered languages’ is a dominating theme of the festival. “The BIC venue can accommodate upto 400 persons. We will allow entry to people on a first come first served basis. Those who are unable to enter the venue can catch the events on YouTube when the videos of all the sessions will be uploaded. The festival will not be live-streamed this year,” said V. Ravichandar, one of the organisers of BLF. At any given point four parallel sessions will be held at the venue. “Nearly 75% of the authors will be present at the venue, while the rest will join online live,” he added. The highlight of this year’s festival will be a series of panel discussions around the theme, ‘The Many Language Worlds of Karnataka’. It includes writers and those fluent in languages such as Tulu, Konkani, Kodava, Koraga, Dakhani Urdu, Byari, Navyati, Kundapra Kannada, Halakki Kannada, Sanketi and Havyaka There are sessions on architecture of Kodagu and Tulunadu as well. Damodar Mauzo, who was recently awarded Jnanpith Prashasti for his works in Konkani, is one of the participants. “Our programme on the many language worlds of Karnataka is a work of passion and our USP for the festival this year,” Mr. Ravichandar said. There are other sessions on bhasha publishing and Kannada literature as well. The festival will also feature a session with Sugata Srinivasaraju on his recent biography of H.D. Deve Gowda. The pandemic and the fallout features prominently with noted virologist Gagandeep Kang speaking about the country’s fight against COVID-19. Another session will discuss cinema during the pandemic. Apart from Mr. Mauzo, prominent writers and celebrities who will be participating at BLF are Chitra Banerjee Divakaruni, David Baldacci, Ashwin Sanghi, Rutger Bergman, Jeet Thayil, Chetan Bhagat, Samanth Subramanian, Vivek Shanbhag, Preeti Shenoy, Rakesh Omprakash Mehra, Sania Mirza and Josy Joseph among others. This year, BLF will have 90 sessions and 175 authors/speakers, of whom 50% are women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bangalore-literature-festival-at-bic-this-weekend/article37965573.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister eyes RGUHS’ funds to provide better healthcare||Karnataka’s Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar wants the Medical Education Department to bring suitable amendments to the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) statutes to enable the government to use the varsity’s funds to provide better healthcare services to the general public.  Move criticised The move, which many argue will erode the autonomy of RGUHS, has received sharp criticism from various quarters including from syndicate members of the university. Recently, Dr Sudhakar wrote to the Secretary, Medical Education Department to bring “suitable amendments” to the RGUHS Act in the legislative session in Belagavi. Many syndicate members, who are up in arms against this, pointed out that the State government does not fund RGUHS and hence should not aim to utilise its funds. A copy of the note written by Dr. Sudhakar available with The Hindu states,"Chapter VI of the RGUHS Act speaks about the utilisation of the funds, its management and audit. Under proviso to Section 40, it is clear that with respect to utilisation of funds, the directions of the State government shall be final. However, if any such limitation is cast upon the government with respect to the utilisation of funds, it is imperative to introduce suitable amendments to the statute so as to enable the government to ensure that funds are put to effective use in the interest of extending better healthcare services to the general public.” A syndicate member of the university said that the university for several years had mobilised funds by collecting students fees and affiliation fees. “Every penny is being saved for the construction of the new campus and to conduct medical research in Karnataka. Now, if the government takes all the funds under its control and spends it on its whims and fancies, the development of the university will suffer,” he said. Jayakara S.M., Vice Chancellor in-charge, RGUHS, said that the Registrar of the university also received the same letter. “Before we communicate anything to the government we will have to get approval from the senate and syndicate,” he said. Repeated attempts to contact Dr. Sudhakar went unanswered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-eyes-rguhs-funds-to-provide-better-healthcare/article37965576.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC slashes AC bus fares||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), which has been struggling to get good patronage for its AC buses (Vajra services), has decided to slash fares by 34% from Friday ( December 17). As per the new fare revision, there will be no changes in the fare till the third stage, for 6 km. Passengers travelling from the fourth stage (8 km) to the 25th stage (50 km) will benefit from the new revision. For travel between 8-50 km, the fare has been reduced from anywhere between Rs. 5-Rs. 40 depending on the distance travelled. At present, it costs Rs. 90 to travel a distance of 50 kms. From Friday onwards, the ticket will cost Rs. 50. Day passes applicable for Vajra services will be reduced from Rs. 120 to Rs. 100 (including GST). Meanwhile, from January 1, commuters will have to shell out Rs. 1,500 for a monthly pass for AC bus services instead of Rs. 2,000, which is the current price. There are no changes in Vayu Vajra services fares operated to and from Kempegowda International Airport. BMTC Managing Director V. Anbukumar said the move is aimed at increasing ridership and popularising services among common people by making it affordable. “We have reduced the fare by close to 35%. This will benefit everyone from daily office goers to students. People relying on private modes of transport and taxis are also likely to shift to AC buses,” he said. Additional AC buses In an attempt to increase ridership, the BMTC will run additional 90 AC buses on 12 routes from Friday. At present, it operates 83 AC buses on nine routes. The additional buses will be operated from Shivajinagar to Banashankari, Majestic to Vidyaranyapura, Electronics City to Kengeri and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-slashes-ac-bus-fares/article37965570.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa joins Opposition in urging CM to release flood relief||In what came as a surprise to the treasury benches, the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, toed the line of the Opposition Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) and embarrassed the BJP by urging Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to release funds to take up relief for the flood affected by setting aside expenditure on other works. During the discussions on rain and flood damage in the Legislative Assembly, Mr. Yediyurappa stood up soon after Congress leader R.V. Deshpande finished his speech, and urged the State to take up relief without waiting for the Centre’s help. “Farmers and labourers are in distress. This is an extraordinary situation and not witnessed in the last 40 years,” he said. Urging the Chief Minister, and Revenue Minister R. Ashok to set aside expenditure on other works, he said: “The Government should prioritise relief work. State will definitely get help from the Centre. We will also seek more money.” However, the sudden statement by Mr. Yediyurappa did not get any response from the Government. Earlier to Mr. Yediyurappa’s statement, Mr. Deshpande accused the Government of holding up payments under the MGNREGA scheme for six to seven months. In response, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa denied the allegations and said dues were pending only for two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yediyurappa-joins-opposition-in-urging-cm-to-release-flood-relief/article37965603.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State hikes festival advance for its staff||The Karnataka Government has increased the festival advance of its employees from Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 25,000 following a rise in the prices of essential commodities. The decision was taken following a demand from the Karnataka State Government Employees’ Association (KSGEA). An order issued by the Finance Department said that all permanent government employees, including the IAS and KAS cadre, are eligible for festival advance. An employee can obtain the advance, which is free of interest, once a year. The amount has to be repaid within 10 months in equal instalments. About 5.25 lakh employees are eligible to avail the festival advance. During January-October 2021, 1,29,000 employees had availed the festival advance, and the amount totalled Rs. 129 crore, said C.S. Shadakshari, president of KSGEA. The practice of festival advance was started in 1998 by the J.H. Patel government with Rs. 500. The amount was increased to Rs. 5,000 in 2012 by the BJP Government. The amount was further increased to Rs. 10,000 in 2018. The association president said no other State in India provides an amount of Rs. 25,000 as festival advance. He thanked Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who also holds the finance portfolio, for increasing the advance. In October 2020, the government increased Dearness Allowance from 21.5% of basic pay to 24.5%. The hike also applied to pensioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-hikes-festival-advance/article37965578.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Union govt.-owned institute moves High Court after BBMP demands service charge||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) not to precipitate further process based on the notices issued to a Union government-owned institute demanding payment of service charge amount of Rs. 3.75 crore from the past 21 years. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the interim order on a petition filed by Indian Plywood Industries Research and Training Institute (IPIRTI), an autonomous society functioning under the Ministry of Environment, Forest, and Climate Change. The petitioner-institute has challenged the constitutional validity of Sections 110(1)(j) and 110(2) of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, and the rules governing collection of service charges from the buildings exempted from property tax in so far as applicability of these laws for the buildings owned by the Central Government. Pointing out that the Article 285 of the Constitution exempts properties of the Union government from all taxes imposed by a State or by any authority within a State, the petitioner has claimed that levy of service charges on the buildings owned by the Centre, irrespective of their classification and use, under the powers granted in law to collect service charges from buildings exempted from payment of property tax amounts to violation of the constitutional provision. It has been stated in the petition that the BBMP started demanding the service charge with retrospective effect from 2000-01 after the petitioner applied for khata in 2013 as khata certificate was needed to get compensation for institute’s land acquired for the metro project. Advocate M.N. Kumar, appearing for the IPIRTI, pointed to the Bench that the BBMP had last year even locked the main gates of the institute for not paying the service charges as demanded by the BBMP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/union-govt-owned-institute-moves-high-court-after-bbmp-demands-service-charge/article37965575.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. tells employees not to put embarrassing posts on social media||Cracking the whip on government officials, the State Government issued a circular on public conduct of officials and refrained them from posting views and opinions on social media which would embarrass the government. The circular issued by the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR) on December 14, 2021, said the government employees and officials should not use their private social media handles to express their views on the government. Disciplinary action would be taken against the officials who embarrass the government by posting photographs and videos on social and digital media about the government, it warned. Earlier, the government had issued a circular asking officials to not to approach the media to express their differences of opinion on administration. The circular quoted the Karnataka State Civil Service Rules, 2021, and said it barred employees/officials from acting in films and television serials, publishing books, and criticising State and Central government policies without permission from competent authority. The rules have also refrained government staff from sponsoring media programmes in radio and television channels, including a video magazine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-tells-employees-not-to-put-embarrassing-posts-on-social-media/article37965579.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State Govt. borrows Rs. 16,000 cr. this quarter||In the third quarter of 2021–22, the State Government raised Rs. 16,000 crore State Development Loans (SDLs) through market borrowings to meet its development and non-developmental expenditure. The Government raised these loans through RBI between October 5 and December 14. The rate of interest ranges from 4.73% to 6.89%, depending on the duration of loans from two years to 11 years. Besides Karnataka, many States raised loans in different phases for management of expenditure, the RBI said. The Government raised these loans owing to the revenue shortfall during the first and second quarters, largely owing to the lockdown and restricted economic activities. Increased expenditure The State Government’s borrowings crossed Rs. 96,000 crore in 2020–21 largely because of increased expenditure on health infrastructure for management of the pandemic. The State Government has proposed to borrow over Rs. 70,000 crore (4% of the GSDP) during the current financial year (2021-22). The State’s revenue collections through GST, sales tax, and excise showed improvement since October 2021, owing to opening up of the economy as COVID-19 cases declined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-govt-borrows-rs-16000-cr-this-quarter/article37965604.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Omicron patient and his family discharged||The 46-year-old government doctor, who had tested positive for Omicron without any travel history and had been admitted to Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital on December 2, has been discharged from the hospital along with his family on Wednesday. They have been advised home quarantine for a week. The doctor, Karnataka’s second Omicron case, along with his wife and two daughters were under treatment for 14 days at the hospital. Doctors said he tested negative twice in a gap of 24 hours. He had developed secondary infections due to low immunity and had continued to test positive till recently. After testing positive on November 22, the doctor was treated at a private hospital from November 25 to 29. Subsequently, his genomic sequencing reports showed he was infected with Omicron and he was admitted to Bowring hospital along with six primary contacts - three family members and three colleagues - on December 2. New cases Meanwhile, Karnataka on Wednesday reported 317 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30,01,251. Bengaluru Urban reported 205 cases and two deaths. With this, the toll rose to 38,277. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 301 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 29,55,766. The State now has 7,179 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.26%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 0.63%. As many as 1,19,845 tests were conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/omicron-patient-family-discharged/article37965581.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. cautioned on delay in response||Cautioning that it will not hesitate to pass stringent orders against the State Government and its authorities for not filing statements in the court proceedings, the High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the Chief Secretary to instruct all authorities in the State to ensure proper assistance to the court. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the direction after noticing that the court way back in January 2020 had given a last chance to the Government and other authorities to file statement of objections to a PIL petition, which was filed in 2018 questioning the move to demolish heritage building housing Janata Bazaar on K.G. Road in the city. “Neither the statement of objections has been filed on behalf of the State government nor the additional government advocate is aware as to why the same has not been filed. It is a very sorry state of affairs. We cannot appreciate the manner in which the government authorities taking the court orders so lightly,” the Bench observed. Observing that the petition has been pending as the Government, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike and the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) have not filed to file their statements, the Bench noted that the BBMP has not even deputed an advocate to represent it though notice was ordered way back in March 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-cautioned-on-delay-in-response/article37965574.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Institutional quarantine likely for arrivals from at-risk countries||The Bengaluru administration is mulling over introducing institutional quarantine for all passengers arriving from countries categorised as ‘at-risk’ by the Union Government in view of the Omicron scare, even if they test negative for COVID-19. Chief Civic Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said though the number of COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru is presently low, the administration is preparing for a spike in numbers. “The United Kingdom has come out with a study that indicates, going ahead, most of the COVID-19 cases reported will be of the Omicron variant. So we are considering introducing institutional quarantine for all passengers from at-risk countries, even if they test negative for COVID-19. An expert committee will take the final call on whether it is required, and if so, for what duration,” he said. He appealed to all those who have returned from foreign countries to voluntarily come forward and cooperate with the administration. The Centre has declared the United Kingdom, South Africa, Botswana, Brazil, China, Ghana, Hong Kong, Israel, Mauritius, New Zealand, and Zimbabwe as ‘at-risk’ countries for Omicron. Mr. Gupta appealed to residents of Bengaluru to get themselves tested frequently in case of any COVID-19 symptom. “It could also be flu or viral fever, which is prevalent in Bengaluru. But it is better to get tested,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/institutional-quarantine-likely-for-arrivals-from-at-risk-countries/article37965577.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six held for drug peddling||With New Year’s eve around the corner, the police have stepped up their vigil on drug dealers and peddlers. The South Division police on Wednesday arrested six people, including three foreigners for allegedly peddling drugs in separate cases. In one instance, the Konanakunte police caught three persons from Manipur and recovered 111.16 g of cocaine and Rs. 600 from them. In another case, the Kumaraswamy Layout police arrested an African national, and recovered 20 g of MDMA worth Rs. 1.3 lakh. The accused Dallo Barthelemy, 36, was caught at Teachers Colony. In the third case, the Banashankari police arrested Prince Ani Chidozie Samuel, 33, from Nigeria and Fofana Ahamad, 28, from the Ivory Coast, near KIMS College hostel. They recovered 32 g of MDMA and Rs. 7,000 cash from them. “Samuel had come to India on a medical visa, but overstayed. He joined Ahamad to deal in drugs,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-held-for-drug-peddling/article37965571.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested||The Surya Nagara police have cracked the murder of a GP member and his female friend, who were stabbed to death on Saturday and arrested the victim’s husband, Muthiraj. The accused allegedly stabbed his wife Kavya and GP member Narayanaswamy at his mother-in-law’s house in Chandapura. A team was formed to track Muthiraj who was absconding soon after the murder. On Tuesday night, the police received information that he was hiding in a relative’s house on the outskirts of Bengaluru. They raided the place and arrested him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested/article37965582.ece
16 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Don’t withdraw eggs from midday meals’||Scores of people led by members of various Dalit and progressive organisations took out a protest march in Hubballi on Wednesday in support of the State Government’s move to distribute eggs for addressing the problem of malnutrition among school children and urged it to extend the programme to a whole week. The protest march was taken out under the aegis of Samata Sena, Karnataka, and federation of various Dalit and progressive organisations. The march began from B.R. Ambedkar’s statue near the head post office and concluded at mini Vidhana Soudha in Hubballi. During the march, the protesters urged the Government not to yield to the pressure by those opposing the programme in the name of vegetarianism, including some religious heads. Addressing the protesters, president of Samata Sena Gurunath Ullikashi said that those who didnot want eggs should be given bananas or any other nutritious food. “If the State Government takes a decision to discontinue the programme under pressure from any lobby, agitations will staged across the State,” he said. HDMC council member Chetan Hirekerur and others led the agitation and submitted memoranda addressed to the Governor and the Chief Minister to the taluk officials. In the memorandum they have strongly condemned the attempts to treat egg consuming people including those belonging to minority and backward communities as ‘untouchables’. Malnutrition had been troubling the children of northern districts like Raichur, Koppal, Yadgi, Kalaburagi, Bidar, and others and the same had been revealed in the studies carried out by national and State-level institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-withdraw-eggs-from-midday-meals/article37965782.ece
16 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Villagers to be appointed to Mansur Trust||Responding to the pending demand of residents of Mansur village, the birthplace of Hindustani vocalist Mallikarjun Mansur, two persons from the village would be appointed to the Dr. Mallikarjun Mansur National Trust. Chairing a review meeting on the trust’s activities in Dharwad on Wednesday, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad and chairman of the trust Nitesh Patil said that the appointment will be done during the 111th birth anniversary of Pandit Mallikarjun Mansur on December 31. Mr. Patil said that new initiative will be launched by the trust to carry forward the legacy of Mansur village in Hindustani music. Initiatives to teach Hindustani music to the younger generation will be taken up, he said. He said that considering the demand by the residents to hold a music festival in their village in memory of the legendary musician, a concert will be held in Mansur on December 31. On the demand for converting the residence of Pt. Mallikarjun Mansur in the village as a national memorial, he said that if the house was handed over to the trust, efforts would be made to get funds sanctioned for converting the house into a memorial. Mr. Patil said that vocalist Pandit Nityanand Haldipur of Mumbai had been chosen for the Dr. Mallikarjun Mansur National Award and the award will be presented at Srujana Ranga Mandir on Karnatak College campus in Dharwad on January 1. The award carries a purse of Rs. 1 lakh. Musician Shivani Mirajkar of Dharwad had been chosen for the award given to young musicians by the trust, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/villagers-to-be-appointed-to-mansur-trust/article37965783.ece
16 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Build Expo-21’ in Dharwad||A three-day ‘Build Expo-21’, an exhibition of building construction materials, interior decoration, and other innovative construction materials, will be held in Dharwad from December 17 to 19. The Dharwad Chapter of Association of Consulting Civil Engineers (ACCR) has organised the event, which will be held at Kadapa Maidan. Addressing presspersons on Wednesday, president of Dharwad chapter of ACCR Sunil Bagewadi said the exposition would provide a unique opportunity to the public to know about modern new construction materials and technologies. He said although it was annual event, because of the COVID-19 pandemic it could not be held for two years. In all, 56 stalls would be set up and leading companies would be participating. The exhibition will be open from 11 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. All COVID-19 guidelines will be followed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/build-expo-21-in-dharwad/article37965785.ece
16 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KSLU: Exams will be held as scheduled||Following a High Court order on quashing the examination notification for the second and fourth semester students, Karnataka State Law University (KSLU) has clarified that the all other examinations, including that of 5-year LLB course and repeaters, will be held as scheduled. In a circular issued on Tuesday night, Registrar (Evaluation) made it clear that the High Court order applies only to second and fourth semester (freshers) students of the three-year LLB course, and the rest of the examinations will be held as scheduled. The registrar has asked affiliated colleges to make arrangements accordingly. Another writ petition pertaining to the five-year LLB course, which was filed before the High Court, is listed for hearing on December 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kslu-exams-will-be-held-as-scheduled/article37965779.ece
16 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||KPSC to re-conduct exam for candidates who missed it||The Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) will re-conduct the competitive examination for the posts of Assistant Engineer in the Public Works Department (PWD) for those candidates who had missed the exam on Tuesday owing to the delay of their trains. As per the new schedule, the examination will be held on December 29, 2021 in Bengaluru and only those who had missed the first session paper (common paper – 1) on Tuesday and wrote the second session paper afternoon will be allowed to write it. In a notification issued on Wednesday, the KPSC authorities made it clear that the candidates who missed the examination on Tuesday should submit their application for appearing the paper, the train ticket to prove that they had travelled on the Hassan – Solapur Express and the Udyan Express trains that got delayed, and the hall ticket issued by the KPSC before December 22, 2021 to be eligible for the rescheduled examination. The candidates are asked to submit the documents through speed post or email (kpsc-ka@nic.in) or in person. Hundreds of candidates had missed the first session paper as their trains got delayed by about five hours. The candidates alighted at Raichur railway station and blocked the train by sitting on the tracks for hours demanding the re-conduct of the examinations. After the JD(S) and the Congress legislators had raised the issue in the Assembly, the Government had decided to re-conduct the examination for those who missed it due to delayed trains.  Only those who had missed the first session paper on Tuesday and wrote the second session paper afternoon will be allowed to retake it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpsc-to-re-conduct-exam-for-candidates-who-missed-it/article37965778.ece
16 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Children seek continuation of eggs in midday meal||Taking exception to opposition from a few leaders from a community to the distribution of eggs in the midday meal, children from different communities staged a demonstration outside the office Deputy Commissioner here on Wednesday demanding that the Government continue the supply of eggs in the midday meal. Mobilised under the banner of Makkala Koota, the agitating children said that they were the future of the country and they need eggs to fight malnutrition. “In Kalaburagi district, over 74% of the children are suffering from malnutrition. Many people don’t understand that it is a matter of serious concern. They are, to serve their religious agenda, mixing up the diet with religion and trying to deprive the malnourished children of their rightful nutritious food. They don’t care about the health of the children as they are hell-bent to serve their vested interests,” K. Neela, district secretary of Communist Party of India (Marxist), who participated in the agitation along with the children said. Ms. Neela noted that most of the malnourished children were from poor families in rural areas who were not able to afford a nutritious diet and demanded the Government not to bend to pressure from a few people. “Snatching eggs from the plate of the poor rural children is a crime against humanity. The Makkala Koota opposes all the designs to deprive the children of their rightful nutritious food. It demands the Government continue with its decision to supply eggs in the midday meal as well as an alternative nutritious food item to those who don’t eat egg,” Ms. Neela said. The children also appealed to the Government with folded hands to continue the supply of eggs in the midday meal. Prabhuddha Bharata Sangharsha Samithi, another organisation, also demanded Government not just continue the supply of eggs in the midday meal for the students of Classes I to VIII, but also extend the scheme to Classes IX and X. The representatives of the organisation led by Ashwini Madankar, met the Additional Commissioner of Public Instruction Nalin Atul and submitted a memorandum on the matter on Wednesday. “As much of 75% of the children in Kalyana Karnataka region are suffering from malnutrition and we welcome the Government initiative to supply eggs in midday meal to fight the malnutrition,” Ms. Madankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/children-seek-continuation-of-eggs-in-midday-meal/article37965776.ece
16 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Appointed||Two lawyers from Kalaburagi – P.Vilas Kumar and Ameet Kumar – have been designated as senior advocates by the High Court of Karnataka. They are among the 51 lawyers to get the honour. The High Court notification was issued on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appointed/article37965777.ece
16 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Prohibitory orders in Puttur sub-division till Friday midnight||The Assistant Commissioner, Puttur, imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the sub-division, comprising Sullia, Kadaba, Puttur, and Belthangady taluks, anticipating trouble from Popular Front of India (PFI) activists who were involved in Tuesday’s rioting outside Uppinangady police station. In his order, AC Yatish Ullal said the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Puttur, wrote to him on Wednesday saying several PFI activists from Bellare, Savanur, Belthangady, Bantwal, Sullia, and surrounding areas held a protest demonstration outside Uppinangady police station on Tuesday. They were demanding the release of suspects secured for investigation into the December 6 assault case against two fish merchants in Uppinangady. Despite repeated warnings and caution to follow COVID-19 protocol, the members did not disperse but continued to form the unlawful assembly and later attacked the police. The police had to resort to a lathicharge to disperse the mob, the AC said on the basis of DySP’s letter. There were chances of these activists again indulging in protest demonstrations in their places in the sub division, Mr. Ullal said justifying the prohibitory orders. As such, the order was being issued to prevent any possible communal clash in the sub-division till Friday midnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prohibitory-orders-in-puttur-sub-division-till-friday-midnight/article37965936.ece
16 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||VHP urges State Govt. to ban Popular Front of India after attack on police||The Vishwa Hindu Parishat on Wednesday urged the government to ban the Popular Front of India (PFI), whose activists allegedly attacked police personnel on Tuesday in Uppinangady. VHP divisional secretary Sharan Pumpwell in a statement here said attack on the police, who work hard day and night for the safety of people, was unpardonable. Police had secured a few PFI leaders in connection with the assault on two poor fish merchants in Uppinangady. However, PFI cadres indulged in rioting on Tuesday outside the police station demanding the release of the arrested persons, he said. Meanwhile, BJP legislators from Dakshina Kannada, including Minister S. Angara, Harish Poonja, Sanjeev Matandur, Rajesh Naik, Bharath Shetty, Umanath Kotian, and Prathapsimha Nayak met Home Minister Araga Jnanendra in Belagavi demanding stringent action against PFI and its cadres. They told the Minister some vested interests from Kerala were joining hands with people in Dakshina Kannada to disturb communal harmony and the Government should act tough against such elements. Responding to Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader’s concern in the Legislative Assembly on the alleged radicalisation of Hindutva forces, including distribution of trishulas to youngsters, Mr. Jananendra said the Government was aware of the fact that some elements were attempting to disturb peace in the coastal region. The Government was making serious attempts to curb anti social elements, he said adding the Uppinangady rioting too has come to his notice. Anti-national campaigns were being done on the social media too, he said adding the local police would deal with such incidents suitably.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vhp-urges-state-govt-to-ban-popular-front-of-india-after-attack-on-police/article37965940.ece
16 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||No move to include Tulu in Eighth Schedule: Centre||The Union Government has indicated again that there is no move to include Tulu in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution at present. “It is neither practical nor administratively feasible, at present, to increase the number of official languages,” the Government said on Tuesday. Replying to an un-starred question by Member of Parliament from Kasaragod (Kerala) Rajmohan Unnithan in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai said: “There have been demands from time to time for inclusion of Tulu in the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution. As the evolution of dialects and languages is a dynamic process, influenced by socio-cultural, economic and political developments, it is difficult to fix any criteria for languages, whether to distinguish them from dialects, or for inclusion in the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution.” “The earlier attempts, through Pahwa (1996) and Sitakant Mohapatra (2003) Committees, to evolve such fixed criteria, have been inconclusive. The Union Government is conscious of the sentiments and requirements for inclusion of other languages in the Eighth Schedule. Such requests have to be considered keeping in mind these sentiments, and other relevant considerations. Since several of these languages are spoken in several States, their use is not restricted by State boundaries.” The Minister said that no proposal is pending with the Government to declare as official language any other language. He said: “However, a committee under the chairmanship of Dr. Sitakant Mohapatra recommended that status quo ante should continue with regard to the recognition of the languages in the Eighth Schedule as official languages of the Union. It is neither practical nor administratively feasible, at present, to increase the number of official languages. As per Article 343 (1) of the Constitution, the official language of the Union is Hindi in Devanagari script. However, as per Section 3 of the Official Languages Act, 1963, English language continues to be used as official language of the Union in addition to Hindi.” Mr. Unnithan repeatedly wanted to know whether the Government has planned to include Tulu in the Eighth Schedule as Tulu is a Dravidian language whose speakers are concentrated in two coastal districts of Karnataka and in Kasaragod district of Kerala. He had asked the same question on February 9, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-move-to-include-tulu-in-eighth-schedule-centre/article37965941.ece
16 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Improving infrastructure could reduce road accident fatalities: Akshy Sridhar||Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar on Wednesday said the need of the hour to ensure road safety was to improve infrastructure for vehicles and pedestrians and strengthen the existing policy by effective documentation. He was speaking at a technical session on ‘Impact of infrastructure as a challenge’ at a divisional-level consultation on generating demand for effective implementation of Indian Motor Vehicles Act (MVA), 2019. The programme was organised by Public Affairs Foundation (PAF) and Consumer Unity and Trust Society (CUTS), Bengaluru, here. Mr. Sridhar said the MVA placed more weightage on regulatory aspects than developmental ones thereby suffering setback. The system forgets what should be done immediately to avoid accidents in the future. Whether enough researches were done by road engineers at the Indian Road Congress that specifies road designs to address recurring challenges, he wondered. The Commissioner said creation of cycling lanes on city’s lanes and by-lanes could reduce burden on trunk roads. Strengthening the public transport system and adequate pedestrian infrastructure could reduce road fatalities. Inaugurating the programme, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said behavioural change was required among drivers and pedestrians to avoid mishaps. There should be constant acceptance of changes made to introduce effective enforcement and implementation. Road safety awareness should start at the primary school levels by making it part of the curriculum. CUTS director George Cheriyan in his introductory address said the Act for the first time has a clause for accountability of the authority bestowed with the power to engineer and design roads; this also includes 63 clauses for enhanced penalties. He said 93% of world road accidents occur in developing countries with India’s share being at 11%. Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways report said 1,51,113 deaths were caused by road accidents in 2019; speeding and reckless driving being the prime causes of accidents. Nearly half of the victims were aged between 18 and 35, he said. In Karnataka though there was reduction in road accident deaths of drivers, fatalities of pedestrians has increased in the last five years, he said. PAF Executive Director Annapoorna Ravichandar spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/improving-infrastructure-could-reduce-road-accident-fatalities-akshy-sridhar/article37965937.ece
16 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||PFI condemns ‘police atrocity,’ seeks action||Condemning police action against its activists in Uppinangady on Tuesday, Popular Front of India (PFI), Karnataka, on Wednesday demanded action against police officials responsible for the lathicharge on its activists who, it said, were involved in a peaceful demonstration outside the police station. PFI State secretary A.K. Ashraf told reporters here that the activists were demanding the release of innocent persons arrested by the police in connection with an assault case. Their arrest was illegal and when questioned, the police told the demonstrators that the arrested would soon be released. When that did not happen even by late evening, activists continued the demonstration, he said. Stating that the demonstration was being held peacefully, Mr. Ashraf alleged police without any warning began the lathicharge by late evening seriously injuring several people. Their religious leader Syed Athur Tangal, who was leading the demonstration, was seriously injured on his head. Nearly 40 injured activists were hospitalised even as police personnel prevented ambulances transporting the injured to hospitals, he said. While the police have the authority to investigate and arrest accused persons, ‘fixing’ innocent persons under pressure from politicians cannot be accepted, he said referring to arrests of PFI activists for the December 6 attack on fish merchants. For this reason, PFI resorted to the demonstration demanding the release of innocent persons. PFI plans a march to the district police headquarters in Mangaluru on Friday, he added. Meanwhile, members of Campus Front of India and PFI held demonstrations protesting police action in Uppinangady in Mangaluru and Udupi respectively on Wednesday. Dakshina Kannada district president of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) Abubakar Kulai too condemned the police action against PFI activists and said the lathi-charge on activists engaged in peaceful demonstration was not required. They were demanding the release of innocent persons arrested in connection with an assault case, he said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pfi-condemns-police-atrocity-seeks-action/article37965938.ece
16 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||17 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 16 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Following the discharge of six patients after treatment the active cases were at 157. The test positivity rate was at 0.21 %. Udupi district reported a single case on the day. After eight patients got discharged following treatment the active cases were at 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/17-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article37965943.ece
16 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Karnataka Electricity Board Pensioners’ Association, Mangaluru Regional Centre, will hold its annual general body meeting on December 17 at 10 a.m. The venue is KPTCL Employees’ Community Hall at Bondel.    Azim Premji University, Bengaluru, has invited applications to its full-time postgraduate courses based in Bengaluru. Students can apply online on the university website. Applicants will be selected based on a written test and personal interview for shortlisted students. Last date to apply is December 18 for early round and February 22 for regular round. Contact 89718 89988.    There will be no power supply to some areas in the city on December 16 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are Mary Hill, Yeyyadi, Haripadavu, Padavinangady, Pachchanady, Vamanjoor, Adyar, Valachil, Arkula, Kulashekara, Kudupu, Bikarnakatta, Jayashree Gate, Bajal, Padil, Veeranagara, Faisalnagara, Tunga Nagara, Hemavathi Nagara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37965942.ece
16 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘JD(S) won despite anti-party activities’||Former Minister S.R. Mahesh on Wednesday claimed that the JD(S) has won a seat in the elections to the Legislative Council from the dual-member Mysuru-Chamarajanagar local bodies’ constituency despite anti-party activities. Addressing a press conference along with the party’s MLC-elect C.N. Manje Gowda, he did not leave anybody in doubt that he was accusing former Minister and party MLA representing Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency G.T. Deve Gowda of anti-party activities though he did not name him. Asked whether the party would act against Mr. Gowda, Mr. Mahesh said the party’s senior leadership was seized of the matter and a decision had already been taken in the regard. However, he said it was upto the leadership to take whatever action it deems fit. However, he sought to remind the ‘leader’, who was allegedly indulging in anti-party activities, that he had been elected due to the hard work of the party workers and on the symbol of the party. He called upon the ‘leader’ to reform himself during the remainder one-and-a-half-year term of the Assembly. Speaking about Mr. Manje Gowda’s victory, he claimed that an analysis of the votes polled showed that the JD(S) had secured more votes during the recently-held elections than the previous elections. The party had about 150 members in the Taluk Panchayats and 21 in the Zilla Panchayat during the previous elections, totalling more than 170 while the difference between the JD(S) and the BJP in the first preferential votes was only 139. The term of the members of Taluk Panchayats and Zilla Panchayats had expired and hence they were not allowed to vote. The party would have polled more first preference votes than BJP if there were voting rights to Taluk and Zilla Panchayat members. Also, the BJP’s first preference votes were bolstered by the votes cast by around 40 members of the local bodies nominated by the BJP Government, he claimed. Mr. Mahesh said the victory of Mr. Manje Gowda had proved that the JD(S) continues to be a force to reckon with in the Old Mysore region. Asked about the party’s losses in other constituencies, Mr Mahesh said the ruling BJP and Congress had won 11 seats each though they had both fielded 20 candidates each in the elections held for 25 seats. But, neither party had secured a majority on its own and would require the support of JD(S), which had won two out of the six candidates it had fielded. Mr. Mahesh added that this will also be political scenario after the Assembly elections scheduled to be held in 2023. Mr. Manje Gowda, who was present on the occasion, joined Mr. Mahesh in attacking the persons involved in anti-party activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-won-despite-anti-party-activities/article37965957.ece
16 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Changes sought in expressway project||The ongoing works on the Bengaluru-Mysuru Expressway may incorporate entry and exit points closer to the towns that are being bypassed so as to benefit the local community and ensure seamless travel. The project, which is set to shore up connectivity between Bengaluru and Mysuru and reduce the commuting time, bypasses Bidadi, Ramanagaram, Channapatana, Maddur and Srirangapatna. But the current design of the highway does not provide for entry and exit points near the towns and one has to traverse for 7 to 8 km along the service roads before entering the towns. Conversely the motorists have to travel a few km along the service roads before merging with the main carriageway. Near Bidadi industrial area vehicles have to traverse for about 7 km to 12 km along the service roads before merging with the main carriageway and this is fraught with danger and could lead to accidents. These issues were raised by Mysuru MP Pratap Simha who met with Nitin Gadkari, Minister of Road Transport and Highways. He also submitted a memorandum seeking minor modifications so as to ensure seamless travel and eliminate any chances of accidents due to confusion of movement by road users. Mr. Simha claimed on Wednesday that Mr. Gadkari has agreed to the suggestions to provide entry and exit points at Bidadi, Ramanagaram, Channapatana, Maddur, Mandya and Srirangapatna under a separate package and has directed for inviting tenders for the works. Hence the entry and exit points will be shifted closer to the underpasses which are already constructed and will not only provide safety but ensure seamless travel, said Mr. Simha. He also called for ensuring that bullock carts, tractors, two-wheelers and other vehicles are barred from entering the main carriageway from the entry and exit points. If not, it will not serve the purpose of an expressway and called for closed toll facility under which motorists travelling between the two towns enroute will have to pay only for the distance travelled. At present, there are only two toll plazas located – one near Bengaluru and another near Srirangapatna. But providing closed toll facility at all entry and exit points will generate revenue to the government, according to Mr. Simha. Grade separator He also expressed concern that there were plans to entrust the construction of a grade separator near the Columbia Asia Hospital while approaching Mysuru, to another agency. Mr. Simha said instead, the same agency should be entrusted to carry out the modifications so as to ensure timely completion of works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/changes-sought-in-expressway-project/article37965955.ece
16 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||CCTV cameras to be installed at mosque in Srirangapatna||The Archaeological Survey of India has accorded permission for installation of CCTV cameras at Masjid E Ala in Srirangapatna, also known as Jumma Mosque. A team of ASI officials inspected the ASI-protected monument on Monday after permission was accorded. “The request was pending for a long time,” said an ASI official here. The Tipu Sultan Wakf Estate Secretary Irfan Ahmed said the Estate, which overlooks the affairs of the mosque, said the work on installation of 16 cameras had begun after the ASI team gave technical guidance by identifying and finalising the route of the wiring. He said the CCTV surveillance of the monument was necessary for security. “We had sought permission for CCTV surveillance when permission was given for the same at Gumbaz, the tomb of Tipu Sultan.” The work on installing the CCTV cameras comes just ahead of the Shobha Sankeertana Yatra as part of Hanuman Jayanthi celebrations in Srirangapatna on December 16. However, officials said the installation of CCTV cameras had nothing to do with the Yatra. Certain groups including Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) have petitioned the police expressing concern over the safety to the monument. The Mandya district administration has ordered closure of all wine shops and liquor stores in Srirangapatna town and Ganjam from 6 a.m. on December 15 to midnight of December 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cctv-cameras-to-be-installed-at-mosque-in-srirangapatna/article37965951.ece
16 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||12th convocation of JSS AHER to be held tomorrow||The 12th convocation of JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (JSS AHER) will be held on Friday in which 2,318 students will receive their degrees and diplomas in various disciplines. Dharmadhikari of Dharmasthala D. Veerendra Heggade will be the chief guest and deliver the convocation address and give away medals and awards to the toppers. A total of 47 candidates will be awarded PhD, 7 candidates will be conferred with Doctorate in Medicine and Master of Surgery (Master of Chirurgiae) on the occasion. The authorities said 61 academic toppers will be presented with 83 medals and awards with certificates for their exceptional academic performance, according to Surinder Singh, Vice-Chancellor. The authorities said the JSS AHER has introduced unique programmes this year including Fellowship in Critical Care Medicine at JSS Medical College, M.Pharm in pharmaceutical biotechnology at JSS College of Pharmacy in Mysuru, PG Diploma in Nutraceutical Technology at Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, among others. The JSSAHER has 9,919 publications to its credit of which 939 were added this year. The impact factor of the publications were reckoned to be high at 79.32, according to the JSSAHER authorities who also said that they have filed for 12 patents of which 2 have been granted. While JSS AHER has received Rs. 21.77 crore from various Central and State Government projects, it has invested Rs. 12.31 crore for upgrading its various infrastructure and developing a new campus.  R. Sudeendhra Bhat, Controller of Examination; S. Ravindra, Principal, JSS Dental College; and B. Manjunath, Registrar, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/12th-convocation-of-jss-aher-to-be-held-tomorrow/article37965953.ece
16 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Online literary festival||The Panorama International Literature Festival 2022, one of the signature programmes of Writers Capital International Foundation, will be held in January 2022 in the virtual mode. Preeth Nambiar, a Mysuru-based writer and poet who is also the chairman of PILF, said the festival aims to revive the field of metaphysical literature that has been forgotten in modern times. The festival will feature hundreds of writers from across the world. The works will be featured on various social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-literary-festival/article37965949.ece
16 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Meeting to pay tribute to Gen. Rawat||A team of ex-servicemen will be meeting in Mysuru on Thursday to pay tribute and homage to late Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and all the other Army and Air Force officers who lost their lives in the air crash on December 8. A statement from Air veteran and Honorary Advisor of Kodagu Ex-Servicemen Welfare Association Mandetira N. Subramani has called upon military veterans of all ranks residing in Mysuru city to attend the meeting along with their spouses and wearing their military medals. The meeting will be held at 11 a.m. on the premises of Squadron Leader A.B. Devayya Bhavan, which houses the office of Department of Sainik Welfare and Resettlement in Mysuru. The venue will be open for the general public between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. More information can be obtained on 99001 01047.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting-to-pay-tribute-to-gen-rawat/article37965950.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Was nod sought for holding neonatology forum meet: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday asked the State Government whether the National Neonatology Forum of India has taken permission to organise a four-day event of NEOCON-2021 to be held at a resort in Hoskote in the city in which around 3,000 medical practitioners are participating. The court also asked the Government if any decision has been taken by the Government regarding adherence to COVID-19 protocols for the conference to be held from December 16 to 19. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order on a PIL petition filed by Prashanth Urs, a medical practitioner, who is also the past president of NNFI’s Karnataka chapter. Holding of the event in the physical format at this juncture might turn out to be a superspreader; and if anyone tests positive during the event, then the rest of the participants will have to be quarantined, it was argued on behalf of the petitioner. Claiming that the Government has not responded to his plea against allowing such gathering, the petitioner has sought a direction to the court not to allow the event to be held in physical mode in any part of the State.  Further hearing adjourned till December 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/was-nod-sought-for-holding-neonatology-forum-meet-hc/article37965584.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Mangaluru City Police: Parivarthana, a meeting with those whose rowdy sheets have been closed, T V Ramana Pai Convention Centre, Navbharat Circle, 11.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article37965944.ece
16 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||BSF jawan buried with State honours||The body of Border Security Force (BSF) jawan Aneesh Joseph who died at Baramulla in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday night after accidentally falling into a 15-foot gorge was buried with State honours at the cemetery of the Snehagiri St. Sebastian’s church, Kochukamakshi, on Wednesday afternoon. He fell into the gorge while trying to escape from a fire that spread to the surveillance tent where he was on duty. He sustained burns, besides injuries in the fall. Earlier, the body was brought to the Cochin international airport. Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine, who is in charge of Idukki district, received the body on behalf of the State government. Mr. Augustine accompanied the body and attended his last rites. 20 years of service He was set to retire this month after 20 years of service. A member of Vaduthalakunnel family in Kochukamakshi, he is survived by his wife Seena Joseph who is serving in the Gandhinagar regiment of the Central Reserve Police Force and their two children. People from various walks of life attended the funeral. Idukki District Collector Sheeba George and M.M. Mani, MLA, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jawan-buried-with-state-honours/article37965919.ece
16 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Water level maximum at Mullaperiyar||The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam continued to be at the maximum level of 142 ft on Wednesday. From November 30, Tamil Nadu has been keeping the water level at the maximum level or close to it. Impression of safety An official of the Kerala State Electricity Board said on Wednesday that for the past 15 days, Tamil Nadu had been maintaining water at the level and the spillway shutters were raised to discharge water to the Periyar after reaching the maximum allowed level of 142 ft. It was meant to give the impression that the dam was safe, he said adding that when the water level receded to 141.90 ft, the spillway shutters were closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-level-maximum-at-mullaperiyar/article37965898.ece
16 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||A bountiful yield from vertical ‘fields’||A 1.5-acre farmland at Pulpally in Wayanad is a laboratory of sorts for its owner, C. Varghese. It is here that he conducts experiments in agriculture. The farmer could increase the yield manifold through vertical farming, a practice of growing food crops on vertically stacked layers. Mr. Varghese’s crops are grown on PVC pipes which are fixed on soil in a vertical position. Twenty tomato seedlings are planted in a single 5-foot-long PVC pipe with a diameter of 1 ft. This method is also suitable for cultivating tuber crops such as sweet potatoes, dioscorea (Kaachil in local parlance), and potatoes. Holes are made in the PVC pipes every 8 cm using heated iron rods. The hollow space in the pipe is filled with a potting mixture mostly comprising coir pith and a smaller amount of soil and cow dung. Crops are planted in the punched holes. Most vegetables such as tomatoes, brinjal, cumin, and leafy greens are being grown in the garden. “Fruits such as strawberries or flowers can be grown, even in apartments, through vertical gardening,” says the farmer. Less labour, space Mr. Varghese is continuously improving his methods in vertical farming and has now fitted two or three hinges on two layers of PVC pipes. The method allows hassle-free filling of potting mixture and harvesting of crops. “This technique requires less labour and space. Crop management too is easy. Residents of flats can try this method on their balcony,” he says. Water consumption low Another major advantage is that water consumption is less. Moreover, if the topmost layer is watered, the water will slowly get drained to the lowest layer. “Time too can be saved to a large extent,” he says. Kitchen waste can be used as manure, which in turn can solve the problem of waste disposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-bountiful-yield-from-vertical-fields/article37965860.ece
16 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Tiger accidental victim of cable snare||The camera trap images of the elusive tiger that is believed to have killed 15 domestic animals in 17 days in four divisions of the Mananthavady Municipality, has revealed that the animal is a victim of snare laid by poachers to trap lower mammals like wild boar. “The images disclosed that the big cat seemed to be a victim of snare laid by poachers on the fringes of the forest as it has sustained injuries from cable snare on its neck,” D.K. Vinod Kumar, Chief Conservator of Forests (Northern Circle) told The Hindu . As many as five tigers had entered into human habitation at Begur and Thirunelly areas in North Wayanad forest division and Chethalayam in South Wayanad forest division in the district in a year, of which four were captured, and the remaining one went back to the forest. The four tigers were victims of snare laid by poachers as they had sustained deep injuries on their bodies. The incidences of setting snares on the fringes of forest are increasing considerably, Mr. Vinod Kumar said. Many a time, the issue of straying tiger in human habitat was a creation of the anti-socials as the crude snare was not only a threat to lives of the lower mammals but also to higher species like tiger and leopard, Mr. Vinod Kumar said, adding that the injuries inflicted by the snares forced the former to hunt livestock in the villages adjacent to the sanctuary. The public, especially the people who living on the fringes of forest areas, also become the victims of the illegal actions of a few anti-socials, Mr. Vinod Kumar said. “We have brought the issue to the attention of the Kerala High Court and the department has decided to adopt stringent actions against the culprits under the Wildlife Protection Act. The culprits, who ensnared an animal like tiger belonging to Schedule 1 of the Act would be sentenced for a period of seven years,” he said. Meanwhile, a special task force with 127 forest personnel, including members of the Rapid Response Team of the Forest Department, strike team led by the Forest veterinary surgeon and two kumkis (trained elephants) carried out a combing operation in the Kurukkanmoola and adjacent places under the Begur forest range of the North Wayanad forest division for the elusive tiger on Wednesday, but they could not trace the animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/camera-images-reveal-tiger-is-victim-of-cable-snare/article37965859.ece
16 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||‘Pattaya’ to be issued||A Cabinet meeting on Wednesday decided to issue ‘pattya’ to residents of Fairland Colony in Sultan Bathery taluk with certain restrictions. According to the decision, steps would be adopted to provide ‘pattaya’ to 197 residents. The market price fixed by the government will be charged from the residents whose annual income is above Rs. 1,00,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pattaya-to-be-issued/article37965861.ece
16 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Protest over question paper leak||Members of the Kerala Students Union staged a protest at the Kannur University on Wednesday over the leak of question papers of the second semester English examination. The exam on the paper “Readings on Gender” was supposed to take place on Wednesday but the question paper was wrongly distributed at S.N. College in Kannur during the “Readings on Life and Nature” examination held on Tuesday. Following this, the KSU staged a protest at the university headquarters demanding a comprehensive investigation and action. After discussions with the KSU leaders, the Controller of Examinations, Dr. P.J. Vincent, assured them that the examination would be postponed. He said that an immediate report on the failures at the university and college levels would be prepared and that a detailed investigation would be carried out and follow-up action taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-over-question-paper-leak/article37965857.ece
16 December 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Wakf Board warns of recovering land allotted for COVID hospital||The State Wakf Board has said that it would be compelled to take back the land provided for setting up the Tata COVID hospital, if the district administration fails to honour the agreement to offer alternative land at Chattanchal in Kasaragod. The board served a notice on Kasaragod District Collector Bhandari Swagat Ranveer Chand based on a letter from the Jamuyyathul Ulama Malabar Islamic Complex, which flayed the alleged delay on the part of the government and the district administration in allotting the land at Chattanchal. The Wakf land was taken over in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. Then District Collector D. Sajith Babu had entered into an agreement with Syed Mohammed Jiffri Muthukoya Thangal, president of the Jamuyyathul Ulama Malabar Islamic Complex Association, following a meeting with the Waqf Board in March 2020. Interestingly, the issue has come up at a time when the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) is mounting pressure on the State government to refrain from its decision to hand over appointments in the Waqf Board to the Public Service Commission (PSC). The Muslim Youth League (MYL) too has come out in the open against the government. It alleged that the government and the district administration had failed to abide by the agreement to provide land. The Wakf Board is bound to protect its land. The government cannot dishonour the agreement, said Zaheer Asif, general secretary, MYL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wakf-board-warns-of-recovering-land-allotted-for-covid-hospital/article37965856.ece
16 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Forest, eco restoration kicks in||The State government has come out with a vision document for its ecological and forest restoration programme, proposed to be implemented with the participation of forest-dependent communities. The policy framework for eco-restoration works was approved by the State Cabinet on Wednesday. The monocrop plantations of acacia, eucalyptus and wattle, which have lost their ecological significance and have proved detrimental to the ecology, will be phased out and steps will be taken to ensure growth of natural forests in these plantations. These plantations are spread across an area of around 27,000 hectares. The phasing out of the plantations may take two decades to complete, according to the document. The teak plantations under the State government, located in wildlife corridors, river valleys and areas that are vulnerable to natural hazards, will be converted into natural forests. The forest restoration activities will be undertaken after taking into account the ecology of the region and the issues faced by the people residing there, the document stated. Clearing invasive species Clearing of invasive plant species such as mikania, wattles and senna and animals such as African snail and African catfish from the natural ecosystem of the State will be undertaken. Modern methods for prevention of forest fire will be introduced. Fire control measures will be implemented with public support to protect the forest tracts, it said. The document suggests relocating the forest dwellers to suitable locations with their consent. The relocation scheme is planned as part of the efforts to improve the living conditions of the forest-dependent communities. Steps for creating livelihood options and ensuring modern education and basic infrastructure facilities for these communities will also be undertaken, the document stated. Plant and animal species facing threat of extinction will be identified, conserved and propagated. The government will also work on a proposal for taking over private holdings and estates located in critical areas, considering the biodiversity value of forests and for protecting wildlife and reducing human-wildlife conflicts. The ecological restoration in these areas will help in connecting the isolated forest areas, improving the mobility of wild animals and reducing human-wildlife conflicts, the government hoped. Coastal ecosystem The plan also speaks about conservation and protection of mangroves and the coastal ecosystem. Planting of indigenous fruit trees will be undertaken for creating better habitats and ensuring food security for wild animals, the document said.  Plant and animal species facing threat of extinction will be identified, conserved and propagated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-eco-restoration-kicks-in/article37965887.ece
16 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||NHAI justifies extension of toll collection accord||Justifying the extension of the agreement on collecting toll at Paliyekkara on the Mannuthy-Edappally national highway till 2028, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Wednesday informed the Kerala High Court that yearly revision in the rate of user fee had been permitted by the Centre. In an affidavit, the NHAI said there was no merit in the contention that the concessionaire continued to make periodical revision of the toll despite recovering the total cost incurred towards the project work and having earned reasonable benefits. Plea to quash accord The affidavit was filed in response to a writ petition seeking a directive to quash the agreement fixing the tenure for collecting toll collection at Paliyekkara. The petition said the Mannuthy-Edappally national highway was built at a cost of Rs. 721.17 crore and the toll collection started on February 9, 2012. An RTI response revealed that Rs. 801.60 crore had been collected until July 2020. As per the agreement, once the construction cost was collected, the toll amount must be reduced by 40%. But this had not been done. The affidavit stated that the Central government had a statutory right to levy and decide the rate of fees to be collected for different categories of mechanical vehicles using a section of the national highway.  Yearly revision in the rate of user fee has been permitted by the Centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nhai-justifies-extension-of-toll-collection-accord/article37965982.ece
16 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Survey for converting Chellanam into model fishing village begins||The Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS) has launched a 10-day survey in Chellanam for preparation of its final report on converting the coastal village into a model fishing village in the State. The panchayat, constantly threatened by sea erosion and flooding of homes, has been in focus mostly after cyclone Ockhi hit its shores at the end of 2017. The State government has announced a Rs. 344-crore programme to strengthen seawalls, erect geo-textile tube barriers and build breakwaters to protect the coast. The survey is being carried out by 80 students from the university in 21 wards, KUFOS sources said. They said the basic aim of the survey was to get to know the people’s mind on key issues like possible rehabilitation. The survey is also meant to find ways to provide the residents of the panchayat with better means of livelihood, improving their social and economic conditions as well as relieving the stress being faced by the people on account of the threat of sea erosion. KUFOS sources said the university did not want to get into any controversy over any issue. It was purely an effort to get to know how the people wanted to address the key issues that they faced. They also said that the government had announced it would take up a comprehensive plan to address the people’s concerns. While the State Irrigation department will address the engineering issues, KUFOS was studying practical ways to address social issues, including the economic aspects. The university had submitted an interim report on the creation of a model fishing village to the State Fisheries department on July 15. The report had identified agencies to carry out the nearly a score of proposals that emerged out of widespread consultations, including interaction with the stakeholders in the coastal panchayat. The suggestions included both short-term and long-term measures to improve infrastructure, ensure social security and also a proposal to explore the possibilities of generation of energy from waves and tides using T-shaped groynes. The report also called for the appointment of a special officer to oversee the works in Chellanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/survey-for-converting-chellanam-into-model-fishing-village-begins/article37965871.ece
16 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Penalty norms for lapses in Maradu demolition debris removal ready||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has prescribed the methodology used for fixing the environment compensation on Pune Municipal Corporation for its failure to comply with solid waste management rules in the case related to the non-compliance of the Construction and Waste Management Rules in the removal and disposal of waste that emerged following the demolition of the four apartment complexes in Maradu. The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal had asked the Central board to come up with guidelines on fixing the environment compensation after a joint committee appointed by the court and the State Pollution Control Board submitted a report before the tribunal alleging violations by the municipal secretary and the vendors engaged for waste removal. It was pointed out that they had not submitted periodical report, action plans, and data on disposal of steel and concrete debris from the site. The methodology for fixing the environmental compensation on the Pune municipality was developed by the CPCB in the case before the Western Zone Bench of the tribunal filed in 2019. A formula on assessing the environment compensation was developed by factoring in components like waste quantity in tonnes per day, operation and maintenance cost and number of days till the required capacity systems were installed by the Pune Municipal Corporation. The CPCB informed the tribunal that it has constituted a committee for fine-tuning of methodology for the assessment of environment compensation for non-compliance of the provisions under the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016 and non-compliance of environmental clearance conditions by the proponents of construction projects. However, the board pointed out that the methodology used in the action against the Pune municipality could be used for the calculation of environmental compensation with respect to the non-compliance in the management of construction and demolition waste in the Maradu case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/penalty-norms-for-lapses-in-maradu-demolition-debris-removal-ready/article37965880.ece
16 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Natural gas pipelines to be laid in six city divisions||Ending the five-year-long wait, the laying of supply pipelines for the natural gas distribution network within the Kochi Corporation limits will begin shortly. The Kochi Corporation issued a demand note to the Indian Oil-Adani Gas Pvt Ltd, the agency which will distribute natural gas to the kitchens in the city, to lay the pipelines in six divisions the other day. It is for the first time that the supply lines are being laid in the city. Kunnumpuram, Vennala, Palarivattom, Thammanam, Chakkaraparambu and Ponnurunni East are the divisions in which the lines would be laid. Once the lines are laid, connections will be provided to individual households. The laying of supply lines may take one month, said those associated with the project. Roads will have to be trenched at a width of 0.5 metre and a depth of one metre for laying the lines. As many as 14,000 consumers have already evinced interest in obtaining the connection. Pipes running into at least 100 km will have to be laid in the city for the supply. The natural gas will be available in the divisions that are located on the flanks of the national highway in the first phase as the steel grid for the supply was laid along the route. The Thrikkakara Municipality, which had issued permission for laying the pipelines in its 13 divisions earlier, has cleared the case of 11 more divisions. Kitchens in a few houses in the select divisions of the civic body have been using the natural gas for cooking needs.  A domestic consumer will have to pay an amount of Rs. 7,118 for obtaining the gas connection, which includes a security deposit of Rs. 1,000, and Rs. 6,000 as the connection cost. A rental scheme where a consumer has to pay Rs. 50 a month is also in the offing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/natural-gas-pipelines-to-be-laid-in-six-city-divisions/article37965879.ece
16 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Spreading joy among underprivileged children||Every child loves to play with toys. But not all of them are fortunate to have them. Now, the Railway Childline has pitched in for such children from underprivileged backgrounds by collecting toys from people under a project named ‘Kalikkalam’. People can donate either new toys or their children’s excess or unused toys in good condition as part of the project. “We will distribute the toys to children below five years in shelter homes or from poor families. They will be distributed through the Integrated Child Development Scheme next week and donors can derive satisfaction from spreading joy among the less privileged children,” said Shano Jose, coordinator of Railway Childline. The project has been conceived to alleviate the mental stress and loneliness of little children from impoverished families who used to go to anganwadis but have largely remained locked inside their own homes since the pandemic. Donors can either personally drop the toys at the Railway Child Help Desk on the first platform of South railway station or courier it. Railway Childline staff may themselves collect toys from donors within the city limits. ‘Kalikkalam’ is the latest of a slew of child-friendly projects being implemented by the Railway Childline since the outbreak of the pandemic. 573 children rescued In the three-and-a-half years since turning operational at the South railway station, the Railway Childline has rescued 573 children wandering along platforms and trains. It is being operated by Childline and Sahrudaya, the social service wing of Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese with the support of the Southern Railway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spreading-joy-among-underprivileged-children/article37965873.ece
16 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||District CPI(M) to tighten monitoring of members||The Ernakulam District Committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) is likely to initiate a scrutiny of the lifestyle and dilution of the party ideologies by its members at the grass-roots level. The decision to strengthen the ideological moorings and correct the organisational weaknesses will be taken at the end of the district meet of the party here on Thursday. “We are also looking at certain other aspects [lapses]. But it cannot be divulged at this point of time. However, a process will be set in motion to scrutinise the working of each member up to the grass-roots level,” said C.N. Mohanan, district secretary, here on Wednesday. Stating that there was overwhelming support for such a process among the delegates attending the district meet, Mr. Mohanan said that such action would no longer be restricted to the members of the district committee. “The delegates suggested that it should go down to the grass-roots level,” he said, while responding to a query on whether the party was monitoring the lifestyle and alleged shady deals involving its members. Recalling that an area secretary was expelled for his deviations from the party line, Mr. Mohanan said that the action taken against certain district leaders following the Assembly election was not for non-performance alone. “Some were pulled up for making efforts to be the candidates. Action was also taken for not working towards ensuring the victory of the party’s candidates,” he said. Mr. Mohanan said that the ongoing district conference was fully devoid of any groupism and it had successfully stayed clear of any anti-party stance by its members. “Such a situation has come after nearly 25 years,” he claimed. On the refusal of the government to place the detailed project report of the SilverLine rail project in the public domain, Mr. Mohanan said that it was “only a technical and financial document” while alleging that the United Democratic Front and the Bharatiya Janata Party had joined hands to scuttle the project. K. Chandran Pillai, senior leader and chairman of the reception committee, said that more discussions and awareness initiatives would have to be carried out to dispel the misconceptions related to the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-cpim-to-tighten-monitoring-of-members/article37965875.ece
16 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Directorate of Prosecution to launch website||The website of the Directorate of Prosecution, Kerala, will be launched on December 18 at 9 a.m. P. Rajeeve, Minister for Industries and Law, will launch the website at a function to be held at Hotel Renai Cochin, at Palarivattom. The website can be accessed at prosecution.kerala.gov.in/ T. A. Shaji, Director of Prosecution, M.S. Girish Panchu, Director of Prosecution; and K. Gopala Kurup, Advocate General, will attend the function. A training session for Deputy Directors of Prosecution and Assistant Public Prosecutors will also be held on the day, a release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/directorate-of-prosecution-to-launch-website/article37965870.ece
16 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Compensate girl shamed by Pink police, HC tells govt.||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday observed that the eight-year-old girl who was humiliated by a Pink police officer at Attingal in Thiruvananthapuram district recently must be compensated by the government. Justice Devan Ramachandran, while hearing a petition filed by the girl seeking action against civil police officer Rejitha and compensation, observed that the girl was wronged and had to be compensated under the public law remedy. The court said it was not going to accede to a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh sought by the girl as it was an exorbitant sum. The court asked the State government to give a specific response to its proposal to award the girl compensation. The police officer’s action had “created havoc” in the mind of the girl, who was terrified. The court observed that the State Police Chief was attempting to whitewash the incident.  Counsel for the petitioner submitted that the family had not accepted the apology tendered by the woman police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/compensate-girl-shamed-by-pink-police-hc-tells-govt/article37965886.ece
16 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two arrested with 3 kg of ganja in drugs-free Kochi drive||Two persons were arrested with 2.910 kgs of ganja and Rs. 17,010 was recovered from them in a joint operation conducted by the Ambalamedu police and a Special Operations Group. The arrested were identified as Rudra Prasad, 21, and Sukruth Kumar, 23, both residents of Odisha. They were nabbed from near a bar at Karimugal as part of the drugs-free Kochi drive of the city police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-with-3-kg-of-ganja-in-drugs-free-kochi-drive/article37965882.ece
16 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CPI(M) meet to conclude today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the public meet in connection with the conclusion of the district meet of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) here on Thursday. It will begin around 5 p.m at Kalamassery. Senior leaders including M.M. Lawrence, K.N. Raveendranath, Sarojini Balanandan, and K.M. Sudhakaran will be felicitated at the meet. Cultural programmes will be held from 4 p.m. C.N. Mohanan, district secretary, said on Wednesday that the election for the district committee and delegates for the State meet would be held in the morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-meet-to-conclude-today/article37965877.ece
16 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Periye case: ex-MLA, three others fail to turn up||Former MLA and CPI(M) leader K.V. Kunhiraman and three others arraigned as accused in the Periye twin murder case have been asked to appear before the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Kochi, on December 22. The accused, including K.V. Bhaskaran, Gopal Velutholi and Sandeep Velutholi, were to appear before the court on Wednesday along with the other accused to obtain a chargesheet copy. But they did not turn up. The counsel for the accused submitted applications seeking leave for four accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/periye-case-ex-mla-three-others-fail-to-turn-up/article37965928.ece
16 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||One more arrested in gang rape case||The city police on Wednesday arrested one more accused in a case related to the alleged gang rape of an aspiring model. The arrested man was identified as Shemeer, 46, of Palluruthy. He is the third accused in the case. He was on the run ever since a case was registered by the Infopark police after the survivor lodged a complaint. The police case is that the accused allegedly gang raped the woman at a lodge at Edachira after spiking her drinks with sedatives. The survivor from Malappuram had come to Kakkanad reportedly for a modelling assignment. The accused previously arrested were identified as Muhammed Ajmal, 28, of Thoppumpady, and Sunil Kumar, 33, of Alappuzha. Reportedly, the survivor knew Sunil Kumar, who had arranged her accommodation. According to the police, with the knowledge of the lodge owner, the accused gang raped the woman. The accused allegedly recorded the visuals of the assault and abused her again by blackmailing her with the videos. The assault allegedly took place from December 1 to December 3, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-arrested-in-gang-rape-case/article37965881.ece
16 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held on cheating charge||The city police on Wednesday arrested a man accused of cheating five persons of Rs. 2 crore by promising them profits by facilitating fruits and vegetable business. The arrested man was identified as Danish Suhail Thakur aka Samar Ismail Saha, 45, of Mumbai. He was arrested from Mumbai by a team led by Ernakulam Assistant Commissioner. He had allegedly cheated the petitioners between February 22 and September 3. He allegedly collected money from the petitioners promising them to deliver fruits and vegetables from outside the State. The accused has more cheating cases against him at Kalamasserry and Central stations, the police said. A probe is on to check his antecedents||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-accused-of-duping-5-persons-of-rs-2-cr-held/article37965876.ece
16 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Woman held for chain-snatching||The North Paravur police on Wednesday arrested a woman on the charge of snatching away the chain of a college student. The arrested was identified as Shahbanath, 24, of Alangad. The accused, riding a scooter, allegedly stopped to ask the victim accompanied by her friend for directions and then snatched the chain and fled. She was wearing a jacket and helmet to hide her identity, the police said. Arrested for theft The Kalady police recovered a stolen minivan and tracked down the accused within hours on Wednesday. The accused was identified as Nisar, 37, of Idukki. He had allegedly stolen the vehicle from a firm at Chengalvattathara Junction in the early morning hours. The theft was captured on CCTV footage based on which the police cast the net wide and passed on alerts to various stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-held-for-snatching-away-students-chain/article37965883.ece
16 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||MP brings woes of Munroe Thuruthu to Centre’s notice||Kodikunnil Suresh, MP, met Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Tuesday and requested him to send a team of experts from the Ministry of Earth Sciences to study and address the unparalleled environmental problems faced by the people of Munroe Thuruthu. The MP told Mr. Singh that the very existence of Munroe Thuruthu was in danger due to the persistent environmental problems caused by climate change. Sinking He also informed the Minister that the entire panchayat would sink without the intervention on the Central government. “The lives of the residents have become unbearable due to the constant tides and severe climate change. They are facing an environmental disaster and I explained to the Minister how the lower parts of the island are at risk of flooding and the houses are on the verge of collapse. Realising the gravity of the issue, he has assured to take necessary steps at the earliest,” said Mr. Suresh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-brings-woes-of-munroe-thuruthu-to-centres-notice/article37965920.ece
16 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Pandemic protocol goes off the rails||Amidst Omicron scare, general and season ticket train travellers are facing a tough time as physical distancing goes for a toss in de-reserved coaches. Trains, including Intercity, Vanchinad and Venad Express, have been witnessing a surge in passenger volume of late, with crammed compartments leaving hardly any option for passengers to follow the pandemic protocol. Passengers claim that the current services are insufficient to handle the crowd as remote working and virtual classes have largely come to an end. “Only a few general coaches have been restored and most of us are forced to stand for hours. Inside trains, there is zero social distancing, especially during peak hours. During boarding and disembarking, commuters push their way in and out,” says B. Rohini, a passenger. According to Friends on Rails, a collective of daily passengers, by the time Vanchinad Express reaches Kottayam in the morning, the seats will be full. Complaints ignored “The railway authorities are ignoring the complaints of commuters who are forced to travel standing on aisle, steps and toilet corridor. Now we know that enforcing social distancing for so long is nothing but an eyewash and their only priority is profit. It is unfortunate that the government and people’s representatives are neglecting our plight, while other nations are taking all precautions against Omicron,” says J. Liyons, secretary. Passengers also point out that the railway authorities are yet to restore some MEMU and passenger services that were operating before the COVID-19 pandemic. Disallowing general coaches in trains such as Maveli and Sabari Expresses that are depended on by office-goers is another reason for the rush, they point out. Apart from cutting passenger benefits, including concessions for senior citizens, several passenger services were stopped due to the pandemic. The new schedule prepared without considering the convenience of passengers has aggravated the situation, they add. Privatisation bid “The railway authorities are exploiting the COVID-19 situation. We feel this is an attempt to gradually alienate passengers and thereby facilitate privatisation of Railways,” says Mr. Liyons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-protocol-goes-for-a-toss-on-trains/article37965923.ece
16 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vacancy of counsellor||The Kollam district panchayat has invited applications for selecting counsellors for its mental health literacy programme, Amrutham Gamaya. MSW or MSc Psychology is the qualification required. Age limit: 25-45 years. Those interested may walk in with certificates for an interview at 10 a.m. on December 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacancy-of-counsellor/article37965924.ece
16 December 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||TKM college to hold aerospace meet||The Department of Mechanical Engineering of the Thangal Kunju Musaliar (TKM) College of Engineering is organising ICAME’21, an international conference on aerospace and mechanical engineering, from December 16 to 18. The theme of the conference is ‘Facing the future - growth through sustainability.’ Scientists, experts and teachers from various countries will attend. Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) director S. Somanath, who is an alumnus of the department, will inaugurate the conference. TKM Trust chairman Shahal Hassan Musaliar will preside. Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India K. Vijayaraghavan will deliver the keynote address. Trust treasurer T.K. Jalaluddin Musaliar will release the abstract of research papers on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tkm-college-to-hold-aerospace-meet/article37965921.ece
16 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Call for public involvement in keeping Conolly Canal clean||The Kozhikode Corporation will recommend the State government to write off debts of the solid waste management team under the Kudumbashree incurred through the purchase of vehicles to transport waste. Raising the issue at a meeting of the Corporation council on Wednesday, councillor K. Nirmala pointed out that Kudumbashree units engaged in waste collection had debts worth over Rs. 1.25 crore, and that several members had received attachment notices from banks. Welfare standing committee chairman P. Divakaran said the civic body had handed over 142 autorickshaws to 72 Kudumbashree units for waste collection under the Clean Kerala Project. The vehicles were used by the units from 2004 to 2021. However, except for a few groups, most of them could not pay back debts, which have now amounted to Rs. 1,39,10,309. “Banks are ready for settlement if we pay back the dues at least partially. But we are not in a position to do so, and hence it is wise to appeal to the State government,” Mr. Diwakaran said. Councillor K.C. Shobhita brought in the issue of Connolly Canal in another submission, pointing out that the canal was back to its previous state post-COVID. “ The condition of the canal has deteriorated. The flow has been interrupted by garbage, while the stink of polluted water is unbearable,” she said. Mayor Beena Philip said the public need to be part of efforts to keep the canal clean. “Work by the company contracted to clean the canal is in a slow pace, and the Corporation has extended all help to it,” she added. Councillor N.C. Moyinkutty raised the issue of the Kerala Water Authority imposing exorbitant charges even when the usage of water is quite low. The Mayor said the issue would be brought to the attention of the officials. K.T. Sushaj expressed concern at overspeeding by heavy vehicles in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-public-involvement-in-keeping-conolly-canal-clean/article37965862.ece
16 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Unisex uniform policy may face legal challenge||Gender neutral uniform for higher secondary school students is likely to face a legal challenge with the Muslim Coordination Committee threatening to move court if suitable changes are not made to the current format. Committee members took out a march on Wednesday morning to Government Higher Secondary School for Girls at Balussery in Kozhikode ahead of the State-level launch of the initiative ‘Ore Swathanthryam, Ore Sameepanam’. They claimed it was “undemocratic” to change students’ dressing style in the name of ensuring gender justice. While the dressing style of teachers was not being changed, only students were forced to practice unisex uniform.  ‘Liberal ideas’ Alleging that it was an infringement on the students’ personal freedom, they said it would “outrage the modesty of women”. The members pointed out that shirts and trousers were “boys’ dress” and the effort was to forcibly impose “liberal ideas” on students. Seeking a general body meeting of the school parent-teacher association (PTA) to discuss the issue, the committee functionaries claimed they did not get a satisfactory answer from the Principal despite voicing their concerns. Police personnel were present outside the school when the protest was being held. The Sunni Students’ Federation issued a statement against the move. The Muslim Students Federation, the students’ wing of the Indian Union Muslim League, staged a protest on Tuesday and extracted an assurance from the Principal that the initiative would not be forcibly implemented. Radical step: Minister Minister for Higher Education R. Bindu, who launched the initiative later, termed it a radical step forward. Those who loved their children would not oppose such progressive changes. People who opposed it were not protecting Kerala’s interests, she added. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty said in a statement the government would encourage any step that would promote gender justice. Consent of PTA The school authorities, meanwhile, said neither the students nor teachers and parents had any objections to the move. The Plus One section in the school, where unisex uniform is being implemented, had 260 students, of whom 60 were boys. The authorities also claimed that the consent of the PTA had been taken before going ahead with the move. Those who were apprehensive were taken on board later, the school authorities added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unisex-uniform-policy-may-face-legal-challenge/article37965885.ece
16 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Security at CU Pareeksha Bhavan to be strengthened||The Calicut University Syndicate has decided to strengthen security at the Pareeksha Bhavan. A meeting held on Wednesday resolved to appoint 25 women security staff in the 35-50 age group. Entry to the Pareeksha Bhavan will be restricted. This is reportedly in view of the recent fracas between Students Federation of India activists and a section of the staff from a pro-Left union. Parking on the premises will not be allowed any more. A report of the Syndicate panel that inquired into the fracas was sent back for clarification. The updated report will be discussed at the next meeting. Students will be allowed access from 10.30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Students from university departments can no longer enter the building without identity cards. Officials will also not entertain one student raising complaints of many others. Elections Students’ union elections in affiliated colleges will be held in February. A meeting will be held with students’ organisations ahead of that. A sub-committee was assigned to examine the High Court verdict that dealt with the voting rights of students in self-financing colleges. Students’ organisations will be consulted before updating arts festival rules. United Democratic Front-aligned member P. Rasheed Ahammed pointed out that many students were complaining about lack of privacy at the men’s hostel. The Syndicate decided to strictly enforce rules from now. Students who go out in the night should enter their names in the movement register.  Students will be allowed access from 10.30 a.m. to 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/security-at-pareeksha-bhavan-to-be-strengthened/article37965864.ece
16 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Demand to drop Blue Economy proposal, Marine Bill||The Kozhikode Corporation passed four motions and dismissed two in a row at a meeting of its council on Wednesday. The first motion presented by V.K. Mohandas, demanding that the Centre back out from the Blue Economy and Marine Bill 2021, was met with stiff opposition from BJP members. Mr. Mohandas claimed that the Bill would have dangerous consequences in the deep-sea ecosystem. “The government has decided to mine 20 lakh sq.km under the sea for petroleum products and hand over the rights to corporate companies. This will lead to deterioration of the marine population,” he said. The motion was passed as only seven councillors opposed it. On another motion presented by V.P. Manoj, the Corporation asked the authorities to take up the development of the District Homeo Hospital, which is struggling due to lack of facilities. “The seven outpatient (OP) units are functioning in just two rooms. There are at least 75 patients a day in each OP unit. The physiotherapy unit has a leaking roof,” Mr. Manoj said and suggested that a nearby land be acquired to develop infrastructure for the hospital. The motion by Manoharan Mangayaril against the proposed expansion of the depot of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited at Elathur was also passed. Mr. Mangarayil pointed out that the depot disturbed normal life in the locality. He suggested that the unit be shifted to another place. The council voted out two motions that were apparently against the State government. S.K. Aboobakker, in his motion, demanded that the government cut down tax for petroleum products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-to-drop-blue-economy-proposal-marine-bill/article37965863.ece
16 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||NIT-C distributes seeds to farmers||As part of extending its green campus initiative, the National Institute of Technology-Calicut (NIT-C) distributed seeds to farmers of Koodaranji. The initiative was conducted with the cooperation of the Krishi Bhavan. NIT-C Director Prasad Krishna handed over the seeds to Sasi Ponnana, Principal Agricultural Officer, Kozhikode. Lisa Sreejith, NIT-C Agro Club Coordinator, explained the organic farming practices implemented on the campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nit-c-distributes-seeds-to-farmers/article37965865.ece
16 December 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Call for retrieval of Waqf assets||Kerala Muslim Jamaat (KMJ) president Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliyar has demanded that the State government initiate a move to salvage the dispossessed Waqf properties in the State. “As per the Waqf rules, a Waqf property can be used or managed only as per the will of the person who has bequeathed the property for Waqf. Many dispossessions and encroachments have taken place in violation of the Waqf rules,” said Mr. Kanthapuram. He was inaugurating a State-level campaign by the Jamaat, ‘Vigil is the Strength’, in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday. Mr. Kanthapuram said most of the Waqf properties in the State belonged to Sunnis, and most of them were donated to Waqf with the purpose of conducting prayers for the dead and for ‘dars’ in mosques. “Many such properties are now being used against their donors’ will. Many mosques and Waqf properties have been appropriated and encroached upon,” he said. Pressure exerted Although Sunnis used to bring the matter to the attention of the authorities, those in the Waqf Board were found to have been exerting pressure on the authorities to take biased decisions, he said, adding that “this cannot be allowed any longer.” The Waqf Board and its ancillary systems should help retrieve the lost Waqf properties in the State, he said. “At the same time, the board should carry out programmes meant for the development of the Muslim community in the State,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-retrieval-of-waqf-assets/article37965888.ece
16 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Chennithala seeks package for Attappady||Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala has called for a comprehensive package for the development of Attappady tribal area. Mr. Chennithala on Wednesday visited the tribal hamlets at Attappady which had witnessed a series of infant deaths in recent weeks. He said criminal neglect by the authorities had taken place in Attappady. Health sector neglected “Nothing new is visible in Attappady even after the visit of Ministers, committees and commissions. Total neglect has taken place in the health sector,” he said. The problems faced by the tribespeople and farmers should be addressed. “The farmers should be made self-reliant. For that, a comprehensive package has to be prepared by including those who know Attappady closely,” he said. Vegetable hub He said vegetables for the entire State could be produced in Attappady by implementing the Attappady valley irrigation project. District Congress Committee president A. Thankappan, KPCC general secretary C. Chandran, UDF district chairman Kalathil Abdullah, and UDF district convener P. Balagopal were among those who accompanied Mr. Chennithala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennithala-seeks-package-for-attappady/article37965983.ece
16 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sex education should begin at home: CM||Most parents dread imparting sex education to children; they’d rather leave it to the schoolteacher or the textbook. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, though, in a recent Facebook post, has stressed the need for the first lessons of sex education to begin at home. He has also shared an animation short film on sex education brought out by the Women and Child Development Department. In the post, which has garnered some 10,000 likes and 2,300 shares, the Chief Minister writes about the pitfalls of half-baked, unscientific knowledge that students tend to glean from various sources. Unscientific notions Unscientific notions about sexuality are a barrier, he says, to healthy man-woman relationship and building a society based on gender equality. Providing scientific sex education to the younger generation is imperative for the growth of a modern society. Instead of evading children’s questions about sexuality, parents should provide them with correct information and clear their doubts. If not, children may turn to unscientific sources for answers, and imbibe wrong notions in the process. Animation film The three-minute animation short film Let us be frank has been brought out as part of the ‘Namukku Valaram Nannayi Valartham’ responsible parenting campaign of the Women and Child Development Department under the Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS). The animation, developed by the Centre for Development of Imaging Technology (C-DIT), is intended to generate a discussion on sex education and how its foundations should be built at home by parents, say ICPS officials. The aspect of how sex education should be provided will be taken up in the next series of videos and materials. Talks are also on with the Education department to explore how sex education can be included in the curriculum. Parenting campaign Extension clinics in panchayats have been started as part of the parenting campaign recently. Besides the counselling programme under way for students in schools, the department is mulling conducting awareness camps for parents in schools on particular days to take the parenting campaign to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/start-sex-education-at-home-cm/article37965915.ece
16 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Shanghumughom road work to be over by Feb.||The reconstruction work of the Shanghumughom-airport road, which has been damaged due to sea erosion, will be completed in February, Transport Minister Antony Raju has said. He was speaking to presspersons after assessing the maintenance and renovation works at Shanghumughom on Wednesday. The coastal road adjacent to the Shanghumughom beach has been remaining closed for two years after a major portion was damaged by the waves. Mr. Raju said that a permanent solution for the problem was required, rather than temporary arrangements. A diaphragm wall, made of concrete after excavating deep trenches in the ground, will be constructed. The diaphragm wall of 360 metre length and half a metre width will extend from Valiyathoppu to the old Coffee House building. Guide wall Currently, the construction of a guide wall, ahead of the building of the diaphragm wall, is on. Arrangements have been made for smaller vehicles to pass through the route, even during the construction period. Earlier, the government had allocated Rs. 6.39 crore as part of the Rebuild Kerala Initiative project for the reconstruction of the coastal road. However, the project cost shot up with repeated instances of sea erosion damaging the road. The reconstruction work has now been taken up as the Public Works Department has allocated more funds for the purpose, said Mr. Raju. The Central Road Research Institute has prepared the plan for the project. The new road is expected to be able to resist sea erosion. The work will be completed at the earliest considering the difficulties faced by the people living near the coastal region, Mr. Raju said. The Minister was accompanied by PWD officials and representatives of the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society, which has been contracted to implement the project. With the road remaining closed, those travelling to the domestic airport and Vettucaud have been facing difficulties, being forced to take roundabout routes.  The coastal road has been remaining closed for the past two years after a major portion was damaged by waves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shanghumughom-road-work-to-be-over-by-feb/article37966036.ece
16 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Blooms light up sea, spark worries too||If you happen to see the coastal waters giving off an eerie, shimmering glow one of these nights, the ‘culprit’ is, in all likelihood, the Noctiluca scintillans , a marine planktonic organism. Dubbed ‘sea fire’ and ‘sea sparkle,’ the bioluminescence looks cool, but it has also left marine scientists wondering. An increase in Noctiluca blooms can have a negative impact on coastal ecosystems and fisheries, according to A. Biju Kumar, head of the Department of Aquatic Biology and Fisheries, University of Kerala, which is monitoring the phenomenon as part of a collaborative research effort. The recent bioluminescence reported along the Kerala coast is caused by the green form of Noctiluca scintillans . Red blooms are observed in the southwest coast during the summers. A marine planktonic dinoflagellate organism, Noctiluca scintillans is aptly named. Noctiluca in Latin means ‘night light’ and scintillans, ‘flashes of light,’ Dr. Biju Kumar said. He says Noctiluca blooms along the Indian coast has been increasing in frequency, which points to a “changing ocean.” And as such, it calls for closer investigation, he said. Winter blooms along the Kerala coast occur due to eutrophication — higher nutrient content in water — and influx of oxygen-deficient waters. Eutrophication can be caused by nutrients leaching into coastal waters from land-based sources such as sewage and fertilisers. Death of fish Rapid blooms of Noctiluca lower oxygen level in the water, driving fishes away. Increasing blooms of Noctiluca scintillans in the Arabian Sea can lead to the displacement of diatoms which constitute the food of many commercially exploited species such as sardines. “The species, as such, is not toxic. But their blooms result in the death of fish and other invertebrates due to accumulative toxic levels of ammonia, which they discharge into the water,” he said. Indian scientists are using satellite data and field studies to monitor the harmful algal blooms along the coast, Dr. Biju Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/blooms-light-up-sea-spark-worries-too/article37965927.ece
16 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A campaign to safeguard waterbodies||The Local Self-Government (LSG) department is set to launch a ‘Clean Aquifer’ campaign to map waterbodies in every local body, grade the level of contamination, and identify major polluting factors as part of efforts to tackle liquid waste. The department last week constituted a State resource group and core organising committee for chalking out the plan for the campaign and implementing it. The order regarding this, issued last week, admits that Kerala, which was one of the first among major States to achieve open defecation free (ODF) status, is now struggling with the second generation problems of leachate and contamination of waterbodies. The 15th Finance Commission also stipulates that 50% of the grants for the local self-governments and 100% of the funds for urban agglomerations, which was allocated recently, should be used for water and sanitation. The department has observed that local governments are struggling to come up with viable projects for liquid waste management, and even where projects are sanctioned, they are facing stiff local resistance, which in many cases effectively kills the project, and by extension, the solution to the problem. This, along with lack of access to location-specific technologies, either conventional or nature-based, lack of institutional capability have all contributed to the failure to resolve the problem of liquid waste management. Education drive The campaign is being organised against this background, focussing it as a citizen education campaign that can highlight the need for clean water and the scope for addressing its pollutants, particularly liquid waste. The department hopes that the mapping of waterbodies in every local body and identifying polluting factors at the local level would generate awareness and sensitivity to the problem. The campaign would be followed by the local bodies creating projects to resolve the identified issues of contamination through their upcoming annual plans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-campaign-to-safeguard-waterbodies/article37965893.ece
16 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Memorial to KSEB staff who died on duty||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) is making sure that its employees who have lost their lives in accidents while on duty are not forgotten. A memorial inscribed with the names of the deceased workers and officers will be erected at the Vydyuthi Bhavan, the KSEB headquarters at Pattom here, according to a December 6 circular. Tributes will be paid to them on Martyrs’ Day, January 30, it said. The State-run power utility estimates that, to date, around 300 employees, officers and workers included, have died in workplace accidents. State Assembly records show that 47 KSEB staff and 62 contract workers have died in accidents since 2016. Electrocution while working on power distribution lines account for a majority of the casualties, a KSEB official said. ‘Zero casualty’ year In recent years, emphasis on the use of safety gear and strict adherence to safety protocols have brought down the numbers, and the power utility is aiming to observe 2022 as a ‘zero casualty’ year. The December 6 circular notes that while important steps have been taken to avoid accidents at the workplace, training sessions on safety-related matters have been disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic. This warrants extra caution on the part of the staff while on duty, the KSEB noted. Rs. 1 lakh as aid The power utility is also taking steps to ensure prompt attention to employees who sustain injuries in accidents. For providing urgent medical care, chief engineers have been empowered to disburse upto Rs. 1 lakh as financial assistance. The human resources wing of the KSEB has been directed to ensure that in the event of an employee’s death financial assistance be disbursed to the family within two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/memorial-to-kseb-staff-who-died-on-duty/article37965916.ece
16 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Meeting dwells on plans for Pongala||A decision on Kutthiyottam and other matters in connection with the Attukal Pongala will be taken at a high-level meeting to be attended by Ministers from the district, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. A preliminary meeting to review the arrangements for the Pongala was chaired by the Collector on Wednesday. Omicron threat The meeting of district-level officials of various departments was called in advance in the wake of reporting of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 recently. The Attukal Pongala festival will be held on February 17. Many departments have started arrangements for the festival. Subcollector M.S. Madhavikutty has been appointed nodal officer for the smooth conduct of the festival. Road maintenance The Collector directed the officials to submit by Monday estimates of Pongala-related work being taken up. Instructions were also given to complete maintenance of roads in all wards that fall under the festival zone. Last year, the Pongala was a simple affair in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meeting-dwells-on-plans-for-pongala/article37966034.ece
16 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Property tax deadline||The last date for payment of property tax and professional tax in the city Corporation without fine is December 31. The civic body has published lists of defaulters in every ward and organised adalats to address complaints regarding the list. Facilities will be arranged in each ward for easier payment of taxes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/property-tax-deadline/article37966037.ece
16 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Breakwater on track at Vizhinjam: Minister||The construction of the breakwater for the Vizhinjam international seaport is on track, Minister for Ports Ahammad Devarkovil said on Wednesday after assessing the progress of work on the Rs. 7,525-crore project. At present, breakwater construction has been completed along 1,050 metres. The daily arrival of granite load has been increased to 13,000 tonnes. This will further go up to 15,000 tonnes in the days ahead, Mr. Devarkovil said. The number of barges used to deposit the granite in the sea has been increased from five to 10. By next week, four more barges will be pressed into action, he said. Trucks being tracked The government also plans to introduce fresh measures for tracking the trucks transporting the granite from quarries in Tamil Nadu, he said. The consignments will be closely monitored to ensure that the correct volume reaches the destination, he said. K. Gopalakrishnan, managing director, Vizhinjam International Seaport Ltd (VISL), and CEO Jayakumar have been entrusted with the task of ensuring the supply of granite for the port construction. Reasons for delay Shortage of granite, natural calamities, and the COVID-19 outbreak had delayed the work on the breakwater. Adani Vizhinjam Port Pvt. Ltd., the concessionaire, had sought more time to complete the work. Mr. Devarkovil said work on the port project was progressing as per plan. The electricity substation and gate complex will be inaugurated in January, he added. In September this year, the Minister had announced that the first phase of the multi-crore will be completed and commissioned in 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/breakwater-on-track-at-vizhinjam-minister/article37966039.ece
16 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Only 7.8% of cases admitted to hospitals||The State reported 4,006 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday when 65,704 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative case burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 52,04,422 cases. The cumulative case fatality stood at 43,626 on Wednesday with the inclusion of 125 deaths that occurred in the past few days and 157 now accepted as COVID deaths. The State’s active case pool is dropping steadily day by day and had 35,234 patients on Wednesday. A total of 3,898 persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health department, only 7.8% of the active cases are currently admitted to hospitals or field hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/only-78-of-cases-admitted-to-hospitals/article37965890.ece
16 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CRPF pension adalat||Group Centre, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Pallipuram, is organising a pension adalat for CRPF retired and dependent families on December 29. The adalat will be conducted as per COVID-19 protocol. The retirees attending the meeting should bring their pension book and other documents along with their application, a statement here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crpf-to-hold-pension-adalat-on-december-29/article37965917.ece
16 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State bids to bring down veggie prices||The State government has decided to sanction Rs. 8 crore for market intervention with vegetable and fruit prices likely to shoot up in the open market, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said on Wednesday. The amount will be used for market intervention programmes of the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK) and the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-bids-to-bring-down-veggie-prices/article37966033.ece
16 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two more detained in Pothencode murder case||The police have reportedly held two more accused in connection with the gruesome murder of a 35-year-old man near Pothencode. Sources said Sudheesh Unni and Shyam Kumar, two of the prime accused in the case, have reportedly landed in police custody. The second accused in the case, Rajesh, alias Ottakam Rajesh, is still at large. Shyam Kumar is the brother-in-law of the victim. The duo were caught from Vembayam in the district, where they were hiding after the murder. The murder, triggered by gang rivalry, was committed on Saturday. Sudheesh who hailed from the Lakshamveedu Colony in Chembakamangalam, near Kalloor, was murdered by an 11-member gang in the presence of his family. The gang had chopped off his leg after attacking him. By Tuesday, the police had arrested eight of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-detained-in-pothencode-murder-case/article37966040.ece
16 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||830 new cases in district||The district has logged 830 new COVID-19 cases and 738 recoveries. Test positivity rate stood at 9.4%. The active case pool stood at 6,019, the district administration said. The following grama panchayat wards have been removed from the list of containment zones: Bharathannoor ward in Pangode panchayat and Karayalathukonam, Chekkakonam and Enikkara wards in Karakulam panchayat. Edavacode Aiswarya Nagar Residents’ Association under the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, and Adappupara Anjanakuzhikkara settlement in Pangode panchayat have been removed from the list of micro-containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/830-new-cases-in-district/article37966041.ece
16 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Lulu mall inauguration today||The Trivandrum Lulu mall is all set for inauguration on Thursday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is scheduled to inaugurate the shopping mall at a function to be held on the premises. Chairman and Managing Director Lulu Group M.A. Yusuff Ali told reporters here the mall would be open for the public from Friday. Built at a cost of Rs. 2,000 crore, the mall located at Akkulam covers an area of 20 lakh sq ft with the hypermarket alone covering 2,00,000 sq ft. The mall has shops featuring over 200 reputed brands, a fun zone for children, and a 2,500-seat food court as well as ATMs, money exchange centres, and pharmacy. The multi-level parking system will accommodate 3,500 vehicles. 12-screen theatre A 12-screen theatre is also getting ready and the KSRTC will soon operate special services to the mall, according to the group. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan will chair the inaugural function. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan; Shashi Tharoor, MP; other political leaders and prominent personalities from the UAE and the Gulf region are among those expected to participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lulu-mall-inauguration-today/article37966042.ece
16 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. job for Pradeep’s widow||The State government has announced financial assistance to the family of junior warrant officer A. Pradeep who died in a helicopter crash at Coonoor. Pradeep's wife Sreelakshmi will be given a government job, according to a Cabinet decision on Wednesday. Pradeep's family will be provided Rs. 5 lakh from the Chief Minister's Sainik Welfare Fund. An additional Rs. 3 lakh will be given from the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund for the medical care of his father Radhakrishnan. Pradeep's wife Sreelakshmi will be given a government job in Thrissur district matching her educational qualification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-job-for-pradeeps-widow/article37965891.ece
16 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Punargeham registration fee waived||The Cabinet on Wednesday decided to waive the registration fee and stamp duty for the registration of property under the Punargeham scheme for fishers. The scheme envisages the rehabilitation of families residing within 50 metres of the high-tide line. It is expected to be completed in three years at a cost of Rs. 2,450 crore. Beneficiary families are eligible for assistance up to Rs. 10 lakh for purchasing land and construction of house. The Cabinet also decided to relax the eligibility criteria for nominating heirs of deceased ration shop owners as licensees. As per the decision, a Class X pass will not be mandatory, and the solvency amount will be fixed at Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/punargeham-registration-fee-waived/article37965894.ece
16 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Procurement norms tweaked||The government has decided to accord priority for public sector enterprises in procurement for government institutions. A Cabinet meeting on Wednesday resolved to set apart at least 25% of the total orders for public sector enterprises. This would amount to 50% of the orders earmarked for registered MSMEs and public sector undertakings in price preference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/procurement-norms-tweaked/article37965895.ece
16 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Knowledge economy mission’s job fair on Saturday||The activities of the Kerala Knowledge Economy Mission will get under way with job fairs. On Saturday, the LBS Institute of Technology at Poojappura will organise a job fair that will provide an opportunity for educated aspirants to find suitable jobs. The fairs are aimed at providing jobs to at least 10,000 people in 2022 and 20 lakh in the next five years. The response to the district fairs will be assessed before the scheme is extended. Job aspirants who have registered on the Kerala University of Digital Sciences’ digital workforce management system (DWMS) portal can log in and select the districts they want to attend the job fairs in. Those who are yet to register can do so on https://www.knowledgemission.kerala.gov.in and participate in the job fair and job readiness training. Those who register can select the vacancies best suited to them in the companies participating in the fairs and apply for the posts. Free training There will be a three-hour free training for the participants. Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council (K-DISC) and Kudumbashree’s skill wing will organise the training. The training will help job-seekers gain confidence, prepare them to face interviews, and develop communication skills to present their expertise with clarity. Participants who do not land jobs even after interviews will be trained to get new jobs on the basis of feedback from employers. After the district-level job fair, aspirants can also register for an online job fair in which companies from within the country and abroad will participate in the last week of January. They can also register on the Knowledge Mission website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/job-fairs-by-knowledge-economy-mission/article37965874.ece
16 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Oushadhi in expansion mode||The government owned ayurveda medicine manufacturing unit Oushadhi is planning to expand its product range. “As the largest producer of ayurveda medicines in the public sector in the country, we are planning to introduce a new range of products in the medicine, cosmetic, and nutrition sectors,” says Sobhana George, Chairperson of Oushadhi. “Oushadhi has started producing Ayush Kwath, an immunity enhancer, which is a combination of four medicinal herbs, in tablet form. At present, Ayush Kwath is in powder form but the tablets will be easy to consume. As our children below the age of 18 are not yet vaccinated against COVID-19, such immunity boosters have significance, especially when new variants of the virus are emerging. Moreover, when other brands sell Ayush Kwath for Rs. 2.5- Rs. 3, Oushadhi is selling it for 70 paise,” she says. Wide range of products With a range of over 480 popular products, Oushadhi caters to the needs of all government hospitals and dispensaries. “Oushadhi is planning to bring out a range of ayurvedic cosmetic products, especially face packs. We already have a face pack. More products in the health and cosmetic sectors are in the pipeline,” says Ms. George. Oushadhi is also planning to increase the concentration of Pramehoushadhi tablets, a popular product in the treatment of diabetes. Currently a diabetic has to consume four tablets a day. Once the concentration is increased, the number of tablets that have to be taken can be reduced, she says. “As a credible brand under the government, Oushadhi uses only quality ingredients. We have Good Manufacturing Practices and ISO 9001: 2015 certifications. It has a well-developed research and development wing and a modern factory with state-of-the-art technology,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oushadhi-in-expansion-mode/article37965984.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rusting away||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rusting-away/article37965869.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hearing on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hearing-on/article37965987.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Season special||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/season-special/article37966044.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safety first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safety-first/article37965897.ece
16 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hoax call creates a flutter on Karnataka Express||A hoax call from a person in Agra about a bomb on the New Delhi-Bengaluru Karnataka Express created a flutter on Wednesday morning. The Government Railway Police at Dhone, Guntakal, Gooty, Anantapur, Dharmavaram, and Hindupur checked every bogie of the train No. 12628 beginning 5 a.m. The Railway Protection Force at Agra who received the call alerted the GRP here, who immediately pressed into service a sniffer dog squad and personnel with hand-held metal detectors to check the luggage of all passengers. At Guntakal, a GRP team found nothing incriminating in the luggage. A similar process was followed at Gooty, Anantapur, and Dharmavaram, where the train was detained for 10 to 15 minutes each. There was panic in compartments when the police informed passengers about the threat, and searches by the sniffer dog continued till the train reached Bengaluru. All the passengers heaved a sigh of relief when no bomb was found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hoax-call-creates-a-flutter-on-karnataka-express/article37965585.ece
16 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students take out 4K run||The staff and students of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University College of Engineering participated in a FIT JNTUA 4K Run here on Wednesday to mark the beginning of the Platinum Jubilee celebrations of the engineering college. University Vice-Chancellor G. Ranga Janardhana inaugurated the run at Clock Tower on Subhash Road and the run concluded at the college main gate. An alumnus and former Vice-Chancellor Y. Venkata Rami Reddy, participating in the programme, said that the college produced many eminent personalities and now they were spread all over the world. “We need to enhance the glory of the State’s oldest and prestigious institution,” Mr. Rami Reddy told staff and students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-take-out-4k-run/article37965553.ece
16 December 2021||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bommai holds meet on anti-conversion Bill||Preparing ground for the introduction of the controversial anti-conversion Bill in the ongoing winter session of the Assembly, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday chaired a meeting with senior Cabinet colleagues and officials to give final touches to the proposed legislation. Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress is getting set to oppose the Bill, arguing that it is being sneaked in without the draft Bill being shared. The Janata Dal-Secular (JD-S) too is set to oppose the Bill when it is introduced. Sources said the provisions include powers to be given to the Deputy Commissioner to take suo motu action if he/she gets information of mass conversions taking place. Moreover, action is being proposed against any individual or organisation propagating religion by decrying other religions. Punishment for conversion based on coercion or inducement could range from three to 10 years The Bill is almost in the final stages and we will introduce it as early as possible. The Cabinet clearance is awaited. We are ready for discussion,” Home Minister Araga Jnanendra told The Hindu . “We are committed to introducing the Bill.” Alleging difference of opinion in the State Cabinet on introducing the Bill, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar accused the government of attempting to introduce the Bill in a hushed manner. “There is no requirement for the bill now and our legislators will oppose it,” JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bommai-holds-meet-on-anti-conversion-bill/article37965532.ece
16 December 2021||Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. reports first case of Omicron variant||The man, who had travelled through Doha, was admitted to the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy. Six of his family members, including a 16-year-old, had also tested positive, and were in hospital isolation. The initial analysis of their samples also spotted the S-gene dropout, he said. “All of them have mild symptoms but are being monitored closely. In the last two days, the Health Department has taken up tracing and monitoring of the contacts of the person whose preliminary gene test had revealed the S-gene dropout and found a 42-year-old co-passenger, who had also tested positive for COVID-19. An analysis found the S-gene dropout in his sample, too,” he said. All samples were sent for genomic sequencing to INSACOG laboratories. The Minister said the contacts of the co-passenger were being traced. Except for the 16-year-old, all seven persons had received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines. Hence, they had mild symptoms, he said. Tamil Nadu stepped up surveillance over the last 10 days, he said. At present, 41 persons who had tested positive on arrival were undergoing treatment at hospitals, while three persons were discharged, he said. While all travellers from at-risk countries were being subjected to testing, 2% of the travellers from non-risk countries were randomly tested at all international airports, he said. The Minister said the State had improved its health infrastructure with over a lakh additional beds and increased the oxygen capacity. “The State’s current oxygen capacity is 1,400 metric tonnes,” he said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan stressed the need to continue compliance with wearing masks, maintaining physical distancing and hand hygiene, avoiding crowded places and to get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tamil-nadu-reports-first-case-of-omicron-variant/article37965642.ece
16 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Major cyber crime gang identified, one held||The Chittoor police on Wednesday arrested a member of a cyber crime gang based in Uttar Pradesh, after bringing him here on a transit warrant from Noida. About 20 gang members are elusive, while special parties have been formed to nab them. Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy told the media that one Sandip Kishan (45), a senior assistant working with Government Hospital in Chittoor, and his wife Latha had taken some life insurance policies with four nationalised banks and a couple of private firms. During the last two years, they could not pay the premiums due to a lack of sufficient funds owing to the COVID pandemic. Three months ago, the couple started getting repeated phone calls from strangers, who introduced themselves as officials of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The accused who had access to the information about the couple’s policies and numbers reportedly convinced the duo, saying that they could redeem the amount paid for taking policies along with interest. To get back their money, the couple were reportedly asked to pay the GST, and some left out installments of premiums. The couple transferred Rs. 23 lakh over 36 transactions to several account numbers. As there was no response from the callers later, the couple contacted the bank officials concerned and soon realised that they were conned by the fraudsters. The Deputy SP said that acting on a complaint from the couple in the first week of December, a 15-member special party was formed to probe the case. Based on preliminary information, the origin of the calls were detected at Noida in Uttar Pradesh. “After a week-long grueling investigation there, our team could detect the involvement of about 20 accused in the crime. We also suspect the gang’s role in several such crimes all over India,” Mr. Reddy said. Their modus operandi was to identify poor people and make them open bank accounts, which would be kept under their (gang’s) control. Their targets would be made to deposit the amounts in the manipulated accounts. The accused included commission agents and some youth clandestinely recruited to make conversation with their targets. “At present, we could arrest one accused, Sailendra Singh (25) of Noida,. We have credible leads in the case, including information about the kingpins, and further arrests would be made,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/major-cyber-crime-gang-identified-one-held/article37965547.ece
16 December 2021||Dindigul,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor found partially burnt, dies en route to hospital||A Class V girl, who went missing from the Panchayat Union Middle School in Pachalur near Kodaikanal, was found partially burnt a few yards away in the hilly terrain behind the school on Wednesday. She was still breathing when she was found, but died on the way to the government hospital at Oddanchatram. Following the incident, Dindigul Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan rushed to Pachalur. According to the police, the girl had gone to school as usual on Wednesday. Her elder sister, a Class VI student in the same school, had seen her during the forenoon break. However, she wasn’t seen during the lunch hour, and a search was launched. The girl was later found, with her body partially burnt, Additional Superintendent of Police S.P. Lavanya said. The initial investigation revealed that the body bore no marks to suggest any attempt at sexual assault.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minor-found-partially-burnt-dies-on-way-to-hospital/article37965639.ece
16 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sustainable City Strategy for Guntur flags key issues||At a time when cities witnessing unbridled urban sprawls are tapping into sustainable and strategic planning, the Guntur Municipal Corporation too has taken a leaf out of many tier-1 and tier-2 cities, and is now using the expertise from urban planners to form sustainable strategies. A team of urban planners from the United Nations Human Settlement Programme, working in areas of human settlement and sustainable development, has come up with a blueprint for the development of the city. The Sustainable Cities Integrated Pilot project for Guntur has come up with several interesting findings that could be used in urban planning and in making of zonal master plans to meet the rising demand. The team presented its findings to Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha on Tuesday and has come up with broad issues identified during the survey done in the city. The findings are glaring and demand attention. Inadequate public green spaces, conservation of water bodies, sprawling and scattered growth patterns, poor public transport system and multiple deprivation in informal settlements (slums) are among the key issues identified during the survey. The survey has revealed that 45% of the city’s population has access to organised public parks, while the open space per capita is just around 0.92 sq. m as against the bench mark of 10-12 sq. m. The recreational and open space areas out of total development areas is 1% as against the recommended 15%. Water bodies The encroachment of water bodies has emerged as a major concern. The city of Guntur derives its name from the abundant water tanks (guntalu), and there were about 50 water tanks in the past. Presently, the area under water bodies is just 3.3% of the total area (416.65 ha) and about 30% of water bodies are encroached. Guntur is one among 256 water stressed districts (overexploited ground water levels) in India under Jal Shakti Abhiyan Mission. There are few policies aimed at conservation of water bodies, such as, AP Building Rules 2017 that provides for buffer zone of 5% in every plot above 750 sq.m to be developed as open space, AMRUT 2.0/Jal Jeevan Misson, Jagananna Pacha Thoranam, Swachh Bharat Mission, but they exist only on paper and little is done on the ground. The second issue is a scattered and sprawling growth pattern with development focussed on corridors in north, northeast and west (Ribbon development), inadequate service coverage and loss of agricultural land and presence of a large extent of vacant land. Suggestions The third issue to be flagged is the poor public transport system. The city which does not have a formal public transport system relies on autorickshaws resulting in greenhouse gas emissions. The suggestions included, re-densification of areas witnessing growth, by encouraging nodal development along the Ribbon corridors, reducing travel to city centres, provision of public transport system and creating employment opportunities near areas experiencing growth and proposed housing layouts, creating economic activity. “We have been working in an urban planning module in Guntur for over a year and we will come out with a complete report within a month. We hope that the GMC would use the findings and prepare a road map for sustainable development,” said Sajith, a team member of UN Habitat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sustainable-city-strategy-for-guntur-flags-key-issues/article37966020.ece
16 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shirish Shah remanded in judicial custody||The A.P. CID police have arrested Mumbai-based businessman Shirish Chandrakant Shah for his alleged involvement in the A.P. State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) scam. Shah was allegedly involved in money laundering, operating shell companies, and providing bogus entries in Mumbai, and had been previously arrested in a GST-related scam. Shah was produced in the ACB court in Vijayawada on Wednesday, which remanded him in judicial custody till December 24. Sources in the CID said Shah had allegedly issued several bogus invoices to M/s Skillar for a consideration of Rs. 58.24 crore towards imparting training in software development, including various sub-modules. Fake invoices were also allegedly raised in the name of Allied Computers International (ACI) with different CIN numbers and addresses. The CID sources said ACI was a shell company that had issued bogus invoices to M/s Skillar and Designtech Systems Limited. The other accused person, Soumyadri Shekhar Bose alias Suman Bose, MD of Designtech Systems, had allegedly used ACI and M/s Skillar for providing accommodation entries. Shah was accused of committing fraud and forgery to misuse funds of the APSSDC, allegedly in connivance with Bose, Mukul Agarwal and Vikas Vinayak Khanvelkar. “The name of ACI appears as a shell company in public domain prepared by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs based on inputs of the CBI, the SFIO and the ED. Information says that Shah operated over 200 shell companies and provided entries of hundreds of crores worth of black money,” said a source in the CID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shirish-shah-remanded-in-judicial-custody/article37965967.ece
16 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway gate to be closed||The level crossing gate at Syamala Nagar will be closed for three days from December 17 to 19 due to repairs being carried out on the Guntur-Nallapadu stretch. People have been advised not to use the gate during the period, according to the SCR, Guntur division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/railway-gate-to-be-closed/article37966059.ece
16 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu spread falsehood all through his life’||Minister for Agriculture K. Kanna Babu has made some scathing remarks against Telugu Desam Party president N. Chandrababu Naidu calling the latter a virus more deadly than the virus which has destroyed the chilli crop. Mr. Kanna Babu, who was here on a visit to inspect the damaged chilli crop, said that Mr. Naidu had been spreading falsehood and lies all through his life. “Mr. Naidu has been trying to arouse passions among the innocent people in Amaravati by claiming that the State government is acting against their interests. He is bent only on creating an illusion in people and deriving mileage. This kind of leader should be exterminated by the people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-spread-falsehood-all-through-his-life/article37966058.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KCR intensifies efforts to forge an alternative to BJP||Telangana Rashtra Samiti president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is planning to visit non-BJP ruled States to bring together regional parties as part of efforts to form an alternative to the BJP at the national level. The Chief Minister is reported to have dropped indications to this effect during his meeting with his Tamil Nadu counterpart M. K. Stalin in Chennai on Tuesday. Though the meeting was described as a courtesy call, the two Chief Ministers are understood to have discussed the political situation at the national level and the manner in which the BJP government is trying to usurp the rights of the States through its policies. The two leaders had already expressed their objections to the policies adopted by the BJP-led NDA government asserting that they are detrimental to the interests of the States. The Tamil Nadu government is at loggerheads with the Centre on issues relating to NEET while the Telangana government upped the ante against the BJP for its non-committal attitude on procurement of rice. The meeting assumes significance in the light of intensification of efforts by regional parties such as Trinamool Congress and Sharad Pawar headed Nationalist Congress Party. TMC president and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee called on the NCP chief earlier this month as part of efforts to forge an alternative to the BJP and the Congress. “Regional parties will build up national parties. They alone can defeat the BJP,” she emphatically said after meeting Mr. Pawar. Mr. Pawar on his part said leadership for the proposed alternative is secondary issue and the prime objective is to set up an alternative that could win people’s trust. It was in this background that Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao called on Mr. Stalin and discussed Centre-State relations and the impact the policies adopted by the BJP government on the States against the spirit of federalism, an integral part of the Constitution. The talks were said to be essentially focussed on the modalities that should be worked out to unite the Opposition parties, primarily regional parties, for effectively taking on the BJP in the next elections due after two years. The meeting was about the need to evolve consensus among the regional parties in their struggle against the BJP government rather than the finer details relating to the proposed alternative. Since the influence of the national parties is on the wane in the recent years, the two leaders are understood to have focussed on the ways to forge an alternative by bringing together regional parties ensuring effective coordination between them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kcr-intensifies-efforts-to-forge-an-alternative-to-bjp/article37965492.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power supply cut off to Uppal stadium||The Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium (Uppal) continued to be in dark on Wednesday with the transmission corporation authorities disconnecting the power supply as the Hyderabad Cricket Association failed to pay power dues (including fine) of about Rs. 3.05 crore. The notice served on December 6, 2021, said that the total amount included a surcharge of Rs. 1.64 crore besides the dues of Rs. 1.41 crore which was outstanding against service connection HCA president Mohd Azharuddin, who returned to the city from abroad on Tuesday , said he had been repeatedly mentioning from the day he took charge there was so much of administrative collapse in the HCA. “I have had to spend a majority of my time in trying to regularise the malfeasance of the past. Today, the electricity to Uppal stadium has been disconnected. The previous regime in 2015 was accused of theft of electricity and a cost of Rs. 3,00,00,000 was imposed on HCA for the same,” he said. “The learned administrators of the day in 2015, in their wisdom filed a civil suit in 2015 to challenge the decision of the Electricity department. Pathetic to note that no one bothered to pursue the case and it was dismissed after three years for default of non-appearance,” Mr. Azhar said. “Some of my team members in the APEX council were part of the learned administrators team in 2015 but did nothing. Now, as the incumbent president, I have to resolve another issue that I am not responsible,” he said. “Nevertheless, I am doing all that needs to be done on the cricketing side and happy to note the recent successes of Hyderabad teams this season,” he concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-supply-cut-off-to-uppal-stadium/article37965824.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two Omicron cases detected in Telangana||Two cases of Omicron were detected in Telangana on Tuesday night, one being a 24-year-old woman from Kenya and the other a 23-year-old man from Somalia. Both of them came to the city from ‘non-risk’ countries on December 12, were partially vaccinated, and known to be residing in Tolichowki. While the woman was traced in a matter of a few hours after receiving the genome sequencing results, it took more than 12 hours to trace the man. He was the attendant of a patient. “The missing Somalian diagnosed with Omicron variant has been tracked and shifted to TIMS. We are in the process of identifying his contacts for further testing. All foreign nationals residing in that area will be screened,” said Director of Public Health (DPH) Dr. Srinivasa Rao at a press meet on Wednesday afternoon. Health and Police teams from Hyderabad were on the job of tracing him since Tuesday midnight. The Kenyan woman is also isolated at TIMS. Their health condition is normal. According to Dr. Rao, RT-PCR tests are randomly conducted on 2% passengers who come from ‘non-risk’ countries. As a result, the two were detected with COVID. Their samples were sent to Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD), Uppal, for genome sequencing. The results were received within 24 hours. While passengers who come from ‘at-risk’ countries and test positive after RT-PCR at the airport are directly sent to TIMS, passengers from ‘non-risk’ countries are allowed to go home after their samples are collected for COVID test. Two family members of the Kenyan woman were identified and their samples were also collected for RT-PCR tests. While a 7-year-old boy, who landed at RGIA on December 11, was detected with Omicron, he did not enter Hyderabad. He along with his family left for Kolkata in a flight. West Bengal health authorities were informed of the case. From December 1 to 14, a total of 5,396 people came to the city from ‘at-risk’ countries, and 18 tested positive after RT-PCR. Samples collected from them were sent for genome sequencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-omicron-cases-detected-in-telangana/article37965493.ece
16 December 2021||JANGAREDDYGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC orders enquiry into bus accident||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has ordered an enquiry into accident in which ten passengers died and 26 others suffered injuries when a bus fell into a 25-foot deep rivulet, near Taduwai village, near Jangareddygudem, in West Godavari district on Wednesday. Police, Revenue and APSRTC officials will conduct separate enquiries. The ‘Palle Velugu’ (passenger service) of Jangareddygudem Depot plunged into Jalleru rivulet after hitting the railing. Some passengers tried to come out of the bus through widows. Driver, Chinna Rao (64), died on the spot, the locals said. Collector Kartikeya Misra said that government would provide treatment to all the injured. “The bus was retrieved from waters by using cranes, and no bodies were found in the rivulet,” Mr. Sharma said. Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) visited the Jangareddygudem Area Hospital and inquired about the health condition of the injured. He said that senior doctors from Eluru Government General Hospital would be deputed to Jangareddygudem Hospital for providing better treatment. Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) directed the APSRTC officers to conduct an inquiry into the mishap. West Godavari Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma said Jangareddygudem Deputy Superintendent of Police B. Srinath woud conduct the investigation. APSRTC Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao, who rushed to the spot, said the vehicle was in fit condition. Four of the injured were shifted to private hospital for better treatment, Mr. Rao said. Corporation Chairman Mallikharjuna Reddy said that an inquiry would be ordered into the accident. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas expressed grief over the accident. Mr. Harichandan and the Chief Minister conveyed condolences to the bereaved families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-orders-enquiry-into-bus-accident/article37965963.ece
16 December 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foreign returnees’ blood samples sent to CCMB||East Godavari district authorities have sent blood samples of three foreign returnees to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB-Hyderabad) for further investigation in the wake of the spread of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. “Three persons have tested positive for COVID-19. Two of them had returned from Singapore and one had returned from Bangladesh. Their blood samples have been sent to CCMB on Wednesday for further investigation,” East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran told The Hindu . All of them had arrived in East Godavari earlier this month. ‘Report in three days’ “CCMB is expected to share their findings within three days. However, there is no Omicron case in East Godavari district as of Wednesday,” Mr. Hari Kiran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/foreign-returnees-blood-samples-sent-to-ccmb/article37965968.ece
16 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC stays slashing of bottled water price||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday stayed the government order reducing the price of packaged drinking water from Rs. 20 to Rs. 13. Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan passed the stay order on a writ petition filed by the Kerala Packaged Drinking Water Manufacturers Association (KPDA), Kochi, and others. The court said the State government lacked jurisdiction in declaring "packaged drinking water" as essential article under the Kerala Essential Articles Control Act, 1986 in the light of the Food Safety Act, 2006. Moreover, "foodstuff" being scheduled as a commodity under the Essential Commodity Act 1955, it was beyond the scope of 'essential articles' as defined under the Kerala Essential Articles Control Act 1986. The court directed the Centre to file an affidavit on the manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-stays-slashing-of-bottled-water-price/article37965497.ece
16 December 2021||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||PFI activists booked for rioting, injuring police||The Uppinangady police in Dakshina Kannada district on Wednesday registered three cases under different provisions of IPC, including rioting, assault on public servant etc., against Popular Front of India (PFI) activities who gathered outside the police station on Tuesday demanding the release of a few suspects taken into custody in a recent assault case. Nine police personnel, including Puttur Deputy Superintendent of Police Gana P. Kumar, were injured when hundreds of PFI activists held a day-long protest demonstration that culminated in rioting at Uppinangady on Tuesday. The cases were registered on complaints by Police Sub-Inspectors Omana and Prasanna Kumar, who were injured in the rioting. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane said the situation was under control in Uppinangady that had witnessed group clashes turning out to be communal clashes during last week. “PFI activists had no business to hold demonstration interrupting the process of law as there were courts to decide police action [of earlier arrests],” he told The Hindu . The PFI, meanwhile, demanded action against police officials responsible for lathicharge on activists. A statement from the DK police here said police on Monday night had arrested Mohammed Sinan in connection with the December 6 assault on two fish merchants. Based on his information, police secured Mohammed Zakaria, Mustafa and Hamid from PFI on Tuesday for questioning. The December 6 attack was said to be in retaliation to an attack at Ilanthila village the previous day. Police had arrested one Jayaram and two others for the December 5 attack. Soon, PFI activists gathered outside the station demanding the release of the four and shouted slogans. When Hamid was released in the afternoon, PFI activists took out a victory march and regrouped outside the station demanding the release of others. Cadres from Puttur, Bantwal, and Belthangady joined them and they attempted to enter the station with sharp weapons. Police said that they had to resort to lathicharge in self-defence at which time some of the activists took out weapons and empty soda bottles from an ambulance parked nearby and attacked the police. Bantwal PSI Prasanna Kumar received stab injury on his palm while DySP Ms. Kumar was injured in stone pelting. The activists fled the scene and entered a nearby masjid while continuing pelting stones damaging vehicles and other public property, the police said. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra warned at Belagavi that the Government would take stern action against anti-social elements trying to harm religious harmony in coastal region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pfi-activists-booked-for-rioting-injuring-police/article37965498.ece
16 December 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police arrest 2 involved in series of ATM thefts||Police achieved a breakthrough in a series of thefts at ATM(automated teller machine) kiosks on Wednesday with the arrest of two offenders, who had been eluding the police dragnet for over three years. Minor boy sent to juvenile home Police recovered from them cash, and accessories used in the offence, all worth over Rs. 15 lakh. A minor boy, who was also involved in the thefts, was sent to a juvenile home, SPSR Nellore Additional Superintendent of Police P.Venkataratnam told the media here. The Vedayapalem police, who checked vehicles on the arterial Chennai-Kolkata highway, nabbed P. Madhava Rao (37) and P. Chandrasekhar (33) who had struck at a series of ATMs in the city and its outskirts using gas cutters and decamped with the cash. The offenders, both brothers from Kavali town, had taken a house on rent at Balaji Nagar here and committing a series of offences. The seized items included clothes stored in a godown, electronic goods, groceries, pesticides and oxygen cylinders, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-arrest-2-involved-in-series-of-atm-thefts/article37965551.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Be dispassionate on Mullaperiyar: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday told Kerala and Tamil Nadu to not approach the court for every issue regarding the Mullaperiyar dam, urging them to behave like normal litigants and not use the court as a platform to score political brownie points. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar said the States should approach the Mullaperiyar issue in a dispassionate manner and take decisions in a consensual manner. It reminded the two neighbours that the Supreme Court should not be compelled into the day-to-day management of the dam. The court’s stern words came after Kerala filed an application complaining that Tamil Nadu was releasing water from the dam in the middle of the night without any prior warning, endangering the lives of thousands living downstream, unaware in their sleep of the danger to their lives. Kerala said Tamil Nadu should inform 24 hours before opening the shutters to release water. The court said the State should first approach the Supervisory Committee constituted on the orders of the court to hear such grievances. The court said it was up to the Supervisory Committee to consider the need for the release of water from the dam, and when or how it should be released. “But every activity should be consensual and the committee will take a decision...your [Kerala’s] representative is also there,” Justice Khanwilkar addressed Mr. Gupta. “All political statements are being made here and such statements cannot be made in court. Let there be a dispassionate approach. Applications cannot come here on a daily basis. This is all generated by somebody’s ingenuity,” he remarked. It posted on January 11 a batch of petitions raising safety concerns over the dam. Kerala, in turn, has been demanding reconsideration of the rule curve as the dam is situated in a seismic zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/be-dispassionate-on-mullaperiyar-sc/article37965506.ece
16 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition parties express solidarity with farmers||Members of the Opposition parties organised a march here on Wednesday to express solidarity with the farmers from Amaravati who completed their mahapadayatra to Tirumala. Slogans raised The members raised slogans demanding that Amaravati be retained as the sole capital of the State after garlanding the statue of Dr. B.R.Ambedkar near the HCM college. The TDP Government selected Amaravati only after a broad consensus on the location of the capital among major political parties in the State, including the YSRCP, recalled TDP women’s wing’s Prakasam district president Ravula Padmaja after garlanding the statue of Mahatma Gandhi at the Bapuji market complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-parties-express-solidarity-with-farmers/article37966023.ece
16 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘99.14% eligible persons received at least 1 dose’||Health officials in Prakasam district have achieved a milestone of administering the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine to over 26.83 lakh people, that is 99.14%, in the district as on Wednesday. With this, 99.14% of people above the age of 18 in the district have been provided with at least one dose of vaccine, while all-out efforts were being made to cover the remaining eligible population(3,858 people) soon, health officials said. Over 19.77 lakh people have so far taken both the doses of vaccine, according to a report compiled by the COVID management centre(CMC) here. “We are using all our persuasive skills to impress upon those who had not taken the second dose to take the jab sooner than later in view of the imminent third wave,” said CMC Coordinator B.Tirumala Rao. The number of active cases stood at 63 in the wake of seven persons testing positive for the disease in the district in the last 24 hours, while the recovery rate stands at 99.14%, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9914-eligible-persons-received-at-least-1-dose/article37965545.ece
16 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traders condemn GST hike on textiles||The textile traders in Chirala staged a novel protest against the Union government’s decision to hike the Goods and Services Tax (GST) on fabrics from 5 to 12%. Members of the Cloth Merchants Association, led by its president Ch. Leeladhar, tied leaves to their waists akin to pre-historic men and staged a demonstration urging the Centre to roll back the hike as clothing was basic human need. They said clothes would become unaffordable to poor people, who were already under duress due to the COVID-19-induced economic crisis. Later, they paid floral tributes to ‘Amarajeevi’ Potti Sriramulu, who sacrificed his life for a separate State for Telugu-speaking people, on his death anniversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/traders-condemn-gst-hike-on-textiles/article37965550.ece
16 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||P.V. Siva Reddy appointed BJP unit vice-president||P.V. Siva Reddy, who has been appointed Bharatiya Janata Party Ongole Lok Sabha unit vice-president on Wednesday, said he would contribute his mite to strengthen the saffron party at the grassroots level in the district. Assuming charge in the presence of party unit president S.Srinivasa Rao, Mr. Siva Reddy expressed his gratitude towards the party leadership for reposing faith in his capabilities and entrusting him with the key post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pv-siva-reddy-appointed-bjp-unit-vice-president/article37965548.ece
16 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC order brings relief to Kerala govt.||The Kerala government appears to have won the first round in the legal sparring over the contentious decision to extend the tenure of Kannur University Vice-Chancellor (VC) beyond the retirement age. A single Bench of the High Court on Wednesday rejected a petition seeking to rescind the controversial order. The directive has come as a relief for the government beset with demands for the resignation of Kerala Higher Education Minister R. Bindu. The Congress and the BJP had demanded her ouster after Governor Arif Mohammad Khan had revealed his disinclination to continue as Chancellor given the alleged political interference in varsity matters. Mr. Khan had also seemed peeved that the government had sought a “fig leaf” of a legal opinion to overrule his cautionary counsel that extending the tenure of Kannur University VC was tantamount to trespassing on varsity autonomy. The court order appeared to have encouraged the CPI(M) to target Mr. Khan’s position obliquely. CPI(M) Kannur district secretary M. V. Jayarajan said ideally Governors should stop dabbling in politics. They should remain neutral and not become a cat’s paw for vested political interests. Meanwhile, television channels scrolled that Mr. Khan had come under criticism in the Cabinet. However, the news could not be confirmed independently. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the High Court order offered cold comfort for the government. The facts that came up before the court for consideration were submitted before Mr. Khan made his displeasure clear. The Chancellor had later revealed that Ms. Bindu had brought immense pressure on him to agree to the anomalous decision to extend the tenure of the VC beyond the fixed retirement age. The Congress and the BJP held marches in Kannur and Thiruvananthapuram demanding Ms. Bindu’s resignation. The Opposition parties also sought an explanation from Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala was poised to move the High Court. Letter to Vijayan In an open letter to Mr. Vijayan, Mr. Chennithala quoted Mr. Khan’s “damning” statement: “I fully realised that what I was being asked to do was not consistent with rules and was contrary to law but I had no intention to start any dispute with the State government. In order to avoid the controversy, I signed the order but I have been feeling extremely uncomfortable after that.” The Governor’s rather belated position would constrain the High Court to view the matter in a different light. The government was sure to lose its legal footing, Mr. Chennithala claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-order-brings-relief-to-kerala-govt/article37965500.ece
16 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Copter crash: Kerala govt announces job, compensation to bereaved family of JWO Pradeep||The Kerala Government on Wednesday announced a compensation of Rs. 8 lakh to the family of Junior Warrant Officer A Pradeep, who died in the recent IAF helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu, and a job to Sreelekshmmi, his wife, a press release said. The state cabinet meeting, chaired by Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, considered the educational qualification of Ms. Sreelekshmi and decided to give her a posting in Thrissur district itself.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/copter-crash-kerala-govt-announces-job-compensation-to-bereaved-family-of-jwo-pradeep/article37965507.ece
16 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC nod for Amaravati farmers’ meeting||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Wednesday granted permission to the Amaravati farmers to organise a public meeting at a private place at Damineedu village in Tirupati rural limits. The farmers plan to organise the meeting on December 17. Hearing a petition filed by the Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi, the court directed the Director General of Police (DGP) to issue orders allowing the farmers to conduct the meeting. The court, however, asked the farmer leaders to follow the prescribed guidelines. “The meeting should be organised between 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. in conformity with the COVID-19 protocols,” the court said. Observing that there were no reasons to reject permission for the public meeting, the court said that “permission cannot be denied on the pretext that law and order problems may crop up.” “The onus of ensuring that law and order problem does not arise lies on the police. The petitioners should not resort to making any objectionable comments,” the court said. Appearing for the police, additional Advocate-General P. Sudhakar Reddy said, “When the people of Rayalaseema are favouring three capitals, how can the petitioners organise a meeting demanding one capital at a venue in the region?” The farmers had violated the conditions laid down during their ‘maha padayatra’ and attacked the police in Tirupati on Tuesday, he alleged. “The petitioners can organise any number of meetings in the Amaravati area,” he added. However, the court said that organising meetings was the fundamental right of the citizens. “High courts and the Supreme Court have cleared the air in this regard. Rayalaseema is also a part of Andhra Pradesh. The police should take security measures if there is scope for disturbances. Only the SP and the additional SP have the power to deny permission. How can the DSP issue orders,” the court asked. The court further said the reasons cited by the police for rejecting permission were not reasonable. Hearing another petition filed by the Rayalaseema Medhavula Forum seeking permission to conduct a meeting on December 17, the court said permission cannot be given for two public meetings the same day. “The forum can organise the meeting on December 18,” the court said. The Amaravati farmer leaders and the opposition parties welcomed the court order pronounced by Justice Cheekati Manavendranath Roy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-nod-for-amaravati-farmers-meeting/article37965978.ece
16 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Balayya reacts cautiously on ticket pricing issue||A day after the Andhra Pradesh High Court suspended G.O. 35 that sought to fix the prices of cinema tickets, actor and TDP Hindupur legislator N. Balakrishna reacted cautiously on the issue. Recalling that he had taken up the ticket rates issue with the State government in the past, Mr. Balakrishna said, “It seems the government has plans to go for an appeal. Let’s see what happens. God is there to judge.” Mr. Balakrishna and other crew of ‘Akhanda’ movie were in the city on a thanksgiving visit to the Kanaka Durga temple here on Wednesday. “The success of ‘Akhanda’ has proved that the audience are waiting for cinemas to be released. Other film-makers are also preparing to release their movies,” he said. Mr. Balakrishna said they released the movie after discussing threadbare the ticket policy of the government. “We have taken the daring step as we believed that the output is very impressive,” he said. “People have responded positively and are flocking the theatres with families. The success of the movie has once again established that the audience will always support good movies,” Mr. Balakrishna said, and added, “If there is a good story, we will make multi-starrer movies.” Director Boyapati Srinu was among others present. Staff Reporter in Guntur writes: Mr. Balakrishna was given a rousing reception at Pedakakani, where he, along with Mr. Srinu, visited the Bhramaramba Malleswari temple. Several TDP supporters welcomed Mr. Balakrishna at the toll gate near Kaza and brought him in a convoy. After darshan, Mr. Balakrishna left to the residence of Mr. Srinu, a native of Pedakakani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/balayya-reacts-cautiously-on-ticket-pricing-issue/article37965971.ece
16 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Almanac writers’ body formed||Almanac writers have come together to establish Andhra Pradesh Panchangakartala Samakhya. The idea is to bring all the almanac writers (panchanga kartalu) on one platform in the State. The almanac writers met at Sri Shanmukha Vedavidyalayam at Kottur Tadepalli, near here, on Tuesday. Unanimous dates for festivals On the occasion, Srisailam Devasthanam Asthana Siddhanthi Butte Virabhadra Daivagna said the samakhya would strive to ensure that there were no contradictions and confusions over the festivals. The samakhya’s objective was to see that unanimous dates relating to the festivals were announced by the almanac writers. Andhra Pradesh State Asthana Siddhanthi Kappagantu Subbarama Somayaji said the samakhya would take steps to impart training and conduct classes in the almanac writing.  Tangirala Poornaprasada Siddhanthi said the government needed to take steps for recognising the services of almanac writers and consider them for Ugadi puraskarams. The government was also requested to provide land to the samakhya to take up research activities in the field of almanac writing, he said. The executive of the samakhya includes Vedantam Rajagopala Chakravarthi (honorary president), Veerabhadra Daivagna (president), Subbarama Somayaji and Madhura Phalasankara Sarma (vice presidents), Tenneti Srinivas Sarama, L. Subrahmanya Siddhanti (secretaries), Poornaprasada Siddhanthi (treasurer) and coordinator Kappagantu Ramakrishna.  Samakhya will take steps to impart training and conduct classes in the almanac writing Kappagantu Subbarama Somayaji Andhra Pradesh State Asthana Siddhanthi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/almanac-writers-body-formed/article37966016.ece
16 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 5 lakh ex gratia announced||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock over the loss of lives in the accident involving a RTC bus at Jangareddygudem in West Godavari district on Wednesday. He directed the officials to extend an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased and ensure best medical care to the injured. Expressing grief over the death of several passengers, including the bus driver, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu termed the loss of lives as unfortunate. He appealed to the government to extend best possible medical care to the injured passengers and all assistance to the victims’ families. Expressing anguish over the accident, JSP president Pawan Kalyan said that “justifiable ex gratia” should be given to the families of the victims. “I request the officials to provide best treatment to the injured. I convey my deepest sympathies to the families of the bereaved persons,” Mr. Pawan said. BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said it was unfortunate that many people died in the ghastly accident. “I appeal to the government to help the victims’ families,” he said, and conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-5-lakh-ex-gratia-announced/article37965972.ece
16 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Joint teams to conduct survey on street children||Joint Collector (Welfare) K. Mohan Kumar has constituted joint teams to conduct a survey on street children. The teams will take up the survey from December 16 to 27. The teams comprising officers of Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW), Juvenile Welfare, National Child Labour Project (NCLP), Police, Labour, Education and other departments. The Joint Collector, who conducted a review on welfare of street children on Wednesday, said that survey would be conducted in Avanigadda, Machilipatnam, Vijayawada, Jaggaiahpet, Nuzvid and Vijayawada. Child Welfare Committee Chairperson K. Suvartha, Deputy Commissioner of Labour (DCL) Ch. Asha Rani, NCLP Project Director D. Anjaneya Reddy, DPO K. Bhaskar and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teams-set-up-to-take-up-survey-on-street-children/article37966017.ece
16 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Create awareness on fake chit fund companies’||Principal Secretary (Finance) S.S. Rawat has stressed on the need to create awareness among people regarding fake chit fund companies and cheating by online lending platforms. He was addressing the 23rd State level coordination committee meeting organised by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at the Secretariat on Wednesday. Apart from the fake chit fund companies, online cheating cases were on rise. The regulatory authorities had to respond and take necessary steps to rein in the cheating cases. Many new apps were coming up in the market. The apps were being used to commit economic offences and dupe the gullible people, he said. The people were duped in the name of cryptocurrency and bitcoins, he said, adding, the State and Central government agencies had to work with coordination to control the cyber crime. RBI General Manager Jayakumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/create-awareness-on-fake-chit-fund-companies/article37965976.ece
16 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two arrested, booty seized||The Central Zone police on Wednesday arrested two persons, who allegedly committed theft in a house under Penamaluru police station limits, and seized cash and property, worth about Rs. 10 lakh from their possession. The accused, V. Srinu and his brother, V. Mahesh, natives of Guntur district, allegedly committed theft in house by breaking the locks, located on Pantakaluva Road in the city on December 12. Police recovered Rs. 9.72 lakh cash and 6.7 gmof gold ornaments from the accused, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-arrested-booty-seized/article37966018.ece
16 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM pays tributes to Vallabhbhai Patel and Potti Sriramulu||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy paid floral tributes to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Amarajeevi Potti Sriramulu on the occasion of their death anniversary, at his camp office on Wednesday. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, MLA M. Giridhara Rao, and State Arya Vaishya Welfare and Development Corporation chairman K. Prasad were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-pays-tributes-to-vallabhbhai-patel-and-potti-sriramulu/article37965973.ece
16 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM meets Governor, enquires about his health||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his wife Bharathi met Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and his wife Suprava at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday. Mr. Reddy enquired about the health of Mr. Harichandan and his wife, who had undergone treatment for post-COVID complications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-meets-governor-enquires-about-his-health/article37965965.ece
16 December 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cinematography too given to Perni||As a part of reallocation of portfolios, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy allocated cinematography too to I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cinematography-too-given-to-perni/article37965975.ece
16 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Turning ship into tourist site to be a tough task||Converting the Bangladeshi vessel MV Maa, which ran aground near Tenneti Park and was subsequently written off as a total loss, into a tourist spot will prove to be an uphill task for the State government. The Government of Andhra Pradesh has already entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Shore and Ship Resorts Private Limited to convert the ship into a tourist spot — with a restaurant on board — via the Public-Private-Partnership (PPP) route. However, the first challenge is to ensure that the ship remains in the same position in which it has run aground. Another challenge is to maintain the integrity of the ship’s structure and not compromise on Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) norms. MV Maa, the 3,000-tonne Bangladeshi vessel, which was earlier called Hai Phong-45 and sailed under a Vietnamese flag, ran aground near Tenneti Park on October 13, 2020 due to bad weather. After attempts to tow it out failed, a private company named Gill Marines took over the ship, and its subsidiary Shore and Ship Resorts signed an agreement with the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) to convert it into a restaurant. But the challenge begins now, say experts. The ship ran aground at a critical angle and it now sits on a bed of rocks. Even after emptying all of its ballast and oil, the ship sits with a tilt of 7 to 9 degrees on the starboard side. “This was our initial challenge: level the tilt and set the angle right as far as possible, so that the ship is positioned parallel to the beach, as it would be difficult for the tourists to board the ship at a critical angle,” says K. Ratna Tej Reddy of Building Grammar, the architect for the project. Taking advantage of the high tides under the impact of Cyclone Jawad, contractors used a couple of crawler-mounted heavy earthmovers to correct the tilt, as well as set the angle right, taking advantage of the buoyancy. “There is a slight tilt, but it would be corrected,” he said. The ship is over 13 years old and a year of exposure to the humid climate in Visakhapatnam has led to the ship picking up a coat of rust. “The most important thing is to keep the ship in its current position. Even though it sits on a bed of rocks, the buoyancy factor during high tides can dislodge the ship and change its angle and tilt. Keeping this in mind, we are tethering it with mooring ropes and chains to plates anchored and secured to the bedrocks. The plates are fixed with 30 mm bolts that are secured to a depth of about 1 m inside the rocks and can withstand the stress and tension. We are also trying to create an artificial breakwater on the starboard side to reduce the impact of the waves and current,” says Mr. Ratna Tej, adding that a sand bank would be created to ease the impact of waves lashing the hull. Elaborate plans The private firm has drawn up elaborate plans for the project, which can cost up to Rs. 10 crore. “The plan is to convert both the cargo hatches into a restaurant. While the iron cover of one hatch will give way to a see-through glass ceiling, the other hatch will have seating arrangements on the deck too. We intend to have a seating capacity of 200, both on deck and below the deck combined. This apart, we intend to use the bow and the stern areas as restaurant space,” he says. The architecture plan provides parking space for 30 cars on the beachfront, a pathway leading to the ship, a private area which would comprise of a beach cafe and coconut grove with umbrellas and a public place with shacks and adventure sports. “We have plans to have a swimming pool with the beachfront cafe or restaurant and an artificial waterfall. All structures will be temporary and eco-friendly, as per the CRZ norms, including the pathway, Mr. Ratna Tej says. The project is expected to be ready in a year’s time if things go according to plan, says the firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-to-convert-ship-into-tourist-spot-faces-hurdles/article37965502.ece
16 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Provide nutritious food, pension, HIV/AIDS patients urge State govt.||HIV/AIDS patients have appealed to the State government to provide nutritious food and pensions to people who have become victims of the dreaded disease, and are not in a position to support their families. The patients staged a protest under the banner of Society of Visakha Network of Positive (SVNP) Members – People Living with HIV/AIDS, at Gandhi Statue near the GVMC office on Monday. One woman said that prior to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, some philanthropists used to support them financially to help them meet the high cost of nutritious food and other requirements. However, post-COVID-19, no one was coming forward to help them, she rued. The lack of income was depriving patients and their family members of proper nutrition, which was very important for patients to lead a normal life, she said. Lok Satta Party (LSP) State president Bhisetti Babji, who participated in the protest to express solidarity with the patients, sought that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should respond to the pleas of the patients without further delay. He said that patients suffering from diseases requiring long-term treatment, like thalassaemia, cancer and paralysis stroke, were being given a monthly pension of Rs. 10,000 a month. “One-fourth of that amount was being given to some HIV/AIDS patients. The pension amount should be hiked and provided to all HIV/AIDS patients. The government could obtain the patients’ list from the ART Centres being run at government hospitals,” he said. Mr. Babji said LSP would stand by the HIV patients till justice was done to them by the government. He sought that family planning operations be done on patients. SVNP district president I. Kanaka Raju appealed to the government to see their plight and come to their rescue. Positive Network’s Vizianagaram unit president Majji Padmavathi and Srikakulam representative K. Rajyalakshmi were present. LSP leaders M.S.N. Murthy, V. Hari Ganesh, Lekkala Srinu, Gourishankar, Mahanti, Pakki Sankar and singer Majji Devisri participated in the protest to express their solidarity with the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hivaids-patients-seek-support-of-govt/article37966007.ece
16 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meet held on sustainable logistics||The Confederation of Indian Industry’s (CII) Andhra Pradesh unit organised its third logistics conference on the theme ‘Efficient and Resilient Supply Chain - Creating a Sustainable Logistics Sector’, through virtual mode on Wednesday. Delivering the inaugural address, R. Karikal Valaven, Special Chief Secretary to the Department of Industries & Commerce, Government of Andhra Pradesh, said that integrated logistics is the need of the hour to drive growth in the logistics sector. Mr. Valaven pointed out that in tune with the theme, the State government has proposed to develop logistics parks in Anantapur and Visakhapatnam. “Andhra Pradesh is the only State in the country to have three industrial corridors, such as the Visakhapatnam-Chennai, Chennai-Bengaluru and Bengaluru-Hyderabad corridors. The proposed node in these corridors would attract greater investments into the State and several large-scale enterprises are evincing interest in setting up their base,” he said. According to him, sustainable logistics is essential for industrial growth and development. He said that the State government is also planning to promote marine economic zones to accelerate growth and development. Mr. Valaven informed the delegates that all airports in the State would have cargo facilities for exporting various goods and services. In this context, he mentioned that the electronics manufacturing cluster in Tirupati is creating adequate demand for development of Tirupati Airport. According to him, the proposed fishing harbours in the State will also have jetties to reduce the logistics cost. The government is keen on providing an institutional framework to encourage logistics, he said. K. Rama Mohana Rao, chairman of Visakhapatnam Port Trust, said that Andhra Pradesh has the logistics advantage due to its strategic location. He felt that Visakhapatnam as a region can emerge as a distribution hub for the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conference-held-on-sustainable-logistics/article37966010.ece
16 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to visit city tomorrow||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is scheduled to arrive in the city on a short visit on Friday, December 17. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is scheduled to arrive at the Visakhapatnam International Airport from Gannavaram Airport at 5 p.m. on Friday, where he is expected He will meet officials at the airport and proceed to NAD Junction, where he would inaugurate the NAD Flyover and six other projects undertaken by the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA). From there, he would proceed to the AU Convention Centre on Beach Road, where he is scheduled to attend the wedding of Vizianagaram DCCB Chairman N. Naidu Babu’s daughter Divya Naidu. Later, he would proceed to VUDA Park, where he would inaugurate four projects undertaken by the GVMC, after which he would go to Vizag Conventions at PM Palem, where he would attend the wedding reception of Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu’s granddaughter Niharika. From there, he would leave for the airport at 7.15 p.m. and catch a flight to Gannavaram at 7.55 p.m. Collector inspects venues Collector A. Mallikarjuna has directed officials to make all necessary arrangements to receive the Chief Minister at the airport. Mr. Mallikarjuna, along with Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha, inspected the venues which will be visited by the Chief Minister on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-visit-city-tomorrow/article37966063.ece
16 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||How the British Raj was forced to withdraw the ‘pig rupee’||A one-rupee coin issued by the erstwhile British Raj over a century ago was met with much ridicule in the country as the design of an elephant on the King’s robes resembled a pig, recollects a well-known numismatist in the city. “The people of India declined to honour a Rs. 1 silver coin with a bust of King George V, issued by the erstwhile British Raj in 1911, as they felt that the feet and short tail of the elephant figure resembled a pig, which is considered unclean by Indians. Of the 9 crore coins that were minted, only 7 lakh were issued and the government was forced to withdraw them from circulation,” says G.K. Subrahmanyam, a retired lecturer of Dr. V.S. Krishna Government College and an avid numismatist. While a majority of the coins were recalled and melted, some remained in private hands, of which two coins found their way into his collection. The withdrawn coins were melted and the coins were reissued with a re-designed elephant figure in 1912. “The alert public forced the British Raj to withdraw the ‘pig rupee’, as it came to be known. “My parents and senior citizens used to recount how the silver coins used to be collected by people, and melted to make silver plates. As we celebrate ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’, marking the 75 years of India’s Independence, I thought this 110-year-old coin and the anecdote of an alert public who forced the government to bow to their wish, would serve as an inspiration for the younger generations,” says Mr. Subrahmanyam. The numismatist, who has been building his collection for the past two decades, also has several rare photographs of Mahatma Gandhi. This collection had won the appreciation of Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu, who gave him an appointment during his visit to the city recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/how-the-british-raj-was-forced-to-withdraw-the-pig-rupee/article37966006.ece
16 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relocate garbage transit point: TDP||TDP workers of Visakhapatnam (East) Assembly constituency, under the leadership of MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu, staged a protest at Ramakrishnapuram near Arilova on Wednesday demanding the shifting of a garbage transit point from the area. The protesters said that the garbage transit point at Ramakrishnapuram was converted into a dumping yard, and alleged that the YSRCP government has no concern for people’s health. The dumping yard was contaminating the water of Mudasorlova, which supplies drinking water to the city, they claimed. The protesters demanded immediate shifting of the dumping yard, failing which they said that their agitation would be intensified. Party members Ommi Sanyasi Rao, M. Ramalakshmi, Byreddy Pothana Reddy, B. Govindhu, A. Suresh, O. Pola Rao and B. Balaraju participated in the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/relocate-garbage-transit-point-tdp/article37966062.ece
16 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ENC chief calls on Governor, CM||Vice Admiral Biswajit Dasgupta, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Eastern Naval Command (ENC), called on Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan at Raj Bavan and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Wednesday. Vice Admiral Dasgupta was on his maiden visit to Vijayawada after taking over as ENC chief. He briefed the Governor and the Chief Minister the various initiatives taken by the Indian Navy to overcome emerging challenges of maritime security on the Eastern Seaboard. He also apprised them on the progress of the preparatory activities on the upcoming President’s Fleet Review and the multinational maritime exercise, MILAN-22, scheduled in February 2022 in Visakhapatnam. Earlier in the day, he also met Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enc-chief-calls-on-governor-cm/article37965980.ece
16 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Excise Dept. teams to weed out ganja menace||Director of Enforcement, Prohibition and Excise K. Venkatewara Rao on said that a Special Task Force with police and other departments would be formed soon to stop ganja cultivation and smuggling that has reached alarming proportions over the last few years. At a workshop held on steps to control ganja cultivation and distribution and enforcement of the Narcotics, Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, Mr. Venkateswara Rao said that plans were afoot to deploy drones to ascertain the area under ganja cultivation in the tribal pockets of Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts. The Special Task Force would initiate measures to eradicate ganja cultivation in the Agency areas apart from initiating action against those supplying ganja seeds, keeping track of illegal transportation routes, keeping an eye on mediators and setting up checkposts at strategic points, he said. Deputy Inspector General (Visakha Range) Ch. Srikanth hoped that the Task Force would be able to nab the kingpins behind the smuggling and cultivation of ganja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/excise-dept-teams-to-weed-out-ganja-menace/article37966069.ece
16 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division observes energy conservation week||The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (ECoR) is observing National Energy Conservation Week from December 8. The objective of the programme is to make railway employees aware of the importance of energy conservation. Banners and posters were put up on the railway premises to create awareness on the necessity of reducing electricity consumption. Seminars and counselling were conducted at railway colonies to make people conversant with various ways and means of energy saving. This approach to energy conservation includes provision of LED lights at all railway service buildings, quarters, street lights and in railway areas to reduce power consumption. Special focus was laid on saving energy via domestic appliances, by using LED bulbs of 5, 7 and 9 watts as per the need in place of incandescent lamps or CFL, use of LED tube light of 18 watts in place of 40 watts, use of five star-rated ceiling fan, refrigerator, LED TV, geyser, inverter, and air-conditioner. Residents were advised to switch over to energy efficient microwave ovens and induction ovens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waltair-division-observes-energy-conservation-week/article37966064.ece
16 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-BBSR Intercity gets extra coaches||Three additional General Second Class coaches will be attached to the Visakhapatnam-Bhubaneswar-Visakhapatnam Intercity Express in order to clear the extra rush of passengers. The additional coaches will be attached to 22820 Visakhapatnam- Bhubaneswar Intercity express from December 16 to January 31, 2022. Additional coaches will be attached to the 22819 Bhubaneswar-Visakhapatnam Intercity express from December 17 to February 1, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-bbsr-intercity-gets-extra-coaches/article37966065.ece
16 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel workers decry Centre’s attitude||The relay hunger strike by steel workers, under the aegis of Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee continued for the 307th day at Kurmannapalaem, on Wednesday. Committee leaders Gandham Venkata Rao, B. Appa Rao and P.V. Ramana Murthy alleged that the BJP government was even going to the extent of murders to silence those agitating against its decisions and policies. They said the Lakhimpur Kheri incident was an example of the attitude of the BJP leaders. The workers called for further intensifying the united struggles against the BJP policies. SMS-2 representatives VDV Ramanchandra Rao, Anjaneyulu, Suresh, Rama Raju, Atchibabu, Eswara Rao and Jagadish were among those who participated in the relay hunger strike on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-workers-decry-centres-attitude/article37966008.ece
16 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fancy number plates to be penalised||Transport and Roads & Buildings Principal Secretary M.T. Krishna Babu has said that those who save the lives of road accident victims by shifting them to hospital within the ‘golden hour’ would be given a cash reward of Rs. 5,000 and also given an appreciation certificate. The Principal Secretary participated in a special meeting on road safety at the R&B Guest House on Wednesday. “Around 1.50 lakh people have lost their lives in road accidents across the country last year. In Andhra Pradesh, around 8,000 road accident victims lost their lives last year. Some of the injured could have survived had they been shifted to hospital within the golden hour. At the national level, the top 10 Good Samaritans would be given Rs. 1 lakh cash awards,” Mr. Krishna Babu said. The Principal Secretary launched boards giving details of the scheme. He directed Transport officials to book cases against motor vehicle owners plying with fancy number plates and those not using High Security Registration Plates (HSRPs). Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam and RTO R.Ch. Srinivas were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fancy-number-plates-to-be-penalised/article37966066.ece
16 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 COVID-19 cases, 1 death in district||The district reported 15 COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total tally to 1,59,203, on Wednesday. The district also recorded one death, taking the toll to 1,106 till date. Meanwhile, 25 persons undergoing treatment for COVID-19 have recovered and their tests have returned negative, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,57,912. The number of active cases is 185.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-covid-19-cases-1-death-in-district/article37966068.ece
16 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Over 5 lakh people are delaying second dose’||The sense of urgency displayed by people for getting the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine when the pandemic was at its peak is now absent in Vizianagaram district, where over five lakh people have failed to turn up on time for their second dose, say officials. Neglecting to take the second dose of the vaccine is a dangerous trend, particularly in the backdrop of the threat posed by the newly-emerging Omicron variant, officials warned. As per the latest data, 18,47,239 persons were administered the first dose of the vaccine, but only 12,57,254 people have turned up for the second dose. District officials claimed that 97% of the eligible population was given the first dose of the vaccine, while the coverage for the second dose stood at only 77%. The stipulated waiting period between the first and second dose is 12 weeks for Covishield and four weeks for Covaxin. Although a majority of the people were administered their first dose three months ago, not all of them are coming forward for their second dose even after several days of their due date. Vizianagaram District Medical and Health Officer S.V. Ramana Kumari urged people to go to nearby hospitals or PHCs to get vaccinated. She said that the second dose was equally important to make the body immune to COVID-19. Indian Medical Association (IMA) member and senior general physician Boddapati Nageswara Rao told The Hindu that merely taking the first dose of vaccine would not ensure 100% safety from COVID-19. “Proper vaccination is mandatory as many new variants of the coronavirus are likely to pose a threat in the near future. Social distancing and wearing masks are also equally important to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” Dr. Nageswara Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-5-lakh-people-are-delaying-second-dose/article37966002.ece
16 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traders slam 12% GST on textiles||Sri Balaji Textile Market president Buddepu Venkata Rao and its general secretary Nirmal Kumar Pokarna strongly opposed imposition of 12% Goods and Services Tax (GST) on textiles, saying unprecedented taxation would burden the poor people. Along with traders, they staged protest on Balaji Market premises opposing the hike of GST from 5 percent to 12 percent on textiles. “The previous governments had never put tax burden on textiles for many decades since clothing is a essential need for all sections of the society. But, the NDA government is burdening the poor by increasing the GST tax. We will continue to agitate till the government withdraws its decision,” said Mr. Venkata Rao. AP Textile Federation vice president Vuppu Prakasha Rao said the industry was already in peril with the impact of lockdowns. Sri Balaji Market executive body members Savarmal Chowdary, KL Narasinga Rao P.V. Rama Rao and others raised slogans against the government. Later, they submitted a memorandum to the district officials urging them to convey the public mood on the issue to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/traders-slam-12-gst-on-textiles/article37966015.ece
16 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retired police officer alleges election fraud||A retired Additional Superintendent of Police Peerubandi Prakasha Rao and his wife P. Madhavi on Wednesday urged the State government and the State Election Commission (SEC) to disqualify the election of Hymavati, MPTC of Ramavaram village of Gantyada mandal in Vizianagaram district, alleging that she had submitted a Scheduled Caste certificate although she was a converted Christian (BC-C category). Addressing a press meet here, Mr. Prakasha Rao said that the returning officers had deliberately rejected the nomination papers of his wife Ms. Madhavi on March 12, 2020 although she had submitted an Adi Andhra SC caste certificate. “The Adi-Andhra caste has been on the SC list for decades. But the returning officers rejected my wife’s nomination papers to favour her opponent Ms. Hymavati. The district administration and police department did not ensure justice for us. That is why we have approached the court which has directed the police department to register an FIR immediately,” he said. “The senior officers caused a lot of mental agony for our family even though we only wanted to serve the people of Ramavaram,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/retired-police-officer-alleges-election-fraud/article37966004.ece
16 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free cleft surgeries this month in North Andhra||Mission Smile, a charity organisation and the CSR wing of Muthoot Pappachan Group and Tirumala Hospitals, will jointly ensure free surgeries for children suffering from cleft lip and cleft palate problems by holding special camps in Vizianagaram between December 20 and 23. Seventy-five children from Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari and West Godavari districts have already been identified for surgery and 50 more patients are expected to be screened in Vizianagaram on December 19. Addressing a press meet here, Mission Smile programme manager Rafiur Rahman said that cleft problems were being identified mostly in the eastern and southern regions of India due to malnutrition and marriages within the family. He said that the organisation which was established in 2002 had been extending help to children with cleft problems. “Nearly 10 lakh children were suffering from cleft problems in India and of them, over 6 lakh children are from the eastern and southern parts of the country,” he said. Tirumala Hospital Medical Superintendent Ch. Mahesh and Plastic Reconstruction Consultant Muddada Sravani said that the surgeries need to be conducted at an early age for children in order to ensure that the deformity is fully corrected. Resident Medical Officer B. Sudhakar and Muthoot Pappachan Group area manager S. Srinivas were present at the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-cleft-surgeries-this-month-in-north-andhra/article37966000.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fruits of labour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fruits-of-labour/article37966012.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trudging along||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trudging-along/article37966026.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Time is ripe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/time-is-ripe/article37965504.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 killed as bus falls into rivulet||“The bus was retrieved from the rivulet. Of the 26 injured, 17 were discharged and nine were undergoing treatment,” said Mr. Sharma. The deceased were identified as Podugupati Durgamma (55) of Taduvai village, Adamilli John Moges (52) of Gangavaram village, Sriramula Balamma (45) of Thotapalli village, Undrajavarapu Sarojini (56) of Kothapalli village, Ketha Varalakshmi (50), Bodugu Satyavathi (56), Ch. Chinna Rao (46), bus driver, A. Madhu Babu (57) of Chinnaigudem and Sangeeta Somaraju of Palem village in East Godavari, and M. Nagamani. Jangareddygudem Deputy Superintendent of Police B. Srinath said about five foot water was flowing in the rivulet. APSRTC Chairman Mallikharjuna Reddy and MD Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao monitored the rescue operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-killed-as-bus-falls-into-rivulet/article37965969.ece
16 December 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Policeman hurt in anti-Maoist operation||A special party police constable suffered leg injuries when a pressure bomb allegedly planted by Maoists exploded during a combing operation at Errampadu forest area in Charla mandal bordering Chhattisgarh on Wednesday. Sources said that the constable, who was a member of a special police squad engaged in anti-Maoist operations in the forested region on the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border, sustained injuries on both legs after inadvertently stepping on a pressure bomb hidden in the forest path, resulting in the blast. The injured constable was shifted to a Hyderabad-based hospital after first-aid for better treatment. Police sources said his condition is stable and improving. An intense combing operation is underway in the thickly forested border region. The injured constable of 2020 batch hails from Laxmidevipalli near Kothagudem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/policeman-hurt-in-anti-maoist-operation/article37965840.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hectic schedule awaits Chief Minister from tomorrow||A hectic schedule lies ahead for Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao from Friday starting with an extended meeting of the TRS executive on the first day. His schedule, released by the CMO., includes Collectors conference on the second day and tours to districts from the third for both official and party programmes. It was only today Mr. Rao returned from a three-day tour of Tamil Nadu after visiting Ranganathaswamy temple at Srirangam, and meeting Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. The executive meeting in the party office will be attended by MPs, MLAs, MLCs, Zilla Parishad chairpersons, District Cooperative Central Bank and District Cooperative Marketing Society members, district presidents of Rythu Samakhyas and chairmen of State-level corporations. The Collectors conference at Chief Minister’s camp office on Saturday will discuss implementation of Dalit Bandhu scheme of empowering SCs. It will go into extension of the scheme to all Assembly constituencies like it was done in one mandal each of four constituencies -- Madhira, Jukkal, Atchampet and Tungturthy -- beside Huzurabad, where it was launched. The aim was to ground the scheme in all constituencies by March. The meeting will finalise training programmes for officials and public representatives. The meeting will also discuss the ongoing paddy procurement in villages. Mr. Rao will undertake tours of districts from Wanaparthy on Sunday where he will inaugurate the Collector’s office complex and the district TRS office. He will lay the foundation stone for a medical college. Inauguration of the Collector’s office and official programmes were lined up at Jangaon on Monday. Pending finalisation of dates shortly, the release said Mr. Rao will also go to Atchampet constituency to lay foundation stone for Umamaheswara lift-irrigation scheme and a reservoir. He will inaugurate a hundred bed hospital at Atchampet. Inauguration of Collectors offices and participation in official programmes will follow in Nizamabad, Jagtial, Bhongir and Vikarabad districts. He will inaugurate TRS offices in all these districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hectic-schedule-awaits-chief-minister-from-tomorrow/article37965833.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Entire ORR to be lit up with LEDs||The entire Outer Ring Road of 158 km is going to lit up with LED lighting soon, with the work on illuminating the remaining 136 km stretch from Kokapet to Shamshabad taken up at a cost of Rs. 100.22 crore completed and ready for commissioning. The eight-lane ORR and service road on either side with two lanes was constructed and opened to traffic in 2010. Initially, only limited lighting was provided for a length of 1 km on either side at some of the interchanges with conventional lighting system. Lighting of the main carriageway, service roads and interchanges between Gachibowli to Shamshabad for length of 22 km and four interchanges were taken up and completed in March 2018 at a cost of Rs. 30 crore including five years of maintenance. Minister for Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao instructed taking up LED lighting on the balance stretch from Kokapet to Shamshabad (136 km) to reduce accidents during the night time and enhance the safety of the road users. Accordingly, Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) and Hyderabad Growth Corridor Limited (HGCL) took up the work of illumination for the main carriageway and also service road for one km on either side of the junctions and underpasses. The work was taken up in four packages including maintenance of seven years and began in October 2020 with the main carriageaway provided with 9,076 lights of 210/235 watts; service roads with 1,235 lights of 120 watts; ramps with 1,443 lights of 130 watts, junctions with 504 lights of 400 watts; underpass 690 lights of 80 watts and 130 lights of 30 watts and national highway 314 lights of 130 watts. A special feature is the ORR illumination is provided with GSM based automation system consisting of web based management for operating remotely from laptop/cell phone. Monitoring can be done online and light intensity can be remote controlled from 10-100% for saving power consumption during low traffic time, added the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/entire-orr-to-be-lit-up-with-leds/article37965822.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Build a memorial for Rosaiah: Cong.||The remembrance meet of former Chief Minister K. Rosaiah, held at a convention centre on Wednesday, saw leaders from various political parties, including his Cabinet colleagues in various governments, recalling the commitment, dynamism and dedication of the leader towards public service and political life. It was attended by TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, former Ministers K. Jana Reddy, V. Hanmanth Rao, Raghuveera Reddy; former MPs KVP Ramchander Rao and T. Subbirami Reddy among others. The leaders also shared some anecdotes and their personal interactions with Rosaiah. Describing him as a tall leader, Mr. Revanth Reddy said he was no less than any Chief Minister that the combined Andhra Pradesh had seen and suggested to the Telangana government to allocate a memorial for him in Hyderabad. He recalled how he stood to benefit from the advise that MLAs need to prepare for debates in the Assembly if the point has to be put across strongly. Former Minister Raghuveera Reddy said Rosaiah was the only MLA who might have visited all the mandals in the combined Andhra Pradesh, and both AP and Telangana governments should take proper initiatives to ensure he is remembered forever. Young politicians should pick up lessons from his political life and speeches in the Assembly, he said. Mr. Ramchander Rao said he was loyal to the core and recalled how he immediately resigned as the Chief Minister when AICC president Sonia Gandhi asked him to step down. He backed Mr. Revanth Reddy’s demand that a memorial be constructed in the name of Mr. Rosaiah. Mr. Hanmanth Rao said Rosaiah wanted to resign during the political crisis emerging out of Telangana agitation but he advised against it saying he cannot leave a position given by Sonia Gandhi. Recalling his days as a Minister when Mr. Rosaiah was in the opposition, Mr. Jana Reddy said he used to get nervous with the bombardment of questions from the late leader. However, after the sessions he always got appreciation from Mr. Rosaiah for deftly handling the questions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/build-memorial-for-rosaiah-cong-leaders-tell-govt/article37965838.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Intense search operation for ‘missing’ Somalian||The search for the 23-year-old Somali man, who was detected with Omicron and then found ‘missing’, started on Tuesday midnight. Health officials and policemen checked corporate hospital registers, spoke to colony association members in Tolichowki, and pursued every possible lead to trace him. Sources said that the foreign national did not know of his test results until he was informed by government teams. He came to the city on medical tourism. As the night progressed, an ‘eerie deja vu’ unfolded. Health staff and police personnel did put in similar efforts to trace the infected when coronavirus started to spread in the State in March 2020. After an intense search, they came to know that the man was the attendant of a patient. “This changed the course of our search. We started to look for the patient to trace the attendant,” a source said. The person who helped the Somalian and his family member in medical tourism was also contacted to know the names of hospitals they visited. “He went to two corporate hospitals,” he said. On Wednesday afternoon, police announced that the ‘missing’ COVID patient was found at Paramount Colony in Banjara Hills. The DPH said that he was immediately shifted to TIMS. But, the task did not end there. Now, Health teams are trying to find his close contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/intense-search-operation-for-missing-somalian/article37965808.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Postcard to Prime Minister||The Telangana Circle of the Department of Posts has taken a different path to encourage students living in remote areas of Left Wing Extremism (LWE) districts in the State to write postcards to the Prime Minister on two selected subjects. As part of the 75 lakh postcard writing campaign to commemorate ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, the Telangana Circle chose to focus on students of remote areas. With focus on 9,380 schools in these districts, the department managed to get as many as 74,306 students from 673 schools to participate in the competition. So far, 3.45 lakh postcards have been sold across these districts. “Unsung Heroes of Freedom Struggle” or “My Vision for India in 2047” in Hindi or English or any of the scheduled languages are the topics assigned to students to write. The 75 students who come up with best ideas across the country will be awarded and allowed to interact with the PM on January 17 and about 500 to 1,000 postcards will be displayed in an exhibition. According to Postmaster General, Hyderabad, P.V.S. Reddy, students got a different kind of exposure through this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/postcard-to-prime-minister/article37965812.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||10th century Jain idols found in Siddipet agricultural field||Two sets of Jain Chaumukhs of the medieval period were found in the agricultural fields at Kurella village of Koheda mandal, Siddipet district, on Wednesday. Based on information given by Perugu Mahendar Reddy, a youth of Kurella village, and Ahobilam Karunakar, an active member of Kotta Telangana Charitra Brindam, led by archaeologist Sriramoju Haragopal and CEO, Pleach India Foundation, E. Sivanagireddy, the team examined the surroundings around Kurella village to assess the historical significance of the Jain idols. They said that there are altogether three sets of Jain Chawmukhs in the village, out of which one that was located near Pichamma temple was already reported. And Dr. Reddy’s team found the other two sets of Jain Chawmukhs for the first time from the field near Tollabanda located at a distance of two kilometres from the village. According to Dr. Sivanagireddy, during his explorations, he had identified three rock cut groves square in plan measuring 1.5 ft on each side with a depth of 2 inches, in which the Jain Chaumukhs were inserted. Among these three sets, two were found on Wednesday. Dr. Reddy states that the Jain Chawmukh sculptures representing Adinatha, Nemunatha, Parswanatha and Vardhamana Mahavira of the Digambar sect of Jainism are seen seated in padmasana contemplating meditation. Based on the style of art and iconography, they date them back to the Rastrakutas or the Chalukyas of Vemulawada (10th century AD) who ruled the area. The Jain sculptures belong to that era. Ahobilam Karunakar, Md. Nasiruddin, and Md. Anwar Pasha of Kotta Telangana Charitra Brindam were part of the exploration team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/10th-century-jain-idols-found-in-siddipet-agricultural-field/article37966031.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two held on cheating charge||In a joint operation, the Special Operations Team Balanagar and the Cyberabad police apprehended two accused, who are allegedly members of a five-man gang which cheated several persons in the fake ‘second channel bank accounts’ case, and seized Rs. 1.31 crore. Police identified the accused as Priya Ranjan Nayak (33), a loan agent by profession, and Kudikala Prem Kishore (48), who is in the construction business. The others identified as Davanagari Sathyanarayana, Vishal G Sakpal, and Sushant Prem Das Gaurav are absconding, police said. Drug peddlers held The South Zone and West Zone Task Force apprehended three persons, including an alleged inter-State drug peddler, and seized from their possession 3.5 litres of hash oil and other items totalling about Rs. 25 lakh. According to the police, the accused are Sampati Kiran Kumar alias John (25), a resident of Manikonda; Mohd. Irfan, (23) a resident of Jahanuma and Shaik Kamal (21), engaged in food delivery and resident of Yapral. “After their arrest, 3.5 litres of hashish, gold and two cellphones, roughly valued at Rs. 25 lakh have been seized,” Hyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar said. Arrested for graft Gyara Jagan, former DSP, Enforcement, HMDA, and awaiting fresh posting was arrested by the Anti Corruption Bureau. He allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs. 4 lakh and had accepted Rs. 2 lakh. Another person, identified as Bonela Ramu, an outsourced private security guard posted at the HMDA too was arrested. The accused overlooked deviations in apartments at Mallampet village in Dundigal Municipality which Prajapati Constructions, had constructed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-on-cheating-charge/article37965826.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Study shows up 45-km-long buried river||A high resolution airborne electromagnetic study in the Ganga-Yamuna region, supplemented with drilling and logging data to address the groundwater crisis, by scientists of the CSIR-National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI), has unravelled an exhaustive aquifer information with discovery of a 45-km long buried river equal to these two rivers. Principal aquifer This ancient river, likely to be extending towards the Himalayas, is characterised by porous and permeable structures and is hydro-geologically linked with Ganga and Yamuna through an underlying principal aquifer, which could help in replenishing groundwater resources in the region. The river falls within a region where a lost mythological river ‘Saraswati’ was believed to be flowing in the past, says the CSIR-NGRI study titled “Airborne Electromagnetic Signatures of an Ancient River in the Water - Stressed Ganga Plain, Prayagraj, India: A Potential Groundwater Repository”. The findings were published in the latest ‘American Geophysical Union - Advancing Earth & Space Science’. “The results add a new dimension to this mythological belief and offer a new possibility for management of the dwindling groundwater in the Ganga-Yamuna doab (area between the two rivers),” said CSIR-NGRI director V.M. Tiwari, who did the seminal work along with his colleagues Subash Chandra, M. Vidyasagar, K.B. Raju, Joy Choudhury, K. Lohithkumar, E. Nagaiah, Sateesh C, Shakeel Ahmed and Saurabh K. Verma. Previous studies in the Ganga basin have revealed migratory behaviour of the rivers due to tectonic activity and climate change, leaving their remanence as a paleochannels of mostly sandy loam soil with high porosity and permeability. Airborne investigations show the signature of a buried paleochannel in an active foreland basin of the Ganga river constituting the central part of the largest alluvial tract in the world formed by Indus, Ganga and Brahmaputra rivers. The topography above and below the Ganga and the paleoriver shows evidence of tectonic disturbances suggesting the buried river was an independent entity and not a paleo course of Ganga. Conclusive proof in this regard can be obtained after determining the ages of sediments associated with the two rivers. The study indicates that the aquifer systems of Ganga-Yamuna and their hydrogeological connectivity possibly facilitates exchange of polluted water between these two and also the paleoriver providing corridors for groundwater movement connecting aquifers. Hence, the study can also be used for Ganga cleaning programmes. “We can locate potential sites for groundwater recharge and ensure supply of good quality water at Sangam, Prayagraj,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/csir-ngri-study-unravels-45-km-long-buried-river/article37965805.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress sees brighter side despite its loss in MLC polls||After the humiliating performance in Huzurabad bypoll, Congress has something to cheer about in the elections to the Legislative Council from local bodies constituency despite losing with huge margins in the two districts where it contested. It has not only retained its votes but was able to garner more than its strength, which is quite an achievement in the given circumstances where the ruling party has been brutal on the opposition ensuring their strength reduced constantly through various methods. In Khammam district, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka made a huge difference with his commitment securing 242 votes for the Congress candidate though its strength was just 96. Mr. Vikaramarka said the polling reflects the unrest among people’s representatives who voted in favour of the Congress despite the TRS camp politics. Mr. Vikramarka argued that unrest among the elected representatives is a reflection of growing dissatisfaction on the TRS government as these representatives are closely attached to the general public. “People want change and they want this undemocratic government to go,” Mr. Vikramarka said. Jagga Reddy’s challenge In Medak district, TPCC working president T. Jayaprakash Reddy had challenged much before the elections that he would resign if the Congress candidate, his wife Nirmala Jagga Reddy, secures less than the Congress strength of 230 votes. In fact, his wife secured 238 votes. He said retaining our votes itself is a big victory for them and securing more than their strength is the icing on the cake. In fact, Mr. Jagga Reddy was one of the few who pressurised the party to contest despite the poor numerical strength. “We cannot let the TRS win unanimously and we should use this opportunity to expose the TRS failures,” he argued in the Congress top brass meeting that was initially reluctant to put up candidates due to the insufficient strength. The voters in these elections were municipal councillors, MPTCs and ZPTCs. Though they were not official candidates of the political parties in the elections but were affiliated to political parties. Right from filing nominations to campaigning, the party colours around their necks were evident of their political identity.  We cannot let the TRS win unanimously. We should use this opportunity to expose TRS failures. T. Jayaprakash Reddy, TPCC working president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-sees-brighter-side-despite-its-loss-in-mlc-polls/article37965836.ece
16 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Recognition for UoH professor||Professor in the Department of Animal Biology, School of Life Sciences, University of Hyderabad (UoH), B. Senthilkumaran has been elected as a Fellow of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Delhi, for his pioneering work in the field of fish molecular endocrinology and reproductive biology, aquaculture and nanotoxicology. Prof. Senthilkumaran unravelled the molecular mechanisms of sexual development and gamete maturation in fish models using functional genomics and molecular endocrinological approaches. He is also a pioneer in the field of endocrine disruption and nanotoxicology. He has contributed immensely in the field of Steroid Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/recognition-for-uoh-professor/article37965816.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Wear mask without fail, get both doses: Harish||Health Minister Harish Rao called upon people to wear mask without fail and get two doses of the vaccine. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the Mahila Samakhya Bhavan, constructed at a cost of Rs. 15 lakh, at Ganesh Nagar in Siddipet district on Wednesday, Mr. Rao said that all precautions must be in place without any violation as two cases of Omicron have been detected in the State. “We have to maintain social distancing and always wear mask. Pregnant women can also take their vaccine and there is no need to be scared. Doctors are trying to create awareness in this regard. If any one wants, health staff will visit houses and administer vaccine,” he said, adding that Siddipet stood first in education, health and creating infrastructure in the State. Drinking water problems have been addressed with Mission Bhagiratha, he said. “Now, works are in progress to supply gas to every household through the pipeline system and roads will be relaid after that,” he said. He urged people to cooperate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wear-mask-without-fail-get-both-doses/article37965813.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Crafts Mela inaugurated in Hyderabad||Excise and Tourism Minister V. Srinivas Goud said that the International Crafts Mela being organised at Shilparamam will be a platform for craftsmen coming from various places in the country. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the 27th All India Crafts Mela at Shilparamam in Madhapur on Wednesday, Mr. Srinivas Goud said that this will be held for 15 days till December 31 and about 500 stalls are being established. About 200 craftsmen would be exhibiting their products. He said that all steps are put in place to promote various crafts in the State and directed the officials to make all arrangements to those visiting the mela. Shilparamam special officer Kishan Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crafts-mela-inaugurated/article37965814.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Strike likely to hit branch banking operations||Operations at public sector banks, especially the services customers access by visiting the branches, are likely to be severely impacted during the two-day strike called by an umbrella body of nine bank officers and employees unions from December 16. Conciliation meetings have failed as the Central government did not give assurance, as sought by the bank unions, that it will not table the bill on privatisation of banks in the ongoing session of the Parliament, United Forum of Bank Unions Telangana unit leader R.Sriram said. An estimated 10 lakh public sector bank employees and officers, up to certain pay scales, across the country, including 25,000 to 30,000 in Telangana, are expected to participate in the strike. Mr. Sriram said no work will be possible during the strike. Banking services, cash deposits and payments, clearing of cheques and other operations, including sanction of loans, will be affected. Cash dispensing through automated teller machines (ATMs) are also unlikely to be affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/strike-likely-to-hit-branch-banking-operations/article37965817.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Medtech industry to get thrust in State: KTR||Telangana has adopted an end-to-end approach for promoting growth in medtech industry, with a thrust on promoting design and development of innovative medical devices, Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao said on Wednesday. The focus is on helping the industry establish manufacturing facilities as well as to support innovation and research and development, which will eventually lead to large scale manufacturing, the Minister said inaugurating facilities of seven companies at the Medical Devices Park in Sultanpur, near Hyderabad. Huwel Life Sciences, Promea Therapeutics, Akriti, SVP Techno Engineers, Elvikon, Arka Medical Devices and Rees Medi Life, the seven companies, have proposed a total investment of Rs. 265 crore and employment generation for around 1,300 people, he said. They are part of the 50-odd companies that will be establishing manufacturing and R&D units with Rs. 1,424 crore investment at the Medical Devices Park. Around 7,000 direct jobs and at least twice as much indirect job opportunities are to be created by the companies, he said, describing response to the park as overwhelming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medtech-industry-to-get-thrust-in-state-ktr/article37965818.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bailable warrant against BJP corporator||A local court issued a bailable warrant on Wednesday against Bharatiya Janata Party corporator representing Jambagh, Rakesh Jaiswal. The case pertains to Mr Jaiswal not appearing in court for hearing. According to lawyer Khaja Aijazuddin, who is representing the petitioner and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation election candidate J Ravindra, a case was filed in the Abids police station based on the petitioner’s complaint. The petitioner alleged that Mr Jaiswal did not reveal crucial information in his affidavit filed ahead of the civic polls. Mr Aijazuddin said that the case has been posted for hearing on February 22, next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bailable-warrant-against-bjp-corporator/article37966032.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC stays shifting of ITI Medchal to far off place||Telangana High Court on Wednesday passed an interim direction staying the attempts of the government to shift the Industrial Training Institute located at Medchal to a far off place. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice N. Tukaramji, after hearing a taken-up PIL petition on the issue of shifting the ITI to a distant place, instructed the government to file counter affidavits within eight weeks. Over 100 students wrote post-card letters to the Chief Justice of the HC stating that attempts were on to shift the institute to a far off place which would be causing lot of inconvenience to the students. They explained that it would be difficult to meet the increased travel expenses for the students most of whom were from poor and middle-class families. The students also mentioned that a considerable number of them were working part-time to meet the expenses of the education and hence it would be all the more difficult for them to travel longer distances if the institute was shifted to another place. The bench observed that that students through the post-card letters made out prima facie a case in securing a direction from the court. The bench also noted that the government should not create any obstacles in functioning of the institute. The matter was posted to March 29, 2022 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-stays-shifting-of-iti-medchal-to-far-off-place/article37965828.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM to visit Wanaparthy on December 19||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will visit Wanaparthy on December 19 to participate in several programmes, including inauguration of Collectorate, double bedroom houses, marketyard at Chityal, laying foundation stone for Karne tanda lift irrigation scheme, medical college, groundnut research centre and sub-registrar office. Disclosing these details at a preparatory meeting held in Wanaparthy on Wednesday, Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy said that Karne Tanda lift irrigation scheme will create history as several tandas will be supplied with water under this scheme. “Usually tribal habitations are hilly areas and we are going to provide water to these tandas at an estimated cost of Rs. 76.19 crore. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will lay foundation stone for the project. We have completed the construction of seven tmcft capacity Yedula reservoir within 22 months. Many farmers cooperated in completing the project beyond party lines and we thank all of them. The project could not be realised without their support,” said Mr. Niranjan Reddy. The Agriculture Minister also visited the venue of the meeting, Collectorate complex and double bedroom houses along with senior officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-to-visit-wanaparthy-on-december-19/article37965829.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Power costs less in State’||Ministers G. Jagadeesh Reddy and T Harish Rao said that per unit charge in power supply in State is less when compared to other States and that the govt. is extending Rs. 1,253 crore per annum as subsidy to those consuming 200 units. Rs. 10,000 cr. is being extended by the govt. for subsidy to agriculture and schemes. Disclosing these details at a review meeting held here on Wednesday along with Mr. Rao, Mr. Reddy said that there is no free power supply in Gujarat or UP being ruled by the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-costs-less-in-state/article37965830.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tourism and hospitality institute gets ISO certificates||The National Institute of Tourism & Hospitality Management (NITHM) received ISO Certifications, ISO 9001 - 2015 Quality management System for Education Training & Consultancy in Tourism & Hospitality Education; ISO 50001 - 2011 Energy Management System for Implementation of Energy Saving Practices and ISO 14001 - 2015 Environment Management System for Implementation of Greenery and Environmental Promotion Activities. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar gave the certificates to director S. Chinnam Reddy on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tourism-and-hospitality-institute-gets-iso-certificates/article37966028.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||3 more fliers test positive||Three more persons who have come from ‘at-risk’ countries to the RGIA tested positive on Wednesday. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing. Sequencing results of six fliers are awaited. 186 new COVID cases Telangana registered 186 COVID cases on Wednesday, taking the total to 6,78,874. One more COVID patient died. The new cases include 63 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 15 from Hanamkonda, 11 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, and 10 from Khammam. From March 2, 2020 to December 15 this year, a total of 2.91 crore samples were tested and 6,78,874 were detected with COVID. Of the total cases, 3,812 were active cases, 6,71,052 recovered, and 4,010 died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-more-fliers-test-positive/article37965809.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||First postal pension adalat to be held on Jan. 19||The first postal pension adalat for 2022 of Telangana circle will be held at 11 a.m. on January 19 through a video conference. Grievances relating to pensions, gratuity and allied matters of postal and family pensioners can be submitted either by post addressed to ‘The Director of Accounts (Postal), Dak Sadan, Abids, Hyderabad-500001 so as to reach on or before December 27, or emailed to daphyderabad@indiapost.gov.in, and sraopendaphyd@gmail. com. One can also attend the conference following the linkhttps://meet.google. com/vidssra-yet, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/first-postal-pension-adalat-on-jan-19/article37965815.ece
16 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC nod to appoint engineers for housing wing||The GHMC Standing Committee presided over by Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi has approved the appointment of 200 engineers trained by the National Academy of Construction for the housing wing through the outsourcing method on merit and following the reservation formula on Wednesday. About 250 employees in the same department got their services extended by another year through contract. The panel also cleared a proposal to enhance the gratuity for the retired employees from Rs. 12 to Rs. 16 lakh, new road and footpath at Model House-Dwarakapuri Colony at a cost of Rs. 2.90 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-nod-to-appoint-engineers-for-housing-wing/article37965823.ece
16 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Christmas celebrations in LB stadium||The Christmas celebrations of the State government, to be attended by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, will be held at Lal Bahadur stadium. At a meeting on Wednesday, Ministers Koppula Easwar, Mohammed Mahmood Ali and T. Srinivas Yadav discussed the arrangements to be made with officials. However, they did not finalise the date. It was decided that about 10,000 people of Christian community would be invited and each of the 24 MLAs in the city be provided passes for 200 participants. Mr. Easwar asked the celebrations committee to prepare a list of Christian elders to share dais and dining table with the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/christmas-celebrations-in-lb-stadium/article37965835.ece
16 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two children killed in Nalgonda accident||Two brothers were killed in a road accident near Gollaguda in Nalgonda town on Wednesday. The children were going on a two-wheeler driven by their father when he swerved the vehicle to avoid crashing into a buffalo. While the children died instantly, their father suffered serious injuries and was rushed to a hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-children-killed-in-nalgonda-accident/article37965841.ece
16 December 2021||Belagavi,||Bommai holds meet on anti-conversion Bill||Preparing ground for the introduction of the controversial anti-conversion Bill in the ongoing winter session of the Assembly, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday chaired a meeting with senior Cabinet colleagues and officials to give final touches to the proposed legislation. Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress is getting set to oppose the Bill, arguing that it is being sneaked in without the draft Bill being shared. The Janata Dal-Secular (JD-S) too is set to oppose the Bill when it is introduced. Sources said the provisions include powers to be given to the Deputy Commissioner to take suo motu action if he/she gets information of mass conversions taking place. Moreover, action is being proposed against any individual or organisation propagating religion by decrying other religions. Punishment for conversion based on coercion or inducement could range from three to 10 years “The Bill is almost in the final stages and we will introduce it as early as possible. The Cabinet clearance is awaited. We are ready for discussion,” Home Minister Araga Jnanendra told The Hindu . “We are committed to introducing the Bill.” Alleging difference of opinion in the State Cabinet on introducing the Bill, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar accused the Government of attempting to introduce the Bill in a hushed manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bommai-holds-meet-on-anti-conversion-bill/article37965716.ece
16 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Aam Aadmi Party steps up its election campaign in Punjab||Stepping up his party’s election campaign in Punjab, Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday led a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ (Tricolor procession) in Jalandhar district. He said the country’s biggest sports university and an international airport would be built in Jalandhar if the AAP formed the next Government in Punjab in 2022. The Doaba region, he said, is a stronghold of non-resident Indians and people here have to go to Delhi, Chandigarh and Amritsar to catch flights. “The people of Jalandhar will not have to travel far to catch a flight after the formation of AAP Government. We will build an international airport in Jalandhar,” he said. In the Doaba area, which has a high concentration of the Scheduled Caste population, Mr. Kejriwal invoked Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar during his speech. “Babasaheb’s wish was that the whole country should become educated....everyone should get equal education. Our Delhi Government gave utmost importance to education to make India of Babasaheb’s dreams and provided opportunity to all students to get world-class education. With the formation of the AAP Government, the education system in Punjab will also be reformed. The maximum benefit will be given to the children from poor families,” he promised. The party’s Punjab president Bhagwant Mann, who was accompanying Mr. Kejriwal during the procession, said too many opportunities have been given to the Akali Dal-BJP and the Congress and they have failed. “In 2022, the people of Punjab will give a chance to their progress. The jhadoo (AAP’s symbol) will clean the political dirt of the country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aam-aadmi-party-steps-up-its-election-campaign-in-punjab/article37965717.ece
16 December 2021||Mumbai,||Gangster Suresh Pujari deported to India from Philippines||Gangster Suresh Pujari, wanted in several extortion cases in the Mumbai region and adjoining Karnataka who was on the run for over 15 years, has been deported to India, a senior police official said on Wednesday. The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Wednesday took custody of Pujari in Delhi and brought him to Mumbai in connection with cases registered against him in neighbouring Thane city, an official said. The gangster was produced before a Thane court which remanded him in ATS custody till December 25 in connection with an extortion case. Pujari, wanted in extortion cases in Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan, Ulhasnagar and Dombivli near Mumbai, was brought back to India late on Tuesday night after he was arrested and deported from the Philippines. Intelligence Bureau (IB) and CBI officials took his custody after he landed at the Delhi airport, the official said. Later, an ATS release said Pujari was under detention in the Philippines since the last two months and was arrested by Maharashtra ATS at about 2 a.m. on Wednesday (after being deported).  Red corner notice He was brought to Mumbai in a commercial flight at about 9 a.m., the release said, adding “It was a classified operation which went off smoothly.” The gangster had a red corner notice issued against him on December 20, 2016, which was valid till December 19, 2021, it added. Two international SIM cards were recovered from Pujari at the time of his arrest, the release said. All the cases registered against Pujari in Thane city were transferred to the Maharashtra ATS on orders of the State Director General of Police’s office, he said. Suresh Pujari was a relative of gangster Ravi Pujari but separated from him in 2007. Early in his career in crime, he had worked with underworld don Chhota Rajan also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gangster-suresh-pujari-deported-to-india-from-philippines/article37965910.ece
16 December 2021||NAMAKKAL/ERODE/COIMBATORE,||DVAC searches 69 premises linked to former Minister of Tamil Nadu||Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) sleuths on Wednesday launched simultaneous searches at 69 residential and commercial premises belonging to former Electricity Minister P. Thangamani, his family and acquaintances in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. The AIADMK’s Namakkal strongman, his son T. Dharanidharan and wife T. Santhi are suspected to have amassed assets to the tune of Rs. 4.85 crore, disproportionate to their known sources of income, during the check period from May 23, 2016 to March 31, 2020. The DVAC said that during the searches, Rs. 2.37 crore in cash, 1.13 kg of gold jewellery and 40 kg of silver [articles] were seized. Mr. Thangamani and his son had also invested a huge amount of money in crypto assets, the officers alleged. Mobile phones, bank locker keys, computer hard disks and documents related to the case were seized, the agency said. Vigilance sleuths reached the former Minister’s residence at Pallipalayam in Namakkal on Wednesday on the basis of a case registered by the DVAC, Namakkal, against the accused on December 14. Over 80 DVAC personnel began their searches at 7 a.m at Paari Street, Pannai Nagar, Pannai Street, Ganapathi Nagar, Muniyappan Kovil Street, Bhavani and Chithode. Sources said that while some residents were relatives of the former Minister, others were his associates. According to the FIR, Mr. Dharanidharan allegedly operated a fictitious firm, Murugan Earth Movers, “only to cover the illegal income” of Mr. Thangamani. Mrs. Santhi, a housewife with no known sources of income, was accused of aiding her husband and son “to acquire ill-gotten money” and hiding it by filing income tax returns when required. The searches were conducted at 33 locations in Namakkal, 14 places in Chennai, eight places in Erode, four premises in Salem, two each in Coimbatore, Karur and Bengaluru, and one each in Krishnagiri, Vellore, Tiruppur and Andhra Pradesh (Chittoor). Sources said the places searched in Coimbatore were linked to Mr. Thangamani’s son-in-law Dinesh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dvac-searches-69-premises-linked-to-former-minister-of-tamil-nadu/article37965715.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||After over a year, Singhu border opens for traffic||After over a year, the Delhi Police on Wednesday allowed traffic movement as well as opened the two carriageways at Singhu border. It also dismantled all the barricades that were erected to prevent the protesting farmers from moving towards the national Capital. “It has been decided that Singhu border be opened from Delhi side also for all vehicles,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (outer north) Brijesh Yadav said. The Singhu border on the Delhi-Chandigarh highway had been the epicentre of the farmers’ movement against the three Central farm laws. Farmers started leaving the protest site on the Delhi-Haryana border on Saturday after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) suspended the agitation“Only one part of the road was opened. Traffic was opened only for smaller vehicles as the road needs to be repaired at many parts which has been damaged due to the protest,” Jitin Dabas, a resident of Singhu village said. A commuter, Ashwani Tiwari, however, said it was a welcome move for those travelling regularly to Haryana and Punjab. “One had to make a detour to reach Haryana and Punjab. Opening of traffic on the stretch will now save us time and money,” Mr. Tiwari said. Besides Singhu, farmers had laid siege at Tikri and Ghazipur borders also. While the road has been cleared at Tikri, the process will begin soon at Ghazipur with the departure of farmers led by BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/after-over-a-year-singhu-border-opens-for-traffic/article37965909.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vigilance inquiry ordered as dog fight video surfaces||A vigilance inquiry has been ordered after the video of a dog fight in the house of a person accused of robbery went viral, a senior police officer said on Wednesday. While the accused’s family alleged that the police brought the dog, the latter claimed the animal belonged to someone from the public. According to the police, a team had gone to raid the house of Prince Gill, a cab driver, at Sector 16 in Rohini as he was a suspect in a robbery case registered on November 18. During investigation, CCTV footage was examined and he was identified, they said. “When the police went there, he locked himself in the house. Despite repeated requests, he refused to open the door. Having no option, they broke open the door and the accused’s pet — a pit bull — started attacking them at the behest of the accused,” the officer said. “Meanwhile, another pit bull, who belonged to an outsider, entered the premises and a dog fight ensued.” The police said that Mr. Gill was later arrested and Rs. 92,000 in cash was seized from his residence. “He was involved in a spate of robberies in Begumpur. He has 10 cases registered against him and he is convicted in one,” the officer said. While Mr. Gill’s family said that the police brought their pet and suspected that it had been killed, the police said that they did not have the dog. The police also said that “the team does not have a pit bull ”. The advocate of the accused, Sanjeev Lakda, had a different story. He said that on December 8 evening, a team of about 10 police officers from Begumpur police station broke the doors of Mr. Gill’s residence. “Their pet dog barked at them, which enraged the police team. They brought a pit bull from outside and got the two dogs to fight. Mr. Gill’s pet got severely injured as well,” he said. The team thrashed Mr. Gill, his wife and mother in the presence of his six-month-old daughter, before they took him to the police station where they beat him all night, Mr. Lakda said. He said that Mr. Gill was taken to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital around 4 p.m. on December 9, where his medical examination was conducted. The medico legal certificate says “there were no fresh injuries on the body at the time of examination”. The lawyer alleged it “was managed by the police”. He was then produced before the Magistrate court at Rohini, who examined him and said in an order that there are fresh marks of beatings in red. The Investigating Officer has been interrogated but he consistently changed his version and later told the Magistrate that he joined duty at 6.30 a.m. on December 9. Custodial violence The court order further said that it is a “clear case of custodial violence”. The court ordered his re-examination and instructed the Joint Commissioner of Police, Northern Range, to probe it and submit a report on the action taken against the erring officers. Acting on the order, medical examination was conducted again at BSA Hospital. A senior police officer said that there were no changes in the MLC issued before and after the order. Mr. Gill was sent to judicial custody, and is lodged in jail.  Their pet dog barked at them, which enraged the police team. They brought a pit bull from outside and got the two dogs to fight Sanjeev Lakda Advocate of the accused||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/vigilance-inquiry-ordered-as-dog-fight-video-surfaces/article37965705.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC slams petition against content on Mughal rulers in NCERT book||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday refused to entertain a public interest litigation petition demanding removal of a para in the Class XII NCERT history textbook where it is mentioned that Mughal rulers such as Shah Jahan and Aurangzeb gave grants for repair of temples. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh came down heavily on the two petitioners — one 15-year-old student and another 20-year-old student — for wasting the time of the court with such a plea. “You [petitioners] say you have a problem with the fact that Shah Jahan and Aurangzeb had no such policy for giving grants for temple repair. We are unable to decide the present policies of the Government; you are pointing to some errors committed by Shah Jahan and Aurangzeb. This is a waste of time of court,” the Bench said. The court refrained from imposing cost on the petitioners after they sought permission to withdraw their plea unconditionally.  Seems like you guys sleep at night and file PIL the next morning on whatever random idea that comes to your mind. Does people think the High Court has such free time HC Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-slams-petition-against-content-on-mughal-rulers-in-ncert-book/article37965707.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||Four liquor vends sealed for violating building by-laws, norms: North body||With Delhi’s three civic bodies — North, South and East — intensifying their crackdown on the newly opened liquor vends under the new excise policy, officials from the North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday said that it has sealed four outlets for violating building by-laws and other norms. According to the North civic body’s report, 18 show cause notices have been sent to liquor shops that were opened across various zones under its jurisdiction. These are five vends in the Civil Line-1 zone, six in the Narela zone, five in the Rohini zone, and two in the Karol Bagh zone. Three of the sealed liquor vends are located in the Civil Line-1 zone while one is in the Rohini zone. “The liquor shops were sealed because the officials found building by-law violations,” a civic body official said. According to Delhi’s new excise policy, 849 liquor vends were to be opened, out of which 810 fall under the three civic bodies. Meanwhile, the BJP on Wednesday threatened a ‘chakka jam’ in the Capital on January 3 if the Delhi Government did not roll back its new excise policy. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta announced that the party would not stage just demonstrations but launch a mass movement against the Government if it failed to withdraw the policy by January 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/four-liquor-vends-sealed-for-violating-building-by-laws-norms-north-body/article37965706.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||Jamia Millia Islamia gets A++ ranking from NAAC||Two years after the Delhi police and paramilitary forces entered the Jamia Millia Islamia campus and used tear gas and batons to disperse student protesters inside the library, the university has been awarded A++ ranking by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). Vice-Chancellor Najma Akhtar on Wednesday said that it would have been easy for students, staff, and faculty members to have gotten demoralised after the incident during the protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act, but the university had given a befitting reply by improving its NAAC ranking. “We are alive today and doing well. The students who were injured that day when the police came in are back on their feet. We have not let that day make us lose hope and accept defeat but instead rose up and bettered ourselves,” Ms. Akhtar said. She said the university would remember December 15, 2019, but now had reason to celebrate the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jamia-millia-islamia-gets-a-ranking-from-naac/article37965708.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||SC grants protection from arrest to Raj Kundra||The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted protection from arrest to businessman Raj Kundra in connection with an FIR registered against him for allegedly distributing pornographic videos. In July this year, Mr. Kundra, who is married to actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested by the Mumbai Police in another case where he was accused of distributing porn films through an app. He was granted bail in September. A Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose on Wednesday issued notice to the Maharashtra Government on an appeal filed by Mr. Kundra against a Bombay High Court order rejecting his anticipatory bail. The apex court sought the State Government’s reply within four weeks in connection with the FIR. “Issue notice, returnable in four weeks. In the meanwhile, no coercive action shall be taken against the petitioner,” the Bench said. Mr. Kundra had been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Indecent Representation of Women (Prevention) Act and Information Technology Act for allegedly distributing/ transmitting sexually explicit videos. Fearing arrest, Mr. Kundra first sought anticipatory bail from the sessions court, but it was refused, so he moved the High Court, claiming that he had been framed. The HC also rejected his anticipatory bail application on November 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sc-grants-protection-from-arrest-to-raj-kundra/article37965912.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||NHRC orders Rs. 15 lakh as compensation in 19 cases of rights’ violation in 3 States||The National Human Rights Commission has recommended compensation of Rs. 15 lakh in 19 rights’ violation cases in Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura, including the case of rape of a minor by a paramilitary official, an NHRC statement said on Wednesday. Holding a two-day camp in Shillong on Tuesday and Wednesday, its first since the pandemic began, the full Bench of the Commission heard six cases from Meghalaya, three from Mizoram and 10 from Tripura. The matters included two cases of death of workers in illegal mines and one case of death in judicial custody in West Jaintia Hills in Meghalaya. In the case of rape of a girl by a paramilitary person in Tripura, the NHRC recommended Rs. 7 lakh be paid to the survivor. In cases where compensation had been recommended earlier, including Rs. 3 lakh in the case of an encounter death in Meghalaya and Rs. 5 lakh in the case of rights violation in police custody in Mizoram, the Commission asked the States to submit proof of payment, the statement said. Inaugurating the camp, NHRC member Justice M.M. Kumar said the role of rights defenders and civil society representatives was crucial and should have due participation in the process of protection and promotion of rights. During a meeting with Chief Secretaries and Directors General of Police on Tuesday, NHRC secretary seneral Bimbadhar Pradhan asked the States to submit action-taken reports on the 22 advisories issued by the Commission. The NHRC said it would hold its next camp in Guwahati on Thursday and Friday to hear 31 cases pertaining to Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Sikkim and Nagaland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nhrc-orders-rs-15-lakh-as-compensation-in-19-cases-of-rights-violation-in-3-states/article37965913.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||City sees 57 cases, no deaths||The Capital reported no new COVID-19-related death in 24 hours and the total number of fatalities stood at 25,100, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Tuesday. Fifty-seven new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 14,41,850. A total of 58,328 tests were carried out in a day and the test positivity rate was 0.10%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-sees-57-cases-no-deaths/article37965710.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||6 lakh have joined party under ‘MCD Badlaav Campaign’: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday said that more than six lakh people have taken its membership as part of the ongoing “MCD Badlaav Campaign”. On December 4, the AAP launched the campaign with an aim to remove the BJP from power in the three municipal corporations and to induct 50 lakh members in three months. “AAP workers are working tirelessly to connect with the public to bring about the much-needed change and reform. The party has set up canopies at 3,000 locations throughout Delhi. I am pleased to say that 6,21,356 people have already joined AAP since the campaign began earlier this month,” said Durgesh Pathak, AAP in-charge of corporations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/6-lakh-have-joined-party-under-mcd-badlaav-campaign-aap/article37965709.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||RS discusses Omicron situation||Increased transmissibility of COVID-19 variant Omicron, need for booster dose and measures to offer protection to unvaccinated children were among the topics discussed in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday during a “short discussion on the situation arising out of Omicron variant”, with the Opposition continuing to raise slogans and demanding revocation of the suspension of 12 members. Tamil Maanila Congress’s G.K. Vasan said the States and the Centre should work together to ensure that the people stayed protected and were able to reap the full benefits of the various Government schemes. “Masks should be made compulsory everywhere and COVID-19 protocols strictly followed,” he stressed. Pratap Sukhla (BJP) said scientists were still working on understanding how the situation may develop. “People and governments have to work hand in hand to ensure that health safety remains priority,” said Syed Zafar Islam (BJP).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rs-discusses-omicron-situation/article37965914.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||Plea challenges appointment of CS as poll chief of corporations||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the AAP Government to respond to a petition challenging the appointment of Chief Secretary as the Election Commissioner of the three municipal corporations from April 21, next year. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh also issued a notice to the corporations on the petition seeking direction to the Government to immediately withdraw its November 25 notification. The petition filed by BJP MLA Nand Kishore Garg said that the Delhi Government, by its notification, had improperly earmarked the appointment of serving Chief Secretary of Government of NCT of Delhi as the Election Commissioner of the corporations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-challenges-appointment-of-cs-as-poll-chief-of-corporations/article37965700.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||Court stays order on FIR against Patra||A Delhi court on Wednesday stayed an order directing registration of an FIR against BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra by a lower court for allegedly posting a ‘forged’ video of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. In the video, the CM can purportedly be seen supporting the three farm laws. The order came from the court of Additional Sessions Judge Sanjay Sharma, who issued a notice on a revision plea filed by Mr. Patra, challenging an earlier order delivered by Metropolitan Magistrate Rishabh Kapoor of Tis Hazari Court. In his order dated November 23, the Metropolitan Magistrate had said that the video that was tweeted by Mr. Patra on his personal Twitter profile clearly revealed that it was “manipulated/doctored in such a way to give it a colour as if Mr. Kejriwal was endorsing his support in favour of the farm laws”. In the revision plea, Mr. Patra said, “If any tweet is branded as manipulated media, it has one and simple meaning that the media is not authenticated and it is for the persons who read it to rely upon it with caution.” ASJ Sharma posted the matter for further hearing on January 10, next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-stays-order-on-fir-against-patra/article37965701.ece
16 December 2021||New Delhi,||Arnabjit- body||The chopped body of a man was found on a road at Vikaspuri in Prem Nagar, officials said, adding that he has not been identified yet. The torso has been sent for a forensic test. “We are trying to ascertain the circumstance leading to the incident,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/arnabjit-body/article37965702.ece
16 December 2021||Pune,||Shivaji created Hindu vote bank, Vajpayee-Modi realised it: Patil||Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) chief Chandrakant Patil’s statement of Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji having developed a Hindu vote bank has caused a furore in the political circles, with the Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition of the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress criticising the remark in different ways. Mr. Patil, speaking in Pune, had earlier said Chhatrapati Shivaji had created the Hindu vote bank which was realised and brought to fruition in recent times by (senior BJP leaders) Atal Bihari Vajpayee, L.K. Advani and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In response on Wednesday, Shiv Sena MP and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said it was the Shiv Sena and its late founder Bal Thackeray who was the first in the country “to ask the Hindu community for votes as Hindus”. In a sharp rebuke to the BJP, Mr. Raut said: “It was Balasaheb Thackeray who proved for the first time that there is a vote bank of Hindus in the country. He and the Sena have proved that the ideal Hindutva is not merely limited to temples nor is it just a politics of convenience as practicsed by some parties [the BJP].” Mr. Patil had made his remarks in the context of vote-banks and of awarding tickets to political party candidates. Mr. Patil’s comments provoked a different kind of condemnation from the NCP and the Congress, with NCP MP Amol Kolhe saying that the BJP leader’s statements were “an insult to Chhatrapati Shivaji’s inclusive and multi-faith principles”. “Chhatrapati Shivaji had helped establish the rule of the rayat [tillers] and given that his name is taken with great pride everywhere in relation to the ideal of Swarajya and his inclusive ideals, Mr. Patil’s remarks of the legendary ruler having created a Hindu vote bank are extremely regrettable,” said Mr. Kolhe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/shivaji-created-hindu-vote-bank-vajpayee-modi-realised-it-patil/article37965908.ece
16 December 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra’s count of Omicron cases rises to 32||Four more cases of Omicron were reported from Maharashtra on Wednesday, taking the total number of such cases in the State to 32. However, 25 have been discharged till now after their RT-PCR tests returned negative. Of the four new cases, two were from Osmanabad district in Marathwada region while one was from Buldhana and one from Mumbai city, according to a report by the city-based National Institute of Virology. All the cases are said to be asymptomatic and the samples of all four patients were taken in the first week of December said the authorities. Three of them had been vaccinated while one, aged around 16, was not eligible for vaccination. According to preliminary information, one of the patients from Osmanabad had travelled to Sharjah and while the other was his ‘high-risk’ contact. The patient from Buldhana had a travel history to Dubai while the one from Mumbai had been to Ireland, said the authorities, adding that all were currently is hospital isolation. Officials said that through airport and field surveillance, a total of 447 samples had been sent for genomic sequencing with the results of 32 being awaited. 925 new COVID cases Meanwhile, the State reported 925 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday as against 929 recoveries. Ten fatalities were reported taking the total death toll to 1,41,298. Maharashtra’s active case tally has risen to 6,467 with a recovery rate of 97.72%, said Health Department authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtras-count-of-omicron-cases-rises-to-32/article37965907.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||On the wrong track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/on-the-wrong-track/article37965704.ece
16 December 2021||Moscow,||Putin, Xi cement partnership in face of Western pressure||Russia and China should stand firm in rejecting Western interference and defending each other’s security interests, Presidents Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping agreed in a video call on Wednesday. Their conversation, eight days after Mr. Putin spoke to U.S. President Joe Biden in a similar format, underscored how shared hostility to the West is bringing Moscow and Beijing closer together. “At present, certain international forces under the guise of ‘democracy’ and ‘human rights’ are interfering in the internal affairs of China and Russia, and brutally trampling on international law and recognised norms of international relations,” China’s state-run Xinhua news agency quoted Mr. Xi as saying. “China and Russia should increase their joint efforts to more effectively safeguard the security interests of both parties.” Kremlin aide Yuri Ushakov told reporters that Mr. Xi had offered support to Mr. Putin for his push to obtain binding security guarantees for Russia from the West, saying he understood Moscow’s concerns. He said the pair also expressed their “negative view” of the creation of new military alliances such as the AUKUS partnership between Australia, Britain and the United States and the Indo-Pacific ‘Quad’ of Australia, India, Japan and the U.S. Mounting pressure The call highlighted the ways in which Russia and China are drawing on each other for mutual support at a time of high tension in their relations with the West. China is under pressure over human rights and Russia is accused of threatening behaviour towards Ukraine. The Kremlin said Mr. Putin briefed Mr. Xi on his conversation with Mr. Biden. “A new model of cooperation has been formed between our countries, based, among other things, on such principles as non-interference in internal affairs and respect for each other’s interests,” Mr. Putin told Mr. Xi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/putin-xi-cement-partnership-in-face-of-western-pressure/article37965431.ece
16 December 2021||Dubai,||U.S. tests laser weapon in West Asia||The U.S. Navy announced on Wednesday it tested a laser weapon and destroyed a floating target in West Asia, a system that could be used to counter bomb-laden drone boats deployed by Yemen’s Houthi rebels in the Red Sea. The test on Tuesday saw the USS Portland test-fire its Laser Weapon System Demonstrator at the target in the Gulf of Aden, the body of water separating East Africa from the Arabian Peninsula. The Navy’s West Asia-based 5th Fleet described the laser as having “successfully engaged” the target in a statement. Previously, the Portland used the laser to bring down a flying drone in May 2020. The Gulf of Aden sits along the southern coast of war-torn Yemen, which has been at war since Iranian-backed Houthi rebels seized its capital, Sanaa, in 2014. A Saudi-led coalition entered the conflict in March 2015 but the stalemate conflict has dragged on for years, becoming the world’s worst humanitarian disaster and killing an estimated 1,10,000 people. The war also has bled into the surrounding waterways, like the Red Sea and the Bab el-Mandeb, which connects the sea to the Gulf of Aden. These waterways lead to the Suez Canal and onto the Mediterranean Sea, making them crucial for international shipping and global energy supplies. The Houthis have deployed drone boats into these waters, which can be piloted remotely and sent up to a target before detonating. These boats are suspected of being built with Iran’s help. The Portland , a San Antonio-class amphibious transport dock, has its home port in San Diego. The ship is deployed as part of the Essex Amphibious Ready Group that’s now in West Asia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-tests-laser-weapon-in-west-asia/article37965434.ece
16 December 2021||Kuala Lumpur,||U.S. threatens new measures against Myanmar junta||The United States is considering new measures to pressure the Myanmar junta to return to a “democratic trajectory”, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Wednesday, as alarm grows over an escalating crackdown on dissent. Speaking during a visit to Malaysia Mr. Blinken conceded that the “situation has not improved”. “I think it is going to be very important to look at what additional steps and measures we can take,” he said. “That is something that we are looking at,” he added, without saying what the measures might be. Mr. Blinken also said the United States was looking “very actively” at whether the treatment of the Rohingya Muslim minority in Myanmar might “constitute genocide”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-threatens-new-measures-against-myanmar-junta/article37965438.ece
16 December 2021||Washington,||Meadows held in contempt for defying probe||U.S. lawmakers voted on Tuesday to recommend criminal contempt charges against Donald Trump’s former top aide Mark Meadows for refusing to testify before the congressional panel investigating the January 6 assault on the Capitol. The rebuke from the House of Representatives moves the ultra-conservative ex-congressman a step closer to becoming the first White House chief of staff to be prosecuted after leaving the post since H.R. Haldeman in the Watergate scandal nearly 50 years ago. “We’ve given Mark Meadows every opportunity to cooperate. He’s brought this situation on himself,” the House January 6 select committee said in a statement ahead of the vote. The panel is investigating Mr. Trump’s efforts to overturn his defeat in the November 2020 election in the run-up to the Capitol riot — as well as the help he got from Meadows and others. The nine-member select committee, which voted Monday to advance the contempt case, says it is seeking answers about text messages and other communications that Meadows has already acknowledged are not privileged. Investigators say Meadows has given up any right to refuse testimony in any event, as he is promoting a new memoir that includes detailed accounts of January 6 and his conversations with Trump. He has also spoken numerous times about the attack in primetime appearances on Fox News.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/meadows-held-in-contempt-for-defying-probe/article37965437.ece
16 December 2021||Johannesburg,||S. African court cancels Zuma’s medical parole||A South African court on Wednesday ordered former President Jacob Zuma to return to prison, invalidating the medical parole he was granted in September. The decision to place Zuma on medical parole is “declared unlawful and set aside”, read the ruling by High Court Judge Elias Matojane. Within hours, Zuma’s lawyers had filed a motion to appeal. The move means that Zuma will not return to prison until the appeal is heard. In their filing, his lawyers said the court’s decision “amounts to cruel and degrading punishment with no due regard to the patient’s healthcare, dignity and other human rights.” Zuma, 79, was jailed in July for 15 months for contempt of court, after he refused to give testimony to corruption investigators. His jailing sparked violent protests and looting that spread to the financial hub Johannesburg in July, claiming over 350 lives. That was the deadliest violence in South Africa since the end of white-minority rule in 1994. Current President Cyril Ramaphosa has described the unrest as an orchestrated attempt to destabilise the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/s-african-court-cancels-zumas-medical-parole/article37965436.ece
16 December 2021||Berlin,||Berlin murder: Germany expels Russian diplomats||A Russian man was convicted on Wednesday of a brazen daylight killing in Germany’s capital two years ago that judges said was ordered by federal authorities in Russia and was labeled as “state terrorism” by a Berlin court. The 2019 slaying of Zelimkhan “Tornike” Khangoshvili, 40, a Georgian citizen of Chechen ethnicity, sparked outrage in Germany and inflamed diplomatic tensions between Moscow and Berlin. It prompted the German government to expel two Russian diplomats. The Berlin regional court said in its verdict that Russian authorities provided 56-year-old Vadim Krasikov with a false identity, fake passport and the resources to carry out the hit on August 23, 2019. “The central government of the Russian Federation was the author of this crime,” presiding judge Olaf Arnoldi said. “It commissioned the accused.” The Kremlin has called the allegations of Russian involvement “absolutely groundless.” The outcome of the trial could stoke new tensions between Germany and Russia at a time when the new government of Olaf Scholz is trying to find its foreign policy footing with Moscow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-ordered-murder-in-german-soil-court/article37965439.ece
16 December 2021||Moscow,||Russia lists out demands of security to U.S.||Russia said on Wednesday it had delivered its proposals for legal security guarantees over NATO’s expansion to a top U.S. diplomat after President Vladimir Putin said he wanted talks to start immediately. On Wednesday, Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov discussed Russia’s insistence to spell out in writing that NATO would halt its eastward expansion with Karen Donfried, U.S. assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs, Moscow said. “A detailed discussion of the issue of security guarantees took place in the light of ongoing attempts by the United States and NATO to change the military-political situation in Europe in their favour,” the Foreign Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-lists-out-demands-of-security-to-us/article37965432.ece
16 December 2021||Berlin,||Germany vows to ‘defend itself’ as police raid anti-vaxxers||Germany said on Wednesday it would “defend itself” against radicalised anti-vaccination groups after police launched raids in response to death threats against a top politician backing sweeping measures to fight the pandemic. Police staged an operation in Saxony after an anti-vaccine group targeted the region’s state premier, who has vocally supported curbs for the unvaccinated.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/germany-vows-to-defend-itself-as-police-raid-anti-vaxxers/article37965435.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A false conflation between duties and rights||Should our rights coalesce with our duties? In recent times, it has been something of a constant refrain of the governing class to advocate an integration of duty with right. By duty here they do not mean the concomitant obligations that spring out of constitutional promises, but a set of ideals that were written into the Constitution during the acme of the Indira Gandhi-imposed Emergency. In their belief, these otherwise non-binding obligations — the “fundamental duties” as Article 51A describes them — ought to be treated on a par with, if not superior to, the various fundamental rights that the Constitution guarantees. In an inversion of the well-known dictum, they see duties, and not rights, as trumps. Voices and opinion On Constitution Day last month, many Union Ministers used the occasion to underline this proposal. The Minister of Law and Justice, Kiren Rijiju, claimed that our country can be made great only “if we create a balance between fundamental duties and fundamental rights.” The Minister for Culture, G. Kishan Reddy, took this thought further still. “Today, on Constitution Day, it is important that we emphasise our fundamental duties for the growth and progress of our country,” he wrote in the Hindustan Times . “If deeper roots have to be established in a diverse and democratic country such as India, citizens will have to converge their inalienable fundamental rights with their fundamental duties.” What is more, the link between fundamental rights and duties, according to him, was not merely a constitutional debate but a “civilisation discussion” — whatever that might mean. To be sure, it is a basic proposition that all rights come with duties. But those duties are quite distinct from the meaning ascribed to them in the popular discourse. When a person holds a right, she is owed an obligation by a duty-bearer. For example, when citizens are promised a right against discrimination, the government is obliged to ensure that it treats everybody with equal care and concern. Similarly, the guarantee of a right to freedom of speech enjoins the state to refrain from interfering with that liberty. It is only in this sense that rights and duties go together. But the government’s position proposes something rather more ominous. It puts forward an idea that our rights ought to be made conditional on the performance of a set of extraneous obligations. This suggestion is plainly in the teeth of the Constitution’s text, language, and history. Rights, limitations The Constituent Assembly was clear in its belief that the Constitution’s emphasis must always rest on individual dignity. That is, the Constitution’s chief purpose must be to preserve and guarantee basic human rights, to equality, to autonomy, and to liberty, among others. To the framers, the very idea of deliberating over whether these rights ought to be provisional, and on whether these rights ought to be made subject to the performance of some alien duty, was repugnant to the republic’s vision. But the importance placed on every person’s ethical independence did not mean that rights were seen as absolute warrants. After all, Part III of the Constitution, in which our fundamental rights are nestled, contains within it a set of limitations. However, none of those restrictions places a burden on citizens to perform duties as a condition for the enforcement of rights. The Constitution’s framers saw the placing of mandates on individual responsibilities as nothing more than a legislative prerogative. Any such imposition would have to conform to the language of fundamental rights, but Parliament was otherwise free to dictate personal behaviour. For example, the legislature could impose a duty on individuals to pay a tax on their income, and this duty could be enforced in a variety of ways. If the tax imposed and the sanctions prescribed were reasonable, the obligations placed on the citizen will be constitutionally valid. Many duties In this manner, Parliament and the State legislatures have imposed a plethora of duties — duties to care for the elderly and for children; duties to pay tolls and levies; duties against causing harm to others; duties to treat the environment with care, the list is endless. What is critical, though, is that these laws cannot make a person’s fundamental right contingent on the performance of a duty that they impose. A legislation that does so will violate the Constitution. Now, no sensible person is arguing that duties of this kind are unimportant. To sustain our society, to live peacefully together, we must take seriously our civic responsibilities. But any talk aimed at making these obligations central, and at melding our rights with duties, is aimed only at undermining the Constitution. That this is so is clear from the history of fundamental duties in India. In its original form, the Constitution did not enlist any obligations that an individual was bound to follow. The fundamental duties that are now contained in Article 51A were introduced through the infamous 42nd constitutional amendment. The Swaran Singh Committee, which was set up during the Emergency, and which recommended the insertion of the clause, also suggested that a failure to comply with a duty ought to result in punishment. Ultimately, the amendment was introduced after the binding nature of the clause was removed, but its intention was clearly expressed in the then Law Minister H.R. Gokhale’s assertions that the provision would have “a sobering effect” on the “anti-national” and “subversive” sections of society. In its finally adopted form, Article 51A encouraged citizens to perform several duties: among others, to cherish and follow the noble ideals that inspired the national struggle for freedom; to uphold and protect the sovereignty, unity and integrity of India; to defend the country and render national service when called upon to do so; to protect and improve the natural environment; and to safeguard public property. When the Emergency came to pass, these directives were largely seen in innocuous terms — for one, they were considered too vague to make any meaningful difference. But today, when our popular discourse veers towards a need to place an emphasis on duty over right, the Constitution’s basic ethos once again comes under threat. What these demands overlook is that the social revolution that the Constitution was meant to herald was underpinned by a belief that it is only a guarantee of rights — unimpeded by duty — that could help usher India into a free and egalitarian future. Questions to ask This is not to suggest that human rights are by themselves sufficient. The philosopher Onora O’Neill has argued with some force that we would do well to discuss the precise nature of duties that rights create. Unless we do so, our charters of human rights may not by themselves be enough. For example, we may want to ask ourselves if the promise of a right to free expression imposes on the state something more than a duty to forebear from making an unwarranted restriction on that liberty. Does it require the state to also work towards creating an equal society where each person finds herself in a position to express herself freely? Similarly, does the right to life include within it a positive obligation on the state to provide shelter, livelihood, and health care? When we speak about the importance of obligations, it is these questions that must animate our discussions. Should we instead allow the language of fundamental duties — as contained in Article 51A — to subsume our political debates, we would only be placing in jeopardy the moral principles at the heart of India’s republic. Suhrith Parthasarathy is an advocate practising at the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-false-conflation-between-duties-and-rights/article37965418.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The price of food must figure in the policy||The showdown between the farmers and the Modi government may have ended, but the essential challenge of public policy for agriculture remains. This is the high price of food. For decades now, the price of food has not figured much in agricultural policy, when, actually, it should be the central focus in the presence of poor households. Successive governments have instead showcased the minimum support price (MSP) they have offered to the farmers and the subsidy they have incurred in making a limited complement of food available to the consumer though the public distribution system (PDS). The now-repealed farm laws themselves were projected as a means of raising farm revenues via higher prices. But what was left unsaid was that a higher price of food increases poverty, especially as the rice and wheat supplied through the PDS constitute only a part of the total expenditure on food of the average Indian household. The rising price of food in India That a high price of food can trigger economic insecurity for the individual is widely understood but what is not immediately apparent is its economy-wide ramification. For the household, a high price of food crowds out expenditure on other items ranging from health and education to non-agricultural goods. This prevents the market for non-agricultural goods from expanding. The expansion of this market is necessary for the non-agricultural economy to grow. This was one of the first discoveries in economics, made by the English economist David Ricardo about two centuries ago. Ricardo had prophesied that due to the scarcity of good quality land, the cost of production of corn, that is wheat, in England was set to rise, leading in turn to its rising price. The consequence of this was to be not only a certain worsening living standard for the working class but also a thwarted industrialisation, as the market for industrial goods could not grow. What he failed to predict was the tremendous increase in agricultural yield that was to come about in the country with the Industrial Revolution. The rising yield ensured that the price of food was kept in check and the demand for industrial goods was not cramped. In fact, the price of food in England was not merely kept in check, its price relative to that of other goods actually declined. This pattern of a declining trend in the relative price of food has been the experience of all economies that have grown richer. An indication of the elevation of the price of food in an economy is the share of food in a household’s budget. In a global comparison we would find that this share is very large for India. Data from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (2016) show that this share ranges from over 30% for India to less than 10% for the U.S. and the U.K. The figure for China is around 20%. More interestingly, we find that countries with higher per capita income have a lower share of food in consumption expenditure. This is in line with Ricardo’s understanding of how economies progress i.e., as food gets cheaper, growth in the non-agricultural economy is stimulated. The fact that the richest countries of the world have been able to produce food cheaper over time suggest that such a mechanism has been at work. It is something that we have paid scant regard to in India. Indeed, agricultural policy in India has remained quite unaccountable in the face of a rising relative price of food. For instance, the relative price of food has risen over 50% since 1991. The experience of food becoming more expensive over time is out of line with the global experience of development. When the success of the 1991 economic reforms is recounted, this contrasting experience in India never makes the news. Sections of the media too appear to prefer sensationalising a small rise in the administered price of cooking gas while remaining silent on the rising price of food. Arguably, the high price of food has been a factor in the disappointing lack of expansion of the manufacturing sector in India despite repeated efforts to bring it about. Both from the point of view of food security for low-income households and the dynamism of the non-agricultural sector, agricultural policy cannot ignore the price at which food is produced. This is not to ignore the role of factors across the supply chain beyond production. We know of the wastage due to the lack of proper transportation and cold storage facilities, both of which lower the effective supply and keep prices high. But the fact of low agricultural yield in India by comparison with the rest of the world has been known for long, and little is done about it. India has had an effective MSP policy for the major crops for over 50 years; how giving it a statutory status now can change this feature is not obvious. A superior management of soil nutrients and moisture, assured water supply and knowledge inputs made available via an extension service would be crucial. As agriculture is, unlike industrial production, an activity that is affected by fluctuation in the weather, it is risky. Given the importance of food for our survival, this justifies public intervention in agriculture. The issue is the design and scale of this intervention. In the mid-sixties, when India was facing food shortage that could not be solved through trade, a concerted effort was made to raise domestic agricultural production. The intervention succeeded in raising food production but it came with collateral damage. It introduced the strategy of ensuring farm profitability though favourable prices assured by the state. Further, it entrenched the belief that it is the farmer’s right to have the state purchase as much grain as the farmer wishes to sell to the state agency. This has resulted in grain stockpiles far greater than the officially announced buffer-stocking norm. Rising public stocks suggests that the intervention has succeeded in raising the price beyond what would have been generated by the market. These stocks have often rotted, resulting in deadweight loss, paid for by the public though taxes or public borrowing. Finally, with all costs of production reimbursable and all of output finding an assured outlet, supply has outstripped demand. This has led to an unimaginable pressure on the natural environment, especially water supply. There has been a prediction from credible sources that Punjab faces the prospect of desertification fairly soon. Protect the interests of the poor India needs an agricultural policy that ensures that farming is profitable but this cannot be at the cost of a high price of food. The ‘food problem’ should no longer be seen only in terms of the availability of food from domestic sources. Too high a price of food, reflected in a high share of food in household expenditure, is another dimension of the problem. This has not received the attention that it deserves, with governments pointing to the existence of a PDS. But a PDS is a roundabout and costly way of delivering food security. Raising yields will ensure profitability without raising producer prices, which will inflate the food subsidy bill. When negotiating with the farmers, the government must protect the interests of the poor of India. Pulapre Balakrishnan teaches at Ashoka University, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-price-of-food-must-figure-in-the-policy/article37965429.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A thorn in Pakistan-Bangladesh relations||December 16, “Bijoy Dibosh”, is celebrated in Bangladesh as the day marking the country’s formal victory over Pakistan after then chief of the Armed Forces of Pakistan, General Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi, surrendered with 93,000 forces to joint forces led by the Bangladeshi freedom fighters, popularly known as “Mukti Bahini” and the Indian armed forces. The systemic ignorance towards and disrespect of the civil and political rights of then East Pakistan’s Bengali population by their counterparts in West Pakistan sparked mass protests in March 1971 which ultimately ended in a brutal conflict. Over three million Bangladeshis lost their lives and thousands of women were subjected to assault. As Bangladesh commemorates 50 years of its historic victory, it is worth revisiting exactly why Pakistan’s leadership has remained hesitant so far to offer a formal apology to those aggrieved and what this means for the future of Bangladesh-Pakistan relations. Broken pledges The humiliating nature of the defeat left strong feelings within Pakistan’s military establishment, reflected in the increase in the country’s defence budget — from $635 million to over $1 billion by the end of the 1970s. Despite then Pakistan leader Zulfikar Ali Bhutto being fully aware of the scale of atrocities committed, according to the Hamoodur Rahman (former Chief Justice of Pakistan) Commission Report from July 1972, Pakistan put forth a carefully crafted “forgive and forget” narrative during the tripartite agreement in 1974. This was the first instance when Islamabad came close to acknowledging excesses committed by “some” of its armed forces and promised to hold them accountable at war crime tribunals that led to Bangladesh handing over hundreds of Prisoners of War as a reconciliatory measure. Five decades later, however, none has been brought to book. During the state visit of former Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf to Bangladesh in 2002, he expressed regret for the death en masse in 1971 while visiting a national war memorial but fell short of the formal apology that Bangladesh has been seeking. Despite acknowledging a susceptibility to official state propaganda that branded Bengali demonstrators of the 1970s as “terrorists, militants, insurgents, or Indian-backed fighters” in his autobiography from 2011, Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan has toed the official state narrative on the issue. Pakistan has attempted to gesticulate its intent to strengthen diplomatic relations and economic ties with Bangladesh in recent years without necessarily making the concerted efforts needed for reconciliation. Largely perceived to be under control of the armed forces, Pakistan’s official position and narrative on the events of 1971 are a fair distance from case studies elsewhere. Particularly after Pakistan’s Foreign Office dismissed Bangladesh’s fresh demands in 2009 for an apology for the atrocities committed in 1971. Unwise moves Opposed to Bangladesh’s independence, the Jamaat-e-Islami and its student wing, Islami Chatro Shangha, along with splinter groups such as the Razakar, al-Badr, and al-Shams were among the local outfits that aided Pakistan’s armed forces. After coming to power in 2009, the current Bangladesh government led by Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has prosecuted and in some cases executed senior leaders of the Jamaat-e-Islami which did not go very well with their counterparts in Pakistan’s political establishment. In particular, the resolution by Pakistan Parliament led by MP Sher Akbar Khan in 2016 protesting hangings of war criminals of 1971 drew sharp reaction and protest from Bangladesh. In 2015, the University of Dhaka cut off ties with the Pakistani establishment in protest against the cold-blooded assassination of numerous prominent intellectuals, academicians, and thinkers of Bangladesh on December 14, 1971 just few days before the country formally earned victory. In May 2021, 113 years after Germany’s colonial government massacred approximately 80,000 Herero and Nama people in Namibia between 1904-08, Foreign Minister Heiko Maas acknowledged it as a “genocidal” event, seeking forgiveness and offering $1.35 billion to spend on development projects over 30 years. Nazi war criminals accused of participating in the Holocaust continue to stand trial and any attempt of denial is met with punishment. Pakistan’s attempts at whitewashing their responsibility for 1971 have been criticised and Prime Minister Hasina has shared with the Pakistani High Commissioner to Bangladesh how it is difficult for Bangladesh to forget about atrocities by Pakistan in the 1971 war. Country comparison Bangladesh’s progress in the last 50 years has been remarkable in key performance indicators such as exports, social progress, and fiscal prudence, all of which eclipse Pakistan’s growth during the same period. Bangladesh’s GDP growth, for example, stands at 7.9% while Pakistan is at 1.5%. Bangladesh’s GDP per capita had grown by 9% in 2020 rising to $2,227 while Pakistan remains at $1,543. Bangladesh’s export volume and foreign exchange reserves are almost twice as that of Pakistan’s as well as its position on the global passport index, microcredit financing, and women’s rights. In literacy, Pakistan lags behind with 58% to Bangladesh’s 75%. In 1971, Pakistan and Bangladesh remained neck-and-neck on fertility rates — seven live births per woman. Today, according to the World Bank, Bangladesh’s fertility rate stands at 2.01 while Pakistan is at 3.45, indicating the enormous progress the former has made. Safety and security remain pressing concerns as well. Pakistan has lost many civilians to terrorist attacks between 2000 and 2019. Concerns of terrorism, radicalisation, and extremism continue to hurt Pakistan’s potential and credibility, making it unsafe to travel to, and in many instances unattractive to trade and invest. On the other hand, Bangladesh has been praised for its tough stance against any form of fundamentalism and radicalisation and boasts a moderate Muslim majority country with liberal and progressive socio-cultural values. For a new chapter For Pakistan to bury its past to start a new chapter in its relations with Bangladesh, taking responsibility and ensuring accountability for events of the period is a critical first step. Expressing hope and sincerity for reconciliation and friendship stands hollow without any mention of 1971. Before one can start forgetting, one has to be able to forgive. How can Bangladesh forget when Pakistan has not even offered an apology which could have started the healing process for a country which saw millions die, thousands assaulted and where there was much shedding of so much blood and tears in the process? This is a much needed step to heal historical wounds and help both countries forge better diplomatic and economic relations in the coming days for realising a shared vision for the region’s future. Syed Munir Khasru is Chairman of the international think tank, The Institute for Policy, Advocacy, and Governance (IPAG), New Delhi, India with a presence in Dhaka, Melbourne, Vienna and Dubai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-thorn-in-pakistan-bangladesh-relations/article37965421.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The Speaker who stifled debate||November 29, 2021, will be remembered as a black day in the history of India’s parliamentary democracy. On that day, by a fell blow, the custodian of the Lok Sabha’s rights, its Speaker Om Birla, struck at the very raison d’etre of the House. Historically and constitutionally Parliament is no legislature machine. It is the grand inquest of the nation. In Britain and in India, debates long preceded legislation. What is particularly repulsive is that the outrage was orchestrated. Hours before the House met, Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid down the law in the very terms that the Speaker used in his ruling. At the Business Advisory Committee, which met shortly before the House, BJP members dutifully said ditto. Holding the House to ransom The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, sought to repeal three contentious farm laws. The Agriculture Minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, introduced the Bill for “consideration” and adoption, which implies after debate. This was fortified by his attacks on the Opposition’s “hypocritical attitude”. The Opposition had a right to rebut this but this right was denied to it. The Speaker ruled, “I will allow the discussion only when the House is in order”. The Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha give him no right or power to hold the House to ransom unless such assurances are given in advice. No self-respecting Opposition will submit to this. The Rules give him ample power to enforce order after it has been disrupted. The Minister arrogated to himself the right to decide that there was no need for a debate because there was a consensus on the repeal of the three Acts. This is disingenuous. The Acts remained to be discussed. As the All India Kisan Sabha pointed out, the three Acts did not include safeguards to prevent profiteering and monopoly by corporates and private entities. The Opposition was denied the right to move amendments to the repealing Bill. The Minister went further still. He said that a debate would have no tangible results. Why then hold debates on foreign policy, for instance? Was the House not entitled to move an amendment to legal guarantees for Minimum Support Price? The Rules of Procedure are drafted to ensure a free debate, not to stifle it. There is not a single Rule or Standing Order which empowers the Speaker to act as Mr. Birla did. Consider Rule 362(1) to begin with: “At any time after a motion has been made, any member may move that the question be now put, and unless it appears to the Speaker that the motion is an abuse of these rules or an infringement of the right of reasonable debate, the Speaker shall then put the motion that the question be now put.” Closure cannot be imposed without a prior debate. Rule 363(1) says: “Whenever the debate on any motion in connection with a Bill or on any other motion becomes unduly protracted, the Speaker may, after taking the sense of the House, fix a time limit for the conclusion of discussion on any stage or all stages of the Bill or the motion, as the case may be”. It is the “sense of the House”, not the Speaker’s opinion, which governs. The Speaker’s powers The Speaker has ample power to quell disorderly behaviour. But thereafter, the House is the master. It can overrule the Speaker (Rule 374A). The Speaker can adjourn the House or suspend a sitting. The Speaker has no power to refuse a debate unless an undertaking is given for good conduct in future. Debates are meant for the edification of the people and are, in turn, influenced by public opinion. As Ivor Jennings wrote in his classic on Parliament, “It is not the control of the Government by the House but the fact that its dislikes are often a representation of electoral dislikes that makes debate important.” Jennings wrote, “Obstruction is an ordinary part of parliamentary procedure”. The Rules of Procedure provide precisely what Erskine May’s Parliamentary Practice prescribes. In the event of grave disorder, the Speaker may adjourn the House or suspend the sittings. He cannot stipulate good behaviour as condition for debate. What happens in our Parliament is nothing compared to the “rowdyism” in the House of Commons which Philip Norton specified in The Times of July 7, 1990. Yet, he warned that “to limit the capacity of the House to debate is to frustrate the very purpose of the institution, and so undermine support for the system of government.” MPs must draw up a documented statement on the matter, based on India’s Rules of Procedure and those of the U.K., Canada and Australia, in assertion of their rights and those of the people they represent. In fairness, the Speaker should be invited, most respectfully, to indicate the Rule under which he acted on November 29, 2021. A.G. Noorani is a constitutional expert||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-speaker-who-stifled-debate/article37965424.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The IUML is at a disadvantage||The Kerala government’s recent decision to leave appointments to the Waqf Board to the Kerala Public Service Commission (KPSC) has created a brouhaha in the Muslim community. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), which attempted to take leadership of the agitation against the government, faced a backlash as the largest Muslim organisation, the Samastha Kerala Jem-iyyathul Ulama (SKJU), took a different line. Although the SKJU has widely been considered supportive of the IUML’s political lines, SKJU president Sayed Mohammed Jiffri Muthukoya Thangal’s rejection of the IUML’s proposal to use mosques for anti-government protests left the IUML miffed. A different stand However, Mr. Thangal’s stand brought the rival Sunni faction led by Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliyar close to the SKJU. Both the Sunni groups, who roughly constitute about 80% of the Muslim community in Kerala, share the same opinion that using mosques for anti-government protests would turn Allah’s houses into battlefields. Interestingly, Mr. Thangal is now increasingly being portrayed as the Sunni leader of Kerala with the highest respect after Shamsul Ulama E.K. Aboobacker Musliyar, who died 25 years ago. Angered by the SKJU’s decision against its call to use mosques for protests against the government, the IUML convened a mega rally at Kozhikode beach on December 9. Tens of thousands of people turned out for Kerala’s biggest rally in COVID-19 times. The government was quick to slap cases against the rallyists even as it faced criticism for ignoring other gatherings across the State. “Personal references” made at the rally by one of the IUML speakers against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his son-in-law and Minister Mohammed Riyas brought disgrace to the IUML, the League’s later apologies notwithstanding. Meanwhile, the government invited the SKJU leaders for talks. Mr. Vijayan assured the Samastha and its leaders that the government would not go ahead with its plan without consulting different Muslim groups. The SKJU has now asked the government to initiate speedy dialogues with Muslim groups. Changing rules Taking advantage of its position vis à vis the government, the SKJU has also sought restoration of an important clause in the Waqf Board rules. It wants only those upholding the traditional Islamic faith to be appointed to the Waqf Board. Originally, the Waqf Board rules said that only traditional Muslims upholding the orthodox Islamic faith would be appointed to manage the Waqf Board properties. It was at the behest of the IUML that the government changed the rule to accommodate even those following the reformist Islamic faith, including the Wahhabis, Mujahids and Salafis. The more orthodox Sunni faction led by the Musliyar has raised several questions against the reformist groups handling the Waqf properties. The reformists in practice do not support the Islamic tradition of keeping aside a portion of the property for such Islamic activities as conducting prayers for the dead. The Sunnis argue that the reformist groups grabbed several important masjids, including the Mohiyuddin masjid and Pattala masjid in Kozhikode, using their influence within the IUML. The current Waqf dispute has sent home an important message that the SKJU and the IUML are no longer synonymous. There are many scholars within the Samastha who support the Congress’s political ideology and not that of the IUML. Taking a contrary stand against the Samastha could be dangerous for the IUML since the Left Democratic Front is waiting in the wings with an appeasement deal for the Sunnis. abdul.naha@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-iuml-is-at-a-disadvantage/article37965426.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Mixed signals||At a time that India is looking to impress upon the world that it is strongly positioned as well as willing and able to become a more reliable supply chain partner for them than China has been proven in recent times, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar’s remarks on Tuesday about globalisation are worth taking note of. The pandemic experience creates a case for ‘shorter’ supply chains with more ‘national’ capacities, he said, before chiding globalisation ‘Gurus’ for advocating open markets without acknowledging geopolitical motivations. That he cited the example of India’s health-care supply chain vulnerabilities being exposed after the onset of COVID-19 makes it clear his broader message was aimed at China on whom India relied too much for critical pharma and health-care imports, and continues to run up large trade deficits with. Tapping the receding global sentiment for China, and the dangers about depending on limited, even if hugely efficient, supply chains, is a sensible ploy gaining resonance. Earlier this month, Australia’s Special Envoy to India Tony Abbott accused China of ‘weaponising trade’, losing its credibility and blocking trade flows. That Mr. Abbott, a former Australian Prime Minister, who had himself signed a free trade pact with China, is now pushing hard for a trade deal with India as an ‘obvious trustworthy substitute’ for global supply chains, is an admirable endorsement of official tact. However, Mr. Jaishankar also went on to term the idea that ‘other people can ... operate in your economy on terms which are advantageous to them’ as ‘ridiculous’ and argued that there was no need to be defensive about ‘protectionism’. Perhaps, he was addressing the reiterated discontent about some of India’s broader market access reluctance, based on recent supply chain shocks in sectors ranging from semiconductors to commodities. But this broad-brush messaging against globalisation is troublesome, particularly when other Cabinet members are taking pains to convey to investors and potential FTA partners that the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign is not a protectionist platform. Such mixed signalling may also unnerve negotiating counterparts and stakeholders for similar deals with the UAE, Canada, the EU and those involved in the revived India-U.S. Trade dialogue. There is no denying that the world is yet to get a fair global trade order through the WTO, or the immediate pandemic imperatives require diversification of supplies and scaling up of domestic capacities to build some resilience. But protectionism is not the answer as India itself will argue with countries where it seeks market access; and globalisation per se cannot be pooh-poohed even as India continues to gain from it through rising exports. Just because of the pandemic, the world will not become less interdependent as it is simply not possible for everyone to make everything. As former Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said, citing China and Singapore’s examples: ‘... a nation that shuts its door to the world is bound to fall behind.’ India would be well-served if the focus is on grabbing the opportunities the world is throwing up, while holding back lamentations for private conversations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mixed-signals/article37965413.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Securing the young||The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has said that it will be ready with vaccines for children in the next six months. This follows claims earlier this year that it will be ready with the vaccine, Covovax, for adults by October; but, so far, no approval has been forthcoming from the Drugs Controller General of India. Covovax is SII’s brand name for Novavax, the recombinant nanoparticle protein-based vaccine developed by the U.S.-based Novavax Inc., and this will be an important vaccine to watch out for because it will roll out from the SII stable, which as of today, has made at least 90% of the 1.3 billion vaccines that have found their way into the arms of Indians. While Covaxin by Bharat Biotech was hurriedly approved by Indian authorities, it has unfortunately not been able to scale up rapidly enough to make a substantial contribution to India’s vaccination programme. India has now inoculated 80% of its adults with at least one dose and given that many have already been exposed to the virus, this number, in itself, is a fairly creditable achievement even though it is short of the Government’s initial claim of fully inoculating all adults by the year-end. However, Omicron has complicated matters. Said to be the most infectious of all variants, health experts in several countries are warning of a ‘tidal wave’ of infections over the year-end as well as in the first quarter of 2022. Because the variant contains several mutations that allow the virus to escape antibodies, the forecast is that several — in spite of being vaccinated — may likely experience breakthrough infections or re-infections. Seen this way, this also bodes harm for children as many have resumed schooling in person and the inevitable congregations make them targets for infections. India is yet to approve vaccines for children and is reportedly deliberating on trial data submitted by Bharat Biotech on tests done on children. The technical committee also has not authorised boosters and the argument ostensibly is that doses must be prioritised for adults who have not yet been inoculated. Several new vaccines, ZycoV-D, Gennova, Sputnik V, Corbevax were to have been available by now as per the Centre’s estimates in September and some of them are also testing versions in children but, as the experience with Covaxin shows, it is one thing to test and develop a vaccine and quite another to scale up quickly. The Government must accelerate efforts to coax supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/securing-the-young/article37965414.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Pak. seeks cease-fire in Bangla Desh||The Commander of the doomed Pakistan army in Bangla Desh, Lt. Gen. Niazi, sent a message to the Indian Army Chief, Gen. Manekshaw, through the American embassy in Delhi seeking a ceasefire but setting some conditions for the surrender of his forces and their subsequent repatriation to West Pakistan with the help of the U.S. The contents of Lt. Gen. Niazi’s communication which had been endorsed by Maj. Gen. Farman Ali, Military Adviser to the former Civilian Governor in Dacca, have not been officially disclosed by the Government of India, but Gen. Manekshaw’s reply sent this afternoon has made it amply clear that the Pakistani Generals were soliciting some assurances or trying to lay down certain conditions. The Indian Army Chief reaffirmed his earlier reassurances communicated in his two messages to Maj. Gen. Farman Ali guaranteeing fair treatment and full protection to all military and para-military personnel, ethnic minorities and people of West Pakistani origin, and called upon Lt. Gen. Niazi to issue orders to the troops under his command in Bangla Desh to cease fighting and surrender immediately to the advancing Indian forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pak-seeks-cease-fire-in-bangla-desh/article37965422.ece
16 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Rupee slumps to 20-month low against dollar on FII outflows||The rupee plunged by 44 paise to close at a 20-month low against the U.S. dollar on Wednesday as consistent foreign fund outflows and risk-averse sentiment weighed on the local currency. Growing concern over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, after the WHO warned of high transmissibility risks, hit the appeal of riskier assets. The rupee has been under pressure for the past five weeks due to consistent forex outflows on expectations of faster rate of tapering by the U.S. Federal Reserve to rein in rising inflation. The local unit has declined in nine out of 11 trading sessions this month, weakening by a total 119 paise or 1.58% against the dollar. The rupee breached the 76 level and closed at 76.32, a level not seen since April 24, 2020. The rupee recorded its sharpest single-day decline in almost eight months. “So far this month, nine out of 11 trading sessions, rupee depreciated following policy divergence between RBI and U.S. Fed, along with foreign fund outflows from domestic equities,” said Dilip Parmar, Research Analyst, HDFC Securities. A higher trade deficit number and the surge in wholesale price index-based inflation also impacted the rupee, Mr. Parmar said. Sriram Iyer, Senior Research Analyst at Reliance Securities, cited increasing bets that the Fed could accelerate the pace of policy normalisation and signal more rate increases for next year as weighing on the rupee. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital markets, pulling out Rs. 763.18 crore on Tuesday, provisional data show.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rupee-slumps-to-20-month-low-against-dollar-on-fii-outflows/article37965406.ece
16 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Makes sense to keep industry, banking separate: RBI’s Rao||Reserve Bank of India Deputy Governor Rajeshwar Rao on Wednesday said while the RBI would examine the pros and cons of giving banking licences to large industrial houses, the fact that banking was a highly leveraged business dealing with public money meant it ‘made sense’ to keep industry and banking separate. He was referring to a recent Internal Working Group (IWG) report on the topic. “Many committees set up on the subject [of grant of banking licence] in the past as well the IWG have acknowledged that large corporates/ industrial houses can be an important source of capital and can provide management expertise and strategic direction, given their pool of entrepreneurial and managerial talent,” Mr. Rao said while addressing the Mint Annual Conclave. “There is also the issue of finding fit and able promoters with deep pockets to set up a large, technologically equipped universal bank. At the same time, concerns were raised by all of them, including the IWG, on the attendant risks,” he added. These included conflicts of interest via self-dealing at the expense of bank clients, favouring associates for extending loans and undermining the neutrality and independence in deciding allocation of credit and constricting the flow of credit to competitors. “Caution was also warranted around issues of connected lending, complex web of group structures, cross-holding as well as presence of large number of unregulated entities in the group, as these would stretch the RBI’s regulatory and supervisory resources,” Mr. Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/makes-sense-to-keep-industry-banking-separate-rbis-rao/article37965190.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Semiconductor PLI will spur ecosystem: Nasscom||The government’s plan for a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for semiconductor and display board production is a progressive, welcome step and provides a much-needed impetus to establish a holistic ecosystem in India, said Nasscom. “We appreciate the government’s effort to... envision a time-bound, incentive-led [path] that will help the industry in every aspect — from design and fabrication to packing and testing,” the apex body said. K. Krishna Moorthy, CEO and president, India Electronics & Semiconductor Association, said the policy addressed almost all facets — design, wafer manufacturing, assembly or testing. The cascading effect of this policy would be ‘huge’, he said.  “The focus on silicon logic fab, display fab, compound semiconductors fab, packaging... will help create a vibrant and sustainable ecosystem,” Dr. Ajai Chowdhry, founder, HCL, said. It would leverage existing chip design capabilities, he added.  The policy addresses most facets of industry. Cascading effect would be huge K. Krishna Moorthy CEO and president, India Electronics & Semiconductor Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/semiconductor-pli-will-spur-ecosystem-nasscom/article37965181.ece
16 December 2021||Bengaluru,||‘India to play crucial role in building metaverse’||Meta founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg on Wednesday said he was excited about the role India would play in building the future of metaverse. Metaverse is a virtual-reality space or a virtual world, where people can socialise, work, and play, and Mr. Zuckerberg said he believed it was the future of the Internet. “I think the metaverse is going to be the successor to the mobile Internet,” he said. “This is going to be an Internet where you feel like you’re there and you’re present with people and in other places,” he added. On India’s talent pool, he said the engineers, developers and creators, and the country’s whole vibrant start-up ecosystem were playing a huge role in shaping the future. Meta also announced the second phase of its partnership with the Central Board of Secondary Education to provide a curriculum on digital safety, online well-being and augmented reality for more than 10 million students and 1 million educators in the country. The second phase would be implemented in three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-to-play-crucial-role-in-building-metaverse/article37965183.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Tanishq to enter North American, GCC markets||Tata group company Tanishq is all set to enter North America, Canada and Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries in 2022 to increase its share of revenue from international markets, said Titan Company MD C.K. Venkataraman. “In the next two to three years, we are planning to open more showrooms — in double-digit counts — particularly in North America, GCC and Canada,” Mr. Venkataraman said, inaugurating a Tanishq store at Urapakkam, near Chennai. According to him, Tanishq’s first jewellery showroom in Dubai is company-owned and the rest will be on franchise. The cost per showroom would be about Rs. 25-30 crore. Tanishq will follow an asset-light model, wherein the franchise would invest in the building and some portion on wearables.He said that the jewellery to be made and sold in the North American market would be different, yet similar to those sold in Indian outlets. “The opening of NA/GCC will be simultaneous, while the size of the showroom will depend upon the location and Indian diaspora,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tanishq-to-enter-north-american-gcc-markets/article37965196.ece
16 December 2021||MUMBAI,||GDP to grow 8.2% in FY23, says BoA||The new year will herald the return of normalcy, with growth momentum gaining steam, brokerage Bank of America (BoA) said on Wednesday, pegging the real GDP growth estimate at 8.2% for FY23. It said the country entered 2021 on an optimistic note with recovering economic growth and well-contained inflation, but the tragic second wave rocked the boat. BoA pegged headline inflation at 5.6% in FY23. This would ‘force’ the RBI to increase the repo rate by one percentage point in FY23, after the long pause that it has undertaken now, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gdp-to-grow-82-in-fy23-says-boa/article37965191.ece
16 December 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Push FTAs to boost apparel exports’||India needs to actively pursue free-trade agreements (FTAs) with major export destinations like the EU and the U.S. to push apparel shipments amid increasing competition from Bangladesh and Cambodia that enjoy tariff concessions, as per an RBI article. India has traditionally enjoyed a comparative advantage in the textile sector, including apparels, and they constitute a major chunk of export basket. “However, over the past few years, near stagnation in textile exports, particularly in apparel exports, has been witnessed,” RBI officials wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/push-ftas-to-boost-apparel-exports/article37965192.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,||ALL’s EV arm to set up tech unit in Spain||Switch Mobility Ltd., the electric vehicle arm of Ashok Leyland, has announced the setting up of an advanced manufacturing and technology centre in Castilla y León, Spain, at an investment of about €100 million spread over the next 10 years. The centre will provide a production and R&D hub for Switch Mobility’s contemporary electric buses and light commercial vehicles, as part of the company’s global strategy. The hub will comprise two state-of-the-art production lines and is expected to see the first buses produced in Q4 of 2022. The site will also have capacity to serve markets afield including South America, the firm said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/alls-ev-arm-to-set-up-tech-unit-in-spain/article37965193.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,||TVS, BMW Motorrad extend pact||TVS Motor Company and BMW Motorrad on Wednesday announced that both firms were extending and expanding their long-term pact for joint development of new platforms and future technologies, including electric vehicles. The first product through this cooperation would be showcased in the next 24 months, said Sudarshan Venu, JMD, TVS Motor Company, while Markus Schramm, the Head of BMW Motorrad, added that the product was meant for the global market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-bmw-motorrad-extend-pact/article37965194.ece
16 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Skoda Auto Volkswagon India MD Boparai to move on||Škoda Auto Volkswagen India Pvt. Ltd. has announced the resignation of MD Gurpratap Boparai with effect from January 1, 2022. Christian Cahn von Seelen will take interim charge of the VW Group’s India operations from January 1 in his capacity as chairman of SAVWIPL. Mr. Boparai’s successor would be announced shortly, the company said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/skoda-auto-volkswagon-india-md-boparai-to-move-on/article37965185.ece
16 December 2021||Mumbai,||Supriya Lifescience to hit market with Rs 700 crore IPO||Supriya Lifescience Ltd. said it plans to raise fresh equity of Rs. 200 crore through an IPO to fund capacity expansion and pare debt. The promoters also plan to mobilise Rs. 500 crore through an offer for sale. The firm’s Rs. 700-crore IPO is scheduled to open on December 16, with the price band of Rs. 265-274 per equity share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/supriya-lifescience-to-hit-market-with-rs-700-crore-ipo/article37965189.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Kohli clears the air on captaincy issue||Contrary to the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI’s) version, India Test captain Virat Kohli has said he was neither asked to remain as T20I captain in September nor was he informed before being replaced as the ODI skipper last week. “I was contacted one-and-a-half hours before the selection meeting on Dec. 8 for the Test series,” Kohli said on Wednesday ahead of India’s departure for South Africa. “There was no prior communication to me at all from when I announced the T20I captaincy decision until the 8th (Dec.) when I got a call before the selection meeting. Selectors’ decision “The chief selector (Chetan Sharma) discussed with me the Test team to which we both agreed, and before ending the call I was told the five selectors have decided I will not be the ODI captain, to which I replied, ‘okay, fine’. And in the selection call afterwards, we chatted about it briefly. That’s what happened. There was no communication prior to that at all.” A day after Rohit Sharma was appointed the limited-overs captain, BCCI chief Sourav Ganguly had told PTI that he personally had requested Kohli to reconsider his decision about T20I captaincy since split captaincy in limited-overs formats does not suit Indian cricket. “When I decided to leave the T20I captaincy and approached the BCCI about my decision, it was received well. There was no offence or hesitation, I wasn’t told to reconsider it. It was received well. I was told it’s progressive and it’s (a step) in the right direction,” Kohli said. “Then I told them I would like to continue in Tests and ODIs, unless the office-bearers and selectors feel otherwise. My communication was clear in what I wanted to do. I gave them the option that if they feel I shouldn’t, the decision is in their hands.” Kohli also put an end to speculation about him having asked for a break from the ODI series in South Africa. “I was and I am available for selection all this time. You should not be asking me this question, honestly, this question should be asked to people who are writing about these things and their sources because as far as I am concerned, I was always available,” he said. “I have not had any communication with the BCCI saying I want to rest. I am always keen to play.” Kohli admitted that the change of captaincy issues over the last week was not an ideal lead-up to a big tour but said he is in a good space mentally. “To be prepared for a tour like this and to perform to the best of my abilities, nothing has and nothing can derail me from that. A lot of things that happen on the outside are not ideal and not how one expects them to be, but you have to understand you can only do so much as an individual and we have to keep things in tight perspective and do things that are in your control,” he said. “I am focused, mentally prepared, and excited to do the best I can for the team and make the team win.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/not-told-before-replaced-as-odi-skipper/article37965508.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Neeraj’s gold hugely important for India’||World Athletics president Sebastian Coe said on Wednesday that India must grab the opportunity provided by Neeraj Chopra’s historic gold medal in the Tokyo Olympics and broaden athletics’ footprints in the country by holding more international events. Terming India’s first Olympic gold in athletics as a “hugely important moment”, Coe advised the country to use it in raising the profile of the sport. Strong element “Chopra is a very strong element (in India’s athletics profile). A one-off performance from an athlete, how important it is, is not that powerful if you don’t have a strong federation behind it. And you have that now,” Coe said during a virtual interaction with select Asian media.  “(It is) the opportunity to use that performance to broaden the footprints for athletics,” he added. “Regarding the staging of more athletics events, India is forthcoming in wanting to do that. I don’t know the current thinking of the Indian government but I genuinely think that one day India will host the Olympics.” Coe, a double Olympic gold medallist in 1500m (1980 and 1984), added that the impact of Neeraj’s gold will go beyond India and reach many countries of the world. “To have done the way he did at the biggest global stage, it will have impact not only in India and Asia but also broadly around the world. “I know only too well that there are Indian communities in all our big urban populations around the world. So that went far and wide and help in engaging communities in USA, Great Britain and large parts of Europe and Africa wanting to be part of our sport too. “The transmission mechanism, as they would say in economics, was a very powerful one.”  Neeraj is a very strong element in India’s athletics profile||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neerajs-gold-hugely-important-for-india/article37965561.ece
16 December 2021||London,||De Bruyne leads Manchester City’s romp over Leeds||Manchester City powered four points clear at the top of the Premier League as Kevin De Bruyne inspired a 7-0 rout of Leeds just hours after clubs were given strict new measures to curb the threat of the coronavirus on Tuesday. De Bruyne delivered an imperious display including two goals on his first league start since November 6 after the Belgian star recovered from a bout of Covid-19. Phil Foden, Jack Grealish, Riyad Mahrez, John Stones and Nathan Ake were also on target as Pep Guardiola’s side ran riot at the Etihad. Meanwhile, with four wins now in six games as manager, Steven Gerrard is transforming Aston Villa’s fortunes. The former Liverpool captain’s latest success was getting the better of the manager he replaced at Villa last month as Dean Smith’s new team, Norwich, was beaten 2-0 on Tuesday. While Norwich is in last place in the Premier League, Villa is up to ninth after the resurgence under Gerrard. Norwich is three points from safety approaching the midway point of the season after picking up only five points in Smith’s six matches. Serge Gnabry scored a hat trick as Bayern Munich stretched its lead in the Bundesliga to nine points with a 5-0 hammering of Stuttgart.  Stuttgart stays 15th after a defeat which brought Pellegrino Matarazzo’s team back down to earth following a 2-0 upset win over Wolfsburg on Saturday.  The results: Premier League: Manchester City 7 (Foden 8, Grealish 13, De Bruyne 32, 62, Mahrez 49, Stones 74, Ake 78) bt Leeds 0.   Norwich 0 lost to Aston Villa 2 (Ramsey 34, Watkins 87); Brentford vs Manchester United (postponed due to coronavirus).   Bundesliga: VfB Stuttgart 0 lost to Bayern Munich 5 (Gnabry 40, 53, 74, Lewandowski 69, 72); VfL Wolfsburg 2 (Nmecha 8, Weghorst 51) lost to Cologne 3 (Modeste 34, 89, Uth 73).   Mainz 05 4 (Lee 19, Hack 41, Widmer 49, Boëtius 79) bt Hertha Berlin 0; Arminia Bielefeld 2 (Okugawa 51, Wimmer 69) bt VfL Bochum 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/de-bruyne-leads-manchester-citys-romp-over-leeds/article37965412.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Mumbai City hands Chennaiyin FC its first defeat of the season||Mumbai City FC was made to work hard till the dying minutes of the contest before the defending champion’s persistence paid off as Rahul Bheke’s late winner handed Chennaiyin FC its first defeat of ISL Season 8 at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Wednesday. The Islanders’ 1-0 win gave them a four-point cushion at the top of the table. Mumbai City has 15 points from six matches while Jamshedpur FC has 11 from the same number of games. The goal came in the 86th minute when Ahmed Jahouh’s free kick found Bheke, who headed home. Chennaiyin custodian Vishal Kaith did not cover himself in glory as he charged for the ball and left the goal open for the header. It was a match that pitted two contrasting styles: Mumbai’s attacking play versus Chennaiyin’s sturdy defence. For the majority of the game, CFC’s strategy of having at least five men behind seemed to be working as Mumbai struggled to break through and pose a serious threat. In the first half, Mumbai dominated possession and was the team on wheels in the first 30 minutes of the game. The title holder could have gone ahead quite early with the CFC goalkeeper making his first blunder of the game. Amey Ranawade chipped into the box and Kaith charged at the ball that was nowhere near him. However, Igor Angulo’s header hit the post and the ball rolled out. Chennaiyin got into its groove in the final 10 minutes of the first half and started positively after the break, but couldn’t convert the half chances that came its way. Chennaiyin’s best chance came in the 48th minute when Jerry Lalrinzuala sent in an inch-perfect cross to Lukasz Gikiewicz, who couldn’t control the ball as his legs got tangled before the Mumbai ’keeper came to his side’s rescue.  The result: Mumbai City FC 1 (Rahul Bheke 86) bt Chennaiyin FC 0.   Today’s match: Bengaluru FC vs ATK MB, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-city-hands-chennaiyin-fc-its-first-defeat-of-the-season/article37965512.ece
16 December 2021||BRISBANE,||Australia strong favourite in D/N Test||While there were initial question marks over opener David Warner’s fitness for the second match of the Ashes series, there are no doubts about Australia’s superiority in day-night Tests. Perfect eight They’re a perfect eight from eight as they go into the pink-ball Test against England beginning Thursday at the Adelaide Oval. Warner still appeared to be in discomfort while batting in practice at Adelaide, but on Wednesday, captain Pat Cummins said Warner “will be right.” “If he thought he couldn’t be as good as he normally is, he wouldn’t be playing,” added Cummins. While Australia’s record in day-night Tests is perfect, England has just one win in four attempts. The win came in its first day-nighter at home against West Indies in 2017. England will get two chances with the pink ball in this series — the fifth test in Hobart, which was moved from Perth because of COVID-19 restrictions in Western Australia, will also be a day-nighter. Going into Adelaide, all-rounder Ben Stokes allayed concerns about the knee injury that hampered his bowling at Brisbane last week, after coming through a nets session. Veteran pace bowlers Jimmy Anderson and Stuart Broad are back in the 12-man squad after missing the first Test at the Gabba.  The teams:   Australia: David Warner, Marcus Harris, Marnus Labuschagne, Steve Smith, Travis Head, Cameron Green, Alex Carey, Pat Cummins (Capt.), Nathan Lyon, Jhye Richardson and Mitchell Starc.   England (from): Rory Burns, Haseeb Hameed, Dawid Malan, Joe Root (Capt.), Ben Stokes, Ollie Pope, Jos Buttler, Chris Woakes, Ollie Robinson, Stuart Broad, Jimmy Anderson and Jack Leach .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-strong-favourite-in-dn-test/article37965514.ece
16 December 2021||Dubai,||India to play its opener against Pakistan||India will open its campaign against arch-rival Pakistan in the Women’s ODI World Cup, beginning in New Zealand on March 4, the ICC announced on Wednesday. The first set of games will see two massive rivalries take the centrestage, with Australia taking on defending champion England at Seddon Park in Hamilton on March 5 and last edition’s runner-up India facing Pakistan in Tauranga on March 6. Eight teams A total of 31 games will be played across 31 days, with the eight teams clashing to get their hands on the coveted World Cup trophy. Australia, England, South Africa and India qualified for the event on the basis of their position in ICC Women’s Championship 2017-20, while New Zealand automatically qualified as host. On the basis of team rankings, Bangladesh, Pakistan and West Indies were the final three teams to book their berth after the Women’s Cricket World Cup Qualifier was called off due to COVID-related uncertainty. The tournament will be played in the league format, where all eight teams will face each other once, at the end of which the top four sides will qualify for the semifinals. The first semifinal will be played at The Basin Reserve in Wellington on March 30, while The Hagley Oval in Christchurch will host the second semifinal on March 31 and the final on April 3. India will be touring New Zealand before the World Cup, serving as ideal preparation for the mega event.   India’s fixtures  March 6: vs Pakistan; March 10: New Zealand; March 12: West Indies; March 16: England; March 19: Australia; March 22: Bangladesh; March 27: South Africa   The semifinals will be played on March 30 and 31 while the final will be held on April 3||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-to-play-its-opener-against-pakistan/article37965517.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||India will miss Rohit’s abilities a lot in South Africa: Kohli||Test captain Virat Kohli hoped that Mayank Agarwal and K.L. Rahul will ensure India gets off to a good start in the absence of Rohit Sharma during the three-Test series in South Africa, starting on Dec. 26. “We will miss his (Rohit’s) abilities a lot. He has proven in England that he has really worked his Test game out and the opening partnership was very important for us to play in that series the way we did,” Kohli said on Wednesday, a day before the squad’s departure for South Africa. “Obviously, with his experience and his skill, we will miss his qualities. It’s an opportunity for someone like Mayank and KL to step up and solidify that start for us that we got in the last series and make sure that the good work is carried on in this series as well.” No rift with Rohit As if the absence of injured Ravindra Jadeja wasn’t a blow, India will be without Rohit due to a hamstring injury. Kohli stressed he doesn’t have a rift with Rohit, India’s new limited-overs captain, and offered all the support for the new captain-coach combine of Rohit and Rahul Dravid. “My responsibility is to push the team in the right direction, something that I have always looked to do even before I became captain. That mindset has never changed and will never change,” Kohli said. “Rohit is a very able captain, tactically very sound. We have seen that in the games he has captained for India and in the IPL as well. So, he, along with Rahul bhai, who is a very balanced coach and great man-manager, will have my absolute support and my contribution in whatever vision they set for the team. “I will be there to support that 100% and continue to be a guy who can push the team in the right direction going forward in ODIs and T20Is.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-hopes-india-overcomes-the-absence-of-rohit/article37965523.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,||National-ranking tournament from today||The first National-ranking badminton tournament in nearly two years — the BAI Series Senior (men & women) tournament — will be held at the Fireball BA, Mogappair East, from December 16 to 22. The event will be held for men's & women's singles and doubles, and mixed doubles categories. The tournament has received a record 2000 entries. Subhankar Dey (World No. 57) and Kiran George (77) will be the star attractions in the men' s singles category. Prominent absentees Siril Verma and Priyanshu Rajawat are the prominent absentees in men's singles. Aakarshi Kashyap, Ashmitha Chaliha Malavika Bansod, Ira Sharma are the top players in women's singles. Sankar Muthusamy, Rithvik Sanjeevi, Sathish Kumar and Siddhanth Gupta will be the local players who have performed creditably recently at the International level. Their performance will be watched with interest. The qualifying rounds will be held from December 16 to 19 and the main draw in all events will be from till Dec. 19 to 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/natl-ranking-badminton/article37965605.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Deepika on song for India Juniors||Deepika struck four goals as India Juniors gave a glimpse of its prowess with a 6-0 victory over SAI-B in group-A of the Khelo India women’s under-21 hockey league at here on Wednesday. In another match, Anjali Panwar (5) and Simranjeet Kaur (4) powered Khalsa Academy, Amritsar, to a 15-0 victory over Mumbai Schools Sports Association. Later in the day, Madhya Pradesh Academy did well to draw 2-2 with Pritam Siwach Academy, Sonepat, as Sadhna Sengar and Neeraj Rana scored the first and last goals of the match. Union Sports Minister Anurag Thakur inaugurated the league, which will be played in three phases. “All our athletes train very hard. It is also very important to get enough competition. Having leagues of this kind for competitive exposure through the year is crucial,” he said. He also announced that the Sports Ministry would offer Rs. 15 lakh, to match the Rs. 15 lakh from Hockey India, for the champion team. Indian Olympic Association president Narinder Batra said that it was a big initiative and expressed gratitude to the government for consistent support to hockey through the last few years. The first phase of the league, featuring 14 teams, will be played till December 21. The second and third phase will be staged next year at two other venues.  The results (league): Odisha Naval Tata Centre 1 (Priya Toppo) bt Raja Karan Academy 0; India juniors 6 (Deepika 4, Mumtaz Khan, Beauty Dung Dung) bt SAI-B 0; Khalsa Academy, Amritsar 15 (Anjali Panwar 5, Simranjeet Kaur 4, Amandeep Kaur 2, Amreen Hamid 2, Chewang Tamang 2) bt Mumbai Schools Sports Association 0.   SAI-A 7 (Poonam Mundu 3, Sanjana Horo 2, Prini Kandir, Swarnika Rawat) bt Sports Hostel, Bhubaneswar 1 (Neha Lakra).   Madhya Pradesh Academy 2 (Sadhna Sengar, Neeraj Rana) drew with Pritam Siwach Academy, Sonepat 2 (Disha, Tamanna Yadav).   Har Academy 2 (Preeti, Jyoti) bt Jai Bharat Academy 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepika-on-song-for-india-juniors/article37965694.ece
16 December 2021||Auckland,||Red Bull ventures into sailing||Red Bull announced on Wednesday it was entering a team in the America’s Cup yacht race, in a move that will take its bitter Formula One rivalry with Mercedes onto the water. Red Bull Racing principal Christian Horner said the team will partner with two-time America’s Cup winner Alinghi to challenge for yachting’s most prestigious trophy. “Our F1 team is looking forward to helping this new member of our family to succeed... we will share our experiences, engineering tips, etc. It is a two-way cooperation,” he said in a statement. Furious tussle Rival syndicate Ineos Britannia already has close ties with Mercedes, which has been involved in a furious tussle with Red Bull during the FI season. It culminated in Red Bull’s flying Dutchman Max Verstappen being controversially crowned world champion over Mercedes’ Lewis Hamilton of Britain this week, in a result the German team looks set to appeal. Both yachting teams will bring F1 technology to the spectacular 23-metre (75-foot) AC75 foiling monohulls used during the last America’s Cup, won by Team New Zealand off Auckland in March. Alinghi, owned by Swiss billionaire Ernesto Bertarelli, won the America’s Cup in 2003 and 2007 but has not competed since 2010. Applying F1 expertise Team New Zealand chief executive Grant Dalton said applying more FI expertise to the foiling yachts promised to make the next edition of the America’s Cup one of the most exciting ever. “We are seeing the merging of two of the most technologically advanced sports in the world on land and on the water, which is only going to be a good thing for the competition and the growth of the sport and its audiences,” he said. The venue of the next America’s Cup in 2024 is yet to be determined, although Dalton has said it is unlikely to return to Auckland for financial reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/red-bull-ventures-into-sailing/article37965795.ece
16 December 2021||Dhaka,||Dilpreet ’tricks as India wins big||Striker Dilpreet Singh scored a hat-trick as defending champion India thrashed hosts Bangladesh 9-0 to register their first win in the Asian Champions Trophy men's hockey tournament here on Wednesday. Dilpreet (12th, 22nd and 45th) scored three field goals, while Jarmanpreet Singh (33rd, 43rd) struck a brace. In between Lalit Upadhayay (28th) deflected in a variation from vice-captain Harmanpreet Singh's flick from a penalty corner. Akashdeep Singh (54th) also found the net from a field effort before Mandeep Mor scored his debut goal for the country from a set piece in the 55th minute. If that was not enough, Harmanpreet also put his name on the scoresheet, perfectly converting India's 13th penalty corner in the 57th minute. Playing its first tournament with some new players after the historic Tokyo Olympics campaign, the Manpreet Singh-led India had earlier drawn 2-2 against Korea in the tournament opener on Tuesday. India next plays Pakistan in the round-robin stage here on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dilpreet-tricks-as-india-wins-big/article37965519.ece
16 December 2021||Huelva,||Prannoy cruises into third round||H.S. Prannoy registered a straight-game win over Daren Liew of Malaysia to reach the third round of the BWF World Badminton Championships here on Wednesday. Prannoy beat his Malaysian opponent 21-7, 21-17 in a men's singles second round match that lasted 42 minutes. Prannoy joined two other Indians, K. Srikanth and Lakshya Sen, in the men's singles pre-quarterfinals of the showpiece tournament. Prannoy faced little resistance from Liew in the first game. From 8-5, the Indian took eight straight points to zoom to 16-5 before pocketing it easily. The second game was more competitive and the two players were levelled at 6-6. But from there, Prannoy never fell behind as he cruised to 16-11. The Malaysian narrowed the gap but Prannoy was up 19-16 before pocketing the second game and the match. The women's doubles pair of Ashwini Ponnappa and N. Sikki Reddy also entered the third round after a hard-fought 21-11, 9-21, 21-13 win over the Chinese pair of Liu Xuan Xuan and Xia Yu Ting in a 51-minute second-round match. In the men's doubles, however, M.R. Arjun and Dhruv Kapila lost to 11th seed Russians Vladimir Ivanov and Ivan Sozonov 21-11, 21-16 in a second round match that lasted 41 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prannoy-cruises-into-third-round/article37965515.ece
16 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||We ignored mental health aspect, says Senthilnathan||Nathu Singh’s rise to prominence was one of the fairy tale stories of the post-IPL era. The MRF trainee was picked up by Mumbai Indians for Rs. 3.2 crores in the 2016 IPL auction. However, after making heads turn with his raw pace and swing, the Rajasthan bowler faded away and no longer plays First Class cricket. Nathu’s case is not an isolated one in Indian cricket and there are many others whose careers have gone off the boil, unable to handle money and fame. MRF pace foundation head coach M. Senthilnathan confesses that he is disappointed seeing some of the MRF trainees losing their focus. Disturbing trend “It is a disturbing trend. We have seen some of our trainees losing focus and fading away. They weren’t able to handle the pressure. IPL made some of them rich overnight, but they couldn’t handle it. Mentally they weren’t strong. “Nathu is a classic example of a talent going to waste. There are few others who need help. I have proposed to the MRF management that we should have sessions with sports psychologists for the trainees at the upcoming camp. Change the approach “Till now we concentrated only on their cricket and ignored the aspect of their mental health. We need to change our approach,’’ said Senthilnathan, who had come to watch the MRF trainees perform in the Vijay Hazare Trophy matches. Senthilnathan is pleased that MRF Pace Foundation has played a pioneering role in making India rich in the pace bowling department. Quite pleased “We have a big pool of talent now. There are at least eight to 10 players who are capable of donning the Indian colours. I am happy to be part of this endeavour. “The pandemic prevented us from holding our customary camps, but we kept in touch with the trainees through social media tools and gave them workouts to follow. “They were asked to send videos of their practice sessions and we monitored their progress. If things fall in place we will have a physical camp this summer,” he said. Senthilnathan is disappointed that no big talents are emerging from Kerala and wants Kerala Cricket Association to act swiftly to address this issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-ignored-mental-health-aspect-says-senthilnathan/article37965615.ece
16 December 2021||KOVILPATTI,||Junior National men’s hockey from today||It may be a small industrial town in Thoothukudi District famous for groundnut candies and matchsticks, but Kovilpatti’s contribution to hockey has been immense. The State-level tournaments began here as early as 1946 and a hockey stadium was constructed in 1960 with support from Lakshmi Mills. Then, the G. Kuppuswamy memorial tournament ran for 55 years before it was stopped due to a lack of funds in 1999. The sport continues to thrive with the Lakshmi Ammal All-India tournament that completed its 11th edition in 2019. Quite a few players have gone on to represent Tamil Nadu from the region. The Junior National men’s hockey championship to be held at the artificial turf here from Dec. 16 to 25, it is hoped, will provide a major fillip to the sport. The event will be held here for the first time. P. Guruchitra Shanmuga Bharathi, secretary of the Thoothukudi District Hockey Association, said the Nationals has come at the right time. Good time “It has come at a good time for us with the COVID-19 largely behind us. And moreover, two junior players from TN, who are in the current India camp, will be playing here. We have conducted a makeshift gallery that could accommodate 5000 people.” The teams have been divided into eight pools and the winner from each pool will make it to the quarterfinals.  Groupings: Pool A: Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan.   B: Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand.   C: Haryana, Bengal, Telangana, Tripura.   D: Chandigarh, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Mizoram.   E: Punjab, Maharashtra, Kerala, Arunachal.   F: Tamil Nadu, Himachal, Jammu & Kashmir; Andaman & Nicobar.   G: Delhi, Manipur, LE Puducherry, Gujarat.   H: Jharkhand, Bihar, Assam, Goans .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/junior-mens-national-hockey-begins-today/article37965619.ece
16 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Hyderabad Strikers pips Bengaluru Spartans||Vishnu Vardhan and Karman Kaur guided Hyderabad Strikers to a 42-38 victory over Bengaluru Spartans in the Tennis Premier League at the Celebration Club on Wednesday. It was the second victory for the Hyderabad team which had earlier beaten Rajasthan Tigers 46-31. Pune Jaguars also won its second match as it beat Tigers 46-34, thanks to Rutuja Bhosale and Saketh Myneni.  The results: Pune Jaguars bt Rajasthan Tigers 46-34 (Rutuja Bhosale bt Diana Marcinkevica 11-9; Saketh Myneni bt Aryan Goveas 12-8; Ishaque Eqbal & Rutuja bt Prajnesh Gunneswaran & Diana 12-8; Saketh & Ishaque bt Prajnesh & Aryan 11-9).   Hyderabad Strikers bt Bengaluru Spartan 42-38 (Karman Kaur bt Sabina Sharipova 11-9; Arjun Kadhe lost to Sriram Balaji 9-14; Vishnu Vardhan & Karman bt Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan & Sharipova 11-9; Vishnu & Arjun bt Jeevan & Balaji 11-6).   Hyderabad Strikers bt Rajasthan Tigers 46-31 (Karman lost to Diana 9-11; Arjun bt Prajnesh 11-6; Vishnu & Karman bt Aryan & Diana 15-5; Arjun & Vishnu bt Aryan & Prajnesh 11-9).   Mumbai Leon Army bt Bengaluru Spartans 41-39 (Sowjanya Bavisetti bt Sabina 12-8; Ramanathan Ramkumr bt Balaji 11-9; Sowjanya & Niki Poonacha lost to Jeevan & Sabina 8-12; Ramkumar & Niki tied Jeevan & Balaji 10-10) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/strikers-pip-spartans/article37965621.ece
16 December 2021||Kochi,||Kerala to have its second State table tennis championship||Three weeks after the Table Tennis Association of Kerala's State championship in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala will have its second State meet in Kochi this weekend. The Kerala Table Tennis Association's State championship will be held at the Rajiv Gandhi indoor stadium here on December 18 and 19. The KTTA, which has been in existence for more than 60 years, is recognised by the Kerala State Sports Council, but not by the national body TTFI hence the State champions of the Kochi event will not be able to play any National championships. Nearly four years ago, the TTFI disaffiliated the KTTA and gave its official backing to the newly formed TTAK and hence only players from the latter association can play National championships. The issues between the two associations are now in various courts, including the Supreme Court.  “The cases are one thing, the players another. We are abiding by the rules kept by the sports council that we have to conduct the State championships, so we are conducting it. “After this, it's a full stop for us because the gates (for National championships) are closed,” said Vijay KTTA secretary Arjandas Lulla on Wednesday. Freedom to players “That is why we have given players the freedom, whoever wants to go for TTAK championships can go. Those who are active, we let them play TTAK events so that they can qualify to play the Nationals. But here if you play, you get grace marks and certificates.” Second-string players With that being the situation, almost all the top stars played in the recent TTAK championship and the KTTA's event, where nearly 200 players are expected, is likely to loaded with second-string players. “Sixty-four players from Kerala (all through TTAK) will be playing in the South Zone national-ranking tournament which begins in Puducherry on December 20,” said TTAK secretary Michael Mathai. With such a big crowd going to Puducherry, there could be very few quality players in Kochi. Clearly, the players deserve a quick end to the disputes between the two associations which is hurting the sport in a big way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-to-have-its-second-state-table-tennis-championship/article37965842.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI:,||Leopard Rock judiciously prepared||Leopard Rock, who has been judiciously prepared, may score in the Stewards Trophy (1,200m), the feature event of the opening day’s races to be held here on Thursday (Dec. 16)  SENTOSA COVE HANDICAP (Div. II), (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 1.15 p.m.: 1. Pappa Rich (2) Sai Vamsi 60, 2. Kings Show (5) C. Umesh 59, 3. Full Bloom (4) Farid Ansari 57.5, 4. Rush More (7) A. Ayaz Khan 56.5, 5. Daiyamondo (8) S. Kamble 54.5, 6. God’s Wish (3) Manikandan 54, 7. Renzaccio (9) S. Kabdhar 54, 8. Fabulous Show (6) P. Sai Kumar 53.5 and 9. Sifan (1) Ishwar Singh 53.5.  1. DAIYAMONDO, 2. FULL BLOOM, 3. KINGS SHOW   BABYLON HANDICAP (1,000m), Maiden 3-y-o only, rated 20 to 45, 1.45: 1. Valeska (2) Nikhil Naidu 60, 2. Anastasia (4) Yash Narredu 59.5, 3. Come Calling (10) K.V. Baskar 59.5, 4. War Chieftain (1) C. Umesh 59.5, 5. Bay Of Naples (9) P. Sai Kumar 58.5, 5. Masterpiece (5) Akshay Kumar 58.5, 7. Sovereign Power (3) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 8. Amarone (6) Dhanu Singh 58, 9. First Empress (7) Rajendra Singh 58 and 10. Beauregard (8) C. Brisson 57.5.  1. VALESKA, 2. ANASTASIA,   3. BAY OF NAPLES   THEOLOGY HANDICAP (Div. II), (1,000m), rated 20 to 45, 2.15: 1. Kristalina (8) C. Brisson 60, 2. Annexed (7) Shahar Babu 58, 3. Flying Safe (9) Yash Narredu 55, 4. Glorious Symphony (5) Inayat 54.5, 5. Platini (1) M. Bhaskar 53.5, 6. Tifosi (6) Dhanu Singh 53, 7. Uncle Sam (2) Ashhad Asbar 53, 8. Priceless Treasure (3) R. Manish 51 and 9. Ocarina (4) Md. Farhan Alam 50.5.  1. FLYING SAFE,   2. GLORIOUS SYMPHONY,   3. KRISTALINA   THEOLOGY HANDICAP (Div. I), (1,000m), rated 20 to 45, 2.45: 1. Amore (5) S. Kabdhar 60, 2. Empress Eternal (2) Nakhat Singh 59.5, 3. Strong Breeze (6) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 4. Glorious Legend (7) Nikhil Naidu 59, 5. Star Proof (1) N. Murugan 59, 6. William Wallace (4) Yash Narredu 59, 7. Fiat Justitia (3) Shahzad Alam 58 and 8. Epistoiary (8) Manikandan 54.5.  1. EMPRESS ETERNAL,   2. STRONG BREEZE,   3. WILLIAM WALLACE   APACHE HANDICAP (1,000m), rated 40 to 65, 3.15: 1. Lordship (7) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Strom Flag (12) Shaliyar Khan 59, 3. Mon General (6) S. Kabdhar 58.5, 4. Shalem (11) C. Umesh 57.5, 5. Celeritas (8) M.S. Deora 56, 6. Corona Del Corsa (5) S. Mubarak 54.5, 7. Skylight (2) Kuldeep Singh 53.5, 8. Lady Royal (10) Nikhil Naidu 52.5, 9. Rippling Waters (1) Nakhat Singh 52.5, 10. Rhiannon (9) Koshi Kumar 52, 11. Pacific (3) Manikandan 51.5 and 12. Proud (4) Ashhad Asbar 51.  1. SKYLIGHT, 2. LADY ROYAL,   3. SHALEM   STEWARDS TROPHY (1,200m), rated 80 & above, 3.45: 1. Mzilikazi (5) C. Umesh 60, 2. Tudor Treasure (4) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 3. Leopard Rock (1) Yash Narredu 57.5, 4. Gods Plan (6) P. Sai Kumar 56, 5. Wakeful (2) Dhanu Singh 56, 6. Glorious Destiny (7) Md. Farhan Alam 54 and 7. Emelda (3) Akshay Kumar 52.5.  1. LEOPARD ROCK, 2. MZILIKAZI, 3. WAKEFUL   SENTOSA COVE HANDICAP (Div. I), (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 4.15: 1. Star Fling (7) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Trending Princess (4) Dhanu Singh 59.5, 3. Chaitanya (9) Ishwar Singh 57, 4. Red Hot Jet (6) Kuldeep Singh 57, 5. Otus (1) Nakhat Singh 56.5, 6. Queens Hall (2) C. Umesh 55.5, 7. Grey Twilight (8) Koshi Kumar 55, 8. Break The Silence (5) R. Manish 53 and Choir (3) M.S. Deora 52.5.  1. STAR FLING, 2. QUEENS HALL, 3. TRENDING PRINCESS   FIRST TO THE POST HANDICAP (1,200m), 4-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25, 4.45: 1. Mayflower (5) Kuldeep Singh 60, 2. Moonlight Night (9) P. Sai Kumar 59, 3. Lord Of The Turf (4) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 4. Romantic Bay (-) (-) 58.5, 5. Sunday Warrior (1) Md. Farhan Alam 58.5, 6. Wild Passion (8) Farid Ansari 58.5, 7. Golden Streak (2) Inayat 58, 8. Samdaniya (6) S. Kamble 57.5, 9. Amazing Kitten (3) Shahar Babu 57 and 10. Star Chieftain (7) R. Manish 52.5.  1. MOONLIGHT NIGHT, 2. MAYFLOWER, 3. AMAZING KITTEN  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Mini Jkt: 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tr (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii): 4, 5 & 6; (iii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/leopard-rock-judiciously-prepared/article37965626.ece
16 December 2021||Coimbatore,||Drivers raring to go for Chander Memorial Rally||After the riders kicked up dust in the INRC Rally of Coimbatore at Kethanur last week, it’s time for the drivers to exhibit their patience and skills in the 22nd Chander Memorial Regularity Rally to be held here on Sunday. Organised by the Coimbatore Auto Sports Club (CASC), the rally incidentally is also the fifth South Zone qualifying round for the JK Tyre FMSCI Indian National Regularity Run Championship (INRRC) 2021. That has added to the excitement as the drivers will try hard to secure a berth for the final round at Siliguri next year. Top drivers to take part Top drivers and navigators such as Karthik Maruthi, Sankar Anand, Santhosh Kumar, Nagaraj, M.K. Mustafa, M. Prakash and B.M. Ravi have confirmed their participation. The rally is sponsored primarily by the M.K. Chander Memorial Trust, in memory of M.K. Chander, who had navigated in over 100 rallies in both two and four wheelers. He was an inspiration to many youngsters JK Tyres and SGA are the others backing the big show. The Regularity rally is run on a Time Speed and Distance (TSD) format and this year’s event covers a distance of approximately 100km. It will start from Naickenpalayam and traverse through other areas before finishing at Othakalmandapam. This year’s rally, which is expected to create awareness on road safety, will have an open and a novice class besides a separate class for all ladies. It will be flagged off by Coimbatore Collector Dr. G.S. Sameeran from the Cosmopolitan Club at 8 a.m. For details, contact CASC at 98435 44242.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/drivers-raring-to-go-for-chander-memorial-rally/article37965627.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Two teams in search of an elusive win||Bengaluru FC (BFC) and ATK Mohun Bagan (ATKMB) will hope to return to winning ways when they meet in an Indian Super League (ISL) clash at the Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Thursday. While BFC has lost its last three games, ATK Mohun Bagan has only managed to record one point in its last three outings. BFC has just the single win to show in six matches, and has conceded a worrying 12 goals in total. BFC has also struggled in attack, with Brazilian Cleiton Silva being the lone hope up front. India star Sunil Chhetri, yet to find the net, has been off colour. “ATK Mohun Bagan are a quality team with players like Roy Krishna, Manvir Singh and Liston Colaco. They are a very good side who play well on the counter, and we need to make sure that we are well organised and prepared for any attack,” BFC head coach Marco Pezzaiuoli stated on Wednesday. BFC will be without Suresh Wangjam, who is serving a one-match suspension for his red card against FC Goa. Pezzaiuoli stated that winger Leon Augustine and defender Yrondu Musavu-King will be out till January due to injuries. ATK MB, with seven points from five games, will look to break into the top-four in the points table. There are concerns surrounding Hugo Boumous’s form, who has not scored after recording a brace early in the campaign. ATK MB’s Fijian striker Roy Krishna is set to become the 21st foreigner to reach 50 ISL appearances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/two-teams-in-search-of-an-elusive-win/article37965557.ece
16 December 2021||Mumbai:,||Grand Accord should make amends||Trainer Karthik Ganapathy’s Grand Accord, who ran third in his last start, should make amends in the Sir Charles Forbes Trophy, the chief event of the opening day’s races of Mumbai racing season here on Thursday (Dec. 16). Rails will be placed 4 metres wide from 1200m to 1000m and thereafter 7 metres wide upto the winning post.  MAPLE STAR PLATE (1,600m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30 — 2.00 p.m.: 1. Chieftain (1) T.S. Jodha 59, 2. Majorella Blue (6) Peter 58.5, 3. Hawk Eye (10) Akshay 57.5, 4. Sky Storm (9) Sandesh 57.5, 5. Alpha Gene (7) A. Prakash 56.5, 6. Hela (2) Bhawani 56.5, 7. Mascara (8) Parmar 55.5, 8. Power Of Thor (5) Dashrath 55, 9. Genau (4) Nadeem 52.5 and 10. Patriots Day (3) Raghuveer 49.  1. CHIEFTAIN, 2. HELA, 3. MASCARA   SIR CHARLES FORBES TROPHY (1,600m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward — 2.30: 1. Sultan Suleiman (1) T.S. Jodha 60, 2. Grand Accord (2) Bhawani 58 and 3. Flying Visit (3) Kirtish 56.  1. GRAND ACCORD   MASTER SHIFU PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, 4-y- & over, rated 20 to 46 — 3.00: 1. Red Carnation (10) Aniket 60.5, 2. El Capitan (8) Kirtish 60, 3. Beemer (3) S. Amit 58.5, 4. Mandeville (12) P.S. Chouhan 58.5, 5. Trinket (6) Bhawani 57, 6. Raechelles Pride (4) Mudassar Nazar 56, 7. Periwinkle (11) A. Prakash 54.5, 8. Gilt Edge (9) P. Vinod 54, 9. Peppoli (1) Parmar 54, 10. Remus (5) Sandesh 53.5, 11. Speculator (2) Peter 53, 12. Myrcella (13) Zeeshan 52.5 and 13. Seminole (7) T.S. Jodha 52.  1. REMUS, 2. EL CAPITAN, 3. RED CARNATION   M.D. PETIT PLATE (1,800m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 3.30: 1. Circle Of Love (5) Sandesh 59, 2. Tasman (1) Parmar 57.5, 3. Chopin (4) Neeraj 57, 4. Ladida (6) Bhawani 57, 5. Treasure Gold (3) T.S. Jodha 56, 6. Fairmont (7) Peter 54 and 7. Song Song Blue (2) Aniket 51.  1. CIRCLE OF LOVE, 2. TREASURE GOLD, 3. CHOPIN   AHMED I. RAHIMTOOLA TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86 — 4.00: 1. Hidden Gold (5) Parmar 59.5, 2. Joaquin (2) Zervan 53, 3. Excellent Gold (4) Dashrath 52.5, 4. Mount Moriah (3) Neeraj 51.5, 5. Sunrise Ruby (1) P.S. Chouhan 51.5 and 6. Aegon (6) T.S. Jodha 50.5.  1. JOAQUIN, 2. MOUNT MORIAH   MULRAJ GOCULDAS TROPHY (1,400m) Maiden, 3-y-o only, rated 20 to 46 — 4.30: 1. Monarchy (2) Kirtish 59, 2. Multiencrypted (6) Parmar 58, 3. Dark Secret (1) Zervan 57.5, 4. Lord And Master (4) P.S. Chouhan 57.5, 5. Lord Vader (9) Rupesh 57.5, 6. Redifined (10) Neeraj 57.5, 7. Sentinel (3) Bhawani 57.5, 8. Angels Trumpet (8) T.S. Jodha 56, 9. Camden Town (5) P. Dhebe 56 and 10. Esfir (7) Zeeshan 54.5.  1. MONARCHY, 2. LORD AND MASTER, 3. DARK SECRET   BEJAN BHARUCHA PLATE (1,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30 — 5.00: 1. Emrys (2) Parmar 62, 2. Sun Gold (8) Kirtish 62, 3. Viva La Vida (6) Shahrukh 62, 4. Tail Event (1) Zeeshan 60.5, 5. Zarriya (14) Mosin 60.5, 6. Magical Rays (13) Nadeem 60, 7. Windy City (10) Sandesh 59.5, 8. Baku (3) Mudassar Nazar 58.5, 9. Little More (11) Dashrath 57.5, 10. Princess Snow (12) Aniket 57, 11. La Peregrina (4) Bhawani 56.5, 12. Suited Aces (9) A. Prakash 53, 13. Arabian Storm (5) Raghuveer 50.5 and 14. Thea’s Pet (7) Ayyar 50.  1. EMRYS, 2. SUN GOLD, 3. WINDY CITY  Day’s Best: JOAQUIN  Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. Treble: 4,5 & 6. Tanala: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. Super Jackpot: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/grand-accord-should-make-amends/article37965947.ece
16 December 2021||Barcelona,||Tearful Aguero announces retirement||Fighting back tears, Barcelona striker Sergio Aguero announced his immediate retirement on Wednesday for health reasons. The 33-year-old Argentina striker underwent heart tests after leaving the field, holding his chest, during Barcelona's match against Alaves in the Spanish league on October 30. His condition has since been evaluated, and a sobbing Aguero said at a Camp Nou press conference — attended by Barcelona players and board members, family and former colleagues — that he had decided to stop playing. "I'd like to stay here and keep helping my teammates," Aguero said, "but things happen for a reason." Aguero said he made the decision 10 days ago. He was told after his first heart test that there was a big possibility he could not play again. He took deep breaths and shook his head before making the announcement, then looked on in sadness as a highlight reel of his career highlights was shown on the screen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tearful-aguero-announces-retirement/article37965510.ece
16 December 2021||PUNE,||Impressive outings for Karnataka, Chandigarh||Karnataka and Chandigarh registered thumping victories on the fifth day of the 11th Hockey India senior men’s National championship here on Wednesday. While Karnataka scored a 14-0 win over Arunachal in Pool C, Chandigarh trounced Tripura 23-0 in Pool E. In other matches, Le Puducherry Hockey ended its campaign with a 5-1 win over Hockey Jammu and Kashmir while in Pool D, Andhra Pradesh registered a 4-1 victory over Uttarakhand. In the last Pool E match of the competition, Manipur defeated Rajasthan 7-3 and Haryana eased past Delhi 3-0. Andaman and Nicobar forfeited its Pool D game against Punjab, which was awarded a 5-0 win by default and qualified for the quarterfinal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/impressive-wins-for-karnataka-chandigarh/article37965520.ece
16 December 2021||Tashkent [Uzbekistan],||Punam wins silver||India’s Punam Yadav won the women’s 76kg silver in the Commonwealth weightlifting championships here on Tuesday. Punam lifted 220kg (98+122) and was seventh in the World championships, being held concurrently. R. Arockiya Alish clinched the bronze with an effort of 214kg (91+123). Canada’s Maya Laylor won the Commonwealth gold with a total lift of 229kg (99+130). Earlier, Vikas Thakur claimed the 96kg bronze in the Commonwealth championships. The seven-time National champion had a combined lift of 339kg (150+189). India has so far won 12 medals, including three golds. However, the Indians have won only one medal — a clean and jerk gold — at the Worlds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/punam-yadav-wins-silver/article37965625.ece
16 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Thiruvananthapuram cyclists dominate||Cyclists from Thiruvananthapuram dominated the show by winning the lion’s share of the gold medals which were at stake on the opening day of the State track cycling championships here on Wednesday.   The results: Men Elite: 1000m individual time trial: 1. Abhinanth Murali (KCA) (1:12:598), 2. R.J. Sujith (Tvm), 3. L. Gokul (Tvm).   Boys: Under-18: 1000m individual time trial: V.R. Akash (Tvm) (1:13:158), 2. S.P. Abhiram (KCA), 3. Amos Joseph (Koz); 10km scratch race: 1. Nandhu Krishna (Tvm) (12:20.185), 2. S.S. Adwaith Sankar (Tvm), 3. S.P. Abhiram (KCA).   Under-16: 500m individual time trial: 1. Atharva Ashok Patil (Tvm) (0:38:217), 2. Avinash Sreedhar (Ktm), 3. Muhammad Rahoof (Ekm); 2000m individual pursuit: 1.P.S. Avinash Sreedhar (Ktm) (2:24:484), 2. Keith Stanly (Ekm), 3. Ashiq Sojan (Idk).   Under-14: 500m individual time trial: Rishab Shyam (Ekm) (0:41:274), 2. V.S. Vaishnav (Tvm), 3. Abhishek Nair (Ekm).   Women Elite: 500m individual time trial: 1. K.J. Kalyani (Tvm) (0:42:866), 2. Athulya K. Sudhakaran (Tsr), 3. Arya Vinod (KCA).   Girls: Under-18: 500m individual time trial: 1. K. Sneha (Tvm) (0:43:785), 2. P.M. Nayan (Idk), 3. Angitha Manoj (Tsr).   Under-16: 500m individual time trial: 1. A.K. Karthika (Tvm) (0:44:378), 2. Niya Sebastian (Wyd), 3. Alanis Lilly Cubeleo (Ekm); 200m individual pursuit: 1. Srushti Kumbhoje (Tvm) (3:07:366), 2. Alanis Lilly Cubeleo, 3. Niya Sebastian (Wyd).   Under-14: 1. Anaxiya Mariya (Idk) (0:46.010), 2. S. Vaishnav (Tvm), 3. Abhishek S. Nair (Ekm) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thiruvananthapuram-cyclists-dominate/article37965846.ece
16 December 2021||Chennai:,||Aparajith in for Hari Nishaanth||B. Aparajith will replace C. Hari Nishaanth in the Tamil Nadu squad for the knockout stages of the Vijay Hazare Trophy in Jaipur next week. The all-rounder missed the league phase due to his India-A duties to South Africa where he played in two First Class matches. Tamil Nadu topped Elite Group B and booked a place in the quarterfinals where it is slated to meet the winner of the pre-quarterfinals match between Karnataka and Rajasthan. Natarajan to build cricket ground Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu left-arm pacer T. Natarajan took to social media to announce that he is building a new cricket ground in his native village near Salem. The left-arm pacer made headlines last year making his India debut in all three formats on the tour to Australia. He already runs a cricket academy that has helped nurture talent who have done well in the TNPL and even play for the State team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aparajith-in-for-nishaanth/article37965609.ece
16 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Bhavesh hits century||Bhavishya Bhavesh Patel’s 100 (218b, 21x4) helped Baroda score 315 for eight in reply to Karnataka’s 607 for six declared on the third day of the four-day Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) Elite Group E match at Kandukuri Cricket Academy here on Wednesday.  The scores:   Karnataka 607/6 decl. in 133.4 overs vs Baroda 315/8 in 135 overs (Bhavishya Bhavesh Patel 100, Yatharth Ghunchala 44, Tasmay Bedade 39, Priyanshu Moliya 33, K. Shashi Kumar 3/82).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhavesh-hits-century/article37965554.ece
16 December 2021||DOHA,||Dev Javia bows out||Dev Javia lost 0-6, 3-6 to top seed Hsu Yu Hsiou of Chinese Taipei in the first round of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament. In doubles, Adil Kalyanpur and Sasikumar Mukund knocked out second seeds Ray Ho and Sidane Pontjodikromo 6-3, 7-6(1).  Other results:   $15,000 ITF men, Doha, Qatar: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Haoyuan Huang (Chn) & Tsung-Hao Huang (Tpe) bt Shahbaaz Khan & Shashank Theertha 7-6(4), 6-1.   Patrik Niklas-Salminen (Fin) & Lorenzo Rottoli (Ita) bt Dev Javia & Rishi Reddy 6-1, 7-5.   $15,000 ITF women, Cancun, Mexico: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Eleonore Tchakarova & Varginie Tchakarova (Bul) bt Lia Karatancheva (Bul) & Sahaja Yamalapalli 2-1, retd.   $15,000 ITF women, Giza, Egypt: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Ya Yi Yang (Tpe) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi bt Hana El Deeb & Dareen Elleithy (Egy) 6-2, 3-2, retd.   $15,000 ITF women, Antalya, Turkey: Singles (first round): Ilay Yoruk (Tur) bt Annika Kannan 6-1, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dev-javia-bows-out/article37965558.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian bridge team wins||The Indian team of Sumit Mukherjee, Jaggy Shivdasani, Keyzad Ankelsaria, Sundeep Thakral, Rajeswar Tewari and Debabrata Majumder defeated UAE to win the Asia and Middle East bridge championship. India scored 99 IMPs while UAE had 42 IMPs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-bridge-team-wins/article37965695.ece
16 December 2021||Vadodara:,||Delhi has Kerala on the mat||Delhi enforced the follow-on after Kerala was dismissed for 337 in the first innings of their Cooch Behar Trophy encounter here on Wednesday. Kerala was 16 for two at stumps on the penultimate day, still trailing by 198 runs.  The scores: Delhi 541/7 decl. vs Kerala 327 in 118.5 overs (Rohan Nair 81, Varun Nayanar 46, Niranjan V. Dev 44, Abhishek J. Nair 30, Parteek 3/83) & 16/2 in nine overs .    The inter-Ministry badminton tournament will be held at the AIIMS Gymkhana from December 27 to January 7. Entries close on December 17. Further details can be had from the Central Civil Services Cultural and Sports Board at Lok Nayak Bhavan, Khan Market, New Delhi-110 003. Phone: 011-24624204.   Goldy and Sunil scored four goals each as Ritu Rani Academy, Patiala, beat OP Jindal Schol, Raigarh, 14-0 in a pool B match of the Steelbird 38th Nehru sub-junior hockey.  The results (league): Ritu Rani Academy, Patiala, 18 (Goldy 4, Sunil 4, Taranjot Singh 2, Rohit Singh 2, Bharat Kaushik 2, Chirag Sharma, Karambir Singh, Parveen Kumar, Mandeep) bt OP JIndal School, Raigarh, 0.   Government Boys Senior Secondary School, Ghumanhera, 14 (Mohammed Jaeed 4, Nishant 3, Priyash 2, Kunal Chhikara 2, Nama Sharma, Jay, Harish Phalswal) bt Janata High School, Mapusa, 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delhi-has-kerala-on-the-mat/article37965692.ece
16 December 2021||CHENNAI,||Second straight win for TN||Tamil Nadu women scripted a 88-60 win over Karnataka in the South Zone National basketball qualifiers here on Wednesday, for its second successive triumph.  The results: Men: Telangana 122 (Raju 37, Kaushik 25, Ambati 21) bt Andhra Pradesh 95 (Intiyaz 21, Kumar Varma 17, Harsha 13); Kerala 68 (Jishnu 16, Sejin 14, Shiras 13) bt Puducherry 26 (Gokul 10).   Women: Tamil Nadu 88 (Aishwarya 21, Nishanthini 18, Dharshini 18) bt Karnataka 60 (Chandana 14, Sahana 12, Sanjana 12); Telangana 77 (Gulabshali 27, Anbarasi 17, Pushpa 15) bt Kerala 70 (Kavitha 28, Sree Kala 23) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/second-win-for-tn-women/article37965608.ece
16 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India set to host U-18 SAFF, U-19 C'ships in 2022||After hosting the AFC Women's Asian Cup football tournament in January-February, India is all set to host two more international tournaments — the SAFF Under-18 Women's Championship 2022 (March 3-14), and the SAFF Under-19 Championship 2022 (July 25-August 3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-set-to-host-u-18-saff-u-19-cships-in-2022/article37965410.ece
16 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Shivansh cracks century||Shivansh Sharma cracked 101 (163b, 17x4, 1x6) for Jammu & Kashmir against Mumbai, but could not prevent the latter from recording an innings and 168-run win on the third day of the four-day Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) cricket championship Elite Group E match here on Wednesday. J & K scored 212 in the first innings, only to be asked to follow-on and was bowled out for 175 in the second essay.  The scores: Mumbai 555/9 decl. in 135 overs vs J&K 212 in 79.2 overs (Shivansh Sharma 101, Amanullah Manihar 5/59) & Jammu & Kashmir 175 in 54 overs (Arya Thakur 69, Abid Hussain 34, Musheer Khan 5/41, Amanullah Manihar 3/37) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shivansh-cracks-century/article37965946.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Akhil slams century||V. Akhil cracked 124 (59b, 12x4, 7x6) to help Vizag Veterans Cricket Club score a 73-run win over Visakhapatnam Port Sports Council (VPSC) in the eighth United CC Friends memorial T20 tournament here on Wednesday.  The scores:   Vizag Veterans 221/5 in 20 overs (V. Akhil 124, R. Thatha Babu 45) bt VPSC 148/6 in 20 overs (N. Syam Sundar 57).   East Godavari DCA 182 in 19.5 overs (A.V.V. Vijay 82, K. Nagendra Sai 42, N. Satish 4/19) bt Vizianagaram DCA 174/8 in 20 overs (P. Tapaswi 63, S. Harish 62).   Gajuwaka Greens 178/8 in 20 overs (M. Chandra Shekhar 51, K.V. Ram Kishore 47, Y. Jagadish 3/32) bt Visakhapatnam Steel Plant 111/9 in 20 overs (A.P. Kiro 46, M. Madhav Rayudu 3/27, L. Sravan Kumar 3/14).   Victoria 39 in 12.2 overs (K.S.V. Sasank 3/6, H. Vatekar 3/10) lost to Royal 41/1 in 9.2 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akhil-slams-century/article37965999.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Akaash calls the shots||Akaash Ashok Kumar defeated R. Kishan 447–391 to win the Karnataka State-ranking tenpin bowling tournament on Wednesday. In the final played on the cumulative pinfall of two games format, Akaash took a lead of 31 pins in the first game (248-217) before scoring 199 (to 174) in the second to triumph.  Special prizes: Highest Average in 6-game block: Men: Akaash Ashok Kumar (225). Women: R. Chethana (179.83); Highest-ranked woman: Chethana .    A.R. Krishnan’s century (127) was instrumental in Jayanagar Colts’ thumping 117-run win over Young Pioneer CC in the KSCA (Group I) fourth division league.  The scores: Sangam CA 238 in 49.5 overs (Shaik Laiquddin 27, K. Lakshmi Sagar 57, H. Raghu 35, Nikhil Naik 61, R.J. Mankalesh 3/38, Shridhar Jagatap 3/35) lost to Friends XI CC, Doddaballapura 239/9 in 49 overs (R.R. Rohan 48, Sankar Jain 71, S. Nirmal 50, Nikhil Naik 3/37).   Standard CC 89 in 27.5 overs (K.S. Somashekara Murthy 4/44, Syed Asif Pasha 3/12) lost to Silky Town CC, Channapatna 95/6 in 25.3 overs (Viren V. Chawla 4/44).   Jayanagar Colts 293/7 in 50 overs (A.R. Krishnan 127, M. Karthik 41, Nagesh V.Rao 46, Zainul Abideen 26 n.o., T.R. Rakesh 3/53) bt Young Pioneer CC 176 in 39.1 overs (K. Vijay Kumar 77, Haneesh 26, B.R. Sunil Kumar 38, K.P. Mahesh 4/36, Prakash Chennaiah 3/41).   Young Challenging Cricketers 159 in 48.3 overs (Aarush Mehrotra 27, M. Prajwal 28, V.P. Neeraj 51, Dilip Kumar 5/29) lost to Jayanagar United Cricketers 160/5 in 39.4 overs (Tejaswy Kolchippu 51, Adithya Rajawaj 33 n.o., Vinod Ravi 27 n.o.).   Elite Blues CC 254/4 in 50 overs (Ajay G.Suresh 113 n.o., Keshav Kumar 40, Sammon Ali 33) lost to Shanthinagar Cricketers 212/7 in 41 overs (Mayank Dadhwal 42, Suhasa Adiga 100). [Target revised to 209 in 41 overs following rain].   YFA SC 337/9 in 50 overs (Sairam 68, A. Bhaskaran 112, Binesh Nair 30, Anil K. Vishwanath 72, Rajesh Ramaswamy 3/71) bt Jayanagar Cricketers 202 in 45.4 overs (S. Abhishek Reddy 34, Keerthi Vardhan 70, Aman Mallya 32, Binesh Nair 3/17).   Blue Diamond Cricketers 146 in 39.5 overs (Onkar Prasad 29, A.G. Anshuman 49, M. Jeevan 6/35) lost to Whirlwind Cricketers 90/4 in 22 overs (Prajwal P.Gowda 33 n.o.) [on better run rate after rain stopped play].   City Gymkhana 298 in 49.5 overs (Robin Joseph 73, N. Nandan Gowda 30, Sandipan Roy 29, C.P. Tharesh 26 n.o., Imran Pasha 4/71) bt Wadiyar CC 204 in 40.1 overs (Imran Pasha 54, G. Kashyap 36, C. Kavin 51, Sandipan Roy 5/28).   BEL Colony RC 85 in 36.5 overs (J. Diyaan 25 n.o. H.S. Sathish Kumar 3/19) lost to Merchants CC (1) 89/3 in 14.3 overs (B.Y. Yashas 32 n.o.).   South End SC 422/9 in 50 overs (K. Mahesh 84, Karan Jhadav 204, Gagan Krishna Kumar 36, Sahil Abdul Majeed Sawda 31) bt Select Cricketers 227 in 37.4 overs (A.C. Varshith 52, Siddarth Kashyap 62, G. Sujith 42 n.o., G. Mukund 4/66).   Palar SC, Kolar 247 in 47.5 overs (Guruprasad Swamy 79, Abu 44, Asit Kumar 34, Pinkesh Mahendra Shah 33, J. Suroop 4/53) bt Indiranagar Cricketers 159 in 39.5 overs (R. Srivatsa 32, Rakesh Shetty 45, Rakesh Patel 3/28, Pinkesh Mahendra Shah 3/18).   Magadi CC 162 in 34.1 overs (A.R. Koushal 46, G.N. Darpanraj Somayaji 38, Manish Kumar 3/41, Pavan Kumar 3/25) bt Young Lions Club 136 in 32.5 overs (Deepak Shanker 49, Venu Madhav 25, Yoga N.Reddy 3/30, B. Shashank Bharadwaj 3/16).    Rijohn Jose’s second-half strike was enough for FC Deccan to carve out a narrow 1-0 win over Bangalore Dream United FC in the BDFA Super Division League on Wednesday.  The results: FC Deccan 1 (Rijohn Jose 61) bt Bangalore Dream United FC 0; Thanco’s Students Union FC 1 (Aaryan Amla 20) drew with Bangalore Independents FC 1 (Bibin Babu 24) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akaash-calls-the-shots/article37965556.ece
16 December 2021||Surat:,||Venkat, Thirumurugan share the spoils||P.R. Venkat Subramanian and V. Thirumurugan starred with five-wicket hauls for The Cricketers Club in its two-wicket win over Chrome CC in a low-scoring game of the CDCA second division league match held recently.  The scores: II div.: Chrome 33 in 16.4 overs (P.R. Venkat Subramanian 5/11, V. Thirumurugan 5/17) lost to The Cricketers Club 36/8 in 12.4 overs (K. Ashwath 3/12, R. Raj Kumar 3/12) .    The Harrington Cricket Academy is organising a State-level U-12 tournament from December 28. For entries, contact A. Harrington on 9384610083, 9444012725.   Maharashtra defeated Tamil Nadu by 10 wickets on the third day of the Cooch Behar (u-19) Trophy here on Wednesday. Resuming at nine for no loss, TN was bowled out for 191 in its second innings leaving Maharashtra to chase only 61 to win the match outright.  The scores: Tamil Nadu 195 & 191 in 82 overs (A. Badrinath 68, Abhishek Nishad 3/47) lost to Maharashtra 326 & 65/0 in 8.5 overs (Arshin Kulkarni 45 n.o.). Points: Maharashtra 7(20); Tamil Nadu 0(8) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/venkat-thirumurugan-share-the-spoils/article37965624.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Badminton: BAI series senior National-ranking tournament, qualifying rounds, Fireball BA, inauguration, 9.30 a.m., Smash Bounce (Korattur) & AIEMA (Ambattur), 9 a.m.   Basketball: South Zone National qualifiers, Nehru Indoor Stadium, 8 a.m. & 4.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article37965616.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 07:48 IST,||Sudoku — December 16, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-16-2021/article37966128.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||First action heroes||A brisk wind whips up the Tricolour fluttering atop the mast at the Victory War Memorial, Chennai. It is December 4, 50 years to the day the Indian Navy bombed Karachi harbour in Operation Trident. A group of Armed Forces veterans, bodies limber, spirits intact, sporting medals and regimental ties pores over an album filled with black-and-white photographs of men on the brink of manhood. At the war memorial, salutes and friendly fist-bumps are exchanged — the easy camaraderie of brothers-in-arms — a legacy of having served together and being part of veteran groups. These men are tiny integers in a war, a human tapestry of the time that Bangladesh was born, when Pakistani forces laid down arms in the largest military surrender since the Second World War. Among them is Commander PV Francis, a communications officer onboard the INS Katchall, a Petya-class frigate that was part of the task force for the operation. “I was a sub-lieutenant,” says the 74-year-old from a family that has seen action since the Great War. “Captain KN Zadu was at the helm and on November 30 we left Bombay for Okha, our fuel topped up, sailing in darkness along with the missile boats Nipat, Nirghat and Veer. It was a cold night when we headed in arrowhead formation for Karachi harbour.” Cdr Francis spent the time running seven storeys between the communications room and the bridge decoding secret messages from a series of envelopes that had to be opened at a particular time and place. Over the next couple of hours, two enemy ships were fired at and the Kiamari oil tanks at Karachi set afire. This victory has been commemorated as Navy Day since. By the time he returned to land a couple of days later, Okha had been bombed and Cdr Francis spent the night near Dwarka, warmed only by a bottle of brandy that the Jam Sahib had given before he had to confront the horrors of the sinking of the INS Khukri, the only Indian naval ship to be lost in war post-Independence. The torpedoed ship went down with nearly 200 men. “We buried some of them at sea, sewing them in weighted canvas. There wasn’t a dry eye on the ship.” The war lasted only 13 days but it had been in the making since Partition. Indian Armed Forces supported the Mukti Bahini, writing their own saga of courage in both theatres of war. Over phone from Kanchipuram, Wing Commander PK Ayre’s sprightly voice tells me how he and his squadron mates bombed a train full of enemy tanks, crossing the border at Bahawalpur in their Sukhoi Su-7. The 80-year-old who was born in Burma and raised in Bombay, lost his pilot father to an air crash over the Nilgiris but was not deterred from flying planes. “Commissioned in 1962, I was based in Halwara as a Flight Lieutenant with a ground attack squadron on the eve of the war. When the Commanding Officer got a call, my family comprising my wife, children, mother and grandmother-in-law were accommodated in a house that belonged to the Hero Cycles family. By the next morning Pakistani planes were bombing Srinagar, Adampur and Ambala. In retaliation we crossed over.” In the rich alluvial plains, fed by the Ganges, Brahmaputra and Meghna rivers where emerald rice fields criss-cross marshlands, the war was being fought both against the enemy and the unforgiving terrain. The Indian soldier’s only friend remained the common man, spurring him on with shouts of “Jai Bangla!” On the Eastern front It was to one such riverside in Tripura that Major-General Jose Manavalan, AVSM, then a 21-year-old 2nd Lieutenant arrived for the war, guitar in hand. “We stayed in tents from August to December and my seniors chided me asking if I’d come to fight a war or sing,” says Gen Manavalan who was posted to 4 Engineer Regiment as a platoon commander. “The bridges had been blown up and we had to transport men and ammunition across. We requisitioned country boats from locals and crossed at night navigating sandbanks with poles and oars. We were shot at often while recceing ferry points, but built roads under artillery fire, cleared minefields and made marboat bridges that moved with the tide. The aim was to get the Army across. All the while my parents in Delhi had no clue where I was.” Captain DP Ramachandran, military history enthusiast who raised the Colours of Glory Foundation, an NGO promoting awareness of the country’s military heritage, says his time with the 63 Cavalry, a tank regiment, was a “baptism by fire”. “The unit fought in all sectors of the war and this confounded the Pakistanis that they called us the Ghost Regiment. Once I was standing in the turret when we ran smack into the enemy. Both sides were surprised and we shot at each other. Retrieving one of my men, with flares lighting up the scene was quite a task and at the defence of Charkhai we had to fight the bog as well. We were ravenous by then and our prize for the victory was tea and biscuits. When we won the war we were stuffed with Bengali sweets,” he says. Beyond the scenes of action were also huge logistical duties that enabled smooth operations. Air Commodore SK Jayarajan, AVSM, VSM, then a 25-year-old Flying Officer was in-charge of movement control. Moving overnight from Pithoragarh to Kishnagar in Nadia district, his primary job was to liaise with the Railways and ensure safe passage of tanks, ammunition and troops from 2 Corps who were being moved to the western front. “I made frequent forays into Jessore with my clerk from the Kumaon Regiment, a hill boy who had never seen a train. One night captured artillery shells exploded and it felt like an earthquake,” he says, adding that eating duck’s egg fried in mustard oil put him off Bengali food for life. Some battles were a mix of guns, grenades and guts, like the one in which Colonel A Krishnaswami, VrC, VSM** and his boys of C Company, 10 Jammu And Kashmir Rifles found themselves in. A Kanyakumari native raised in Delhi, and a Stephanian, he is fluent in Hindi, Urdu, Punjabi and Dogri, the language of his troops which led him to be fondly christened Kishan Singh by them. A Major during the War, the 85-year-old Col Krishnaswami says, “Not everybody gets a chance to go to war. We were deep inside Jamalpur, operating behind enemy lines. To say I was not afraid is a lie. I once forgot my helmet and was running between trenches. My batman, Kaka Ram charged towards me and rammed the helmet on my head. A second later a bullet whizzed past. A war-time acquaintance is a life-long association. When we met in 2012, we embraced and I introduced him to my grandsons. I’m alive because Kaka Ram put that blooming helmet on my head.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/first-action-heroes/article37965369.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The desi superhero||Tovino Thomas refuses to call Minnal Murali Malayalam cinema’s first ‘superhero’ film. “We are not making any such claims; there have been other films in the genre. Vinayan sir has made films — Little Superman , Athishayan — about people with extraordinary powers. Minnal Murali is our superhero film.” Directed by Basil Joseph, this much-awaited film drops on Netflix on December 24. From the making to release, it has been a long wait... of two years. The movie was initially scheduled to be a 2020 Onam release., “I always wanted it to be a Christmas release, and there is a reason for that; 10 minutes into the film, audiences will know why,” he says, rather cryptically. Watching a superhero in a movie hall is part of the experience. But how different will it be on an OTT platform? Tovino says, “This film was made for theatres. But we live in unprecedented times; producers have spent a lot on it and we can’t object when they take a call. When we made Minnal , we discussed what would work best in a theatre and how the audience would react. However, recently when Basil and I watched the film with my family at his place, I observed their reactions, and they were enjoying it. All the parts that we thought would be great on the big screen had more or less the same impact we expected. I want to look at the positive side of things,” he says, adding that it will be streamed in 190-plus countries and dubbed in eight languages, thus reaching more people. Tovino plays Murali, a tailor who gets superpowers. The odd-ball character, he reveals, is the opposite of what one imagines a superhero to be. “He is not your muscled, brilliant hero; he is the common man who is the butt of jokes because he is fashionable compared to others around him. The fun part is what happens when someone like him gets these superpowers. He is a grounded, desi superhero.” For that very reason, Tovino did not have to beef up as preparation before filming. “That happens organically in the film and I also needed to prepare likewise. There was mental preparation; Basil and I discussed how someone, who everyone makes fun of, would be affected when he suddenly finds himself with these powers.” The film tracks Murali’s evolution — physically and mentally — into his role as the saviour of his village. “We show the character’s evolution through humour and a few intense sequences. We had to ensure that the humour elicits laughter and is not slapstick,” adds Tovino, who earlier worked with Basil Joseph in Godha . Lockdown has seen Malayalam cinema make some good films, and Tovino has been a part of a few. Like the critically-acclaimed Kala , written by Rohith VS and Yadhu Pushkaran. “There was an element of risk in doing it, but people were unemployed then and me taking up the project would benefit many. It was risky literally too... as I was injured during the shoot,” says the actor, who co-produced the film. It was worth the effort and time because it made him understand a thing or two about Malayalam cinema’s reach. “I realised that we have an audience who are not Malayalis but enjoy our films,” says Tovino, who also starred in Manu Ashokan’s Kaanekkana , another OTT release. Does Tovino have a favourite superhero? “There are many; Batman, Ironman and Deadpool…but Superman will always be my ultimate choice!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-desi-superhero/article37965346.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Mountbatten Mani, Hemamalini Kalyana Mandapam||Legendary cook and caterer, Mountbatten Mani, a trendsetter in the sabha canteen scene, turned 90 last month. His son K Srinivasan who runs the Mountbatten Mani Catering Services, catered at Sri Parthasarathy Swamy Sabha, popular for its elaborate sit down lunches, for a decade. Then, last year the pandemic halted most of the city’s Margazhi traditions, including their canteen. Srinivasan has decided to try a new format this year by organising a Margazhi Food Festival at the Hemamalini Kalyana Mandapam. “We are running the canteen as a separate entity at the wedding hall this year,” he says, adding “This probably is the first time that a canteen is functioning without any concert or under the aegis of any sabha.” His team specialises in traditional vegetarian meals, as well as snacks and tiffin. “I try to bring into the menu, what we normally may not find in the restaurant. For example, paal kozhukattai , vella paniyaram and badam halwa, which is my father’s secret recipe,” says Srinivasan. “The kalyana virundhu we serve has no onion, no garlic (Rs. 525 per person) and we generally avoid root vegetables during the weekends,” he says, adding that “Most of us did not get to attend many weddings during the pandemic, so it is a chance to celebrate familiar flavours. Also, these Margazhi canteens break the monotony of life.”  @Hemamalini Kalyana Mandapam, Lloyds Road, Royapettah. The canteen will run from December 22 till January 4, from noon to 10pm. Breakfast will be served only during weekends. Call 9840024400. Food delivery via Dunzo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mountbatten-mani-hemamalini-kalyana-mandapam/article37965376.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A stage in the wilderness||A decorative flagstone screams how the Pallikaranai Marsh has suffered unintended weight loss, shrinking to 700-plus hectares from a massive 6,000 hectares. The stone stands by the side of a tiled walkway laid for the benefit of homo sapiens, at the newly-opened 2.5-hectare Pallikaranai Eco Park. One hopes the sombre fact chiselled in stone is also etched in the stewards’ minds. A surfeit of design features attract selfie-loving homo sapiens and even serious birders, and therefore, obviously, the rest of the eco-park should be left undisturbed and unaltered for all other species. There is a chilling touch of irony to this situation: making room in the house for the house owner. There is a word of reassurance from the stewards of the place. Priyadarshini Venkataraman, District Forest Officer (DFO), Chennai Division, states there would not be any additions by way of design and enhancement that would eat into the space where Nature has to have a free run. From 6,000 to 700 is a steep drop, and from there every inch counts and none can be frittered away even while executing well-meaning exercises. The design is heavily concentrated right behind the pleasingly lengthy frontage. Along a slip-resistant tiled pathway run parallel patches of native trees and manicured decorative plants, each category bunged into a space that is all theirs. This spaced pairing succeeds in bringing contrast to the picture. The stand of trees suggests a triumph of the indigenous over the exotic. Culling out a few names from the roll of honour: peepal ( Ficus religious ); bulletwood ( Mimusops elegy ); Manila tamarind ( Pithecellobium dulce ); jamun ( Syzygium cumin ); portia ( Thespesia populnea ); and neem ( Azadirachta indica ). One can visualise the tiled pathway turning into a comfortable cloister when the trees reach longingly for the skies. After every minute of greenery, stones and artworks pop into sight, and in the manner of oracles, hold forth on wetland ecosystems, biodiversity and allied green topics, all of which making references to the marsh and its occupants. Though the aforementioned space would be an automatic crowd puller for walkers and picnic-seekers, it is hardly the focal point of the exercise. Walk of life The central part of the eco-park runs perpendicular to the tiled walkway, and is delightfully untouched by masonry, which is marginal to the point of seeming non-existent. On this section, a landscaped area is flanked on both sides by a walkway that displays earth with stubbles of grass. Like the tiled pathway, these earthen walkways sport benches. However, if the eco-park is put to its much-intended use, visitors would be standing up to their full height, training binoculars on birds found in the distance. The DFO - Chennai Division discloses that binoculars can be taken from the office at the eco-park. On the day of this writer’s visit — December 14 — migratory birds had stood visitors up, as they have so far in most other bird habitats in and around Chennai that traditionally host them during winter. A series of inclement weather systems during November have set their check-in timelines by weeks. The regular batches of migratory birds — particularly waders and dabbling ducks — must be parked in others parts. Waders and dabbling ducks are finicky about dipping their feet in waters with levels too high for their comfort. The migrants will eventually traipse into the front rows. Sooner they do that, the better. The Forest Department has a role for them in an exercise. Priyadarshini’s division has proposed a soundless celebration — Pallikaranai Marghazhi Thiruvizha — from December 18, awaiting approval. The migrants would be guests of honour — one hopes the visiting birds read this announcement and take centre stage in time for the fest to be a squawking success. The birds better do this for the public, as the latter have access to the eco-park without any damage to their wallet through this month. From the next, there are charges for entry, and that includes cameras. There would be monthly and daily passes, notes the DFO. On December 14, flocks of black-winged stilts on one side, and cormorants on the other, made the most of the empty stage, filling it with their quiet performance. The cormorants were occupying perches jutting out of an expansive basin of water shoved into a quadrangle of a walkway. One section of this irregular quadrangle brings eye-catching gradient to the scene. On a raised bed, the central pathway dips into something of a swale. This low-lying side of the quadrangle is studded with granites and tramping down this section is particularly delightsome. The swale rises and gives way to another walkway that nestles next to the compound wall of the eco-park’s neighbour — the middle-aged National Institute of Wind Energy. The walkway on this side is essentially a granite-punched hardscape flanked by a stand of native trees on both sides. It seems to have been left deliberately gap-toothed, with mud patching up the spaces between granite. Recent rains had washed away the mud, which was being replaced by workers that day.  The park is open from 6 am to 6 pm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-stage-in-the-wilderness/article37965405.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Homecoming||Whenever Allu Arjun travelled to other parts of the country, he would invariably come across people from that particular locality warming up to his films. Be it Rajasthan or Kerala, his films, dubbed into vernacular languages, have done extremely well; Arjun says the most watched Indian film on YouTube is his. All of which points towards the fact that Allu Arjun is a pan-Indian star. Yet, the actor says he felt something was missing until Pushpa, due for a theatrical release this Friday. And that something was not getting enough adulation from Tamil Nadu, even though Arjun was born and raised in Chennai. He says the circle is now complete. Having spent most of his childhood in T Nagar, Arjun is not too perturbed when friends call him a Telugu-speaking Tamilian. “I don’t feel shy when people say that. In fact, I think in Tamil,” says Allu Arjun, who was in the city to promote his upcoming Pushpa . Billed as a pan-Indian project, the film releases in five languages. Arjun has seen all versions of Pushpa but is particularly satisfied with the output in Tamil. “Even though my films have done well in other markets, it is a different feeling when you play in your homeground [Chennai]. I want my childhood friends and tuition teacher to call me after watching the film; that is a different kick altogether,” he says, adding, “I wanted to come to Madras with a proper film and that happened with Pushpa .” Directed by Telugu filmmaker Sukumar with whom Arjun had worked with in the Aarya films, Pushpa is set in the Andhra-Tamil Nadu border. Since the film’s subject happens in a forest terrain, the conditions made it even more challenging to shoot. “We had about 400-500 cars in the forest that would take us from point A to B. In some places, there were no roads and we had to create a pathway with whatever was available. The filming itself took us almost two years,” said Arjun, “That is why I say this: the effort we had put in for Pushpa is equal to four films.” Arjun credits his friend and music composer Devi Sri Prasad aka DSP for pestering him to venture into Tamil cinema. But DSP doesn’t think Pushpa is a Telugu film releasing in other languages. “Ever since I heard the narration, I have been telling Bunny [Arjun] and Sukumar that it is actually a Tamil film made in Telugu, since most of the story happens near Tirupati,” says DSP.    Pushpa also stars Rashmika Mandanna and Fahadh Faasil. About the latter, Arjun says, “I watched him perform live on the set and really enjoyed what he did. There were moments I forgot about myself watching him act.”  Like nobody Allu Arjun’s dance moves have always appealed to his fans. Does he have any favourites in the Tamil film industry?Arjun says that he loves watching Kamal Haasan and Vijay dance on the big screen . “All the actors, including Dhanush and Simbu, dance really well. I watched Sivakarthikeyan’s Doctor recently and enjoyed it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/homecoming/article37965344.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A luxe tent where guests catch lunch||Thirty years ago, swathes of paddy wrapped this part of Kottaikadu on ECR. And in their midst was Arun Vasu, scouring the State in search of untouched places where he could camp and windsurf. “I used to park here, pitch a tent or sleep in my Gypsy. It was a pleasure to come here. So I thought, we must do something here,” says Arun, adding that he then bought a piece of land in the area in 2008. (Arun also runs Surf Turf in Kovalam, popular for both its classes and laid back restaurant and is the chief managing director of the TT Group.) Cut to 2021: the 50-acre stretch is now a plush boutique resort called The Alampara, offering surfing, kayaking, wakeboarding and standup paddling facilities. The once barren land — formerly used as a prawn hatchery, in ruins with gaping pits — is now luxuriously green, with 500-odd trees lending shade, their leaves swaying gleefully in a wind that rarely ceases. The property boasts four luxury tents — the larger ones measuring 700 square feet can accommodate four people and the smaller ones at 600 square feet can hold three — a tented restaurant, a private lake and even a backwater lagoon with a kilometre-long sand bar across it. “The sand bar is like a private island with a simple deck and a thatched structure where people can spend a day. The only way to get there is on a boat,” explains Arun, CEO of The Alampara. Turtles come here to nest in the nights from January to April. The property also hosts 60 varieties of bird in season, he adds. Given its proximity to the majestic Alamparai fort, people can kayak to the monument or paddle up to the scenic salt pans nearby. Surf Turf is in charge of the water sports. “We are engaging three villages around, so guests can go fish with the locals, be it laying nets or throwing a line,” says Arun. And after all that activity, guests can take their fresh catch — prawns, fish, crab — to the chef who will cook it for them. “One of the highlights is that the women from villages, sit in the water, pick the clams, and break them,” says Arun. The team is connecting with surrounding villages to source local produce from the area. “We have a chef’s garden where he grows spices and greens,” says Arun, who along with his team is educating the surrounding villages on waste segregation and setting up a recycling plant for plastic waste. Local talent is being roped in to create employment opportunities. “There is a focus on sustainability with plans in place to switch entirely to solar and wind power,” says Arun, adding that the idea here is coming back to Nature, where one can unwind from their hectic life and gadgets. Where the beep of the phone and maddening echo of video calls are replaced with the chirping of crickets and twittering of birds.  The Alampara will open on December 27. It lies just before Marakkanam, 35 kilometres from Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-luxe-tent-where-guests-catch-lunch/article37965390.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Turn a page, hear a note||An impromptu holiday in Kolkata led Sunil Menon to a stunning shot for his annual Sahodaran calendar. Sitting in a puja pandal, he knew this was the setting he wanted to shoot in. “Luckily, Kolkata-based designers Dev and Nil’s staff and personal trainer were perfect as models,” says Sunil. The 13th edition of the Sahodaran (an organisation for the rights of sexual minorities) calendar has been shot in Kolkata, Puducherry, Tiruchirapalli and Chennai. Titled Euphony, the theme this year is musical instruments, an idea suggested by Sunil’s makeup artist Varun Kulangara. A search for unusual instruments led him to Shivakumar of Kosai Nagaran, an organisation that documents and popularises traditional collectors. “He has travelled to Kolkata, Puducherry, Kanchipuram, and Chennai and bought unique instruments. I sourced a few from him,” says Sunil. The calendar features 13 images and 13 muscled male models posing with instruments such as araivatta kombu tharai (a crescent-shaped brass instrument usually played at temple processions in Tamil Nadu), kombu thaarai ( a brass instrument in the shape of a cow’s horn), naagafani ( a serpentine shaped horn played at folk festivals in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Uttarakhand) and the thutheri (a predecessor of the trumpet). “The thutheri dates back to the 7th Century and was part of performances by poet and saint Thirugnana Sambandar in Tamil Nadu.” He adds, “We then had to find backdrops that suit the instruments. Among the team’s finds are an ancient Anjaneya temple in Kanchipuram and the Kalari Gram in Auroville.”  The calendar is priced at Rs. 1,500.   Call 9444966000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/turn-a-page-hear-a-note/article37965382.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Thirukkural on your tab||When was the last time you recited the Thirukkural ? If you grew up in Tamil Nadu, you probably last learnt it in school. Carnatic musician Saketharaman and popular TV personality ‘Pattimandram’ Raja are trying to re-ignite people’s fascination for this popular Tamil classic written by Thiruvalluvar. Combining their expertise in music and public speaking, their latest collaboration — titled Irukuralil Thirukkural — aims to package the text in a novel way to reach the younger generation. While Saketharaman will sing 15 selected verses, Raja will explain the kural’s meaning with a dose of humour so that it leaves a lasting impression. Visuals for Irukuralil Thirukkural, shot and worked on at Jamdub Soundlabs (a new Thoraipakkam-based studio), feature multiple cameras and drones, a rarity for Carnatic music videos. The 15-episode series, to be launched on December 16, will be rolled out till Thiruvallur Day (January 15) and hopes to ignite conversation around topics that Thiruvallur wrote about, which are relevant even today. The effort is an extension of the Carnatic vocalist’s previous venture Kala Siksha, which sought to sow the seeds of music in a contemporary manner. “The students learnt the Thirukkural by rote, but did not know its meaning. I wanted them to realise how many life lessons it had to offer,” recalls Saketh. It was around that time, earlier this year that he performed a Thirukkural couplet during one of his Carnatic concerts; the positive response egged him to take it on in a bigger way. “Musically, the Thirukkural gives a lot of scope, despite its brevity,” he explains. For this current project, he has chosen a couplet on neer (water), and tuned in raga Amritavarshini. Other couplets he has chosen cover socially-conscious themes, and those on friendship and love. “Apart from the musical possibilities, both from a ragam and a taalam standpoint, its duration can be custom-made; in fact, we plan to release a one-minute version on Instagram Reels and YouTube Shorts, and a detailed, longer version on YouTube.” His musical exploration will be followed by Raja’s short story explaining the kural. “It will not be like a discourse elaborating on the meaning, but connected to a short story derived from life experiences,” explains Raja, popular among TV audiences. Madurai-based Raja was introduced to the Tamil classic during his childhood, but discovered its various facets later in life. “Back in school, some of our Tamil teachers would sing and even act it out for us. This, despite it being featured only in two-mark questions,” he recalls. As Raja flourished in public speaking and associated himself with Tamil scholars such as Solomon Pappiah, he dug deeper into the Tamil classic. “The more I studied, the more I discovered. It presented new insights to me. The Thirukkural can be considered a teacher, guru or even a parent who teaches modern Science.” Raja says there should be more attempts towards popularising such works. He says, “Tamil ilakkiyam (literature) is not something that belongs to only a few sections of people; it should be simplified for the younger generation, who need to proudly flaunt it.”  Irukuralil Thirukkural will be featured on Saketharam’s YouTube, Facebook and Instagram pages||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/thirukkural-on-your-tab/article37965400.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Bringing romance back||Days before the release of his much-anticipated film Atrangi Re , director Aanand L Rai is waiting for AR Rahman to submit the final cut of the musical score. “He doesn’t sleep and doesn’t let us rest either,” says Aanand, who describes the film, starring Sara Ali Khan, Akshay Kumar and Dhanush, as his “most complicated story about love and its madness”. To be released this Christmas on Disney+Hotstar, the film not only brings him together with Rahman but also Dhanush, whom he successfully introduced to the Hindi belt with Raanjhanaa .  The trailer gives a sense that you are revisiting the  Raanjhanaa  space. What made you tell a love story all over again?   lMaybe these three minutes are making people feel this way but I have a feeling that I have attempted my most complicated story about love and its madness. What makes me very happy is that I am able to film a romance during times when love has taken a secondary spot in our lives.  What did you like most about Dhanush when you approached him for Raanjhanaa ?   lI wanted an actor who could understand the ordinariness of that character. I had watched Aadukalam , and whenever I watched his Tamil songs, I felt that this man realised the strength of ordinariness. Within 10 minutes of our meeting in Kolkata, he agreed to do it but said he didn’t know Hindi. I have always felt that playing a character has nothing to do with the language. He learnt the dialogues and dubbed himself but ultimately, it was about expressing the emotions. Now, I don’t look at him as an actor... he is like ghar ka bac c cha .  What made you cast him for Atrangi Re  ?  lWhen the story was initially discussed in 2014, the only thing that was certain was Dhanush, The rest of the casting has happened gradually. I enjoyed creating his character, which is very layered.  We often see foreign influences in Hindi cinema, but you seem keen on embracing the regional flavour...   lIt is my country, whether I go to the North or South. It was fun shooting in Madurai with a Tamil cast. As a maker, I felt ignited. I directed two Tamil scenes and I realised what you go through when you don’t know the language. Dhanush told me, ‘ Bhai , now you know. I did Raanjhana a with you without knowing the language. You are struggling with two scenes.’ I want to understand the language not just for the syntax but for the expression. In the next two years, I will hopefully direct a Tamil film.  Would you say that songs are losing their space in the OTT universe?   lI agree the value of songs is diminishing but I don’t feel it is to do with the rise of OTT. It is just that we are not working hard on music. When you work with AR Rahman, you realise you are not making the film for anybody but for yourself. What he lends to a film is not just music; it is a character. He never stops till he becomes the spine of the film.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bringing-romance-back/article37965339.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Carols under the coir tree||Shafi Arts in Srinagar may be an unexpected outpost for Santa, but 61-year-old Mohammed Shafi Bhat and his family have been shipping their intricate papier-mâché bells, baubles and stars across the world for years. “The US, UK, Singapore, Spain...” lists Suhail, one of Mohammed’s three sons, as his brothers wind up work on the last batches: the bulk of their orders is completed and dispatched by September. “Orders come in as early as March,” he says over a video call, picking his way through the boutique. Apart from the traditional motifs, there are new designs: Santa is wearing a mask this year, of course. They also make Santa on a shikara and miniature elephants in pastel hues, which are light and compact so they can be hung from boughs of trees between tinsel and strings of lights. “We have seen a 70% increase in orders this year after a lull,” Suhail says adding that they made lakhs of baubles this year. One of the reasons he believes is buyers want to help out as the pandemic has been tough on many businesses, including artisans. “As artisanal goods are handmade, as opposed to plastic items; there is a lot of time, effort and a personal touch that goes into them.” “These products cannot be compared to mass produced plastic ones that are an environmental hazard,” says Sunil Jalihal, founder and CEO of Pune-based Indic Inspirations, who stocks creations by Shafi Arts along with those of 400 artisans from around the country. Stating that they can be reused year after year, instead of being disposed annually and adding to landfills, he says, “When shipments from China stalled, it gave people an opportunity to look for other resources. It led them to becoming conscious about not wanting plastic.” Indic Inspirations has seen a 20% increase in demand for handmade Christmas decor this year, he adds. At Okhai in Ahmedabad, artisans, primarily of the Rabari tribe in Gujarat, surf the Internet to keep up with annual trends. “They are on Pinterest and Instagram, and are aware of how Christmas trees are decorated world over,” says Manorath Dhillon who heads the organisation, “From mirror work to tattoos and tassels, they give inputs on what needs to be added to an ornament.” Aged between 21 and 55, the creators are excited to be part of the celebrations as they leave their mark in the form of sustainable trinkets. “Most tree ornaments here are made out of scrap fabric. There are disco balls, hoops that read Holly Jolly X’Mas, stars, and heart-shaped ornaments in cottons, silks and block-printed fabrics,” she says. Other items include handwoven boxes made of recycled cotton ropes, acacia wood ornaments with Pattachitra painting by master craftsmen from Odisha and candle holders with Santa’s face, made by potters in Rajasthan. “When the pandemic started, people finally had the time to pause and think about what they were creating and what they were consuming. Now we see they are a lot more forthcoming when it comes to buying handmade things even if it is a little expensive,” says Manorath. Okhai’s Christmas decor manufacturing has gone up by 70% this year in comparison to last year. Snowflake and veggies From reindeer and snowflakes to carols and pine trees, inspiration is flowing in from various quarters. For Karthik Vaidyanathan who started Varnam (a social enterprise that revived the Channapatna toy craft) in Bengaluru in 2012, fruits and veggies served as his muse this year. Glossy oranges, bananas, capsicums, chillies, tomatoes, mushrooms and carrots hang from his tree. They look edible: but are made of wood and natural dyes like turmeric, kumkum , and indigo. “People are looking for fun ornaments and something different to put up or use as a stocking stuffer or a Secret Santa gift. Plus, this is also a great way of making kids eat vegetables,” says Karthik. The Varnam Christmas collection comprises kuruvi bells, Santa jars, pig-shaped bells, wobbly snowmen, bobble head reindeer, and even bar accessories like bottle openers... Everything is made by a team of 15 skilled craftspersons in Channapatna, Karnataka. Varnam has made 500 ornaments in total this year. Karthik gets the bulk of his orders from Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai, and also exported to the UK and Australia last year. Artisan empowering organisations such as Runway India in Nagaland and Indian Yards in the Nilgiris have launched new lines that comprise hampers with functional gifts like reindeer-inspired serving trays, wreaths made with natural vines, wooden pine cones and macramé angels. Chennai’s Cane and Bamboo, which has been showcasing artisanal products for the last five decades, has hand-drawn kalamkari ornaments made by crafters from Andhra Pradesh this year. “This is the first time we have seen them think out of the box and try something new. There are stars, banners, and trees in earthy tones. They look beautiful,” says Thangam Phillip of Cane and Bamboo. Dropping sales, she says, has led artisans to experiment with different styles. The store also has linen angels, fabric-based and, papier-mâché ornaments. Single entrepreneur ventures too are adding their creativity to the Christmas market. Sahana V, 30, who lives in the Nilgiris, launched The Berry Shop two years ago, as an extension of her love for embroidery. “ Last year I began creating Christmas themed ornaments and hair accessories,” says Sahana. “This year I introduced tree ornaments made of felt. Both the hoop and felt decoratives have been of interest to collectors,” she states, adding, “I see a huge appreciation for handmade gifts now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/carols-under-the-coir-tree/article37965367.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Techie to tinseltown||Thirty-two new actors have been introduced through Tamil film Varisi , releasing this week in theatres. This romantic thriller revolves around four techies and how their lives turn topsy-turvy due to one incident. Varisi has been directed by Karthik Doss, who also plays the lead role. Karthik, a former IT professional, has also previously done a series of short films besides founding Muyarchi Padaipagam, an initiative to help aspiring actors and technicians. Says Karthik, "The storyline will revolve around a social-media addict and a CBI officer, and will feature elements of romance and revenge."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/techie-to-tinseltown/article37965341.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Sweets for a cause||This Christmas, Sri Lankan Tamil women in the refugee camps around Chennai have come together to offer a range of traditional Sri Lankan sweets. Yalpanam by Serendip is curating assorted sweet boxes in 500-gram and one-kilogram packs. Payatham paniyaram, coconut rocks, rava laddu, thala guli sesame rolls, pachapayar urundai and kalu dhodhol are some of the treats they are preparing. Orders are being accepted for both assorted sweet boxes (Rs. 799 for 500 grams) as well as for a single variety of sweets on the list. The shelf life varies from five to 10 days. Pre-orders are being accepted now and delivery will be from December 22 to 25. Call: 9840056530 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sweets-for-a-cause/article37965350.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Light the candles again||The Madras Musical Association rings in the festive season with its 64th edition of Carols By Candlelight, featuring 11 musical acts like The Octet Cantabile, Women’s Christian College Choir, CSI Redeemer Church Choir and more.  @St Christopher’s College of Education, Vepery December 18, 6.30 pm All are welcome||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/light-the-candles-again/article37965352.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Deck the halls||Live music sing-alongs, food stalls and a host of other entertainment form the pre-festival event, Christmas By Candle Light, this Sunday. Organised by the English youth group Armour of God, this evening promises treats like sandwiches, cupcakes, vindaloo and more.  @Votive Shrine Church, Kilpauk  December 19, 7pm All are welcome||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/deck-the-halls/article37965354.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Electric talent||Electronic music fans, it’s time to party. Leading Indian underground electronic music and mixed media performance outfit BLOT! will present an immersive audio-visual experience this Friday night. BLOT! features Gaurav Malaker and Avinash Kumar.    @Mount Road SOCIAL, Royapettah  December 17, 8pm onwards www.skillboxes.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/electric-talent/article37965356.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Pret for the season||The latest edition of Vimonisha designer exhibition brings together 25 designer brands from around India, and felicitates fashion stores of Chennai. Pret, couture, fine jewellery, and home decor await, from brands like Shillpa Purii, Jade and Jewels, Bottom Line and more.  @The Folly, Amethyst, Royapettah  December 17 and 18, 11am to 8pm  9820043549||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/pret-for-the-season/article37965358.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Bold, beautiful and brave||From characters in childhood adventure stories to glamorous stars on the silver screen as adults — most people have aspired to be a figment of their own imagination. Truth Dream is an exhibition that captured the fantasies of a few members of the transgender community and immortalised them in photographs. The project was conceptualised by Chandni, co-founder of Payana, a Bengaluru-based NGO that works towards protecting sexual minorities. “About two months ago, Chandni approached us with this idea of working on a project with 12 of her friends who identified as transwomen, transmen, and other gender non-conforming individuals. They were all around 50 years old — a rarity within the community considering the hardships they undergo. Chandni wanted to give them a chance to step into their dream personas and she was very clear it had to be a photoshoot,” says the curator of Truth Dream, Angarika G from Maara, a media and arts organisation in Bengaluru. “When we met them we realised most of their dream personas stemmed from mythology as well as Kannada and Tamil cinema. All of these were connected to childhood desires and fantasies, their experiences of sexual transition, love, betrayal and rejection.” Angarika says when her team realised the potential of this platform, they set the wheels in motion. “We got a costume designer to customise outfits since some of them had undergone operations and we just could not just hire costumes off a shelf. We also called in a makeup artist and two photographers.” The ladies wanted to be modelled after the Maharani of Mysore as well as movie stars Sridevi and Jayamalini, and from classics of yore. The photographs were shot both in colour and in black and white. “The colour images were shot digitally and the black-and-white ones were shot on film to explore two different processes. The black-and-white images capture their slow transformation. The colour images are in front of hand-painted 8x10 backdrops that depicted scenes from their dreams.” Book on the life stories In the process of making Truth Dream a reality, Maara put together a small book on the life stories of the 12 women. “They had shared their life experiences with us and we presented them in a docu-fiction format as the narrative around the transgender community tends to be either celebratory or patronising.” Titled Kannadi, which means mirror both in Kannada and Tamil, the book brings to light the complexity of identities and experiences of the community instead of portraying them as victims or icons. “The premise of the exhibition is looking at experiences of beauty, aging and friendships as well as challenging notions of caste discrimination, gender binaries, beauty and more.” Maara hopes they can travel with the exhibition, showcasing it in different cities around the country and hopefully abroad too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bold-beautiful-and-brave/article37965959.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The desi superhero||Tovino Thomas refuses to call Minnal Murali Malayalam cinema’s first ‘superhero’ film. “We are not making any such claims; there have been other films in the genre. Vinayan sir has made films — Little Superman , Athishayan — about people with extraordinary powers. Minnal Murali is our superhero film.” Directed by Basil Joseph, this much-awaited film drops on Netflix on December 24. From the making to release, it has been a long wait... of two years. The movie was initially scheduled to be a 2020 Onam release., “I always wanted it to be a Christmas release, and there is a reason for that; 10 minutes into the film, audiences will know why,” he says, rather cryptically. Watching a superhero in a movie hall is part of the experience. But how different will it be on an OTT platform? Tovino says, “This film was made for theatres. But we live in unprecedented times; producers have spent a lot on it and we can’t object when they take a call. When we made Minnal , we discussed what would work best in a theatre and how the audience would react. However, recently when Basil and I watched the film with my family at his place, I observed their reactions, and they were enjoying it. All the parts that we thought would be great on the big screen had more or less the same impact we expected. I want to look at the positive side of things,” he says, adding that it will be streamed in 190-plus countries and dubbed in eight languages, thus reaching more people. Tovino plays Murali, a tailor who gets superpowers. The odd-ball character, he reveals, is the opposite of what one imagines a superhero to be. “He is not your muscled, brilliant hero; he is the common man who is the butt of jokes because he is fashionable compared to others around him. The fun part is what happens when someone like him gets these superpowers. He is a grounded, desi superhero.” For that very reason, Tovino did not have to beef up as preparation before filming. “That happens organically in the film and I also needed to prepare likewise. There was mental preparation; Basil and I discussed how someone, who everyone makes fun of, would be affected when he suddenly finds himself with these powers.” The film tracks Murali’s evolution — physically and mentally — into his role as the saviour of his village. “We show the character’s evolution through humour and a few intense sequences. We had to ensure that the humour elicits laughter and is not slapstick,” adds Tovino, who earlier worked with Basil Joseph in Godha . Lockdown has seen Malayalam cinema make some good films, and Tovino has been a part of a few. Like the critically-acclaimed Kala , written by Rohith VS and Yadhu Pushkaran. “There was an element of risk in doing it, but people were unemployed then and me taking up the project would benefit many. It was risky literally too... as I was injured during the shoot,” says the actor, who co-produced the film. It was worth the effort and time because it made him understand a thing or two about Malayalam cinema’s reach. “I realised that we have an audience who are not Malayalis but enjoy our films,” says Tovino, who also starred in Manu Ashokan’s Kaanekkana , another OTT release. Does Tovino have a favourite superhero? “There are many; Batman, Ironman and Deadpool…but Superman will always be my ultimate choice!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-desi-superhero/article37965902.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Homecoming||Whenever Allu Arjun travelled to other parts of the country, he would invariably come across people from that particular locality warming up to his films. Be it Rajasthan or Kerala, his films, dubbed into vernacular languages, have done extremely well; Arjun says the most watched Indian film on YouTube is his. All of which points towards the fact that Allu Arjun is a pan-Indian star. Yet, the actor says he felt something was missing until Pushpa, due for a theatrical release this Friday. And that something was not getting enough adulation from Tamil Nadu, even though Arjun was born and raised in Chennai. He says the circle is now complete. Having spent most of his childhood in T Nagar, Arjun is not too perturbed when friends call him a Telugu-speaking Tamilian. “I don’t feel shy when people say that. In fact, I think in Tamil,” says Allu Arjun, who was in the city to promote his upcoming Pushpa . Billed as a pan-Indian project, the film releases in five languages. Arjun has seen all versions of Pushpa but is particularly satisfied with the output in Tamil. “Even though my films have done well in other markets, it is a different feeling when you play in your homeground [Chennai]. I want my childhood friends and tuition teacher to call me after watching the film; that is a different kick altogether,” he says, adding, “I wanted to come to Madras with a proper film and that happened with Pushpa .” Directed by Telugu filmmaker Sukumar with whom Arjun had worked with in the Aarya films, Pushpa is set in the Andhra-Tamil Nadu border. Since the film’s subject happens in a forest terrain, the conditions made it even more challenging to shoot. “We had about 400-500 cars in the forest that would take us from point A to B. In some places, there were no roads and we had to create a pathway with whatever was available. The filming itself took us almost two years,” said Arjun, “That is why I say this: the effort we had put in for Pushpa is equal to four films.” Arjun credits his friend and music composer Devi Sri Prasad aka DSP for pestering him to venture into Tamil cinema. But DSP doesn’t think Pushpa is a Telugu film releasing in other languages. “Ever since I heard the narration, I have been telling Bunny [Arjun] and Sukumar that it is actually a Tamil film made in Telugu, since most of the story happens near Tirupati,” says DSP.    Pushpa also stars Rashmika Mandanna and Fahadh Faasil. About the latter, Arjun says, “I watched him perform live on the set and really enjoyed what he did. There were moments I forgot about myself watching him act.”  Like nobody Allu Arjun’s dance moves have always appealed to his fans. Does he have any favourites in the Tamil film industry?Arjun says that he loves watching Kamal Haasan and Vijay dance on the big screen . “All the actors, including Dhanush and Simbu, dance really well. I watched Sivakarthikeyan’s Doctor recently and enjoyed it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/homecoming/article37965901.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Bringing the romance back||Days before the release of his much-anticipated film Atrangi Re , director Aanand L Rai is waiting for AR Rahman to submit the final cut of the musical score. “He doesn’t sleep and doesn’t let us rest either,” says Aanand, who describes the film, starring Sara Ali Khan, Akshay Kumar and Dhanush, as his “most complicated story about love and its madness”. To be released this Christmas on Disney+Hotstar, the film not only brings him together with Rahman but also Dhanush, whom he successfully introduced to the Hindi belt with Raanjhanaa .  The trailer gives a sense that you are revisiting the  Raanjhanaa  space. What made you tell a love story all over again?   lMaybe these three minutes are making people feel this way but I have a feeling that I have attempted my most complicated story about love and its madness. What makes me very happy is that I am able to film a romance during times when love has taken a secondary spot in our lives.  Why do you say so?   lWe are very distracted and unable to understand our priorities. It has nothing to do with changing emotions, but our surroundings.  Has the pandemic also played a part?   lIt has, because we don’t know what is going to happen in the next two to three years. We are trying to secure ourselves with everything, be it emotionally as well as financially. In the last few years, we have been so vulnerable that we are afraid of getting hurt. I want to make the new generation believe in relationships.  What did you like most about Dhanush when you approached him for Raanjhanaa ?   lI wanted an actor who could understand the ordinariness of that character. I had watched Aadukalam , and whenever I watched his Tamil songs, I felt that this man realised the strength of ordinariness. Within 10 minutes of our meeting in Kolkata, he agreed to do it but said he didn’t know Hindi. I have always felt that playing a character has nothing to do with the language. He learnt the dialogues and dubbed himself but ultimately, it was about expressing the emotions. Now, I don’t look at him as an actor... he is like ghar ka bac c cha .  What made you cast him for Atrangi Re  ?  lWhen the story was initially discussed in 2014, the only thing that was certain was Dhanush, The rest of the casting has happened gradually. I enjoyed creating his character, which is very layered.  We often see foreign influences in Hindi cinema, but you seem keen on embracing the regional flavour...   lIt is my country, whether I go to the North or South. It was fun shooting in Madurai with a Tamil cast. As a maker, I felt ignited. I directed two Tamil scenes and I realised what you go through when you don’t know the language. Dhanush told me, ‘ Bhai , now you know. I did Raanjhana a with you without knowing the language. You are struggling with two scenes.’ I want to understand the language not just for the syntax but for the expression. In the next two years, I will hopefully direct a Tamil film.  Would you say that songs are losing their space in the OTT universe?   lI agree the value of songs is diminishing but I don’t feel it is to do with the rise of OTT. It is just that we are not working hard on music. When you work with AR Rahman, you realise you are not making the film for anybody but for yourself. What he lends to a film is not just music; it is a character. He never stops till he becomes the spine of the film.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bringing-the-romance-back/article37965899.ece
16 December 2021||December 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Techie to tinseltown||Thirty-two new actors have been introduced through Tamil film Varisi , releasing this week in theatres. This romantic thriller revolves around four techies and how their lives turn topsy-turvy due to one incident. Varisi has been directed by Karthik Doss, who also plays the lead role. Karthik, a former IT professional, has also previously done a series of short films besides founding Muyarchi Padaipagam, an initiative to help aspiring actors and technicians. Says Karthik, "The storyline will revolve around a social-media addict and a CBI officer, and will feature elements of romance and revenge."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/techie-to-tinseltown/article37965900.ece
