17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||1971 war altered ideological map: Kovind||The Liberation War of 1971 changed the “ideological map” of South Asia, President Ram Nath Kovind said in Dhaka on Thursday. Participating in the celebration to mark the golden jubilee of the independence of Bangladesh and victory in the war, President Kovind recollected the “grassroots support” from India to attain the freedom of Bangladesh. “We celebrate with you this historic day: 50 years ago, the ideological map of South Asia changed irreversibly and the proud nation of Bangladesh was born. On this occasion, I pay tribute to the memory of the untold suffering of the tens of millions of Bangladesh, especially the brutalised daughters, sisters and mothers,” said President Kovind, adding that India attached “highest priority” to its friendship with Bangladesh. “We remain committed to doing all we can, to help realise the full potential of our friendship. Like millions of Indians of my generation, we were elated by the victory of Bangladesh over an oppressive regime and were deeply inspired by the faith and courage of the people of Bangladesh,” Mr. Kovind said in a speech at the National Parliament of Bangladesh. Praise for Hasina In a special gesture, he recited national poet of Bangladesh Kazi Nazrul Islam and praised Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina for inheriting her father Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s rebellious ( bidrohi ) spirit. He praised Ms. Hasina for confronting military dictatorships of her country and for facing “assassination attempts with remarkable courage” in the past to establish democracy. “The vision of Bangabandhu was of a Bangladesh that was not only free politically but also of a nation that was equitable and inclusive. Sadly, his vision could not be realised in his lifetime. The anti-liberation forces that brutally killed Bangabandhu and most of his family did not realise that bullets and violence cannot extinguish an idea that has captured the imagination of millions of people,” the President said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1971-war-altered-ideological-map-kovind/article37973768.ece
17 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Omicron surveillance to be intensified in State||The State will intensify the COVID-19 vaccination drive and implement the self-observation rule strictly for travellers coming to the State from countries which are not included on the list of “high-risk” nations . With more Omicron cases being reported in the State, a high-level meeting convened by Health Minister Veena George here on Thursday decided to intensify Omicron surveillance by sending more random samples from international travellers for genetic sequencing studies. Samples from localities where COVID-19 clusters are found will also be sent for genetic analysis. High alert in districts All districts have been asked to be on high alert. Isolation wards have been readied in all districts and those who prefer to go to the private health sector would be allowed to do so. Surveillance will be strengthened in all airports and sea ports, where lab facilities have been created. The Health department went into a tizzy on Thursday after it emerged that the traveller from Congo in whom Omicron was confirmed on Wednesday night had been moving about freely in malls and restaurants and that his list of contacts is likely to be pretty long. It has been clarified that this person was allowed to go on “self-observation” as per the protocols of the Centre as Congo is not included on the list of “high-risk” nations. The route map of this person would be published and that all those on the contact list should get in touch with the Health department, an official release said here. The Health department said in a release later in the evening that two persons on the primary contact list of the traveller from Congo are negative for COVID-19. However, these persons will continue to be under observation for a week. They would be subjected to COVID-19 test again if they developed symptoms. Since December 1, 1,47,844 travellers have come to the State through all four international airports, of whom, 8,920 were tested at the airports itself. There were 15 COVID-positive cases, of whom 13 were from “high-risk” nations. All COVID-positive samples were sent for genetic analysis COVID-19 vaccination drive would be strengthened and special campaigns will be held on Friday and Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-surveillance-to-be-intensified/article37974119.ece
17 December 2021||GUNTUR,||Flipkart asked to offer its online platform for trading farm products||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked retail giant Flipkart to provide its online retail platform to trade agricultural products. Mr. Jagan made these points while interacting with a delegation led by Flipkart Chief Executive Officer Kalyan Krishnamurthy. During the interaction, issues related to investment and business opportunities in the State, ensuring better prices for farmers and skill development were discussed. “We have launched Rythu Bharosa Kendras, a revolutionary move in the field of agriculture in the State and the kendras will continue to be the backbone to the farmers from providing seeds to purchasing their produce,” said Mr. Jagan. Mr. Krishnamurthy said they would take appropriate steps to procure products from farmers for their commodities business and provide better technology to the farmers. While stressing on the logistical advantage of Visakhapatnam, Mr. Jagan said that the Port City was a good platform for IT and e-commerce investments in the Sate and invited Flipkart to invest in the city. “We are also setting up a High End Skill University in Visakhapatnam to enhance the skills of the youth. We seek your partnership in this initiative,” Mr. Jagan said. Responding positively to the proposals of the Chief Minister, Mr. Krishnamurthy said their company’s activities were already active in Visakhapatnam and added that they would invest more in the city. The Chief Minister sought assistance in increase of export business of fisheries to foreign states. Mr, Krishnamurthy said that their partner Wal-Mart had been buying and exporting seafood products from the State and assured that they would increase the business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flipkart-asked-to-offer-online-platform-for-farm-products/article37973762.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Omicron slow to infect lungs, says Hong Kong study||The Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 infects and multiplies faster than the Delta variant and original SARS-CoV-2 in the human bronchus, which may explain why it may transmit faster between people than previous variants. However, it does not easily infect the lower lungs and this, researchers say, potentially explains why instances of severe disease are proportionally lower in cases involving Omicron. The study was led by researchers from the LKS Faculty of Medicine at the University of Hong Kong. The two bronchi lie at the end of windpipe and split like a ‘y’ into each lung. The research paper, that is still being peer reviewed, however, does not explain why the virus was less successful in progressing deeper into the lungs compared to previous variants. The scientists used lung tissue for investigating viral diseases of the respiratory tract. After isolating the Omicron variant, they used it to compare infection with the original SARS-CoV-2 from 2020, the Delta variant and the Omicron variant. They found that Omicron replicated around 70 times higher than the Delta variant and the original SARS-CoV-2 virus over 24 hours. In contrast, the Omicron variant replicated less efficiently (more than 10 times lower) in the lung tissue than the original SARS-CoV-2 virus. However scientists involved with the study said this was not reason enough to breathe easy. “It is important to note that the severity of disease is not determined only by virus replication but also by the host immune response, which may lead to dysregulation of the innate immune system, or cytokine storm,” said Dr. Michael Chan Chi-wai, Associate Professor, School of Public Health, HKUMed and the leader of the study, in a statement. “By infecting many more people, a very infectious virus may cause more severe disease and death even though the virus itself may be less pathogenic. Therefore, taken together with our recent studies showing that the Omicron variant can partially escape immunity from vaccines and past infection, the overall threat from Omicron variant is likely to be very significant.” India has so far reported at least 73 cases of the Omicron variant and reports from a study in South Africa, which has seen the fastest rise of the Omicron surge, suggest that at least a fourth of nearly 78,000 positive cases were of the Omicron variant. Recent laboratory studies so far also suggest that antibodies produced against Omicron by those vaccinated were 20-40 times fewer than in older variants. The antibody levels were highest in those vaccinated and with previous exposure to the virus. The United Kingdom has reported around 10,000 cases of Omicron so far with at least 10 people hospitalised. One person has died after contracting the variant. India has seen daily case counts dip to 5,000 a day but has now seen an increase to around 7,000 on Thursday with nearly 3,500 cases being reported out of Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/omicron-slow-to-infect-lungs-says-study/article37973766.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||New rules on child labour notified||The State government has decided to initiate stringent action against those employing child labour in different works/occupations and outlined steps envisaging continuity of their education. The State government has come out with a comprehensive set of rules for protecting the interests of children and ensuring that their education is not disturbed. According to new rules, if a child receiving education in a school remains continuously absent for 30 days without intimation to the principal or head master of the school, the latter should report the matter to the nodal officer concerned who would be designated by the district magistrate. Children would not perform any tasks during school hours and between 7 p.m and 8 a.m the next day. They should not be engaged in such tasks that would hinder/interfere with the right to education of the child or his/her attendance in the school. They should also be not engaged in activities they could adversely affect education including activities that were inseparably associated to complete education like home work or any extra-curricular activity assigned by the school. The Government has issued the Telangana Child Labour (prohibition and regulation) (amendment) Rules 2021 that would come into force on the date of their publication in the gazette. According to the new rules, children should not be engaged in any task continuously without rest that could make him/her tired and should be allowed to take rest to refresh health and mind. Accordingly, the child should not help for more than three hours excluding the period of rest in the day. Steps should also be taken to ensure that there was substitution of child for an adult or adolescent while helping family or family enterprise. The new rules envisaged constitution of a task force with district magistrate as chairperson and it should consist of, inspector of police, superintendent of police, additional district magistrate, and assistant labour commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-rules-on-child-labour-notified/article37974061.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear pleas on Vanniyar quota law||The Supreme Court on Thursday held that admissions to higher education institutions and appointments to State government jobs made this year under the Vanniyar quota would not be disturbed, but barred fresh appointments and admissions until February 15 next. It passed the direction when it took on board a batch of petitions, including one by the Tamil Nadu government, challenging a Madras High Court decision to quash a State law which provided 10.5% internal reservation to the Vanniyars within the overall 20% quota for the Most Backward Classes (MBCs). A Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, B.R. Gavai and B.V. Nagarathna said no fresh appointments to government services or admissions to higher education institutions should be made till February 15, the next date of hearing. But admissions and appointments made, pursuant to a High Court order of August 25, would not be disturbed. As the High Court did not stay the law, the appointments and admissions were made. But it quashed the law on November 1, leaving the appointments and admissions vulnerable. The Bench said the case had to be heard expeditiously since it had implications for the future of a large number of students and government employees. It scheduled back-to-back hearings for February 15 and 16. It asked the lawyers to prepare their pleadings and organised three lawyers from either side to compile the records and arguments to avoid delays. ‘A pioneer’ Tamil Nadu argued that the High Court’s decision to quash the law was based on the ground that the State had no legislative competence and the special reservation was provided with caste as the basis and without quantifiable data. Justice Rao, at the beginning of the hearing, referred to the Constitution (105th Amendment) Act that restored to the States the power to identify socially and educationally backward classes. The government said Tamil Nadu had been a “pioneer” in the grant of reservation. “The Most Backward Classes within the Backward Classes were identified in Tamil Nadu as early as 1957, when they were considered equivalent to the Scheduled Castes but without the factor of untouchability,” the petition explained. Some of these communities were impacted by the Criminal Tribes Act of the British. The recommendation for 10.5% reservation to the Vanniyakula Kshatriya was commensurate with their population as enumerated in a survey conducted in 1983 by the Tamil Nadu Second Backward Classes Commission. “The State had enacted the Act in 2021 only based on adequate authenticated data on the population of the Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities enumerated by the Tamil Nadu Second Backward Classes Commission in 1983,” the government said. Population data Tamil Nadu said the caste-wise population data disclosed by the Commission was the “only authenticated data available as of now before the State; and such data can be used effectively to plan for sub-classification of the backward classes of citizens”. The State said the High Court having brushed aside such an authentic survey just for the “insignificant” observations made by the dissenting members of the Commission could not be sustained. It said the High Court had focused on these observations rather than on the “stupendous” exercise conducted for two years by the Commission and the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-to-hear-pleas-on-vanniyar-quota-law/article37973852.ece
17 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Chief Minister to inaugurate 10 projects worth Rs. 300 crore in Vizag today||Three much-awaited projects in the city are all set to be inaugurated by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday. They are the NAD flyover, the VMRDA Park (earlier known as VUDA Park), and the GVMC multi-storeyed parking facility near Jagadamba Junction. The Chief Minister will inaugurate close to 10 projects, of which six have been undertaken by the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) and four by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). The estimated cost of the projects is Rs. 300 crore. The projects were to have been inaugurated in October. Though the NAD flyover had already been opened for traffic, it would be formally inaugurated. “This will be the first project to be inaugurated,” said a senior official from VMRDA. The double-rotary flyover was initiated on November 17, 2017, at a cost of Rs. 113 crore. The project was completed in the middle of this year, after being delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The other prestigious project to be inaugurated is the VMRDA Park. Though the park comes under VMRDA, the GVMC has undertaken the development and renovation work under its Smart City initiative. Spread over 33 acres, the park has been renovated and given a new look at a cost of Rs. 30 crore. Another important project that is awaiting formal inauguration is the GVMC’s multi-level car parking at Jagadamba Junction. On January 9, 2019, the ‘bhoomi puja’ for the project was performed. The G+5 project was taken up by a Pune-based private company at a cost of Rs. 9.7 crore. The Chief Minister will physically inaugurate the flyover and the VMRDA park, and the remaining will be done virtually, according to Collector A. Mallikarjuna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-to-inaugurate-10-projects-worth-rs-300-crore-today/article37974289.ece
17 December 2021||ONGOLE,||Lucky escape for passengers as bus goes up in flames||Passengers of a private bus from Hyderabad had a miraculous escape when the vehicle caught fire at Thimmarajupalem, near Parchur, in Prakasam district in the early hours of Thursday. Vehicular traffic on the Voderavu-Piduguralla road was disrupted for over three hours as vehicles were stranded for a few km following the accident. Police swung into action and restored traffic. Preliminary probe revealed that electric short circuit could have caused the accident. The accident came close on the heels of an APSRTC bus plunging into a rivulet, claiming 10 lives at Jalleru, near Jangareddygudem, in West Godavari district on Wednesday. The police said that eight passengers who were seated in the front portion of the Chirala-bound air-conditioned bus quickly jumped to safety leaving their luggage behind. Most of the passengers had alighted en route. Pouring out their woes, a group of passengers said there was no fire extinguisher in the bus and also the emergency exit did not open in the nick of time. “We have lost our dresses and gold ornaments,” the passengers lamented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lucky-escape-for-passengers-as-bus-goes-up-in-flames/article37973763.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Sack Mishra’ call roils Parliament||Protests by the Opposition, demanding the sacking of Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni after a Uttar Pradesh Special Investigation Team (SIT) found criminal conspiracy behind the death of eight people in Lakhimpur Kheri, led to the adjournment of both Houses of Parliament for the second day on Thursday. Mr. Mishra’s son, Ashish Mishra, is one of the key accused and the SIT report alleges criminal conspiracy behind the incident. Protests began almost as soon as the Lok Sabha convened in the morning. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was asked to speak on his starred question on cases of suicide by those involved in Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and how many such enterprises were in distress. Statements expunged However, instead of putting his question, Mr. Gandhi raised the issue of Mr. Ajay Mishra’s continuation in the government. “This government should now sack this Minister,” he said. Mr. Gandhi also made strongly worded statements alluding to Mr. Mishra’s alleged involvement in the case and some of them were later expunged from the House records. He said at least three times that action must be taken against Mr. Mishra, the least of which was to remove him from the Council of Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sack-mishra-call-roils-parliament/article37973769.ece
17 December 2021||KALPETTA,||Bennichen to coordinate Wayanad tiger search||The government has deputed Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Wildlife and Chief Wildlife Warden Bennichen Thomas to coordinate the operation to capture the elusive tiger on the prowl in the North Wayanad forest division. Mr. Thomas is expected to reach the area on Friday evening. The decision was taken at a meeting convened by Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday. Residents’ demand Residents in the affected forest buffer areas detained Forest Department officials demanding a special task force to trap the tiger that managed to evade trackers on Thursday, the 16th day of the operation to trap the animal. The carnivore is believed to have killed 16 domestic animals in Kurukkanmoola and adjacent areas under the Begur forest range in 16 days. Five cages set up Though as many as five cages had been set up in the area to capture the tiger alive and 35 surveillance cameras installed to monitor its movements and round-the-clock patrolling of forest and police officials were also intensified in the area, the predator had allegedly attacked a heifer calf and lifted a goat at Payyampally, a human habitat nearly 3 km away from Kurukkanmoola, in the wee hours of Thursday. An infuriated mob in the area detained a group of officials in the morning demanding protection to their lives and property from wildlife attacks. They also raised the demand to change the strategy to capture the tiger. More than 120 forest personnel have been engaged in the operation on Thursday and their combing was on even late in the evening by following the pugmark of the animal, but the animal was yet to be tracked, D.K. Vinod Kumar, Chief Conservator of Forests, northern circle, Kannur, told The Hindu . Widen strategy As many as six teams of experienced forest personnel, a team consists 30 members each, would be drawn up from Kannur and Kozhikode districts to widen the strategy and they would comb in suspected hideouts of the big cat such as bushes, plantations, and forest on Friday, said Mr. Vinod Kumar, who is supervising the operations. They would try to scare away the tiger from its hideouts by disturbing it. ‘‘We are also planning to hire volunteers from local people who are skilled in scaring operations as a part of the strategy,’’ Mr. Vinod Kumar said, adding they would help the forest personnel in the operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bennichen-to-coordinate-wayanad-tiger-search/article37974124.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Process to identify next CDS has begun’||The government has initiated the process to identify the next Chief of Defence Staff (CDS). The top military post fell vacant following the death of General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash last week. “The process to select the next CDS has begun and the name will be announced soon,” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on the sidelines of an event. In the interim, Army chief Gen. M.M. Naravane, who is the senior most of the three Service chiefs, has been entrusted the charge of Chairman, Chiefs of Staff Committee (CoSC), comprising the three service chiefs with the CDS as its Permanent Chairman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/process-to-identify-next-cds-has-begun/article37974182.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping strong||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/keeping-strong/article37973775.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||An eco-friendly police station||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/an-eco-friendly-police-station/article37974417.ece
17 December 2021||GUNTUR,||Employee associations call off stir||The agitating government employees have decided to call off the strike with effect from December 18. The decision followed a marathon discussion held with Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy and Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma at the Secretariat on Thursday. “We have decided to suspend the agitation following an assurance from the Finance Minister. We hope the government will consider our request and enhance the fitment. The government has also agreed to share the minutes of the meeting,” said union leader B. Venkateswara Rao. Earlier, the associations said they would not accept fitment less than 55%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/employee-associations-call-off-stir/article37973759.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘States told to pre-publish labour rules’||Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav told the Rajya Sabha on Thursday that the Centre and some of the States and Union Territories have pre-published rules under the four labour codes. The Centre is pursuing with the remaining States to frame the rules under all four codes. To a question by MP Sushil Kumar Modi, Mr. Yadav said the Centre had notified the four codes — the Code on Wages, 2019, the Industrial Relations Code, 2020, the Code on Social Security, 2020, and the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020 — and published the draft rules under the codes. But Mr. Yadav did not answer Mr. Modi’s question whether their implementation had been delayed. “Labour is in the Concurrent List of the Constitution and under the labour codes, rules are required to be framed by the Central Government and the State Governments. The Central Government and some of the States/UTs have pre-published rules under the four labour codes. The Central Government is pursuing with the remaining State Governments to frame the rules under all four codes,” the Minister said. While 24 States/UTs had pre-published the draft rules under Code on Wages, 20 did under the Industrial Relations Code, 18 under the Code on Social Security and 13 under the Occupational Safety Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-told-to-pre-publish-labour-rules/article37973764.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Business as usual for MoS||Despite repeated protest by the Opposition seeking his removal, it was business as usual for Union Minister of State Ajay Kumar Mishra on Thursday. He attended official meetings in North Block, in a clear indication that there were no instructions so far from the government to drop him from the ministerial position.page 14||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/business-as-usual-for-mos/article37973773.ece
17 December 2021||PALAKKAD/MALAPPURAM,||‘Metro Man’ Sreedharan quits active politics||E. Sreedharan has said he would not continue in active politics. Addressing the media on Thursday, the technocrat said he learned a big lesson from his defeat in the Kerala Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-man-sreedharan-quits-active-politics/article37973949.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC stays directive to ban cross-gender massages||The Delhi HC on Thursday put on hold the city Govern- ment’s guidelines banning cross-gender massage services, noting that there was no reasonable link between absolute ban and preventing prostitution at spas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-stays-directive-to-ban-cross-gender-massages/article37973947.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||CAQM to decide today on easing curbs||The Centre’s Air Quality Commission informed the Supreme Court that a decision on resuming construction activities, which have been identified as a major source of pollution, will be taken on December 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/caqm-to-decide-today-on-easing-curbs/article37973948.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bullock cart races get Supreme Court approval||The Supreme Court on Thursday gave the nod to resume bullock cart races in Maharashtra that were prohibited since 2017. The court said the amended rules would apply to the conduct of the races until a final decision is arrived at.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bullock-cart-races-get-supreme-court-approval/article37974178.ece
17 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Hisar lynching: family refuses to cremate body||The family of a Scheduled Caste man, who was allegedly beaten to death by upper caste men in Haryana’s Hisar, refused to cremate the body, demanding arrests in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hisar-lynching-family-refuses-to-cremate-body/article37974179.ece
17 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh, Shivpal join forces for U.P. election||The rift in the Samajwadi Party between its president Akhilesh Yadav and his uncle Shivpal Yadav has been resolved, forging political unity of the Yadav family ahead of the 2022 U.P. polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/akhilesh-shivpal-join-forces-for-up-election/article37974181.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Five more cases of Omicron in State||Five more cases of Omicron have been detected in Karnataka, taking the total number of patients infected with the new variant of coronavirus to eight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-more-cases-of-omicron-in-state/article37973811.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,||YouTuber arrested again, remanded||YouTuber Maridhas was arrested by the Melapalayam police here on Thursday in connection with a case registered in April 2020 based on a complaint filed by a TMMK functionary Mohammed Khader Meeran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-inaugurates-kathipara-urban-square/article37973853.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Process to identify next CDS has started: Rajnath Singh||The government has initiated the process to identify the next Chief of Defence Staff (CDS). The top military post fell vacant following the death of Gen. Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash last week. “The process to select the next CDS has begun and the name will be announced soon.” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on the sidelines of an event. In the interim, Army chief Gen. M.M. Naravane, who is the senior most of the three Service chiefs, has been entrusted with the charge of Chairman, Chiefs of Staff Committee (CoSC), comprising the three service chiefs with the CDS as its Permanent Chairman. Gen. Rawat, who had served as the 27th Army chief from December 31, 2016 till December 31, 2019, took over as the first CDS on January 1, 2020. The age limit for the CDS’s post is 65 years with no fixed tenure defined. Gen. Naravane, who has tenure till April 2022, took over as the 28th Army chief from Gen. Rawat on December 31, 2019. The Navy and the Air Force have just seen a change at the top with Admiral R. Hari Kumar taking over as Chief of the Naval Staff on November 30 and V.R. Chaudhari taking over as the Air Chief Marshal on September 30. The CDS also serves as the Secretary of the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) in the Defence Ministry, Permanent Chairman, Chiefs of Staff Committee and Principal Adviser to the Defence Minister. After the appointment of the CDS, the armed forces were brought within the ambit of the DMA, which also deals with works relating to the three Services, and with procurement exclusive to the Services, except capital acquisitions which remains with the Department of Defence. The broad mandate of the CDS includes bringing about “jointness” in “operations, logistics, transport, training, support services, communications, repairs and maintenance, within three years of the first CDS assuming office”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/process-to-identify-next-cds-has-started-rajnath-singh/article37973468.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition likely to hold mock parliament||The Opposition parties are likely to hold a mock parliament under the Mahatma Gandhi statue where 12 suspended MPs have been staging a protest for the past 16 days. Many of the Opposition MPs will play the role of the ruling party, sources said. CPI(M) leader Elamaram Kareem will step into the shoes of Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu, while RJD leader Manoj K. Jha will be Leader of the House Piyush Goyal, sources said. The idea was mooted by the Congress’ Rajya Sabha member Rajamani Patel, who is among those suspended. “Our responsibility as lawmakers does not end just because they have forced us outside the House. Since we are not allowed to do our duty within the House, we will do it outside,” he said. At a meeting on Thursday, the Opposition leaders decided that instead of raising the issue of suspension in the Upper House, their agitation will be centred on the government’s reluctance to expel Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra for his alleged involvement in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. At Lakhimpur Kheri, Mr. Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra allegedly drove his SUV into protesting farmers, killing six of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-likely-to-hold-mock-parliament/article37973688.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Resident doctors go on nationwide stir today||The Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) wrote to the Health Ministry on Thursday announcing its decision of “withdrawal from all services (including emergency services)” by resident doctors in healthcare institutions from Friday. Doctors are demanding expediting of the NEET-PG 2021 counselling and admission, the delay in which has left nearly 50,000 aspirants in the lurch. “The overburdened and exhausted resident doctors of the nation have been protesting since November 27, 2021, against the multiple delays and postponement of NEET-PG 2021 counselling which has led to non-admission of fresh batch of resident doctors for the current academic year,” said FORDA president Manish. The NEET PG counselling process has been delayed repeatedly due to cases in the Supreme Court over reservations for the economical weaker section. FORDA said in its letter the agitation that began with withdrawal from OPD services by resident doctors, gradually escalated to “withdrawal from all service” (routine as well as Emergency) since there was no concrete measure taken by the concerned authorities for fast-tracking the court hearing and for expediting the counselling process. FORDA added that subsequently, following compilation of a plea for fast-tracking the court hearing by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), considering Health Minister’s assurance and various other factors including patient-care, the agitation was put back on hold on December 9 for a period of one week. Action on urgent basis “But nothing concrete has materialised after that. We urge the Health Ministry to take necessary measures in the subject matter on an urgent basis. As prior informed, in case the matter is not addressed by December 16, we will be once again forced to call for “withdrawal from all services” in healthcare institutions,” the doctors said. They added that the onus for the unfortunate situation affecting healthcare services will be on the authorities. Deployment of 50,000 PG candidates has been kept hostage for a policy, the criteria of which are yet to be studied and decided, and the legal validity of which is unclear as of yet. This is despite the fact that Omicron variant has entered India, said FORDA members. The Association said children and youth from economically weak section, have to survive the real and present danger of acute reduction in number of doctors treating the diseases and trauma they suffer today, before they can avail EWS qouta in the future, when and if it gets defined and is deemed legally valid. The resident doctors claim that they are against the fact that the policy that will not be formulated until 2022 is being forced upon an exam that was supposed to happen in 2020. “Protest is a democratic right, yet resident doctors and their representatives face punitive action by State and institutional authorities,” said FORDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/resident-doctors-protest-from-today-over-pg-admissions/article37973701.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||JUH protests against Saudi Arabia ban on Tablighis||Saudi Arabia’s ban on Tablighi Jamaat has drawn a strong protest from leaders of the Jamiat Ulema E Hind but the ban is likely to affect the global organisation's position as Saudi Arabia has made it clear that it was imposed as the organisation was following new texts that are not part of the puritanical interpretation of Islam as followed in the Wahhabi school in the country. “President of Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind Maulana Mahmood Madani said that those who are opposing the Tablighi Jamaat are either influenced by baseless propaganda or ignorant of facts. The Tablighi Jamaat is at present the largest peaceful religious and constructive movement all over the world,” said Niaz Ahmed Farooqui, Secretary, Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, in a statement sent to The Hindu . The Embassy of Saudi Arabia did not respond to The Hindu ’s query about the ban imposed on December 6. The Ministry of Islamic Affairs in a public announcement on social media said, “Affiliation with partisan groups, (including the Tablighi and Da'wah group) is prohibited in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.” The ban by Saudi Arabia which also refers to the organisation as “one of the gates of terrorism” is likely to impact the organisation’s standing in multiple countries where it commands great following. At present, the organisation has active members spread across the world and mainly in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Southeast Asia. The organisation is known to preach Islamic values among fellow Muslims and urges them to adhere to what it believes are the correct Islamic values. A leading Gulf-based author and cultural commentator who chose to remain anonymous believes that though the Tablighis are often referred to as “Islamic proselytizers”, they are in fact known for preaching within the Islamic community and not so much outside. He also believes that this is also the root of the issue that placed the Tablighis into trouble in Saudi Arabia. “In recent years, the women's wing of Tablighi Jamaat has been visiting Saudi citizens at home seeking adherence to what they believe is the right Islamic path. As a state based on Wahhabism, Saudi authorities probably did not like that an outside group gaining acceptance in the religious domain where the Saudi state has the last word,” said the commentator saying the decision has a tinge of ethnic bias as the Arab states do not like to be taught Islam by others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/juh-protests-against-saudi-arabia-ban-on-tablighis/article37973707.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||India marks 50 years of 1971 war||The country on Thursday commemorated 50 years of the decisive victory in the 1971 Liberation War of Bangladesh. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh termed the war the “golden chapter” in India’s military history. He unveiled an India Post special cover and a commemorative stamp marking the occasion. The event marked the culmination of year-long ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ celebrations. As part of this, 30 ‘Mukti Jodhas’ (freedom fighters) who took part in the war were invited from Bangladesh and honoured. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter, “On the 50th Vijay Diwas, I recall the great valour and sacrifice by the Muktijoddhas, Biranganas and bravehearts of the Indian armed forces. Together, we fought and defeated oppressive forces.” Mr. Modi and Mr. Singh paid homage at the National War Memorial, where the Victory Flame — lit a year ago to mark the beginning of the celebrations — culminated after travelling to various parts of the country. The commemorative stamp for the event carries a Swarnim Vijay Varsh logo designed by Lt. Cdr. Kushal Chandrashekhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/country-marks-50-years-of-1971-war/article37973683.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||Amid uproar, it’s business as usual for Ajay Mishra||Despite repeated protests in Parliament by the Opposition seeking his removal, it was business as usual for Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra on Thursday. Mr. Mishra attended official meetings in North Block, in a clear indication that there were no instructions so far from the government to drop him from the ministerial position. Mr. Mishra was seen abusing and lunging at a journalist in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday when he was asked about a Special Investigation Team (SIT) report that said that the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri incident was a pre-planned conspiracy. The Minister’s son Ashish Mishra is a prime accused in the October 3 incident where four farmers were killed and several others injured after they were run over by a car that was part of the convoy of the Union Minister. On Thursday, Mr. Mishra held a review meeting with officials in North Block. An official said that he was present in the office for two hours and is also learnt to have cleared files. He is expected to visit Dibrugarh in Assam on December 18 to attend an event of the Official Languages Division. Official event On January 20, he is expected to be the chief guest at the raising day parade of Sashastra Seema Bal. Earlier in November, Mr. Mishra was conspicuously absent from the group photo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with senior police officers at the annual Director General of police conference organised by the Intelligence Bureau (IB) in Lucknow. Though Mr. Mishra attended the conference on the previous two days (November 19 and 20), he was missing from the valedictory session when Mr. Modi addressed the police officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-uproar-its-business-as-usual-for-ajay-mishra/article37973692.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||CTET postponed over technical glitch||In another fiasco by the beleaguered Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), it was forced to postpone examinations for a large number of teacher aspirants on Thursday and Friday due to technical issues. The rescheduled dates are yet to be announced. This is the first time the examination is being conducted in an online computer-based mode. The unit of Tata Consultancy Services, which had been contracted to conduct the Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET) 2021 for the CBSE, said “on day one of the examination [December 16], unexpected technical issues impacted operations in certain venues, in the first shift.” In its Twitter statement, TCS iON said, “As a result, candidates in affected venues could not complete the exam. Consequently, we had to cancel the second shift examination.” It went on to add that all candidates who were due to attempt the test in the second shift on Thursday and both shifts on Friday would be rescheduled to a later date. Examinations will be held as usual from December 20 onwards, it said. Candidates thronged centres, blocked roads and took to social media to express frustration. The CBSE has been taking flak in recent weeks for sudden changes in its conduct of the first term board examinations for Class 10 and 12, in an objective type format for the first time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ctet-postponed-over-technical-glitch/article37973754.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Putin, Modi, Xi meet soon: official||A trilateral summit of the leaders of India, China and Russia is expected in the near future, a top presidential adviser said in Moscow. Briefing the media on a recent videoconference between Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping, presidential aide Yury Ushakov said they discussed a trilateral meet with India. Both the leaders “agreed to continue exchanging opinions in this regard and to endeavour to hold the next summit within the RIC [Russia-India-China] framework in the near future,” Mr. Ushakov was quoted as saying by Russian news agency TASS . Mr. Putin visited Delhi briefly on December 6 and had a one-on-one meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi . Upon returning to Moscow, he held a videoconference with Mr. Xi. The sequence of meetings has acquired special significance in the context of tension between India and China along the Line of Actual Control since early 2020. India is yet to acknowledge if the China factor had come up for discussion during Mr. Putin’s visit. The trilateral format has been convened at various levels though a meeting at the leadership level is yet to take place. The foreign ministers of Russia, India and China met on November 26. At that meeting, all parties agreed to counter terrorism but a major difference was visible on Indo-Pacific, with Russia supporting Chinese concern on Indo-Pacific grouping ‘Quad’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/putin-modi-xi-meet-soon-says-official/article37973472.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||CBI files chargesheet against former Allahabad HC judge||The CBI has filed its chargesheet against retired Allahabad High Court Judge Justice S.N. Shukla in a corruption case for allegedly favouring a private medical college in his orders, officials said. The agency has moved with its chargesheet against Mr. Shukla after getting the go-ahead from the government to prosecute the retired judge, they said. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had booked Justice Shukla with other accused in December 2019 under Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act. In its FIR, besides Justice Shukla of the Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court, the agency had also named retired Chhattisgarh High Court judge I.M. Quddusi, Bhagwan Prasad Yadav and Palash Yadav of the Prasad Education Trust, the Trust itself and private persons Bhavna Pandey and Sudhir Giri, they said. Several other accused in the FIR have also been named in the chargesheet. It is alleged that Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences was debarred by the Centre from admitting students due to substandard facilities and non-fulfilment of the required criteria in May 2017, along with 46 other medical colleges. The decision to debar was challenged by the Trust before the Supreme Court through a writ petition. Subsequently, a conspiracy was hatched by those named in the FIR and the petition withdrawn. Justice Shukla had allegedly defied the categorical restraint orders passed by a Chief Justice of India-led bench of the apex court to permit private colleges to admit students for the 2017-18 academic session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-files-chargesheet-against-former-allahabad-hc-judge/article37973751.ece
17 December 2021||Chennai,||‘T.N. police seeking weather images of day of chopper crash’||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had no role in the helicopter flight plan prepared for the helicopter that crashed with Chief of the Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat after taking off from the Sulur Air Base in Coimbatore to the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, in the Nilgiris. Highly placed sources in the Tamil Nadu Police said that neither was the IMD’s forecast called for, nor did the department issue any weather report in connection with the short flight with Gen. Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, Brigadier L.S. Lidder and 11 other defence officials. “The Indian Air Force has its own meteorological system with well-trained experts for weather study and forecasts. The IMD doesn’t send any reports to the Sulur Air Base unless called for…in this case [relating to the crash of the Mi-17V5 helicopter on December 8] also there was no specific report sent or called for,” a senior official who is part of the investigation told The Hindu . Satellite images The State police have requested the IMD to share satellite images showcasing the weather conditions in Coonoor on December 8, sources said. “Weather reports for aviation purposes were made available at the Coimbatore airport. But that does not serve the purpose since the helicopter trip to Wellington, though a short one, goes into hilly terrain, where weather conditions change often,” the official said. The Upper Coonoor Police, who have registered a case under Section 174 (unnatural death) of the Criminal Procedure Code, have examined a few witnesses to the tragic crash, who either saw the helicopter moments before the crash or were part of the rescue operations at Kattery, police sources said. IMD refuses to comment Investigators have also written to the Indian Air Force, Sulur Base, and Defence Services Staff College authorities in Wellington, seeking the weather report given to the pilot of the VIP helicopter and certain information relevant to the ongoing probe, a police official said. When asked for his views, Director General of Meteorology, IMD, Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, refused to comment on the issue. However, sources in the IMD confirmed to The Hindu that the department had received a formal request from the State police for satellite images and other weather details pertaining to the helicopter crash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tn-police-seeking-weather-images-of-day-of-crash/article37973709.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Industry presses for boosters||Indian industry urged the Centre to allow booster shots of COVID-19 vaccines in view of the Omicron variant, during pre-Budget consultations with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday. The government is yet to take a decision on allowing booster shots for those already inoculated with two doses. The Health Ministry has pointed out that even the World Health Organization is yet to take a stand on whether booster doses are necessary. On Sunday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, Samiran Panda, said need for a booster or additional vaccine dose or reduction in time gap between two doses of the available vaccines are being examined. Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) president T.V. Narendran voiced what several industry leaders have been advocating for some time, during a virtual interaction hosted by Ms. Sitharaman and top Finance Ministry officials on Industry, Infrastructure & Climate Change-related concerns that may be addressed in the coming Budget of 2022-23. Bolstering preparedness Emphasising the importance of bolstering India’s pandemic preparedness to mitigate possible fresh risks to economic growth, Tata Steel managing director Mr. Narendran said: “With the risk of the omicron variant looming large, it is critical to explore booster doses of the COVID vaccines with an adequate provisioning in the Budget for continued strengthening of our surveillance, testing, vaccine research, therapeutics and health care infrastructure.” He also asked the government to adopt a three-tier import tariff structure to support aspirations of Atma Nirbhar Bharat and help Indian businesses integrate into the global value chain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/industry-nudges-govt-to-go-for-booster-shots/article37973712.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Nation’s interest always trumps individual interest’||On a day when the long-awaited report on the Data Protection Bill 2019 was tabled in Parliament, the Chairperson of the Joint Parliamentary Committee and BJP MP P.P. Chaudhary stressed that divulging the reasons for exemptions to government agencies would imperil the security of the state.  The report has been in the works for the last two years. You got less than six months as the Chairperson. What were the challenges? The primary challenge was that with the ever-changing technology, we cannot visualise what other compliance problems could crop up in the future. Our endeavour was to write a comprehensive and futuristic report. There were seven dissent notes from the members, many of them aimed at the controversial clause 35 that gives exemption to government agencies. Why did the committee retain it? Clause 35 is very clear; it exempts the government agencies from the purview of the law only for the reasons of “public order”, “sovereignty”, “friendly relations with foreign states” and “security of the state”. And the reasons to seek exemption have to be noted in writing. Now, some of the members wanted this record of reasons to be tabled for Parliament’s approval. It simply can’t be done! Divulging the reasons would imperil the security of the state. If there is a conflict between interest of the nation and interest of an individual, the former always takes precedence. Another key criticism was that the law seeks to make two ecosystems — one for the government with all the exemption and another one for the private sector where the law would be enforced with full rigour. Your comments. You are talking about Section 12. It says that for providing a service or extending a benefit by a government agency, the consent of the data principal need not be taken. If we were to remove this clause, the entire country would come to a halt. Our entire push towards digitisation would also come to a stop.The committee has been vigilant about maintaining a balance between practicality and privacy issues.  (For full interview, log on to bit.ly/DataLawJPC)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nations-interest-always-trumps-the-individuals-interest/article37973690.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Time to correct wrong farming practices before problems worsen, says PM||It is time to correct wrong farming practices before the problems of the agriculture sector become even worse, according to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Virtually addressing a conclave on natural farming in Gujarat on Thursday, Mr. Modi urged farmers to replace the chemical fertilizers and pesticides that spurred the Green Revolution with concoctions made with the dung and urine of indigenous cows, advocating a “completely science-based” shift from chemistry labs to nature’s laboratory. He said small and marginal farmers, who owned less than two acres and made up 80% of the country’s farming population, stood to benefit the most from natural farming techniques as they were currently forced to spend large sums on expensive fertilizers. Calling for a mass movement to promote natural farming, he said reducing the import bill on artificial fertilizers was an essential step to achieve the goal of an Atmanirbhar Bharat or a self-reliant India. This comes at a time when farmers in parts of the country have been complaining of fertilizer shortages during the critical winter sowing season. Mr. Modi’s speech, which the Agriculture Ministry said was broadcast to eight crore farmers across the country, is the government’s latest push to promote zero budget natural farming techniques. Home Minister Amit Shah and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar were both present at the conclave in Anand, Gujarat, indicating that the topic is a fresh priority for the Centre, now that its flagship farm reform laws have been repealed.. While it is still awaiting any large-scale scientific study to assess the long-term impact of such techniques on productivity, farm income and food security, the Ministry says the experience of lakhs of farmers has showcased the method’s success. Mr. Modi said, “An illusion has arisen that without chemicals, the crop will not be good. Whereas the truth is quite the opposite. Earlier there were no chemicals, but the harvest was good. The history of the development of humanity is witness to this. Before the problems related to agriculture become even worse, it is the right time to take big steps before that. We have to take our farming out of the lab of chemistry and connect it to the lab of nature. When I talk about nature's laboratory, it is completely science based.” The Prime Minister quoted from ancient literature in Hindi, Gujarati and Tamil to support natural farming practices, and urged agricultural scientists to use this as the basis of new research. “We need not only relearn this ancient knowledge of agriculture, but also sharpen it for modern times. In this direction, we have to do new research, mould the ancient knowledge in the modern scientific frame,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/time-to-correct-wrong-farming-practices-before-problems-worsen-says-pm/article37973749.ece
17 December 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh, Shivpal join forces for U.P. election||After months of uncertainty, the rift in the Samajwadi Party between party president Akhilesh Yadav and his uncle Shivpal Yadav has been resolved, forging political unity of the Yadav family of Saifai ahead of the 2022 Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. The SP president on Thursday announced that an alliance had been forged between the two after calling on Mr. Shivpal Yadav, who had formed his own party — Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) — after breaking away from Mr. Akhilesh. “Had a meeting with the national president of PSP and fixed the matter of alliance,” Mr. Akhilesh said, tweeting a picture with his uncle. After the meeting, Mr. Shivpal said it was a courtesy meeting in which the two “discussed at length the strategy” to contest the 2022 election together. Mr. Akhilesh said the SP was constantly strengthening the policy of taking along “regional parties” and marching towards a historic victory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-shivpal-join-forces-for-up-election/article37973685.ece
17 December 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra welcomes decision to lift ban||The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s leadership hailed the Supreme Court’s decision on Thursday allowing Maharashtra to conduct bullock cart races after a gap of nearly four years, with the State’s Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar remarking that the decision to lift the ban was an important one for rural parts of Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-welcomes-decision-to-lift-ban/article37973678.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Time to correct wrong farming practices: PM||Home Minister Amit Shah and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar were both present at the conclave in Anand, Gujarat, indicating that the topic is a fresh priority for the Centre, now that its flagship farm reform laws have been repealed. Mr. Modi said, “An illusion has arisen that without chemicals, the crop will not be good. Whereas the truth is quite the opposite. Earlier there were no chemicals, but the harvest was good. The history of the development of humanity is witness to this. Before the problems related to agriculture become even worse, it is the right time to take big steps before that. We have to take our farming out of the lab of chemistry and connect it to the lab of nature. When I talk about nature’s laboratory, it is completely science based.” The Prime Minister quoted from ancient literature in Hindi, Gujarati and Tamil to support natural farming practices. “We need not only relearn this ancient knowledge of agriculture, but also sharpen it for modern times. In this direction, we have to do new research, mould the ancient knowledge in the modern scientific frame. In this direction, institutions like our ICAR, Krishi Vigyan Kendras, and agricultural universities can play a big role. We do not have to limit the information to research papers and theories only, we have to convert it into a practical success,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/time-to-correct-wrong-farming-practices-pm/article37973475.ece
17 December 2021||Kolkata,||Spar over UNESCO tag for Durga Puja in Bengal||A day after the UNESCO’s recognition of Kolkata’s Durga Puja as Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said that those who had said she does not allow Durga Puja in Bengal should be ashamed for spreading lies. The State’s Chief Minister’s remark was directed at the BJP leadership which during the campaign for the Assembly polls had made allegations about Durga Puja not being allowed in the State. State BJP president Sukanta Majumdar responded to allegation that the proposal to the UNESCO was sent by the Union government under leadership of Prime Minister Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spar-over-unesco-tag-for-durga-puja-in-bengal/article37973705.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Public sector bank unions go on 2-day strike||Public sector bank unions went on a two-day strike from Thursday to protest against privatisation of banks and demand that the government withdraw the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that would enable the government to reduce its share in public banks. The unions, under the banner of the United Forum of Bank Unions, had asked the government during talks to give an assurance that the Bill would not be introduced, though it had been listed in the agenda for the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament, said All-India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) general secretary C.H. Venkatachalam. He said the unions proceeded with their strike after the government did not give any assurance. According to AIBEA, public sector banks had grown from 8,000 branches handling deposits of Rs. 5,000 crore in 1969 to 1.18 lakh branches with Rs. 157 lakh crore in deposits in 2021. He added that it was the defaulting by corporates that had led to the crisis of banks. The union claimed that the strike was successful on day one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/public-sector-bank-unions-go-on-2-day-strike/article37973466.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Omicron slow to infect the lungs, says study||“By infecting many more people, a very infectious virus may cause more severe disease and death even though the virus itself may be less pathogenic. Therefore, taken together with our recent studies showing that the Omicron variant can partially escape immunity from vaccines and past infection, the overall threat from Omicron variant is likely to be very significant.” India has so far reported at least 73 cases of the Omicron variant and reports from a study in South Africa, which has seen the fastest rise of the Omicron surge, suggest that at least a fourth of nearly 78,000 positive cases were of the Omicron variant. Recent laboratory studies so far also suggest that antibodies produced against Omicron by those vaccinated were 20-40 times fewer than in older variants. The antibody levels were highest in those vaccinated and with previous exposure to the virus. The United Kingdom has reported around 10,000 cases of Omicron so far with at least 10 people hospitalised. One person has died after contracting the variant, which is anticipated to become the dominant strain. The country is currently reporting close to 80,000 cases a day. India has seen daily COVID-19 case counts dip to 5,000 a day but has now seen an increase to around 7,000 on Thursday with nearly 3,500 cases being reported from Kerala. ‘Interesting twist’ Most of these reportedly involve the Delta and its related variants. Anurag Agrawal, Director, CSIR-IGIB and closely involved with the sequencing of SARS-CoV2 variants, tweeted that the findings were an “interesting twist” and could mean less severe infections. “Omicron infects and replicates better in airways than lung compared to ancestral SARS CoV2 / Delta. This could translate to less severity — more like a upper respiratory infection / common cold than a pneumonia, but I still think of the threat level as high,” she stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/omicron-slow-to-infect-the-lungs-says-study/article37973469.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet nod to raise girls’ marriage age to 21||The Centre has decided to raise the legal age of marriage of women from 18 to 21 years and is likely to move legislative amendments in the ongoing winter session of Parliament. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday cleared a proposal to bring uniformity in the marriageable age of men and women, sources told news agency PTI on Thursday, adding that a Bill to amend the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act (PCMA), 2006, will be introduced during this session. The proposed Bill may also contain amendments to various personal laws relating to marriage of various communities to ensure a uniform age of marriage. As of now, the legal age of women to get married is 18, while that for men is 21. Minister for Women and Child Development Smriti Irani and Secretary, Ministry of Child Development, Indevar Pandey, refused to comment on the subject. Last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the government would soon take a decision on the age of marriage of women. This followed a government decision to appoint a 10-member task force led by former Samata Party chief Jaya Jaitly. The panel submitted its report to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and the Ministry of Women and Child Development in December last year and recommended that the age of marriage of women be raised to 21. The panel’s report has not been made public yet.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-nod-to-raise-girls-marriage-age-to-21/article37973470.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Opposition’s call to sack Mishra roils Parliament||Speaker Om Birla repeatedly urged Mr. Gandhi to stick to the format of the Question Hour and only put the question for which he had been called. Mr. Gandhi persisted in raising the Lakhimpur Kheri issue and demanded Mr. Mishra’s sacking. Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi pointed to Opposition members in the well of the House and Mr. Gandhi, stating, “how can it be that Congress MPs are in the well and also want to ask questions from their seats. I ask that they be recalled to their seats.” Mr. Birla then adjourned the House till 2 p.m.— within eight minutes of the convening of the House. When it reconvened at 2 p.m., Opposition members, including those from Trinamool Congress (TMC) trooped into the well of the House, raised slogans and waved placards demanding action. With repeated adjournments, sources said, the government could explore the possibility of curtailing the winter session once its financial business of getting the supplementary demands for grants is passed in the Lok Sabha. However, the Business Advisory Committee of the House that met on Thursday discussed the agenda of the House until December 23, last day of the session as per the original schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oppositions-call-to-sack-mishra-roils-parliament/article37973673.ece
17 December 2021||Srinagar,||Parties condemn police action against J&K women||The Jammu & Kashmir Police have arrested a mother-daughter duo for shouting slogans after an encounter in Srinagar three days ago, evoking sharp reactions from J&K’s regional parties. The two women, who were seen in a video that went viral, appeared shaken, wailing and shouting slogans immediately after a shoot-out left two militants dead on a street in Rangreth. They were identified as Afrooza and her daughter Aisha from Wanbal in Rawalpora, Srinagar.’ Veracity of operation The duo has been booked under Sections 147, 148, 149 and 326 of the Indian Penal Code. The two women were seen questioning the veracity of the operation as local youth were seen clashing with the security forces nearby. J&K parties, including the National Conference (NC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the J&K Apni Party and the Peoples Conference (PC), have condemned the police action against the duo. PDP vice president Mehbooba Mufti said, “Arresting women in Kashmir marks a new low for the administration that persecutes civilians only to please their masters in Delhi. The situation is getting worse and instead of reaching out to the people, the GOI is pushing them to the wall.” PC chairman Sajad Lone said the arrests “for merely protesting is highly reprehensible and in violation of democratic norms”. “It is extremely suffocating to live in a place where the government’s sword is perpetually hanging over our heads," he added. NC spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar said it was “a new disturbing reality of Kashmir”. Meanwhile, two militants, affiliated to the Lashkar-e-Taiba’s shadow organisation, The Resistance Front (TRF), were killed in an overnight security operation in south Kashmir’s Kulgam on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parties-condemn-police-action-against-jk-women/article37973676.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘States being told to pre-publish labour rules’||He said the Centre had published the draft rules under the four codes. However, Mr. Yadav did not answer Mr. Modi’s question whether the implementation of the codes had been delayed. “Labour is in the Concurrent List of the Constitution and under the labour codes, rules are required to be framed by the Central Government and the State Governments. The Central Government and some of the States/UTs have pre-published rules under the four labour codes. The Central Government is pursuing with the remaining State Governments to frame the rules under all four codes,” the Minister said. While 24 States/UTs had pre-published the draft rules under Code on Wages, 20 did under the Industrial Relations Code, 18 under the Code on Social Security and 13 under the Occupational Safety Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-being-told-to-pre-publish-labour-rules/article37973473.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||1971 war altered S. Asia’s ideological map: Kovind||“The anti-liberation forces that brutally killed Bangabandhu and most of his family did not realise that bullets and violence cannot extinguish an idea that has captured the imagination of millions of people,” the President said Earlier President Kovind participated in the events at Dhaka’s National Parade Ground where an Indian tri-service contingent marched alonside the Bangladesh military contingents. Following the military parade, Prime Minister Hasina administered an oath to the people and political leaders for upholding the freedom and sovereignty of Bangladesh. President Kovind referred to the historic March 7, 1971 speech by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman which is recognised by the UNESCO in the memory of world register as it evokes justice freedom and democracy. The speech was a catalyst in triggering the last phase of the public movement which President Yahya Khan of Pakistan tried to crush by launching the Operation Searchlight on March 26, 1971.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1971-war-altered-s-asias-ideological-map-kovind/article37973474.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||Indira Gandhi ignored by Modi govt., says Congress||The Congress on Thursday slammed the Narendra Modi government for ‘leaving’ out former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi from the official Vijay Diwas commemoration to mark the 50th anniversary of the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War’. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Twitter, “Our first and only woman Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi, is being left out of the misogynist BJP Government’s Vijay Diwas celebrations. This, on the 50th anniversary of the day that she led India to victory and liberated Bangladesh.” “@narendramodi ji, women don’t believe your platitudes. Your patronising attitude is unacceptable. It’s about time you started giving women their due,” she said. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, at a press conference with the party’s deputy leader in the Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi, said Bangladesh acknowledged the role played by Indira Gandhi but the Modi government had not.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indira-gandhi-ignored-by-modi-govt-says-congress/article37973686.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||Jaishankar underscores Delhi-Dhaka trade ties||Despite COVID-19 restrictions, the trade between India and Bangladesh crossed $10 billion, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said on Thursday. Mr. Jaishankar said Bangladesh is India’s largest trade partner in South Asia and fourth largest export destination globally while India is Bangladesh’s second largest trade partner. The Minister was speaking at an event organised by the Border Security Force to commemorate 50 years of the liberation of Bangladesh. He recounted the role the BSF units played in arming, training and supporting the Mukti Bahini, especially in guerrilla war techniques. Support for refugees “None of us can forget the genocidal campaign launched by the Pakistani forces against the people of Bangladesh in 1971… 10 million refugees had come to India, living in camps in border area and the people of India opened their hearts and supported them,” Mr. Jaishankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-underscores-delhi-dhaka-trade-ties/article37973693.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||New rules on child labour notified in Telangana||Besides, two representatives each from voluntary organisations involved in the rescue and rehabilitation of employed children on a rotation basis, representative of the district legal services authority, member of the district anti-trafficking unit, chairperson of the child welfare committee and district child protection officer as also the district education officer should be part of the task force. Meet once in a month The task force should meet at least once every month. It should make comprehensive action plan for conducting rescue operation taking into account the time available, point of raid in accordance with the law, confidentiality of the plan, protection of victims and witnesses. The task force should also upload the minutes of its meeting on the portal that would be created by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-rules-on-child-labour-notified-in-telangana/article37974062.ece
17 December 2021||Srinagar,||‘J&K Assembly being set up to favour BJP’||National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah on Thursday said the BJP was making attempts to set up the next Jammu and Kashmir Assembly to endorse the August 5, 2019 decisions, and asserted that the People’s Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) was “the only platform to defeat this design”. “Attempts were being made [by the BJP] to set up the next Assembly to pass a resolution in favour of the August 5 decisions with a majority. The same resolution will be then produced before the Supreme Court with the plea that the people of J&K were satisfied with the August 5 decisions,” the former Chief Minister stated at a public rally in north Kashmir’s Bandipora. The Gupkar alliance, which was constituted by NC founder Dr. Farooq Abdullah, remained “the only force to defeat these designs of the BJP,” Omar Abdullah added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-assembly-being-set-up-to-favour-bjp/article37973677.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bullock cart races get SC approval||The Supreme Court on Thursday gave the nod to resume bullock cart races in Maharashtra that were prohibited since 2017. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar said the amended rules notified by the State under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 would apply to the conduct of the races until a final decision is arrived at by a Constitution Bench of the court. The court found no reason to prohibit races in Maharashtra when jallikattu and bullock cart races were happening in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka respectively on the strength of amendments made by these States in their rules. The court was hearing an application filed by the Maharashtra government, which had sought that the ban on bullock cart races in the State should be lifted as they were held in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Maharashtra had said that there was a prohibition on bullock cart races as the Bombay High Court, in its interim order, refused to lift the ban in 2017, while there was no stay on the use of bulls for sport in the other two States. “The validity of the amended provision of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 and the rules framed thereunder by the state of Maharashtra would operate during the pendency of the writ petition, as the entire matter has been referred to the constitution bench, including to consider the question as to whether the similar amended Act of the state of Tamil Nadu overcomes the defects pointed out in the two judgements of this court,” Justice Khanwilkar’s Bench observed. In February 2018, the Supreme Court referred to a Constitution Bench the question whether activities such as jallikattu and bullock cart races form part of the cultural heritage of people in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra under Article 29 (1) of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bullock-cart-races-get-sc-approval/article37973672.ece
17 December 2021||Srinagar,||In reshuffle, Srinagar gets new SSP||Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Rakesh Balwal, who headed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) team that probed the 2019 Pulwama attack, was on Thursday appointed as the new Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) to J&K’s summer capital Srinagar, which has lately faced growing militant attacks. Mr. Balwal has replaced SSP Sandeep Chaudhary, who was given the key position only ten months ago. Mr. Chaudhary, whose tenure saw a significant increase in militancy and targeted killings in Srinagar, was shifted and posted as the SSP-Cyber Crime Investigation Centre for Excellence. Mr. Balwal, who is a 2012 batch IPS officer, was moved from the Manipur cadre to the AGMUT cadre for a period of three years in a relaxation of policy in November this year. Earlier, Mr. Balwal served the NIA on deputation and headed the Pulwama attack probe, which left 40 Central Reserve Police Force jawans dead in 2019 in Jammu and Kashmir. He also worked with the American intelligence agency, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, to look into the role of the Jaish-e-Muhammad in the Pulwama attack. He is believed to be the mind behind the exhaustive 13,500-page NIA chargesheet filed before a special court in Jammu and Kashmir on the Pulwama attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ips-officer-behind-pulwama-probe-made-ssp/article37973675.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||SC collegium rejects HC judge’s name||The Supreme Court Collegium is learnt to have declined to recommend the name of Justice Pushpa Ganediwala, additional judge of the Bombay High Court, for appointment as a permanent judge against the backdrop of her controversial “skin-to-skin” judgment. The apex court on November 18 had set aside Justice Ganediwala’s two judgments passed in January, interpreting sexual assault provisions under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The judge, who has been serving at the Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court, had faced widespread criticism after she granted bail to a man accused of groping a minor, saying there was no “skin-to-skin contact and hence it could not be termed sexual assault” under the POCSO Act. The collegium, however, approved the proposal for the appointment of three other additional judges of the Bombay High Court as permanent judges of that court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-collegium-rejects-hc-judges-name/article37973752.ece
17 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||EC reviews Punjab poll preparations||Ahead of election to the Punjab Assembly, Election Commission officials on Thursday met representatives of national and State political parties and reviewed the overall poll preparedness. Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and Election Commissioner Rajiv Kumar, besides Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab, S. Karuna Raju held the meetings. In view of COVID, the EC had revisited some norms. The maximum number of voters at a polling station had been reduced from 1,500 to 1,200.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-reviews-punjab-poll-preparations/article37973711.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||52.88 lakh houses out of 1.14 cr. sanctioned under PMAY-U completed||Out of 1.14 crore houses sanctioned under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Urban (PMAY-U), a total of 52.88 lakh had been completed or delivered to the beneficiaries so far, according to a reply by Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs Kaushal Kishore in the Lok Sabha. Out of the completed houses, the highest were in Uttar Pradesh (9.75 lakh), Gujarat (6.26 lakh). A total of 89.62 lakh houses had been grounded for construction, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5288-lakh-houses-out-of-114-cr-sanctioned-under-pmay-u-completed/article37973464.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||Yechury asks for dismissal of J&K Chief Justice||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury asked President Ram Nath Kovind to sack Chief Justice of Jammu & Kashmir High Court Pankaj Mithal for addressing a seminar organised by an RSS-affiliated organisation. Justice Mithal had reportedly said, “Inclusion of the terms secular and socialist in the Preamble of the Constitution has narrowed India’s spiritual image.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yechury-asks-for-dismissal-of-jk-chief-justice/article37973680.ece
17 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||SGPC wants booklet released by PM banned||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) condemned the release of a booklet titled ‘Sri Kashi Vishwanath Dham Ka Gauravshali Itihas’ by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the inauguration of the Vishwanath Dham corridor and demanded a complete ban on it. SGPC media secretary Kulwinder Singh Ramdas said that the history of the Sikh faith had been distorted and misrepresented in the booklet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sgpc-wants-booklet-released-by-pm-banned/article37973681.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||VHP demands complete ban on Tablighi Jamaat in India, crackdown on Darul Uloom Deoband, PFI||The Vishva Hindu Parishad on Thursday demanded that the government ban the Tablighi Jamaat in India and “crack down” on Darul Uloom Deoband and Popular Front of India as they provide “direct or indirect nourishment” to the Jamaat. They also demanded that the Nizamuddin Markaz building in Delhi and the bank accounts associated with it be sealed and its economic resources plugged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vhp-demands-complete-ban-on-tablighi-jamaat-in-india-crackdown-on-darul-uloom-deoband-pfi/article37973694.ece
17 December 2021||Kolkata,||Extreme caution, warns Kolkata doctor as Bengal records 1st Omicron case||A Kolkata doctor, who has been highly vocal in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic has called for “extreme caution” after West Bengal reported its first Omicron case on Wednesday. “Conclusive scientific evidence is yet to emerge regarding its virulence, transmissibility, severity of illness and clinical outcome, but initial reports suggest that though transmissibility is higher compared to other variants, the severity of illness is low. In light of what the Delta variant had created, we all should tread with extreme caution,” Dr. Koushik Chaki, a founding member of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/extreme-caution-warns-kolkata-doctor-as-bengal-records-1st-omicron-case/article37973700.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi/Howrah,||Young shooter found dead at Howrah hostel||A young national level shooter Konica Layak was found hanging in her hostel at Bally in Howrah district on Wednesday, the police said. According to Howrah police sources, a suicide note was found on her in which she blamed “depression” for taking the extreme step. The police have started investigations into the death of the shooter who was from Dhanbad in Jharkhand.(Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can seek help and counselling by calling Kolkata Lifeline Foundation on phone numbers: 033-24637401/ 033-24637432)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/young-shooter-found-dead-at-howrah-hostel/article37973702.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. releases first list of 8 candidates for Goa polls||With a change at the last minute, the Congress on Thursday announced its first list of eight candidates for the Goa Assembly elections. Former Chief Minister Digambar Kamat will be the party’s choice from the Margao constituency. Though Vijay Sardesai-led Goa Forward Party and the Congress have announced that they will join hands for the elections, it is not clear whether the two parties will have a seat-sharing arrangement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-releases-first-list-of-8-candidates-for-goa-polls/article37973704.ece
17 December 2021||Agartala,||Many injured, vehicles vandalised as tribal groups clash||Several people were reportedly wounded and vehicles vandalised in a clash between supporters of the Tipraha Indigenous Peoples Regional Alliance (TIPRA) and the Tripura Peoples’ Front (TPF) at Khumulwng on Thursday. Security platoons have been deployed in strength in Khumulwng, headquarters of the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC). TIPRA is the ruling administration of the TTAADC after its stunning victory in its elections held last April. Both the TIPRA and the TPF accused each other of instigating violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/many-injured-vehicles-vandalised-as-tribal-groups-clash/article37973710.ece
17 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,TAMIL NADU||15,665 more ducks culled in Alappuzha||Culling of ducks within a 1-km radius of the bird flu-hit areas at Nedumudi and Karuvatta grama panchayats was completed on Thursday. Officials of the Animal Husbandry Department said a total of 15,665 ducks belonging to five farmers were culled by rapid response teams in the two grama panchayats. On Wednesday, around 2,000 ducks of a farmer were culled in Nedumudi. At Thakazhy, apart from Nedumudi and Karuvatta, bird flu (H5N1) was confirmed in ducks at the Thakazhy grama panchayat last week. Rapid response teams had culled more than 9,000 birds, mostly ducks, within a radius of 1 km of the infected area at Thakazhy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15665-more-ducks-culled-in-alappuzha/article37974088.ece
17 December 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Now, walking, cycling to work||Health officials in Ariyalur took the eco-friendly route and rode bicycles to work on Wednesday following an order by the Collector. At a meeting with Collectors, the Chief Secretary had urged government officials commute to work on Mondays or Wednesdays via public transport or bicycle. Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi walked to the Collectorate on Monday from her place of residence, setting an example for others in the district to follow. The effort was an attempt to reduce air pollution, and create awareness of eco-friendly ways to tackle it. Taking the initiative forward, officials of the health department, led by Geetha Rani, Deputy Director of Health Services, pedalled their way to office creating awareness of vaccines against COVID-19 en route. Speaking to The Hindu , Dr. Geetha said that her department took the initiative a step further by pledging to plant a sapling once a week. "We will not only take the bicycle or walk to work but will also plant one sapling. This is our contribution to this effort," she said. On Wednesday, she, along with 10 other officials, planted 10 saplings. Dr. Geetha and her team rode bicycles around some parts of the district, where they met the public and created awareness of the importance of immunisation, COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. She also administered the vaccine to a few people working on agricultural lands along the way. “Whenever we travel, whether it is for a programme, meeting or field visits, we always carry some doses of the vaccine. I ask if they have taken the vaccine, and if not, I immediately give them the jab," the senior official said. The effort to take public transport would also enable officials to interact with the public and hear their grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-walking-cycling-to-work/article37973981.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City gets ready for the launch of Illam Thedi Kalvi scheme||Following its implementation in 12 districts, the School Education Department’s initiative Illam Thedi Kalvi (education at the doorstep), which was drawn up to bridge learning gaps among students will soon begin in Chennai as well. Around 4,982 volunteers have enrolled so far for the initiative, which aims to engage students of classes I to VIII every evening for an hour, in spaces that will be identified and created in the community. Chennai has around 80,374 students in class I to V, and 80,424 students studying in classes VI to VIII in government and aided schools. “As a first step, 60 resource persons for primary and upper primary classes each are being trained for two days in Chennai, which includes primary school teachers. They will, in turn, train volunteers in 10 blocks in Chennai who will lead the initiative,” said S. Mars, chief educational officer, Chennai. The resource persons who will train the volunteers chosen will focus on how they can work in coordination with the community to make it a people’s initiative, and how to engage effectively with the students. The sessions focus on child rights and safety, student psychology, and volunteer behaviour. For the primary teachers, sessions in Mathematics, English, Environmental Sciences and Tamil were held, to guide them on the aspects to focus on in the evening sessions for the initiative. Basic skills “With students having faced a long gap away from school owing to the pandemic, the volunteers must empathise with their mindset, and motivate them with regard to learning. The hour-long sessions in the evening will not be a repeat of what is done in classrooms. The volunteers will focus on basic knowledge and skills through songs, skits and activities,” said K. Manjula, a lecturer from the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) who conducted sessions for resource persons. For Illam Thedi Kalvi, the SCERT has prepared resource material for each month, which the volunteers are expected to use once the programme begins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-gets-ready-for-the-launch-of-illam-thedi-kalvi-scheme/article37973855.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cyber Crime Wing unearths fraudulent gaming portals||The Cyber Crime Wing of the Tamil Nadu police unearthed a network of fraudulent online gaming portals run by a group of engineers who are suspected to have bilked people out of Rs. 10 crore. Russian operators had paid the group in cryptocurrency. In October, the Kallakurichi police arrested Manikandan, 26, considered to be one of the operators of these portals. Then the police arrested eight more engineering graduates. The arrests followed the detection of high-volume bank transactions. Amresh Pujari, Additional Director-General of Police, Cyber Crime Wing, ordered a special team, led by Superintendent of Police M.R.Sibi Chakravarthy, to conduct a thorough investigation. The team conducted raids at Pammal, Sankar Nagar and Ambattur and arrested Sasikumar, Saikumar, Raj Kumar, Rajesh Kumar and Mohammed Asif, all engineering graduates aged 24-26. Laptops, desktops, mobile phones, ATM cards, pen drives, SIM cards and a car were seized from them. Mr. Sibi Chakravarthy told The Hindu , “The accused are suspected to be the agents of Russian operators and they were communicating through e-mail. They used the software supplied by them. The gang had programmed the application so that even the winner/loser could be decided by them; after bets were placed and payments were made, the accused made sure the customers lost all the money. The gang was making huge profits.” They engaged some persons for a few thousand rupees to get SIM cards and deposited the money in fictitious bank accounts. The initial investigation showed they had transacted with the foreign operators through cryptocurrency, Mr. Sibi Chakravarthy said. The police will alert the Enforcement Directorate and the Income Tax Department to this network. Steps are being taken to freeze the online websites used for gaming. The Cyber Crime Wing has requested people to avoid online gaming and asked the victims to report through cyber crime helpline 155260.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cyber-crime-wing-unearths-fraudulent-gaming-portals/article37973878.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||S-gene dropout found in another traveller from Congo||An analysis has found S-gene dropout in the sample of another traveller, a woman in Arani who had returned from Congo. Her sample has been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, for whole genome sequencing to identify the variant, according to Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. With this, the S-gene target failure was observed in nine persons in the State. This included the 47-year-old man who travelled from Nigeria whose sample was confirmed by NIV to be of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2. The S-gene dropout was identified in the woman’s sample on Thursday, he said. While the Health Department had lifted samples from 59 contacts of the first traveller, a total of 219 samples were lifted from the contacts of a co-passenger as he had attended a wedding and visited places including a departmental store. The S-gene dropout was observed in four samples lifted from his close contacts, officials said. As of now, there is one confirmed case of Omicron variant and 12 suspected cases with S-gene dropout, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. The Health Secretary inspected the COVID-19 infrastructure at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on Thursday. With the suspicion that these persons could have been infected with the Omicron variant, Mr. Radhakrishnan raised the need for the public to adhere to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. “Last year, we did not know what drugs to use and who were at risk. In May, we faced oxygen shortage. The situation is not the same now. We have 1,11,000 beds in the State,” he said. The block at the RGGGH had seven floors. There were 72 beds at the zero delay ward while each flood had 136 beds. There were 455 ventilators, and the hospital had 2,050 beds for COVID-19 patients alone. Chennai had a total of 8,164 oxygen beds, 3,770 non-oxygen beds and 1,849 ICU beds, he said, adding: “At the peak period, we had readied 1,80,000 beds in the State. The COVID-19 Care Centres for patients with mild infection are currently closed but are ready. There a total of 1,11,252 beds ready at the centres. Of this, Chennai has 13,883 beds. Unlike last year, we have all the drugs ready.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/s-gene-dropout-found-in-another-traveller-from-congo/article37973884.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sewer lines damaged in rain being repaired||The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) has taken up repair of sewer lines damaged when roads caved in or when they developed leaks at several locations across the city. The water board plans to engage a consultant to assess the network and take up improvement. During last month’s heavy rain, the sewer network carried almost double the usual load of 620 million litres a day (mld). This left the network damaged at several places and caused cave-in on roads across the city, particularly in Zones 9 (Teynampet), 10 (Kodambakkam) and 11 (Valasaravakkam), said the CMWSSB officials. The pipeline network in these places was over three decades old and carried sewage round the clock. Normally, the peak flow would be for four hours during morning and evening hours. Officials said work was in various stages of completion at 180 locations, including in Kathivakkam, Ennore and Vanagaram. While the repair taken up on Anna Main Road, K.K. Nagar, is a major work, the water board is also replacing the damaged portion of the sewer lines. In Brindavan Street, T. Nagar, a portion of the road caved in on Wednesday and work is on to assess the damage and complete the repair work within two or three days. Complaints resolution Most of the work pertains to replacing damaged pipelines for a length of 10 metres or 15 metres as of now. “We are carrying out temporary work to provide immediate relief to residents. Of the 20,460 complaints received since the start of monsoon, 18,215 have been resolved. Work is under progress to address other complaints,” said an official. Another reason cited for road cave-in was damage to sewer lines during laying of cables by other utility agencies. Pipelines in these places developed leaks that caused caving in of roads. Maintenance doors that had collapsed like the one in Velachery Main Road were being replaced and leaks in water supply pipeline, including the one on Chamiers Road and Turnbulls Road, would be plugged. The CMWSSB is executing the work to remove silt in the sewer lines at 520 locations identified in the city. A major project would be drawn up based on the consultant’s report to improve the sewer lines, which runs for 4,093 km, keeping in mind the growing needs of the city, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sewer-lines-damaged-in-rain-being-repaired/article37973900.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM opens Kathipara Urban Square||The Kathipara Urban Square, under the clover leaf shaped flyover and built at a cost of Rs. 14.5 crore, was thrown open to public by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday. Spread over 5.9 lakh sq. ft., the urban square has been divided into four zones. As visitors enter from the G.S.T. Road side, they would find dining space, food and retail outlets, bus bays and parking lot. Those coming to the spot from Porur can access children’s play area, bus bays, retail outlets and parking space. On Ekkatuthangal side, there are bus bays and retail outlets and there is a landscape with a walking track. The parking lot has space for 128 cars, 340 two-wheelers along with the eight bus bays. Apart from murals that adorn the walls, Tamil alphabet have been installed on the medians around this facility. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL), the idea behind developing the urban square was to provide commuters and residents the options to relax, dine and shop in the interval between changing trains or buses in Alandur. “For those who get off at Alandur Metro station, they have options for recreation. Similarly, for those taking the buses and for those getting off here, they can take a quick break, eat and leave. Since there are bus bays, parking space and a Metro station, commuters will have enough transport options,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-opens-kathipara-urban-square/article37973867.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pallikaranai Margazhi Thiruvizha from tomorrow||The State Forest Department along with the Conservation Authority of Pallikaranai Marshland and Care Earth Trust, a city-based biodiversity organisation, will host “Pallikaranai Margazhi Thiruvizha” from December 18 to January 9. The Tamil month of Margazhi, synonymous with performing arts in the city, also coincides with migration season of birds and the wetlands play host to thousands of winged visitors along with the native species. The third edition of the bird watching experience will mainly have guided walks every day till 7 a.m. and the assembling point would be Mohammed Sathak College gate, Perumbakkam Main Road, Sholinganallur. Birdwatchers would get to know about flamingoes and painted storks that throng wetlands during this season. They may observe aquatic birds such as fulvous whistling duck and grey headed lapwing, which are not commonly spotted in the State. There are other events like “draw a kolam” depicting birds and build a photo wall on city’s bird life. While the youth may participate in “sing along” wherein they can sing or compose music inspired by birds, schoolchildren may design a poster on importance of wetlands birds. Registration is compulsory, said a press release. Participants may submit entries at careearthtrails@gmail.com and register for walks athttps://forms.gle/ Yycx7e2FSBZgeWiz7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pallikaranai-margazhi-thiruvizha-from-tomorrow/article37973858.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court asks if BDOs can usurp functions of panchayat presidents||The Madras High Court on Thursday sought an explanation from the Centre and State government on the role of elected representatives such as village panchayat presidents in identifying and executing civil works under centrally sponsored schemes such as Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme (MGNREGS) and the extent to which Block Development Officers (BDOs) can interefere in such functions. Justice R. Suresh Kumar wanted the Union Ministry of Rural Development and State government to respond to a case filed by Village Panchayat Presidents’ Association in Tiruvannamalai district by January 3. The judge said he had come across a few cases where the common complaint was that of the executive officials sidelining the elected representatives and completely taking over the implementation of government schemes. V. Lakshminarayanan, counsel for the petitioner association, said the 45 village panchayat presidents under Kalasapakkam panchayat union in Tiruvannamalai district had been reduced to nothing because the BDO takes all decisions with respect to central schemes. “The elected representatives can’t even take a decision on building a toilet under the Swachh Bharat Mission because even that is decided and executed only by the BDO,” Mr. Lakshminarayanan lamented. He claimed people who were totally unconnected with policy implementation were interfering with the functions of the panchayat with the active support of politicians and government officials. Though a 2006 Government Order clearly states that the disbursement of wages under MGNREGS must be done only through the panchayat presidents, the BDO had been bypassing the requirement, the counsel said. “The entire panchayat raj system will fail if the officials fail to act within their bounds,” he contended and sought for a direction to the Director of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj department to restrain the BDO from interfering with the functions of the panchayat presidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-asks-if-bdos-can-usurp-functions-of-panchayat-presidents/article37973916.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Finance Minister pitches for tie-up between government and start-ups||Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Wednesday said there were many start-ups which had immediate applications for problems the government was grappling with. At a virtual conference on ‘R&D as an engine of growth of Tamil Nadu’, organised by the Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry, he said it was important to promote start-ups as there were many problems that were unique to the State. Pitching for collaboration between the State Government and start-ups, Mr. Rajan said the government should encourage people by giving them more problem statements and scenarios where it had the intent but did not have the tools or the technology to resolve them, and call them for developing solutions. Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu pointed out that if the State had to reach the target of a $1 trillion economy by 2030 and $100 billion in exports, it could not be complacent with the current level of R&D. “We need to create high-value employment and export-worthy and environmentally sustainable products. Strengthening R&D is critical,” he said. Industries Secretary S. Krishnan said there was a need to create more value-added jobs in the State, and one of the most potent areas where this could happen was R&D. Raghuram Rajan, Member, Economic Advisory Council, Government of Tamil Nadu, said the State should focus on creating an ecosystem conducive for R&D. He said several members of the diaspora were looking to come back here, and the government should bring them back in some areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/finance-minister-pitches-for-tie-up-between-government-and-start-ups/article37974436.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||When Tamil Nadu mobilised Rs. 6 crore for the NDF 50 years ago||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s participation in the Swarnim Vijay Diwas event at the War Memorial on Thursday provided a sense of nostalgia to many about Tamil Nadu’s contribution of Rs. 6 crore to the National Defence Fund immediately after the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War. M. Karunanidhi, the father of Mr. Stalin, was the Chief Minister during the war. Exactly two weeks after the conflict’s completion, he handed over to then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in New Delhi a parcel of articles, worth Rs. 3.08 lakh, collected from the public by the State Defence Amenities Committee. The articles, transported to New Delhi through six trucks, were intended for the use of soldiers in forward areas and those undergoing treatment at hospitals, according to materials provided by The Hindu archives. The handing over of the monetary contribution took place in May 1972, during Indira Gandhi’s visit to Chennai. A report published by The Hindu on May 22, 1972, stated that “the cheque for the amount was enclosed in a casket which carried a plate with the carving of the State’s emblem of temple tower.” It also said “Citizens, braving the hot winds that blew across the vast Island Grounds, where the function was held, listened with rapt attention to the Prime Minister’s emotional appeal for unity and determination to make India economically strong.” On the occasion, Karunanidhi, according to the report, paid tributes to Indira Gandhi’s efforts to maintain peace and pointed out that nearly 200 servicemen from Tamil Nadu had laid down their lives for the country in the Indo-Pakistan war. He recalled how after the outbreak of hostilities, the State Government had constituted an all-party committee to mobilise Defence Fund collections. It had also organised a special raffle draw. It had planned to hand over Rs. 5.5 crore, but the collections touched the Rs. 6-crore mark. Nearly four-and-a-half months ago (July 30), while honouring retired defence personnel who played a key role in the 1971 War and families of the personnel from Tamil Nadu at the Kalaivanar Arangam here, Mr. Stalin observed that the State’s financial contributions nearly 50 years ago constituted nearly one-fourth of the collections made all over the country, which were Rs. 25 crore. The Chief Minister also recounted that in December 1962, Karunanidhi, as treasurer of the DMK, had organised the collection of Rs. 35,000 “in a few hours” at an event in the city for the Defence Fund. The purse was presented by DMK president C.N. Annadurai to then Chief Minister K. Kamaraj, Mr. Stalin added.  The handing over of the monetary contribution took place in May 1972, during Indira Gandhi’s visit to Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-tamil-nadu-mobilised-rs-6-crore-for-the-ndf-50-years-ago/article37973890.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senthilbalaji flags power issues with Union Minister||Electricity Minister V. Senthilbalaji met Union Minister of Power and Renewable Energy R.K. Singh in New Delhi on Thursday and reiterated Tamil Nadu government’s stand on Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had earlier sent a letter to the Prime Minister requesting him to withdraw the Bill and allow the State-owned distribution licensees to continue to supply quality power at affordable rates. Pointing out that Tangedco had already opened Letter of Credit in favour of all the conventional generators to the tune of Rs. 2,437 crore, the Minister said: “Due to non-availability of non-fund based limit, Tangedco has not opened LC in favour of around 800 renewable energy power generators to the tune of Rs. 350 crore. “Therefore, restricting the purchase from open market to meet the demand will force the State to restrict the supply which will eventually hit the grid stability as well as the development of various sectors,” he contended. During the meeting, Mr. Balaji also flagged issues pertaining to coal. Since the fuel supply agreement was for 23.763 MTPA and realization was 17.11 MTPA, which was only 72%, the Minister sought entire quantum of FSA and additional quantum to compensate balance requirement. Referring to the Union Ministry of Coal’s show cause notice as to why the 5% of performance security given by the Tangedco not be appropriated for not having developed the Chandrabila coal block as per the agreed time schedule, he pointed out that the development of the coal block was affected due to non-issuance of clearance for exploration in the forest area by MoEF & CC. “Hence, Tangedco requested the Ministry of Coal not to appropriate the performance security provided by it as the non-adherence to the agreed time schedule is due to reasons beyond its control. It sought revised time schedule for the project,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senthilbalaji-flags-power-issues-with-union-minister/article37973908.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DGQA organises exhibition for students in the city||The Directorate General of Quality Assurance, an inter service organisation functioning under the Department of Defence Production in the Ministry of Defence, on Thursday organised an exhibition for students, to create awareness on indigenous military technology and equipment, as part of celebrating 75 years of Independence. Senior officials including Additional Director General of Quality Assurance S. Satish Chandra Kumar, Brigadier Ajay Dalal and Lieutenant Colonel Ashish Vasudev interacted with students, motivating and inspiring them to contribute to indigenous military technology development. Sanjeev Kumar, a student of Sree Gokulam Public School, Chengalpattu, said the event was inspiring. He would appear for the competitive examinations to become a bureaucrat, he added. Ajeya battle tank T-72, a tank of Russian origin inducted in 1980, performed at the exhibition. Heavy Vehicles Factory, Avadi, started indigenous production of Ajeya with complete transfer of technology from Russia in 1988. Similarly, T-90S Bhishma, the Russian origin tank, had been manufactured in India, with more than 98% of the 1,272 components produced indigenously, said an official. The tank can even withstand a nuclear attack. Bridge laying tank B80 also performed at the exhibition. Main battle tank Arjun MK-1, the state-of-the-art combat vehicle with advanced technology for superior fire power, mobility and protection coupled with ease and comfort in handling, was also exhibited. R.P. Raja, lighting design engineer, said most of the components of Russian origin had been manufactured indigenously after the initiative of the Central government in 1995. “We are manufacturing most of the components. We started production in 2004,” said Mr. Raja. Pointing to the challenges in indigenous manufacturing of electronic components, he said the defence suppliers were relying on electronic components from Taiwan, China and South Korea. K. Gokulakrishnan, junior engineer, at the exhibition of medium scale industry for manufacturing defence components in Chennai, said research and development in flame proof materials and components was under way in the suburbs of Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgqa-organises-exhibition-for-students-in-the-city/article37973911.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments being cleared from two tanks near Red Hills||The Water Resources Department has started clearing encroachments from two tanks at Sothupakkam and Perungavoor near Red Hills. Together, the two tanks in the Ponneri taluk have a water spread area of 450 acres and a combined capacity of 150 million cubic feet. Officials said work was in progress for land survey, in coordination with the Revenue Department, and to remove encroachments. While the tanks are the main source of irrigation and groundwater recharge in the region, they faced the threat of encroachments as the areas were becoming urbanised. Surplus water Surplus water from the Sothupakkam tank is drained into the Kummanoor pond and the Perungavoor tank. While there were no encroachments on the Sothupakkam tank, there were nearly 13 encroached structures in the Kummanoor pond and the local body had been instructed to clear the encroachments, sources said. The Department is cleaning the Perungavoor inlet channel to ensure free flow of water into the tank. Once the land survey was completed, encroachments on the surplus course would be cleared. This was part of the work to identify and clear encroachments in the waterbodies, the officials said.  Work is in progress for land survey, in coordination with the Revenue Department, and to remove encroachments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachments-being-cleared-from-two-tanks-near-red-hills/article37973875.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Leprosy screening to be held at government schools||With the prevalence rate of leprosy higher among children in Tamil Nadu, screening camps will be started at all schools of the Greater Chennai Corporation and government schools, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian has said. “At the national level, the prevalence rate of leprosy was 0.57 per 10,000 population. In Tamil Nadu, it was 0.19 per 10,000 population. This means one of the 50,000 persons tested was affected by leprosy in Tamil Nadu. But the prevalence rate is high among children. While it is 6.87/10,000 population at the national level, Tamil Nadu has a prevalence rate of 8.71/10,000 population in the paediatric population,” he said, while taking part at an event to distribute welfare assistance to persons affected by leprosy. More cases detected Though this was worrying, Tamil Nadu’s high prevalence rate among children meant that more cases were being detected, he said. He stressed the importance of early detection of leprosy and timely treatment. This included screening of school children to identify white patches early and treat appropriately. Already, the screening was completed in 20 of the 200 wards of the Greater Chennai Corporation, he said. Financial assistance The Minister said 11,433 persons, affected by leprosy, were receiving the government’s financial assistance in the State. Orders to grant a monthly assistance of Rs. 1,500 were handed over to 43 newly identified patients, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leprosy-screening-to-be-held-at-government-schools/article37973876.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wildlife chief revokes proposal to denotify portion of Vedanthangal bird sanctuary||In a move that could save Vedanthangal bird sanctuary, Tamil Nadu Chief Wildlife Warden (CWLW) has decided to withdraw “forever” the proposal to rationalise its boundaries. Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj has written to the T.N. Environment and Forests Secretary Supriya Sahu that keeping the ecological security and habitat ecology in view, the proposal submitted by the previous CWLW during the AIADMK government’s rule in 2020 may be considered withdrawn for ever. Early in 2020, the Tamil Nadu Forest Department was planning to denotify a portion of the sanctuary in Chengalpattu district. There were reports that the move was to benefit industrial and real estate development around the lake. The issue soon snowballed into a major controversy. The then Chief Wildlife Warden, however, clarified that the proposal was merely to demarcate the sanctuary and delineate an eco-sensitive zone. That proposal was to reduce the buffer zone of the sanctuary from 5 km surrounding the main tank area of 29.51 ha to 3 km, in which first 1 km was to be notified as core zone, including main lake/tank, and the 2 km boundary as buffer zone, and to denotify the outer 2 km zone of the existing 5 km.  Oldest bird sanctuary Mr. Niraj stated that Vedanthangal was declared a bird sanctuary in 1936. It is known as the oldest bird sanctuary in India. Vedanthangal was notified as a reserved forest in 1963 under Madras Act LBB2. The sanctuary was finally notified under section 26 (l) of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 in the year 1998. “Bird census conducted year after year indicated the presence of about 28,000 land and water birds visiting this prestigious wetland sanctuary. Hence, it is felt that if the existing boundary of Vedanthangal bird sanctuary is reduced, biodiversity and integrity of the sanctuary as signified by water bird habitat will be adversely affected, which may also result in reduction of water birds and the water regime itself, in the long run. Hence, such a proposal may have bad consequences,” he wrote in his letter urging the T.N. Forests Secretary to consider the old proposal withdrawn forever. “We will do everything to protect Vedanthangal bird sanctuary and all other natural resources,” Ms. Supriya Sahu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boundaries-of-vedanthangal-bird-sanctuary-not-to-be-reduced/article37973874.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Provide us with permanent shops: Mamallapuram vendors||Small vendors of the tourist town of Mamallapuram have urged the Tamil Nadu government to provide them with a permanent location to sell their wares in the surroundings of the ASI monuments. There are about 150 shops selling caps, toys, cut-fruits, juice and tender coconuts around the monuments, but they are often removed, being branded encroachments. Kali, a vendor, said shops were removed quite often by the police. “We do not have permanent structures. We have carts and small boxes that can be moved around. If it rains or is too hot, we have umbrellas. After over 18 months of lockdown, it is only now that crowd has started coming to the town and we are able to start repaying loans taken during the lockdown,” she said. Sumathi, a tender coconut vendor, said they had been selling such items for over 40 years. “Waterbottles and tender coconuts do well in the afternoons. So do caps and coolers among children. We cannot sell our wares from permanent shops since our investment is small and we have to be where the crowds are. Nobody will walk a kilometre for a bottle of water,” she pointed out. M.K. Sreenivasan, president of the Tourist Guides Union, urged the government to demarcate spots for these shops. Space can be provided near the parking lots. Shops can be constructed on land belonging to the Sthalasayana Perumal Temple, he added. Sources in the Tourism Department said the roads in front of the monuments were marked as pedestrian zones. “We need to work out a solution for the vendors. Though we keep identifying alternative locations for them, they keep coming back to these streets. The town has been selected as an Iconic Place by the Government of India. A detailed project report has been sent to the Centre. If that is cleared, the town can be transformed,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mamallapuram-vendors-want-permanent-shops-provided/article37973902.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No new symptoms detected in patient with Omicron variant’||The 47-year-old man, whose SARS-CoV-2 sample was confirmed to be of the Omicron variant, and seven of his positive contacts have no unusual symptoms or new onset of symptoms, according to doctors of the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy, where they were admitted. The man, a resident of Chennai, had travelled from Nigeria to Chennai via Doha. He tested positive for COVID-19 on arrival and his sample, which was initially sequenced in the State Public Health Laboratory had the S-gene dropout, a marker for Omicron variant. The National Institute of Virology, Pune, on Wednesday night confirmed that his sample was of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, while genomic sequencing results of the seven contacts were awaited. K. Narayanasamy, Director of the Government Corona Hospital, said the man was admitted on December 11, while six of his family members, including a 16-year-old, were admitted on December 13. “He has completed six days in hospital isolation, while his family members have completed four. All of them came in with mild and usual COVID-19 symptoms of cold, cough, fever and body pain. We are following the standard COVID-19 treatment protocol for for them. All of them are healthy,” he said. The eighth person, a 42-year-old co-passenger, was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday night. He said none of them had new onset of symptoms or specific symptoms. “We took CT scans for all of them, and there was no findings in the lungs. Except for the 16-year-old, who is asymptomatic, the seven persons have taken the two doses of COVID-19 vaccines. This is why they have mild COVID-19,” he added. The persons were in a separate ward within the COVID-19 isolation ward. “This is completely inaccessible to other patients. We have a separate medical team for them,” he said.  We took CT scans for all of them, and there was no findings in the lungs K. NarayanasamyDirector, Government Corona Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-new-symptoms-detected-in-patient-with-omicron-variant/article37973882.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh COVID-19 cases dip to 627 in the State||Fresh coronavirus infections fell further to 627 in Tamil Nadu on Thursday. While all 38 districts reported new COVID-19 cases after a few weeks, there were no COVID-19 deaths in 31 districts. A total of 124 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Chennai, taking its overall tally so far to 5,59,955. Coimbatore followed with 104 cases. Erode and Chengalpattu reported 47 and 45 cases respectively. There were 43 cases in Tiruppur, 39 in Salem and 36 in Namakkal. Fewer than 10 A total of 23 districts logged fewer than 10 cases each. Of this, five districts — Kallakurichi, Pudukottai, Theni, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar — had a single case each. Till date, Tamil Nadu has recorded a total of 27,37,962 COVID-19 cases. There were 12 COVID-19 deaths that took the toll to 36,656. Of this, Salem reported three deaths, while there were two deaths each in Chengalpattu, Chennai and Tiruvallur. Among the deceased were two persons aged in their 40s who had no comorbidities. A total of 687 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total recoveries so far to 26,93,830. The active cases fell marginally to 7,476. There were 1,343 persons under treatment in Chennai followed by 1,140 persons in Coimbatore. There were 583 active cases in Tiruppur, 582 in Erode and 567 in Chengalpattu. A total of 1,04,531 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 5,59,07,306.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-covid-19-cases-dip-to-627-in-the-state/article37973886.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC reserves verdict on pleas to preserve waterbodies spread across the State||The Madras High Court on Thursday reserved verdict on a batch of public interest litigation petitions that complained of encroachment of various waterbodies across the State. The judgment was deferred after the State Government submitted details of all waterbodies and rough data of the indicative extent of encroachments upon them. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu told Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram and Additional Advocate General J. Ravindran that after having identified all the waterbodies in the State, the government must commence the next exercise of evicting the encroachers and restoring the waterbodies. They said after the waterbodies were cleared of encroachments, the onus of keeping them safe and free of encroachments in the future should be on the officials concerned. If encroachments crop up again, those responsible would be subjected to disciplinary proceedings and even suspended from service, if necessary. Earlier, a group of lawyers complained to the court that details of all waterbodies across the State were not available freely on the Tamil Nilam website. They said the general public would be able to check the details on the website only with details such as survey number and sub-division, which not everyone might be aware of. However, the judges said the locals would certainly be in the know of such details regarding the waterbodies in their vicinity, and they could easily check the status from the website. They pointed out that the government had submitted a compact disc in court containing details of all waterbodies with their names, survey numbers and extent. In his status report, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu stated that an in-depth exercise had been carried out on a war footing to update the list of encroachments on waterbodies. The rough data indicated that 10,556 acres of waterbody land was under encroachment for residential purpose, 1,500 acres had been occupied by commercial establishments and 32,024 acres under cultivation. Apart from these, government buildings had been constructed on 1,311 acres and 2,414 acres were under encroachment by others.  Mr. Irai Anbu added that the Collectors would prioritise the eviction of encroachments from water courses which require prompt action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-reserves-verdict-on-pleas-to-preserve-waterbodies-spread-across-the-state/article37973892.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bhavan’s Naatya Utsav 2021 gets under way||While audiences come out and attend programmes this Margazhi, it is important to be careful and follow COVID-19 protocols, said Preetha Reddy, executive vice-chairperson, Apollo Hospitals, on Thursday. “Be careful and enjoy yourself since it is a great way to be happy and healthy,” she said while inaugurating Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan’s Naatya Utsav 2021. While thanking the performing artistes and the rasikas, she said that between March 2020 and November 2021 most aspects, which had been taken for granted, just disappeared. Normalcy just became a luxury and routine had become completely dry and parched of celebrations. However, now that over one billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines had been administered, there was a sense that things were getting better. “While we have to be cautious and follow protocols, there is certainly a lot more optimism,” she said. Bharathanatyam dancer and guru Padma Subrahmanyam said Bhavan was an institution of international repute. She thanked Ms. Reddy and vice-chairman of Bhavan’s Chennai Kendra Nalli Kuppuswami Chetti for their contribution to the development of arts. Ms. Subrahmanyam urged the government to reduce GST on auditorium rents. “I appeal to the government to help in this regard so that the culture of this country is protected,” she said. Bhavan’s Chennai Kendra chairman N. Ravi said that during the just concluded 21-day-long music festival in which 200 artistes participated, around 15,000 people viewed the programmes online. He said that during the 11-day-long Naatya Utsav, 250 artistes, both young and established and accompanists, would present individual and group performances. He said the Bhavan was happy to provide top class cultural fare to audiences and a stage to artistes. Mr. Nalli Kuppuswamy Chetti and Director of Bhavan’s Chennai Kendra K.N. Ramaswamy addressed the gathering. While daily programmes are streamed onwww.bhavanchennai.org, audiences can watch them live at the Bhavan’s auditorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhavans-naatya-utsav-2021-gets-under-way/article37973880.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Small Satellite Launch Vehicle in final stages of development: Union Minister||The development of the Indian Space Research Organisation’s Small Satellite Launch Vehicle (SSLV) is in the final stages, and the first developmental flight is planned for the first quarter of 2022, Union Minister of State Jitendra Singh informed Parliament. The SSLV, which will have a payload capability of 500 kg to a 500-km planar orbit, is being developed with private participation, he said. The hardware and structures for the project, including solid motor cases, nozzle sub-systems, mandrels for the casting of solid motors, inter-stage structures, actuator motors and fixtures, will be realised from the private industry, he said. The primary aim of the project is the development of a cost-effective launch vehicle with a high launch frequency and a quick turnaround capability to cater to the growing opportunities in the global launch services market for small satellites, he said. The government has sanctioned Rs. 169 crore for the project. Mr. Singh said ISRO had signed six agreements with four countries for launching foreign satellites between 2021 and 2023. He said €132 million would be earned through the launch of these satellites. Since 1999, 342 satellites of 34 countries have been successfully launched on India’s Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle on a commercial basis, he said. India has earned a foreign exchange revenue of $35 million and €10 million during 2019-21 through satellite launches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/small-satellite-launch-vehicle-in-final-stages-of-development-union-minister/article37973898.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister replies to Anbumani on migrants issues||As many as 3,462 migrant workers belonging to Tamil Nadu died in the Gulf, African nations and South-East Asian countries during the last five years, according to V. Muraleedharan, Union Minister of State for External Affairs. Replying to a question raised by Anbumani Ramadoss of the Pattali Makkal Katchi in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, the Union Minister said the Kshetriya Pravasi Sahayata Kendras, in the event of death of migrant workers, facilitated communication with relatives in coordination with Indian missions. The Indian authorities abroad provided “all necessary assistance” for completing procedures related to death registration, transporting mortal remains to India or local cremation or burial, securing and settling end of service benefits and getting compensation from the employer. They also followed up on cases of death compensation with the local authorities including courts and insurance agencies, whenever required. Moreover, the Kendras assisted emigrant workers in receiving an offer for the overseas employment. They registered grievances received from the emigrants or their families, verified the documents provided to the emigrants by foreign employers and recruitment agents, applied for emigration clearance on behalf of emigrants who were directly recruited by foreign employer and provided pre-departure counselling, the Union Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-replies-to-anbumani-on-migrants-issues/article37973904.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Unruly students made to write Thirukkural couplets||A police inspector is using Thirukkural as a tool to reform unruly students. Two days ago, a couple of students were fighting in public near a bus depot. A stone was hurled at the windscreen of an MTC bus and the crew and passengers caught one of the students. The culprit was handed over to the police at Pattabiram station. Inspector G. Lawrence, who handled the case, let off the boy after making him write 10 couplets on discipline from Thirukkural.  Instilling discipline “Normally, we arrest and remand the persons involved in damaging public property. In this case, the boy’s future will be spoiled if a case is booked. So, we decided to make the boy realise his mistake and lead his life in a disciplined manner. So, he was made to write the Thirukkural couplets. Thirukkural has all the concepts for the holistic development of a man,” he said. Recently, a few college students creating a ruckus near Pattabiram railway station were brought to the station and made to read and write 10 Thirukkural couplets. They were released after giving an undertaking that they would not cause public nuisance again. “Many of these boys are from poor families. Once, they read the couplets which emphasise on non violence, self-restraint and kindness, they may mend their ways,” said Mr. Lawrence.  Thirukkuralhas all the concepts  for the holistic development of a man G. Lawrence Inspector, Pattabiram police station||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unruly-students-made-to-write-thirukkural-couplets/article37973856.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jayakanthan’s children make an appeal to Kamal||The children of Tamil novelist and recipient of Jnanpith Award late D. Jayakanthan have made an open appeal to actor Kamal Haasan to change the title, Sila Nerangalil Sila Manithargal, of an upcoming film he has been promoting.  Sila Nerangalil Sila Manithargal is their father’s literary work that fetched him the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1972, his children J. Kadhambari, J. Jayasimhan and J. Deepalakshmi said in an open letter to Mr. Kamal Haasan. In the 1970s, the story was made into a Tamil feature film under the same title. Arguing that Sila Nerangalil Sila Manithargal has become “synonymous with Jayakanthan” and is easily relatable to most people in Tamil Nadu, the letter said Jayakanthan was always “insouciant of plagiarism and believed it was a compliment to his genius. However, banking on such indulgence cannot be deemed ethical or moral”. They said Mr. Haasan’s Unnai Pol Oruvan in 2009 has overpowered and almost erased the digital footprint of the original Unnaipol Oruvan , a 1965 Tamil film written, co-produced and directed by Jayakanthan. “We certainly do not want the same to happen to Sila Nerangalil Sila Manithargal ,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jayakanthans-children-make-an-appeal-to-kamal/article37973906.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on breaking myths of asthma on Dec. 19||A webinar on “Asthma - Breaking Myths and Showing Light” will be held at 11.30 a.m. on December 19 as part of The Hindu Wellness Series presented by Naruvi Hospitals. Prince James, head of department, Interventional Pulmonology and Respiratory Medicine and T.V. Rajagopal, consultant, Interventional Pulmonology and Respiratory Medicine of Naruvi Hospitals, Vellore, and Vijayaravindh R., consultant Interventional Pulmonologist, GKNM Hospital, Coimbatore, are the panellists for the webinar. Ponvasanth B.A., senior reporter of The Hindu , will moderate the webinar To register for the webinar, visit -https://bit.ly/NARTHG2or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-breaking-myths-of-asthma-on-dec-19/article37973864.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel formed to probe document registrations||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday constituted a special investigation committee to probe the registration of fake documents and irregularities in the registration of documents in the past, leading to revenue loss to the exchequer. The panel will submit a report along with recommendations to avoid such occurrences in the future. A retired IAS officer will chair the panel, which will have two members — one senior counsel practising in the Madras High Court (part-time) and an Additional Inspector General of Registration, who will also be the convenor of the panel. It will also have an administrative unit that will be headed by the convenor. The committee will function for three years and will travel across the State. It will receive petitions from the public and also issues that are brought to its notice by various government departments. It will submit reports every three months to the Inspector General of Registration and suggest ways to avoid such occurrences in the future. It may be recalled that Minister for Registration and Commercial Taxes P. Moorthy had announced in the Assembly in September that the Government would constitute a special investigation committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-formed-to-probe-document-registrations/article37973896.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Foreign currency worth Rs. 68.09 lakh seized||Foreign currency worth Rs. 68.09 lakh was seized at Chennai airport by Air Customs and a passenger was arrested. Based on inputs from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Bengaluru Zongal Unit, the Customs officials stopped a spassenger bound for Dubai at 5.45 a.m. on Thursday, according to a press release. When the passenger’s baggage was opened, the Customs officials found 396 currency notes of Saudi Riyals and 10 notes of $100 denomination hidden in paper folders. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foreign-currency-seized-at-chennai-airport/article37973865.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Website to provide symptom-based medical info launched||A website to provide symptom-based medical information to members of the public to guide them to report to a hospital at the appropriate time has been launched. T.S. Chandrasekar, chairman and chief gastroenterologist, MedIndia Hospitals, said that during the COVID-19 pandemic, people were reporting to the hospital either too late, ignoring symptoms out of fear of visiting the hospital, or too early and unnecessarily for trivial symptoms, out of anxiety. The hospital had launched a website — www.consultdocnow.com — that was a numerically linked, symptom-based health guide website to check health status. Ranked from 1 to 10 “It serves as a point of guidance for the public to assess the severity of their symptoms. The website has in its repository nearly 700 symptoms. It ranks the symptoms numerically from 1 to 10, according to the severity and gravity in general, gastrointestinal, cardiac, respiratory and neurological disorders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/website-launched-to-provide-symptom-based-medical-information/article37973881.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 4.5 crore stolen from apartment, four arrested||Four persons were arrested on Thursday for allegedly stealing Rs. 4.5 crore from a businesswoman’s flat in an apartment at Alwarthirunagar in Valasaravakkam police station limits. Amelia Jothini Gopalapillai, 58, said in her complaint that she was using the flat for keeping the money that she earned from her firm. When she visited the house on November 20, she found that Rs. 4.5 crore cash and 30 sovereigns of jewellery kept in the safe were missing. The police studied the CCTV footage and traced the car used by the accused to enter the apartment. They arrested S. Mani, 31, of Mugalivakkam; A. Sathish Kumar, 32, of Chromepet; K. Suresh, 32, of Zamin Royapettah; and P. Arumugam, 49, of Sivaganga. Over Rs. 1.35 crore and the car used to commit the crime were seized from them. Arumugam was wanted in connection with a murder case in Guindy police station limits. The police said that the accused committed the crime at the instigation of Seenivasan, who was a staff at Ms. Gopalapillai’s firm and some others. The accused took Sathish Kumar and Suresh, specialists in making keys, to the house and had them make a duplicate key. When she was not at home, the accused used to steal the cash regularly using the duplicate key.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-45-crore-stolen-from-apartment-four-arrested/article37973860.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘SC has made favourable observation’||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Thursday said some favourable observations had been made by the Supreme Court while hearing appeals challenging the Madras High Court order quashing the State Government’s legislation providing 10.5% internal reservation to Vanniyars. He also expressed confidence in emerging victorious on the issue. The State Government, PMK and Mr. Ramadoss have moved the apex court on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-has-made-favourable-observation/article37973887.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Increasing building costs is a concern’||The AIADMK coordinator, O. Panneerselvam, on Thursday expressed concern over the trend of increase in the prices of construction materials in the State in recent months. He said in the case of houses, the cost of construction per sqft had gone up from Rs. 1,800 to Rs. 2,100, apart from “unprecedented shortage” of the materials. The price of a bag of cement rose from Rs. 400 to Rs. 480 and a cubic metre of M-sand from Rs. 60 to Rs. 80. Holding talks Referring to an agitation announced by a federation of M-sand and sand lorry owners’ associations, Mr. Panneerselvam wanted the Government to call the body’s representatives for talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increasing-building-costs-is-a-concern/article37973888.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin unveils 70 cooperative pharmacies||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday virtually inaugurated 70 new cooperative pharmacies in 36 districts. They will sell medicines at prices up to 20% cheaper than the open market and will help to keep prices in check. There are 303 pharmacies run by the Cooperation Department and the State Government is planning to open 600 more in the next five years. Minister for Cooperation I. Periasamy, Minister for Registration P. Moorthy, legislators G. Thalapathi, A. Venkatesan and M. Boominathan, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and senior officials participated. In another event, the Chief Minister virtually unveiled a new building and infrastructure for the Home Department constructed at Cheyyar in Tiruvannamalai at a cost of Rs. 1.97 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-unveils-70-cooperative-pharmacies/article37973895.ece
17 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NH to conduct feasibility study for flyover across Kallar corridor||Forest Department and nature enthusiasts are elated as the National Highways (NH) wing of the State Highways Department is set to conduct a feasibility study for a flyover for vehicular movement at the Kallar elephant corridor near Mettupalayam town. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj told The Hindu on Thursday that the Highways Department was in the process of doing a feasibility study of the project “which will be the first of its kind in Tamil Nadu” if materialised. “Several rounds of meetings were held [with the Highways Department] on the issue. The Forest Department is positively looking at development,” he said. The Jaccanaire - Hulikal Durgam corridor, widely referred as the Kallar elephant corridor, is situated at the foothills of the Nilgiris near Mettupalayam. The ghat section of busy Mettupalayam - Udhagamandalam road via Coonoor criss-crosses the corridor, obstructing free passage of elephants and other animals. “Every inch of Kallar corridor is critical as elephants are currently passing through a very narrow passage. A flyover for vehicular movement will ease the seasonal migration of elephants which need a larger landscape for movement,” said Mr. Niraj. With free movement of elephants through the corridor enabled between Coimbatore Forest Division and larger elephant habitats like Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve, the genetic diversity of the large mammal will also improve. It will also reduce human-elephant interactions in the locality, he said. The Wildlife Trust of India in its second edition of Right of Passage: Elephant Corridors of India listed Kallar as one of the corridors with “high” ecological priority. Researchers from the WWF-India, who studied the corridor, had also pointed out its importance and suggested that a flyover for vehicles could facilitate free movement of elephants. According to researchers and elephant experts, the corridor connects the Brahmagiri–Nilgiris–Eastern Ghats elephant population range with the Nilambur–Silent Valley–Coimbatore population range. “Construction of a flyover for vehicles could be one of the solutions to protect the corridor as it is a crucial passage for elephants in the Nilgiris Biosphere Reserve which has the single largest population of Asiatic elephants. The land of the horticulture farm at Kallar should be handed over to the Forest Department by shifting the facility to another place. Also, the government should identify critical areas of the corridor and purchase private lands,” said K. Kalidasan of Osai environmental organisation. “Countries such as Indonesia and Thailand use such constructions for free passage of animals. Though animals may feel stressed during the period of construction, the flyover will facilitate their free movement in the long run,” said N. Sadiq Ali of the Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust. The Forest Department in its proposal to the Highways Department had said that around 3,000 vehicles pass through the road to Ooty on normal days which increase up to 8,000 during weekends and tourism season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nh-to-conduct-feasibility-study-for-flyover-across-kallar-corridor/article37973937.ece
17 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||AE gets four years of imprisonment for graft||The Special Court for Prevention of Corruption Act cases in Coimbatore on Thursday sentenced an assistant engineer attached to the Water Resources Organisation (WRO) of the Public Works Department to undergo four years of imprisonment for demanding and accepting bribe. Special Judge M. Ramadhas awarded the punishment to assistant engineer M. Ramesh. A release issued by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) said that Ramesh, assistant engineer, WRO, Sulthanpet, was booked in 2011 for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs. 5,000 for recommending the application of constructing a culvert over Chintilappu branch canal of the Parambikulam Aliyar Project and also for installing pipeline on the outskirts of the canal for a private person. The court awarded four years of jail and a fine of Rs. 10,000 to Ramesh for offence under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 and three years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 10,000. The sentences will run concurrently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ae-gets-four-years-of-imprisonment-for-graft/article37974024.ece
17 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Sanitation project to be scaled up in Coimbatore district: Collector||The district administration will take steps to scale up the sanitation project undertaken by the Tamil Nadu Urban Sanitation Support Programme (TNUSSP), said Collector G.S. Sameeran on Thursday. Speaking at the multi-stakeholder workshop organised by the TNUSSP in association with Keystone Foundation and Indian Institute of Human Settlements at Coimbatore, he noted the pilot project being carried out at two town panchayats Periyanaickenpalayam and Narasimhanaickenpalayam to improve urban sanitation. He assured that these would be scaled up to other municipalities and town panchayats in the district. Mr. Sameeran said that the decentralised sanitation model of TNUSSP, particularly its faecal sludge treatment plant set up at Periyanaickenpalayam, could be implemented wherever it is workable. Citing the ‘NEWater' recycled wastewater initiative in Singapore, the Collector said that the stigma attached to the treated water must be addressed. In a video message, Supriya Sahu, Principal Secretary of Environment, Climate Change and Forest Department, said that urban sanitation continues to remain the most challenging task and said that events like these will address the gaps in sanitation. Pratim Roy, founder and director of Keystone Foundation, also addressed the gathering. Stakeholders, including members of various non-governmental organisations, headmasters from government schools and government officials from various departments such as Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and local bodies in Coimbatore district participated in the workshop on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sanitation-project-to-be-scaled-up-in-coimbatore-district-collector/article37973929.ece
17 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Checking intensified along Kerala border in Coimbatore dt. against bird flu, Omicron||The Health and the Animal Husbandry Departments in Coimbatore district have stepped up screening at all check posts along Kerala border as a precaution against the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 and bird flu. The move comes in view of five confirmed cases of the Omicron variant and bird flu cases reported in Kerala. People coming from Kerala will be allowed to enter Coimbatore district only upon producing RT-PCR test result (COVID-negative) obtained within 72 hours or a final vaccination certificate (both doses). District Collector G.S. Sameeran, who inspected arrangements at Walayar check post on Thursday, said that teams comprising staff from the health, revenue and police departments and local bodies had been formed for round the clock screening at all border check posts. An official of the rank of Deputy Collector will oversee the functioning of the teams that would work in shifts. The teams would screen passengers at all inter-State check posts -- Walayar, Anaikatti, Velanthavalam, Mulli, Meenakshipuram, Gopalapuram, Semmanampathi, Veeragoundenpudur and Naduppuni. The Animal Husbandry Department had set up an additional check point at Walayar to screen goods vehicles, especially those carrying livestock and livestock feed. Disinfectant was being sprayed on such vehicles at the check post. According to the district administration, there are 1,203 poultry farms in the district. Poultry farmers have been advised to inform the nearest veterinarian if they notice unusual deaths of chicken or symptoms of flu in birds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/checking-intensified-along-kerala-border-in-coimbatore-dt-against-bird-flu-omicron/article37974023.ece
17 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore dist. reports 104 new cases||Coimbatore district on Thursday reported 104 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 113 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,140 active cases on Thursday. The district’s toll increased to 2,493 after a 66-year-old man died on Tuesday. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.2 % on Wednesday when it reported 106 cases. Tiruppur district reported 43 fresh19 cases on Thursday. The overall toll went up to 1,008 as one new death was reported by the Health Department. The district had 583 active cases and 59 patients from the district recovered on Thursday. In the Nilgiris, 15 people tested positive on Thursday. With the latest infections, the total number of people who have tested positive in the Nilgiris stands at 34,325. The number of deaths from COVID-19 so far stood at 218 in the Nilgiris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-dist-reports-104-new-cases/article37973939.ece
17 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Body of schoolgirl found in Coimbatore||The decomposed body of a Class X girl, who had gone missing five days ago, was found wrapped in blankets and plastic sack, with ropes tied around her thighs and neck, in a thorny bush less than a kilometre from her house in Saravanmpatty on Thursday. The 14-year-old girl’s mother had lodged a complaint with the All Women Police Station, Coimbatore East, on December 13 saying she was missing from December 11. The mother and her elder daughter, aged 17, had left the victim at home alone and left for work on December 11. When they returned at around 4 pm, she was missing and her mobile phone was not reachable. The complainant said when enquired in the neighbourhood, a shop owner told her he had seen the girl walking on the road around 10.30 a.m., talking to someone over the mobile phone. Her body was found in decomposing state among bushes when the police were conducting searches. Senior police officers and forensic experts visited the crime scene and a sniffer dog was also pressed into service. The body was later shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) for post-mortem. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Pradip Kumar told The Hindu three special teams headed by Deputy Commissioner of Police E.S. Uma were investigating the case.  Meanwhile, a group of people consisting members from various organisations staged a road blockade in front of the CMCH mortuary on Thursday evening, demanding the arrest of the persons involved in the girl’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-of-schoolgirl-found-in-coimbatore/article37973943.ece
17 December 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Imax and Broadway Megaaplex to open theatre in Coimbatore||Imax Corporation and Broadway Megaaplex have signed an agreement to develop an Imax theatre here at Broadway’s newly-planned megaplex property. A press release said the theatre was scheduled to be opened in the spring of 2022. The new theatre will have Imax with laser technology, a next generation laser projection system, and a 12-channel sound system. This agreement will bring Imax to locations beyond large cities, said Giovanni Dolci, Chief Sales Officer of Imax. The partnership with Imax is to offer entertainment with the best available technology, the Broadway Megaaplex said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/imax-and-broadway-megaaplex-to-open-theatre-in-coimbatore/article37973926.ece
17 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Body of schoolgirl found in Coimbatore||The decomposed body of a Class X girl, who had gone missing five days ago, was found wrapped in blankets and a plastic sack, with ropes tied around her thighs and neck, in a thorny bush less than a kilometre from her house in Saravanampatty on Thursday. The 14-year-old girl’s mother had lodged a complaint with the all-women police station, Coimbatore East, on December 13 saying she had been missing since December 11. The mother and her elder daughter, aged 17, had left the victim at home alone, and when they returned , she was missing and her mobile phone was not reachable. The complainant said a shopowner told her he had seen the girl walking on the road around 10.30 a.m., talking to someone over the phone. Her body was found in the bushes when the police searched the area. Police officers and forensic experts visited the crime scene and a sniffer dog was also pressed into service. The body was later shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for a post-mortem. Police Commissioner Pradip Kumar told The Hindu three special teams headed by Deputy Commissioner of Police E.S. Uma were investigating the case. “They have got a few leads and are hopeful of cracking the case soon,” he said. Meanwhile, a group of people consisting members from various organisations staged a road blockade in front of the CMCH mortuary on Thursday evening, demanding the arrest of the persons involved in the girl’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-of-girl-found-in-coimbatore/article37973909.ece
17 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||FB user booked for post linking PM with chopper crash||The Saravanampatty police in Coimbatore have registered a case against a Facebook user for a post on the helicopter crash near Coonoor in which Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and 12 others died, linking it with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The police said the case had been registered against the holder of the Facebook account ' Naan Thaan Kovai Baalan '. The user posted a cartoon that criticised Mr. Modi for the death of General Rawat and others. S.R. Kumaresan, Coimbatore district organiser of Bharat Sena, noticed the Facebook post on December 10 and he lodged a complaint with the police on Wednesday. The police registered a case against the Facebook user. Inspector Senthil Kumar has launched an investigation to trace the Facebook user.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-fb-user-for-post-linking-pm-with-chopper-crash/article37974021.ece
17 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 6,400 volunteers register for Illam Thedi Kalvi scheme||Over 6,400 volunteers have registered for the Illam Thedi Kalvi (Education at doorstep) scheme in Coimbatore district, according to the district administration. In a press release, the district administration said that 6,471 volunteers have registered for the scheme in the district. With around 1.64 lakh students studying in Classes I to VIII and living in 2,089 habitations, the Illam Thedi Kalvi scheme requires 8,200 volunteers in Coimbatore district. Members of the School Management Committee along with headmasters of government schools will verify the details of these volunteers by visiting their residence before enrolling them as part of the scheme, the release said. Block-level committees will be formed soon, according to the release. District Collector G.S. Sameeran inaugurated a two-day training programme for the volunteers at the CCMA Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Coimbatore on Wednesday in the presence of Chief Educational Officer N. Geetha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-6400-volunteers-register-for-illam-thedi-kalvi-scheme/article37973931.ece
17 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Minister tests positive for COVID-19||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan was admitted to a private hospital here after testing positive for COVID-19. Hospital sources said on Thursday that he was hospitalised on Wednesday morning after his test results returned as positive. The 57-year-old Minister had been vaccinated with both doses of vaccine and was found to be asymptomatic during admission, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article37973930.ece
17 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tea Board cancels licences of 11 buyers||Tea Board India has ordered cancellation of 11 buyer units, according to a press release. The Tea Board recently served showcause notice on 120 tea buyers across the southern region and sought an explanation for non-submission of the quarterly returns. As many as 44 of them did not respond and they were provided additional opportunity. After detailed enquiry, licences of 11 buyer units were ordered to be cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-board-cancels-licences-of-11-buyers/article37973927.ece
17 December 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Sankara Eye Hospital recently received the UiPath Automation Excellence Award under the ‘Excellence in HR and Legal Automation’ category. A release said the winners were selected based on project and process impact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37973934.ece
17 December 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Girl found partially burnt near Kodaikanal dies||The parents and relatives of the girl, whose body was found partially burnt behind her school at Pachalur near Kodaikanal in Dindigul district on Wednesday, refused to receive the body kept at the Government Medical College Hospital here on Thursday. Earlier on Wednesday, the girl was declared brought dead by the doctors at the Oddanchatram Government Hospital. The girl’s parents and relatives demanded the arrest of the suspects responsible for her death. The girl was studying Class V at the Panchayat Union Middle School, where her elder sister is also studying. Even as the family members squatted on the road near the hospital, Palani MLA I.P. Senthil Kumar arrived at the spot. When he attempted to pacify the people and said the police would arrest the accused, there was some opposition from the crowd. After senior officers pacified them, the girl’s parents and relatives finally received the body and proceeded to the electric crematorium to perform the last rites. Meanwhile, DIG of Police (Dindigul Range) Vijayakumari visited the scene of crime on Thursday. She said the police investigations were on with two ADSPs — Lavanya and Chandran — leading the teams. Three teachers and some of the classmates of the victim were being interrogated. Apart from pressing into service two sniffer dogs, the police deployed forensic experts, who lifted samples from the scene of the crime. The victim was found lying with her body half burnt, and she was partly conscious. The Thandikudi police have registered a case of suspicious death. The police had said after the initial probe that there were only burns and the body bore no marks to suggest attempts of sexual assault.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relatives-refuse-to-receive-girls-body-found-partially-burnt/article37973913.ece
17 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Strike hits banking services across Erode district||The two-day nationwide strike called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella organisation of bank employees and officers, to protest against the proposed privatisation of public sector banks, affected banking services in 217 public sector branches in the district on Thursday. As part of the Centre’s disinvestment proposal, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had, in the Union Budget, announced the privatisation of two banks in the country. Unions have been protesting against the move and wanted the government to withdraw its decision to introduce the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, that was planned to be introduced in the winter session of Parliament. Over 2,000 employees from the public sector branches participated in the strike affecting regular services like deposits, withdrawals and cheque clearances. In many branches, a few employees were present and customers had to wait for long hours to complete their transactions. Officials said Automated Teller Machines were refilled by private security agencies and there was no disruption in cash withdrawals on the first day of the strike. Krishnagiri  Bank employees protested in front of State Bank of India here. They raised slogans demanding withdrawal of the move to privatise nationalised banks. They also opposed the banking reforms as they said that it would weaken the public sector banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strike-hits-banking-services-across-erode-district/article37974028.ece
17 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||College students bag 11 medals in contest||Students from Bannari Amman Institute of Technology in Sathyamangalam bagged five gold and six silver medals in the IndiaSkills competition held to demonstrate the highest standards of skills among the students and to provide a platform to showcase their talent at national and international levels. Organised by National Skill Development Corporation, which comes under the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, the regional competition for South was conducted from December 1 to 4 at Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. More than 600 participants from the states of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana competed in over fifty skills. Over 100 participants from Tamil Nadu competed in 44 skills, including 34 students from the institute who represented the State in 20 skills. One student from the institute represented Andhra Pradesh in additive manufacturing skill. Gold medalists were Sriman Narayana Raju for Additive Manufacturing skill, Praveen and B.S. Hariprasath team for Concrete Construction Work skill, B. Irfana for Fashion Technology, S. Dhakshayani for Health and Social Care and S. Vishnu Priya for Visual Merchandising. Silver medalists were C. Karthi for Electronics, P.V. Saraswathy for Health and Social Care, V. Lokesh and K. Ajay Prassath team for Landscape Gardening, A.H. Kalilur Rahman for Plastering and Drywall Systems, R.J. Pragadeeshwaran for Plumbing and Heating and L. Shri Hari for Web technology. The medalists will be participating in the upcoming IndiaSkills 2021 National level competition and the winners will represent India in the WorldSkills to be held in Shanghai, China, in October 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-students-bag-11-medals-in-contest/article37974031.ece
17 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Weekly cattle shandy sees poor sales||Less than 40% of the cattle brought to the weekly shandy at Karungalpalayam were sold out on Thursday as traders from other States did not turn up. Farmers said that against the usual arrival of 900 cattle, less than 500 cattle arrived in the market and transactions were low. Since farmers were concentrating on cultivation and rain continuing, the arrival of cattle had also dropped. Traders from other States also did not turn up on Thursday as rain continued in the States of Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh., they said While farmers from various districts used to purchase cattle for their own use, traders from other districts purchase cattle for re-sale. The shandy continues to witness poor sales in the past many months due to the COVID-19 pandemic and incessant rain. The farmers here are hopeful of improved transactions only if traders arrive from other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weekly-cattle-shandy-sees-poor-sales/article37974030.ece
17 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power supply to two textile processing units disconnected||Officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board disconnected power supply to two textile processing units functioning in the city for discharging effluents into open drains. The officials inspected the dyeing units functioning at Suriyampalayam and at Vettukattuvalasu and found that the units were discharging effluents into the open drains in their respective areas. They also found that the effluent treatment plants were not operational. A report was submitted to Collector H. Krishnanunni, who is also the chairman of the District Monitoring Committee, who ordered disconnection of power to the units. Violators warned Mr. Krishnanunni said all dyeing, printing, bleaching and sizing units should ensure zero liquid discharge and warned of action against violators. He also warned unit owners against discharging sledge and waste from the effluents treatment plants in the open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-supply-to-two-textile-processing-units-disconnected/article37974035.ece
17 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door vaccination tomorrow||The district administration has planned to vaccinate 1.5 lakh people across the district during the door-to-door COVID-19 vaccination to be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday. In a release, Collector H. Krishnanunni said camps would be held at 478 centres during which persons above 18 years would be vaccinated. Also, 1,912 health staff would be covering the households with the help of 66 mobile vehicles in the district. Since the Omicron virus was spreading and to protect oneself from the virus, vaccination was important and hence all the eligible people should get vaccinated without fail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-to-door-vaccination-tomorrow/article37974036.ece
17 December 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at the following sub-stations, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on the given dates.  Mettukadai, December 17: Mel Thindal, Keel Thindal, Sakthi Nagar, Selvam Nagar, Palayapalayam, Sudanandan Nagar, Lakshmi Garden, Veerapampalayam, Nanjanapuram, Therkupallam, Nalliyampalayam, Sengodampalayam, Valliputhiranpalayam, Balaji Garden, Veppampalayam, Pavalathampalayam, Maruthi Nagar, Vidhya Nagar, Villarasampatti, Kaikattivalasu, Moolakarai, Mettukadai, Pungambadi, Nathakattupalayam, Elayacoundanpalayam, M.G.R. Nagar, Kadirampatti, Vannankattuvalasu, Nasiyanur, Thottipalayam, Rayapalayam, Sithakuttai, Attayampalayam, Merku Pudur, S.S.P. Nagar, Thendral Nagar, Muthumanickam Nagar, Rasampalayam, Karuvil Parai Valasu and Karuvil Parai Kulam.  Kaspapettai, December 18: Kaspapettai, Mullamparappu, Chinniyampalayam, Velankattuvalasu, Pottinaickenvalasu, Veerapampalayam, 46 Pudur, Rangampalayam, Kurikaranpalayam, Chellapampalayam, Govindanaicken Palayam, Nanjai Uthukuli, Sengarapalayam, T. Mettupalayam, Aandakothampalayam, Anakalpalayam, EB Nagar, K.A.S. Nagar, Indian Nagar, Telephone Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Moolapalayam, Chettipalayam, Sadayampalayam, Tirupathi Garden, Muthugoundanpalayam, Karundevanpalayam, Chavadipalayam Pudur, Kiliyampatti, Ragupathi Naicken Palayam and Kagathanvalasu.  Erode, December 18: Erode Town all areas, Surampatti Valasu, Veerappanchatiram, Edayankattu Valasu, Municipal Colony, Teachers Colony, Perundurai Road, Sampath Nagar, Vettukattuvalasu, Manickampalayam, Andikadu, Pandian Nagar, Sakthi Nagar, Vakil Thottam, Periyasemoor, Ram Nagar, Palayapalayam, Periyavalasu, Papathikadu, Bharathidasan Street, Muniyappan Kovil Street, Kothukaran Thottam, 16 Road, Narayanavalasu, Kumalankuttai, Towerline Colony, Thirumal Nagar, Ashokapuram, Vairapalayam, Karungalpalayam, KNK Road, Moolapattarai, Sakthi Road, Nethaji Road, Gandhiji Road, Periyar Nagar, E.V.N. Road and Mettur Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37974034.ece
17 December 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Eateries warned against reusing oil||District Collector P.N. Sridhar on Thursday conducted checks in eateries and restaurants functioning near the Ulundurpet toll gate to ensure that all safety standards were followed. According to a release, the checks were conducted to sensitise the eateries to the risks from reused cooking oil. Mr. Sridhar said that as per the regulations, the oil used for frying should not be reused in any form of cooking if the Total Polar Compounds (TPC), a benchmark for measuring the degradation of the oil when heated, is beyond 25%. “We have instructed them to comply with the directions and stringent action would be taken against those found using reused oil,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eateries-warned-against-reusing-oil/article37974296.ece
17 December 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||40-year-old construction worker killed in Karur district||A 40-year-old construction worker was killed when an explosive substance, suspected to be firecrackers, that he was carrying exploded at Kulakaranpatti in Palaviduthi police station limit in Karur district on Wednesday The deceased was identified as L. Kumar alias Murugan of Mukku Reddiapatti near Vaiyampatti in Tiruchi district. He was said to have been carrying the explosives on his two wheeler when they went off accidentally. He was killed on the spot. Palaviduthi police have filed a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-worker-killed-in-karur/article37973989.ece
17 December 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin sales and procurement go up under DMK rule, says Minister||Minister for Milk and Dairy Development S.M. Nasar said sales and procurement of Aavin had increased under the new regime and measures were on to improve sales further. Mr. Nasar said while the procurement was 36 lakh litres per day during the previous regime, it had increased to 41 lakh litres per day at present. While only 26 lakh litres per day was sold during the AIADMK period, it had increased to over 27.80 lakh litres per day under the present government. Mr. Nasar said that during Deepavali sweet sales, while business was done for only Rs. 53 crore last year, after the sale period of 40 days, business increased to Rs. 85 crore this year, within the sale period of 18 days. They faced shortages, or else the business would have crossed Rs. 100 crore. Mr. Nasar said payment dues of Rs. 330 crore were given to dairy farmers ahead of Deepavali. The Minister along with Collector V. Jayachandra Banu Reddy and other senior officials inspected the Aavin dairy premises here on Thursday. He said the reduction of Rs. 3 for per litre of milk caused a loss of Rs. 85 crore per day to the dairy. However, it was done considering the welfare of the underprivileged people. Mr. Nasar said ghee had been included for the first time in the 21-item Pongal gift kit. Aavin had received orders for Rs. 130 crore for supplying ghee in the kit and production was happening across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-sales-procurement-increase-says-minister/article37974038.ece
17 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Be financially empowered, women graduates told||Though the number of women entering institutions of higher education in Tamil Nadu was more than men, the number of women going to employment was relatively less, said Governor and Chancellor R.N. Ravi here on Thursday. Speaking at the 29th convocation of Mother Teresa Women’s University, Kodaikanal, held at Madurai Kamaraj University here, he said it was heartening to see more women getting degrees than men. The ratio of men and women getting higher education looked like 1:3. The Governor visited universities in Salem, Tiruchi and Tirunelveli districts recently and addressed convocations. He said the women, who had obtained degrees, should be financially empowered, which would eradicate discrimination. They should get into workforce in large numbers and be part of building the society. When the population of women was marginally higher than men, they should look for job opportunities but the number of men getting into jobs was rather high. He said that home keeping was a shared responsibility between men and women. Women’s confidence level and skills should be brought out in a tangible manner in this knowledge era. He touched upon the significant role played by women in the nation building and recalled the Bharathiyar’s poems on women empowerment. He recalled the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s project “Save daughters, educate daughters” programme, which would help erase female foeticide among other evils against women. Tamil Nadu was well placed in providing education to women when compared with other States in the country. Despite the pandemic, knowledge dissemination through online had only showed the teachers’ cooperation and patience, he said and lauded the academicians. Underlining the need for media sensitization and not sensationalisation, Dr Jamuna Duvvuru, Vice-Chancellor of Sri Padmavati Mahila Visvavidyalayam, Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh, said that crime and violence against women was of great concern and it required immediate attention. Women undergo sexual harassment and domestic violence throughout their life. The legal remedies and stringent punishments to those involved in crime should be in place, she said and added that media had a greater responsibility in sensitising women rather than hitting the headlines. University Vice-Chancellor Vaidehi Vijayakumar said that a total of 18,000 had obtained U.G., P.G., M. Phil., P.G. diploma and certificate programmes in the last two years in university departments and affiliated colleges. She said that a second year student M Renosa had won the first position in the all India ‘silambam’ competition conducted in Goa in November 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/be-financially-empowered-women-graduates-told/article37974014.ece
17 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Dak adalat on December 22, 27||The Department of Posts will conduct a regional-level dak adalat at the office of the Postmaster General, Southern Region, Madurai, from 11 a.m. on December 22 to redress grievances of postal customers. Postal customers can send their complaints to the office of the Postmaster General in envelopes superscribed as ‘Dak Adalat - December 2021.’ They can also email their grievances to pg.madurai@indiapost.gov.in with the subject as DAK ADALAT by December 20. The complaints should contain full details of date and time of posting, addresses of the sender and addressee with phone numbers, registration receipt number with date and office of booking for money order, value payable post, registered, insured and Speed Post articles. Complaints on savings schemes, postal life insurance or rural postal life insurance should have account number, policy number and full address of the depositor/insured, name of the post office, details of recovery and any reference of the Postal Department. The complaints should be sent through ordinary, Speed Post or by registered post. Only those cases in which the complainant was not satisfied with the response from divisional level office/ units would be entertained at the dak adalat. No fresh cases would be entertained, according to a press statement. Divisional level The Department of Posts will also conduct a divisional level dak adalat at the office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Madurai division, at 11 a.m. on December 27. The postal customers could send their complaints to the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices by 6 p.m. on December 24. The complaints should be sent through ordinary/registered post with ‘DAK ADALAT’ superscribed on the cover. Special covers The Department of Posts released two special covers at the virtual Philatelic exhibition ‘Maduraipex’ conducted by the Madurai Postal Division. Special covers on adurai Head Post Office building and Madurai Meenakshi Appalam were released at the event. The two special covers were released by the Postmaster General of Southern Region G. Natarajan. The special cover on Madurai HPO building, which started functioning in 1931, was received by the Director of Postal Services of Southern Region K. Raveendran. The special cover on Madurai Meenakshi Appalam was received by its proprietor K. P. Meenakshi Sundareswarar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat-on-december-22-27/article37974222.ece
17 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Bank employees strike work||Banking operations in Madurai city and its periphery came to a grinding halt as employees affiliated to nine trade unions, including the AIBEA and AIBOC, resorted to a two-day strike starting Thursday condemning the Central government for its privatisation and other measures. Strike convenor Kalidas told reporters at the SBI Main branch here that at a time when non-performing assets (NPA) were rising, the move to privatise two public sector banks would only further dilute the recovery process. The trade unions had already submitted memorandums to MLAs and MPs seeking their support and to oppose the Banking Loans (Amendment) Bill which has been tabled by the Finance Minister in the Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-employees-strike-work/article37974228.ece
17 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Take effective steps to protect slender loris, says High Court||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests to take effective steps to conduct a study on habitats, distribution and management of slender loris (thevangu in Tamil) in Dindigul, Karur and Tiruchi districts. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan, which was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by K. Pushpavanam of Madurai, also directed the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests to conduct a census of slender loris and file a report. Once it was enumerated, the authorities could declare the habitats of slender loris in Kadavur hills in Karur district, Ayyalur forests in Dindigul district and habitats in Tiruchi district a sanctuary under Section 18 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, the judges said. Pointing to an earlier status report submitted by the Forest authorities, the judges observed that nothing was stated in the report about the efforts taken by the government to save the animal, which might become extinct shortly as they were hunted for certain medicinal purposes. Though it was stated that the Forest Department, along with various NGOs, was involved in creating awareness of the importance of conserving slender loris, the State government had not taken any steps in this direction. The Principal Chief Conservator of Forests/ Chief Wildlife Warden, Chennai, had granted permission to Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History in Anaikatti, Coimbatore, to conduct a study on ‘Comparative ecology and behaviour of slender loris in Dindigul/Madurai landscape’ for a period of two years. The School of Natural Sciences and Engineering at the National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru, proposed to take up a research study from October 2022 to July 2024, the status report said. The court observed that the State government could not have difficulty in conducting a census of slender loris in these areas and posted the case for reporting compliance to March 7, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-steps-to-protect-slender-loris-hc/article37974008.ece
17 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||DGP interacts with police personnel||Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu received petitions from the police personnel at Armed Reserve Police Grounds here on Thursday. In line with Chief Minister M. K. Stalin’s instruction to conduct grievance redress meetings for police personnel at regular intervals, zonewise meetings are being conducted. A meeting was held here a few months back and many grievances of police personnel were resolved. According to sources, Mr. Sylendra Babu, who interacted with the police personnel at the Thursday meeting, suggested solutions for many petitions and brought relief to the petitioners. As many as 600 petitions were received from police personnel in the southern districts - from Theni to Kanniyakumari. IGP (south zone) T.S. Anbu, Commissioner of Police of Madurai City Prem Anand Sinha were present. While a majority of the petitioners sought transfer on health grounds and other reasons, there were petitions seeking consideration for medical relief, non-claims and release of arrears. A retired police official said it was commedable that such meetings were being held as they provided a platform for police personnel to air their grievances. He recalled that similar zone-wise meetings were conducted by former DGP Letika Saran. Mr. Sylendra Babu chaired a similar meeting in Tiruchi in the forenoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgp-interacts-with-police-personnel/article37974003.ece
17 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor visits Meenakshi temple||Governor R.N. Ravi visited Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple here on Thursday. Temple authorities led by Fit Person Karumuttu T. Kannan received the Governor with ‘purnakumbam.’ He went around the temple for about 45 minutes and had darshan of the presiding deities Goddess Meenakshi and Lord Sundareswarar. The Governor was given a brief account of the historic importance of the temple and the guidelines of the State government being strictly followed n view of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-visits-meenakshi-temple/article37974005.ece
17 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Students should take credit for ‘A’ grade’||Higher Education Minister Ponmudi said the students of the Mother Teresa Women’s University, Kodaikanal, should take the credit for the “A” grade accreditation by NAAC in cycle III here on Thursday. He said that the accreditation reflected the performance of students though the institution has a VC, Pro-Chancellor, Chancellor, among others. The students should take the credit, he said amidst applause. Chief Minister M K Stalin had enhanced the admission strength of students by 25 % this academic year. The objective was to ensure that no eligible student was turned away. The government cleared opening of 21 new arts and science colleges (10 from the Higher Education Department, 10 from the HR&CE department and 1 from the Cooperative Department). The Gross Enrolment Ratio showed that Tamil Nadu was far ahead of the national average. While the government was keen to build infrastructure, the students and the academicians should utilise the opportunities and give back to the society, he said and added that the CM had proposed to build not only educational institutions but also state-of-the-art libraries as well. The government had earmarked Rs. 70 crore for the construction of Dr. Kalaignar Karunanidhi library in Madurai. He hoped it would be useful to the research students. The services and contributions of Mother Teresa was phenomenal that every one should follow her and give back to the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-should-take-credit-for-a-grade-minister/article37974015.ece
17 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||File fresh report on school building: HC||In order to ascertain whether a government school building in Thinaikulam in Ramanathapuram district was safe for children, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court sought a fresh status report from experts on strengthening its stability. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan directed the team of experts from the National Institute of Technology – Tiruchi to file the report. The expert team in a status report had submitted that the building was stable but would require periodical maintenance. In 2018, the court took suo motu cognisance of media reports that the school building was unsafe for students. It directed experts to inspect the building, take necessary steps to repair it and file a report on its condition. Earlier, the counsel representing the High Court Registrar submitted before the court that the condition of the building had not improved. However, the government objected to the submission and submitted that the team of experts had inspected the school building and the repair works had been carried out. Further, the court was told that the structural engineers who inspected the building found it to have good stability. The court adjourned the hearing till January 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-fresh-status-report-on-school-building/article37974007.ece
17 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Disburse compensation: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed Madurai Collector to disburse the compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the mother of a 17-year-old boy who died following custodial torture in the hands of S.S. Colony police in 2019. The State submitted to the court a letter issued by the government stating that a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh was sanctioned. Justice G.R. Swaminathan directed the Collector to disburse it within four weeks. The court was hearing the petition filed by M. Jeya of Kochadai, who said her son was picked up by S.S. Colony police for an inquiry in a case of jewel theft. He was tortured at the police station. Later, he succumbed to injuries at Government Rajaji Hospital, she said. The probe was transferred to the CB-CID by the High Court. The petitioner said four policemen had been named in the final report filed by the CB-CID – Inspector Alexraj, Special Sub-Inspector Ravichandran, Head Constable Ravichandran and Grade I Constable Satheeshkumar. The police had beaten up her son resulting in his death, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disburse-compensation-hc/article37974225.ece
17 December 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Mullaperiyar dam on Thursday stood at its maximum permissible level of 142 ft with an inflow of 1,013 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 70.21 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 1,587 cusecs and a discharge of 1,069 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 11,125 mcft. There was no rainfall in the region during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Thursday.     Foreign currency of 3,47,200 Saudi Riyals and $1,000 equivalent to Rs. 68.09 lakh was seized at Chennai airport by Air Customs and a passenger was arrested. Based on inputs from DRI, Bengaluru Zonal Unit, a passenger who was heading to Dubai at 5.45 a.m. on Thursday was stopped, according to a press release. When the check-in baggage was opened, they found 694 Saudi Riyals of 500 denomination and two Saudi Riyals of 100 denomination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37974017.ece
17 December 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘No public welfare schemes from DMK govt.’||No public welfare schemes have been implemented by the DMK government in the last months, felt BJP state president K.Annamalai on Thursday. He claimed the State government is copying and implementing schemes of Central government. He told journalists in Namakkal, the BJP’s alliance with AIADMK is strong and it continues. There are no confusion in the alliance. Mr Annamalai felt farmers protested against the farm laws due to lack of proper understanding. He was hopeful that one day, farmers would themselves seek the farm laws and it would be implemented then. According to him, maintenance of law and order was poor in Tamil Nadur with the State invoking sedition charges and Goondas Act against sharing views on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-public-welfare-schemes-from-dmk-govt/article37973914.ece
17 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry announces relaxations for Christmas, New Year||The government in Puducherry has allowed some relaxations for social and cultural gatherings in connection with Christmas and New Year in the order extendingCOVID-19lockdown guidelines till January 2. The order issued by Ashok Kumar, Secretary (Relief and Rehabilitation), said while social/entertainment gathering is strictly prohibited, social and cultural gatherings are allowed on December 24 and 25 and December 30 and 31 and January 1 subject to COVID-appropriate behaviour being followed by all concerned. “The corona curfew from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. has been relaxed completely on Christmas eve and Christmas. On December 30, 31 and January 1 and 2, the night curfew is relaxed up to 2 a.m.”, it said. Restaurants,hotels,bars and liquor shops shall be permitted to operate by strictly followingCOVID-19appropriate behaviour. However, with the approval of the licensing authority, operations may be carried out beyond normal hours on New Year’s eve. They shall be responsible for strict adherence to the prescribed SOPs and all instructions/guidelines issued by the government from time to time as well as compliance of COVID-appropriate behaviour (viz. wearing of masks, maintaining social-distancing, regular hand washing and use of sanitiser etc.,) to contain the spread of COVID-19 virus. In case any violation is found, strict penal/criminal action shall be taken against the owner of the restaurant/bar. They shall also ensure vaccination of all the eligible staff at the earliest. All religious places/places of worship shall be opened for public for darshan and pujas only up to 10 p.m. However, on Christmas eve and Christmas, churches are permitted to be opened for public after 10 p.m. for prayers. All religious places/places of worship are also allowed to be opened for public after 10 p.m. for darshan/prayers on New Year eve. Beach Road/parks/gardens shall remain open all the time on all days, except during night curfew time. The walkers shall compulsorily wear masks and maintain social-distancing norms. Marriages shall be permitted to be conducted in religious institutions but with a maximum of 25 members only at any point of time. Essential pujas and prayers are permitted to be conducted only by the priests/employees of the respective religious place. However, relaxation is given to conduct temple or religious festivals that are normally performed in the Union Territory of Puducherry by following COVID-appropriate behaviour. The religious institutions shall strictly abide by the SOP prescribed by Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Marriage-related gathering shall be permitted but with guests not exceeding 100 at any point of time. Funeral/last rites are permitted with participants not exceeding 20 at any point of time. Industrial establishments, manufacturing centres and construction activities are permitted under the following terms and conditions. The order has directed all Administrative Secretaries/HODs to ensure vaccination of all eligible staff under them. It states that the Health Department shall ensure 100% coverage under vaccination for staff in the health facilities. “The Health Department shall vaccinate all eligible persons in the population urgently,” it added. It stated that the educational institutions shall scrupulously follow Standard Operating Procedures and ensure 100% vaccination. All private business/commercial establishments shall operate but shall ensure 100% vaccination of all eligible staff.  On December 30, 31 and January 1 and 2, the night curfew will be relaxed up to 2 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-announces-relaxations-for-christmas-new-year/article37974298.ece
17 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Sewage, plastic waste a threat to Thengaithittu mangroves||Lack of proper waste disposal system has resulted in untreated sewage being discharged into the Thengaithittu lagoon, posing a serious threat to the mangroves and marine life, activists say. Dumping of solid waste, including plastics, add to the problem. The lack of concerted action on the part of enforcement agencies was evident in raw sewage from different areas entering the lagoon, they allege. The Thengaithittu fishing harbour, which is located close to the lagoon is also swamped with waste. At the confluence point of the Uppar drain and the Grand Canal that carries the city’s sewage, untreated wastewater is illegally released into the lagoon that directly flows into the sea. Fishing vessels berthed at the harbour are surrounded with waste washed up from the estuary. It consists of mainly plastic carry bags, liquor bottles, glass and straws that get entangled in fishing nets, fishermen lament. “The main source of pollution in the Thengaithittu lagoon is the large amount of untreated sewage and solid waste that flow into the lagoon, brought by the Grand Canal, the Uppar and Murungampakkam drain,” says Aurofilio Schiavina, an expert on coastal management and member of PondyCan, a non-governmental organisation. “Due to the pollution in the lagoon, every once in a while mass fish deaths occur, where thousands of fish wash up on the shore. All kinds of solid waste wash up on the shore and choke the roots of the mangroves,” he says. “The pollution of the Thengaithittu estuary is a problem not only for the environment but also for the health of a large number of people living close to the lagoon and those using it,” he says. The Puducherry Government has been promoting the lagoon as a tourist destination by offering mangrove and boating tours. “This is a very good initiative and hopefully will incentivise the government to value this natural and beautiful lagoon and also allocate necessary funds to clean it up and restore it, which is the need of the hour,” he adds. According to M. Selvamanikandan, president of Puducherry Environment and Mangrove Forest Development and Protection Society, “Sewage from places, such as Nellithope, Boomiyanpet, Reddiyarpalayam, Mudaliarpet, Anna Nagar, Engineer Colony (Velrampet), Olandhakeerapalayam, Uppalam and Vambakeerapalayam has been directly running into the sea in and around the Thengaithittu lagoon.” “The mangrove forests are located in close proximity to the fishing harbour and the untreated sewage has severely affected the mangroves which function as a protective barrier during natural calamities. The mangrove forests near the estuary are very fragile and it is important to conserve them. A plan must be put in place to prevent discharge of untreated waste water and to take up periodic cleaning of solid waste, including plastic waste in various areas,” the expert says. According to an official, the Public Works Department was directed to set up grit chambers at a few locations in the Thengaithittu lagoon to reduce the quantity of solid waste entering the sea. “But these grit chambers are not working now,” he said, adding that a comprehensive sewage treatment plant had been proposed to cover the areas surrounding the lagoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sewage-plastic-waste-a-threat-to-thengaithittu-mangroves/article37974304.ece
17 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Forensic lab in Kirumampakkam to get hi-tech DNA testing facility||In a fillip to scientific investigation of criminal cases in Puducherry, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs has approved the proposal of the territorial police to start forensic DNA and cyber tests. The MHA had given the nod to upgrade the Forensic Science Laboratory functioning on the premises of Kirumampakkam police station, to start DNA profiling and a cyber forensic unit. The laboratory, established in 2013, under the police modernisation plan was so far carrying out only biological and serological tests to assist the investigators in unravelling crimes in the Union Territory. The police have been demanding setting up of a hi-tech laboratory to do DNA profiling in the Union Territory itself instead of sending the samples to the forensic lab in Hyderabad. The long delay in getting reports from the Hyderabad lab has been a handicap for the investigators in solving crimes fast. “The delay in getting reports often hampered the progress of the investigation. We will have to wait for months to get the results from Hyderabad to complete the investigation process. The DNA profiling plays an important role in the area of scientific examination of crime exhibits. Now, with a high-tech lab under our control, we can speed up investigation,” a senior police officer told The Hindu . In the days of growing cyber crime cases, an advanced forensic laboratory would be of great assistance to the police in cracking cyber crimes, he added. The MHA has sanctioned around Rs. 7 crore for the procurement of testing equipment and modifying the existing lab at Kirumampakkam “We have already received half of the sanctioned amount and the process has been set in motion to purchase the equipment. The Police Department is hopeful of having an upgraded laboratory by early or middle of next year,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forensic-lab-in-kirumampakkam-to-get-hi-tech-dna-testing-facility/article37974305.ece
17 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||One death and 24 fresh COVID-19 cases in U.T.||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 24 new cases on Thursday. Puducherry recorded the fatality to take the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,879 deaths. Puducherry accounted for 15 of the new cases, which were detected from 2,501 tests, followed by Karaikal (6) and Mahe (3). With 10 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 186. This comprised 35 patients in hospitals and 151 in home isolation. The test positivity rate stood at 0.96%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.4%. The Union Territory has recorded an cumulative aggregate of 1,29,285 cases and 1,27,220 recovered patients. Of an estimated 20.18 lakh tests conducted so far, over 17.13 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 5,858 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered a cumulative total of 13,26,574 vaccine doses. Zero deaths in Cuddalore Cuddalore district recorded nil COVID-19-related deaths on Thursday. Six persons tested positive, taking the tally of active cases to 64,498. The district saw 63,554 recoveries and the active case count stood at 70. Villupuram district reported two cases, taking the total number to 46,063. Kallakurichi district recorded one case, taking the tally to 31,587.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-death-and-24-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-ut/article37974299.ece
17 December 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Banking operations affected in Puducherry||Banking operations across the board were affected in Puducherry as the staff joined a nationwide two-day strike on Thursday to protest against the move to privatise public sector banks. Branches of banks across the city downed shutters in response to the strike called by United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine unions of employees and officers, to protest against the Banking Laws Amendment Bill 2021 that is set to be tabled in the Parliament in the winter session. Bank staff staged a dharna in front of the UCO Bank and raised slogans against the privatisation move. “The strike was total in Puducherry,” a bank official said. It is estimated that banking transactions to the tune of Rs. 500 crore was disrupted due to the strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banking-operations-affected-in-puducherry/article37974301.ece
17 December 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Demo held||The family members of a man, who reportedly ended his life at a private distillery where he worked, staged a road roko outside the company demanding compensation. R. Saranraj, 30, from Mattangal in Gandharvakottai, worked as a driver at the distillery in Kalkottai near here. He was recently engaged to be married. On Wednesday, he was found dead near a tree on the campus of the distillery. Police were informed and the body was taken to Pudukkottai Government Medical College Hospital for autopsy. A case of unnatural death was registered under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Following the death of Saranraj, family members and other villagers organised a road roko outside the distillery demanding compensation. Police pacified the agitators. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demo-held/article37973982.ece
17 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Anbumani raises question on Kurumans||Rajya Sabha MP Anbumani Ramadoss raised a question in Rajya Sabha with the Ministry of Tribal Affairs on Thursday regarding inclusion of synonyms of Kurumans in Scheduled Tribes list of Tamil Nadu. Mr. Anbumani questioned whether the government was aware about the Tamil Nadu Government’s notification to the Central government to include the synonyms of Kurumans such as Kurumba, Kurumbar and Kuruman along with Kurumans of the Scheduled Tribes list of Tamil Nadu as it ensured social justice to the tribal people and requested for its details. Responding to the question, Bishweswar Tudu, Minister of State for Tribal Affairs, said action on the proposal was taken as per approved modalities for inclusion and exclusion of names from the lists. Mr. Tudu replied, “The Government of India on June 15, 1999, (which was later amended on June 25,2002) has laid down the modalities for deciding the claims for inclusion, exclusion and other modifications in orders specifying Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes lists. As per the modalities, only those proposals which have been recommended and justified by the State Government / Union Territory Administration concerned and concurred with by Registrar General of India and National Commission for Scheduled Tribes are to be considered and legislation amended. All action on the proposal is taken as per these approved modalities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anbumani-raises-question-on-kurumans-in-rajya-sabha/article37974039.ece
17 December 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Awareness rally taken out||An energy conservation awareness rally was taken out here on Thursday. Staff of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited took part in the rally conducted to create awareness on energy conservation and safety practices. Over 50 persons took part in the rally organised at Kondalampatti. An awareness programme on energy conservation was conducted at Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Illampilai. The energy conservation week will be celebrated till December 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-rally-taken-out/article37974040.ece
17 December 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Bullock cart owners’ plea to reopen sand quarries||The CITU-affiliated Sand Bullock Cart Workers Association has submitted a memorandum to the Water Resources Department here on Thursday demanding that the sand quarries exclusively allocated for them be reopened. CITU State Secretary C. Jayabal said 23 quarries that functioned exclusively for the sand bullock carts across the State was shut in May due to the COVID-19 pandemic and called for reopening of the sand quarries in the delta region allotted exclusively for bullock cart operators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bullock-cart-owners-plea-to-reopen-sand-quarries/article37973983.ece
17 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers demand relief for crop loss||Farmers have urged the district administration to give due compensation to those agriculturists who have suffered crop loss due to the recent downpour. Raising the issue in the monthly grievance meeting held here on Thursday, Krishnamurthy of Tamil Nadu Vivasaayigal Sangam said the district had received excess rainfall against the average precipitation during the northeast monsoon. Since the abnormal downpour had caused extensive damage to the crops, the administration should conduct proper survey to assess the quantum of the destruction caused by the recent rain. Collector K. Senthil Raj replied that the ongoing survey would be completed soon. When Mr. Krishnamurthy complained that the farmers were running from pillar to post for buying certified sunflower seeds, Joint Director of Agriculture Mohideen said production of hybrid sunflower seeds in the State and in ‘supplier States’ like Karnataka and Maharashtra had been badly hit due to rain. “Since the farmers prefer the hybrid sunflower seeds, which are not available anywhere in this region, we cannot supply them to the cultivators this year,” he said. The Collector asked the officials to ensure vailability of hybrid sunflower seeds at least during next year. Farmer ‘Tharaasu’ Maharajan complained that price list was not being displayed in most of the fertilizer shops despite repeated instruction from the Collector. Even though the officials replied that action had been taken against 5 shops for this violation, the agriculturists and the Collector were not satisfied with the reply. The Collector told the officials that the names of the fertilizer sellers, who had faced the action, should be shared with the media so that it would compel others to keep the updated fertilizer prices in the shops. When farmer Chandrasekar of Udangudi asked the Collector to crack whip against adulterated palm jaggery manufacturers and sellers, he directed the Food Safety officials to organise raids in the facilities of the manufacturers during the season and asked the Agriculture Department officials to invite the palmyra climbers to the grievance meet. Farmer Maha Pauldurai of Sattankulam urged the Collector to ensure the desilting of the third and fourth reaches of Manimuthar Dam so as to take the water up to the irrigation tanks in Sattankulam area and the early construction of the check-dam across Karumaeniyar in their area. When farmer K. Premkumar raised the issue of crops being damaged by deer and wild boar in Mudukkalaankulam, Koppampatti, Ooththupatti, Idaiseval, Villiseri and Venkatesapuram, the forest officials assured that crop loss compensation would be given to the affected farmers if they had applied with proper documents in the District Forest Office. Farmer Thamizh Mani of Kurumbur said the Kurumbur Primary Agriculture Cooperative Bank, which remained idle following the arrest of its chairman for misappropriation of deposits, should be revived in the interest of the farmers. “Moreover, steps should be taken to give fresh loans to the farmers,” he appealed adding that the overflow channel of Kadambaakulam should be desilted. While farmer O.A. Narayanasamy drew the attention of the Collector and the officials on the non-disbursal of insurance benefits to the farmers for the onion growers of Vilaathikulam taluk, Dr. Senthil Raj promised to take appropriate and immediate action. Farmers Azhaguraja and Jothimani of Aththimarapatti appealed to the Collector to remove the encroachments made along the stream carrying water to the sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-demand-relief-for-crop-loss/article37974332.ece
17 December 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Son of former minister detained||The police have detained the son of former AIADMK minister S.T. Chellapandian under the Goondas Act after he was recently arrested for hijacking a cashew-laden lorry along with his associates. Hijack When a container lorry with 16 tonnes of cashew worth Rs. 1.10 crore was going to Thoothukudi VOC Port from Killiyoor in Kanniyakumari district on November 26, it was intercepted by a car at Pottaloorani intersection. The occupants hijacked the lorry after thrashing driver V. Hari, 40, who alerted their agent in Thoothukudi. Following information, a police team tracked the lorry which was being taken towards Namakkal and detained it and the hijackers at Kaakkaneri near Namakkal within 10 hours. The police arrested Gnanaraj Jebasingh, 30, son of Mr. Chellapandian, and his associates S. Vishnu Perumal, 26, of Bryant Nagar, K. Marimuthu, 30, of MGR Nagar, S. Manoharan, 36, of Mattakkadai, M. Pandi, 21, of Nesamoni Nagar, V. Senthil Murugan, 35, of Murappanaadu and T. Rajkumar, 26, of Military Line in Palayamkottai in connection with this incident. Kingpin As the police reportedly found that Gnanaraj Jebasingh was the kingpin behind this hijacking, he was detained under the Goondas Act on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-ministers-son-detained/article37974018.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Consultant appointed to prepare DPR for bus terminus at Panchapur||A Bengaluru-based consultant has been appointed to prepare the Detailed Project Report (DPR) for establishing the integrated bus terminus at Panchapur on the outskirts of Tiruchi-Madurai highway. The company, which was said to have designed a few bus stands in Karnataka, has been asked to submit the DPR within three months. Besides studying the feasibility of the project, the consultant will carry out soil test, and design the structure and model of the bus terminus. A truck terminal, separate terminus for omnibuses and city buses, fire service station and police station are also part of the integrated bus terminus. P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman, Corporation Commissioner, Tiruchi, told The Hindu that the consultant would also come out with the design of the wholesale market and commercial complex adjacent to the bus terminus. The design of the integrated bus terminus would be unique and a model for future terminus in the region. The consultant had been asked to design the bus terminus in such a way to include all types of modern amenities for passengers, bus crew members, traders, law enforcers and other stakeholders. He said the Corporation had about 574 acres of land at Panchapur on both sides of Tiruchi-Madurai highway. While it required 50-60 acres for the integrated bus stand, it had been proposed to use about 22 acres for the wholesale market. It might require 20 acres for building a commercial complex so as to provide all needed facilities for the passengers including restaurants, fruit shops, eateries and book stalls. Though the exact estimate of the integrated bus terminus project would be known only after the preparation of the DPR, Mr. Rahuman said that it might require Rs. 420 crore for the first phase. It had been decided to get ready the land required for the project. The work of clearing the bushes, thrones, and weeds at the proposed site had already been taken up. The surface would be levelled if needed. He said land would not be a constrain for designing a spacious bus terminus as the Corporation had a vast tract of land at Panchappur. The DPR would have all information including the extent of land required for the bus terminus, wholesale market and commercial complex. Once it received the DPR, it would be sent to the State government for administrative sanction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consultant-appointed-to-prepare-dpr-for-bus-terminus-at-panchapur/article37974001.ece
17 December 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Cancellation of fair disappoints Karur exporters||Exporters of handloom textile made-ups from Karur district are disappointed over the cancellation of the annual international trade fair, Heimtextil 2022, which was to be held from January 11-14 in Frankfurt in Germany. Heimtextil, a major trade fair of international relevance, has been cancelled for the second consecutive year due to the pandemic. “Against the background of the worsening pandemic situation in Germany over the past two weeks and the associated restrictions, Heimtextil, scheduled to take place in the second week of January, is cancelled,” an official announcement said. Messe Frankfurt, the organiser of the fair, has indicated that it was working with the industry to determine whether the fair could be held in the summer of 2022. Retailers, wholesalers, designers, furniture and bedding stores, interior decorators, interior architects, architects, hotel outfitters and many other decision makers come to Heimtextil every year. A range of product samples right from decorative and furniture fabrics to textiles for the bedroom and bathroom and table are displayed at the expo. The exhibition also gives an overview of the latest trends in the industry and popular designs. Every year, about 40 exporters from Karur, which is famous for its handloom made-ups such as table cloths, kitchen towels, bedsheets, curtains and other home furnishing products, travel to the expo and set up stalls to attract buyers and secure orders. “It is disappointing. There was lot of expectations (on getting good business) as the fair was to be held after a gap of two years. Sample developments were almost over and we had made payments to contractors for doing the interiors in our stalls,” observed P. Gopalakrishnan, president, Karur Textile Manufacturers Exporters’ Association. Those who had planned to participate may have suffer some loses by way of payments to contractors, flight and hotel bookings etc. Though the organisers are now exploring the possibility of holding it in summer, but June is holiday time in Europe, he said wondering whether such a move would be successful. However, exporters say that all is not lost due to the cancellation of the fair. “In general it is big opportunity to get business. Normally, some of the participants from Karur get orders for up to 40% of their annual business. But the fair was cancelled in 2021 too, yet we managed to get good business. We will have to wait and see this year,” Mr. Gopalakrishnan said. Nevertheless, attending the fair in person, especially in the absence of China, would have helped participants to get better business, he added. Some of the participants were sore that the fair has been cancelled at the last minute. Many had booked tickets, made the registrations and other arrangements may stand to loose some money individually, pointed out Arasu Sethupathi, Joint Secretary of the association. “The cancellation of the fair was disappointing in particular because some buyers who have been buying only from China till now, had decided not be fully dependent on the country and were looking to give orders to manufacturers from countries such as India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. We were hoping to garner some orders from such buyers. It would have been an big opportunity for India and we may miss them,” Mr. Sethupathi said. On the other hand, some also feel that the cancellation of the fair may be a blessing in disguise in the wake of the Omicron scare. “If the pandemic situation were to turn worse there and buyers failed to turn up, we could be faced with heavier losses,” an exporter observed.  There was lot of expectations as the fair was to be held after a gap of two years. We had also made payments to contractors for doing the interiors in our stalls P. Gopalakrishnan President, Karur Textile Manufacturers Exporters’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancellation-of-fair-disappoints-karur-exporters/article37974427.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Orientation for freshers gets under way at NIT-Tiruchi||A week-long orientation programme for a fresh batch of B.Tech and B.Arch got under way at the National Institute of Technology – Tiruchi (NITT) on Wednesday with the participation of deans, heads of department and students council members. Top ranking Bhaskar Bhat, Chairperson, Board of Governors, NITT, said the institution had distinguished itself by being ranked among the top 25 in the country. It was ranked ninth among all technical institutes in the country and first among the 31 NITs (sixth year in a row) by the National Institutional Ranking framework (NIRF), India Ranking 2021. “Despite COVID-19 challenges, NITT has grown tremendously due to the commitment of the faculty and staff,” Mr. Bhat said, according to a NITT press release. Saumya Gupta, Joint Secretary (in charge of NITs), Ministry of Higher Education, committed her full support from the government to the initiatives of the institute. She hoped that the new batch of students would have a great learning opportunity. G. Kannabiran, Director in charge, said that NITT would roll out financial management initiatives in order to become self-sustainable in the long run. “NITT will also pave way for intensive industry collaboration, inter-institute collaboration, creating flexible infrastructure and improving faculty competencies,” he added. Umapathy, Deputy Director, Deans and Registrar in-charge, interacted with the freshers, according to the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/orientation-for-freshers-gets-under-way-at-nit-tiruchi/article37974431.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pathetic condition of arterial Odathurai Road gives the jitters to vehicle users||Motorists, especially two-wheeler riders, have been facing much hardship due to the poor condition of a few stretches of Odathurai Road running along the Cauvery bank in the city. The road links the Chinthamani area in the city with Tiruchi-Chennai Bypass Road. After the opening of a road overbridge a few years ago, the road running along the Cauvery bank was widened and provided with a centre median by the State Highways Department. Huge potholes have developed on the descent on one of the carriages of the road overbridge running towards Chennai Bypass Road. As a temporary measure, gravel has been dumped on these potholes which have also come off over the past few days. However, the road has taken a severe beating during the recent monsoon. Stretches of the road have been completely eroded at certain places with blue metal strewn around especially in front of the Oyamari burial ground. Motorists, two-wheeler riders in particular, face a tough time in negotiating the slippery stretch and they also have to contend with the clouds of dust kicked up by speeding heavy vehicles. In November, a portion of Odathurai Road between Mela Chinthamani and Chennai Bypass Road caved in, leaving a deep hole in the middle of the carriageway. Earlier this year, a large part of the road along the bank of the Cauvery caved in during work undertaken to construct a retaining wall. “This is an arterial road and it is in poor shape. The entire stretch should be fully relaid and the potholes on the road overbridge should also be repaired,” said P. Ayyarappan, a road safety activist. When contacted, sources in the Highways Department said the damaged stretches would be repaired and blacktopped within the next few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pathetic-condition-of-arterial-odathurai-road-gives-the-jitters-to-vehicle-users/article37973993.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||DGP: G.O. on free travel for police personnel in STC buses soon||Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu on Wednesday said a Government Order (GO) allowing police personnel to travel free of cost in State Transport Corporation buses would be issued soon. Speaking at a grievance meet of police personnel held here, he said an announcement to that effect was made in the State Assembly. All police personnel were given modern identity cards with hologram for travel in government buses. In order to ensure hassle-free travel, steps had been taken to issue a GO soon. Mr. Babu said the State government had taken steps to ensure the physical and mental well-being of police personnel. It was with the aim of ensuring sufficient rest that they were granted weekly off, which required an amendment to the Police Standing Orders. Stating that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin was particular about cancellation of minor punishments of policemen in their service record, Mr. Babu said he had issued orders to commute the punishment of 316 policemen and reduced the punishment of 164 personnel. In addition, 51 police personnel, including 21 women, who were removed from service for violation of conduct rules, had been re-inducted. As per the demands of police personnel, he said 1,353 of them were transferred to their native districts a few days ago. The Commissioners of Police and Inspector Generals of Police, who head the zones, had been asked to give transfer to needy persons depending upon vacancies. The DGP said policing was a challenging job. He himself had been involved in a gunfight thrice with sandalwood smuggler Veerappan. Police personnel made many sacrifices and despite the risk factors, they worked to ensure law and order. V. Balakrishnan, IGP, Central Zone, G. Karthikeyan, Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi, and senior police officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgp-go-on-free-travel-for-police-personnel-in-stc-buses-soon/article37973999.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Video showing dead dog being dragged on roads triggers outrage||Tiruchi City police are investigating a case of animal cruelty after a video of a dog being beaten and dragged while being tethered to an autorickshaw sparked outrage. An animal rights activist based in the city has registered a complaint with the city police seeking an investigation. According to police sources, a video of a stray dog being attacked, killed and dragged on the road was recorded and uploaded on social media. The incident is supposed to have taken place in Cooni Bazaar, Palakkarai, and a case has been registered at Palakkarai Police Station. Speaking to The Hindu , the complainant, R. Ragavan, said he had heard of the incident, which took place on December 12, through locals in the area. “I immediately collected footage and submitted a complaint through the Tamil Nadu police website. It was unbearable to watch the video and the men have to be punished,” he said. The dog that was killed by the men in the video had supposedly attacked a few of the residents in the locality due to which they might have taken the extreme step, police sources said. Requesting the public to refrain from attacking animals, Mr. Ragavan said they must instead contact Tiruchi Corporation or animal-welfare organisations seeking their intervention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/video-showing-dead-dog-being-dragged-on-roads-triggers-outrage/article37974428.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dialysis unit, mammogram centre inaugurated at hospital||A dialysis unit and mammogram centre, worth approximately Rs. 85 lakh, was recently inaugurated at GVN Riverside Hospital on Chennai Bypass Road in collaboration with the Rotary Club of Coimbatore with the aim of reaching out to patients in the rural suburbs of the district. The mammogram would be utilised to screen women from less privileged sections of society and in remote areas for cancer. Monitoring GVN Hospital physicians would monitor renal cases at the dialysis centre and also raise awareness of related health issues through regular information campaigns. The development of the project was enabled by Rotary Club of Coimbatore (Rotary District 3201) in association with the Rotary Foundation’s Global Grants programme that focuses on social welfare initiatives. Senior representatives of GVN Hospital and Rotary Club of Coimbatore were present at the inauguration ceremony on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dialysis-unit-mammogram-centre-inaugurated/article37973986.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Margazhi concert begins today||The Manghalam Group will host the third edition of its annual cultural festival, Margazhi Mangala Utsavam , featuring performances by classical dancers, vocalists and instrumentalists from Friday. The events will go on until December 20. The festival will open with a musical concert by nadaswaram exponents S. Kasim and S. Babu and a vocal recital by R. Kashyap Mahesh on Friday. On Saturday, K. Kumarasamy will present a saxophone concert and students of Bala Kala Vidhanam will perform the group item Nritya Sangamam . Rekha Raju will perform Mohiniyattam, and singer Sai Vignesh will present a vocal concert on Sunday. The festival will conclude on Monday with a group performance, Vaigunta Vaibhavam , by pupils of Sri Priyalaya Arts Academy and vocal a recital by Nithyasree Mahadevan. The events, to be held at Manghalam Weddings and Conventions on Nelson Road, Thiruvanaikovil, will to begin at 5.30 p.m.on all days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/margazhi-concert-begins-today/article37974430.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Banking services hit as employees go on strike in Tiruchi region||The two-day nationwide bank strike called by bank employees’ unions affected banking services in Tiruchi region on Thursday. The unions demanded that the Centre withdraw the privatisation Bill, which is expected to be introduced in the current winter session of Parliament. Operations in all public sector banks in the city were affected on Thursday, the first day of the strike. Boards were displayed in front of some branches informing their customers about the strike. Officers and employees staged a demonstration in front of SBI branch at Cantonment. They raised slogans against the Centre for attempting to privatise profit-making public sector banks. About 500 employees and officials, including 200 women, took part in the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banking-services-hit-as-employees-go-on-strike-in-tiruchi-region/article37974434.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||54 fresh cases, one death||The central region reported 54 fresh cases and one death on Thursday. All nine districts in the region reported 15 or lesser cases. Fifteen persons reported positive for the viral infection in Tiruchi. The district also reported the single fatality. Karur reported 12 and Thanjavur 11 cases. The remaining six districts registered less than five cases each. Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam recorded four cases each, Mayiladuthurai three, Ariyalur and Perambalur two each and Pudukottai one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/54-fresh-cases-one-death/article37973996.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||No power supply||Power supply will be suspended from 9.45 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday in the following areas of the city due to maintenance works to be taken up at Kambarasampettai and Mainguard Gate sub-stations: Karur By-pass Road, Old Karur Road, VN Nagar, Mathulankollai, S.S.Kovil, Chidambaram Mahal, Poosari Street, Chathiram Bus Stand, St.Joseph’s College Road, Chinthamani, Chinthamani Bazaar, Odathurai, North Andal Street, Nandi Kovil Street, Vanapattarai, Singarathope, Salai Road, Vathukara Street, Mudaliyar Street, Woraiyur Housing Unit, Keeraikollai Street, Nawab Thottam, Weavers Colony, T.T.Road, Cholarajpuram, VS Kovil, Kandan Street, Minappan Street, Linga Nagar, Akilandeswari Nagar, Mangal Nagar, Santosh Garden, Maruthandakurichi, Malliampathu, Alanvanthannallur, Ekirimangalam, Kambarasampettai, Cauvery Nagar, Murungapettai, Gudalur, Mutharasanallur, Pazhur, Allur, Jeeyapuram, Thiruchendurai, Collector Well and drinking water pumping stations of Golden Rock and HAPP, Devadhanam, Sankaran Pillai Road, Anna Statue, Sanjeevi Nagar, Sarkarpalayam, Ariyamangalam, Panaiyakurichi, Mullakudi, Ottakudi, Vengur, Arasangudi, Natarajapuram and Thogur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-power-supply/article37974429.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NITT team to study tenements||A team of experts from the National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi will soon inspect the tenements built by the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUDB) at Tharanallur Kalmanthai in the city following allegations over the quality of construction of the buildings. TNUDB, formerly known as Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, has built 192 tenements after demolishing the old buildings constructed about 50 years ago. A few days ago, some residents alleged that the quality of construction was poor and the cement plaster on the wells was peeling off. A committee comprising experts from NITT will assess the quality of construction and submit a report. Based on the report, appropriate action will be taken, Collector S. Sivarasu said in a statement on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nitt-team-to-study-tenements/article37973994.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Banking operations affected in southern districts||Condemning Centre’s decision to privatise the nationalised banks and demanding withdrawal of the Bill tabled in the Parliament during its ongoing winter session to execute this decision with far-reaching consequences, the bankers commenced their two-day strike on Thursday. Bank employees staged a demonstration in front of Indian Bank’s Palayamkottai branch near VOC Ground on Thursday. Members of various bank employees’ and the officers’ unions participated in the demonstration. Office-bearers of the protesting unions Edwin, Charles, Sivashankar and Thilagar addressed the protestors who vowed to intensify their struggle. In support of the bankers’ strike, the Life Insurance Corporation of India employees also staged demonstration in front of their divisional office in Palayamkottai during the ‘lunch hour’. As the bankers commenced their strike on Thursday, banking operations in all the four districts were paralysed completely. Demonstration for this demand will be held in front of the banks in all four southern districts on Friday also. Madurai Normal banking operations in Madurai and peripheries came to a grinding halt as employees affiliated to as many as nine trade unions including the AIBEA, AIBOC resorted to a strike condemning the Central government for privatisation here on Thursday. Convenor Kalidas told reporters at the SBI Main branch here, the venue, where the employees staged a demonstration, that it was a collective decision of nine trade unions to oppose tooth and nail the move of the Centre. At a time when the NPAs were rising, the moves made by the government in the Parliament session held in February to privatise two public sector banks would only further dilute the recovery process from the defaulters. Hence, to express solidarity among the employees and to oppose the move of the Union government, it was proposed to stage a two-day stir across the nation on December 16 and 17. The employees trade unions had already submitted memorandums to MLAs and MPs in this regard seeking support and to oppose the Banking Loans (Amendment) Bill which has been brought in Parliament by the Finance Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banking-operations-affected/article37974010.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Plan to take Siddha college students to Western Ghats||The district administration will make arrangements for taking the students of Government Siddha Medical College to the Western Ghats, a rich source of herbal plants, Collector V. Vishnu has said. Addressing the seminar held at the Government Siddha Medical College on Thursday on ‘Prevention and management of communicable diseases – a Siddha perspective,’ he said the budding Siddha practitioners should visit Western Ghats, the cradle of herbal wealth, to understand the herbal plants grown abundantly by nature. Since these herbal plants were the backbones of the Siddha formulations being prescribed for a range of ailments, the practitioners and the medicos should visit the Western Ghats frequently. The district administration, having realized the importance of herbal plants’ role in the formulation of siddha medicines, would organise special trips for Siddha medical students in batches to the Western Ghats. “I have trekked for several km along the Western Ghats to see these priceless medicinal plants on various occasions. Siddha students should visit these places, for which the district administration will make arrangements,” he assured. He also assured them that the Siddha research station would be established with additional facilities on getting permission from the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-take-siddha-college-students-to-western-ghats/article37974334.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||YouTuber arrested again, remanded||YouTuber Maridhas was arrested by the Melapalayam police here on Thursday in connection with a case registered in April 2020 based on a complaint filed by the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) functionary Mohammed Khader Meeran. Maridhas was produced before Fifth Judicial Magistrate Vijayalakshmi, who remanded him in judicial custody till December 30 and adjourned his bail petition till Friday. He was taken to the Theni prison, where he has been lodged in connection with another case. In his complaint, Mr. Meeran had charged that Maridhas linked Tablighi Jamaat’s conference held in New Delhi in 2019 to the COVID-19 outbreak in Delhi and various parts of the country. He even went to the extent of calling it a “new form of terrorism” being unleashed by Muslims. “By showing a Muslim outfit and Muslims in a bad light and holding them responsible for COVID-19 outbreak, Maridhas, with the malicious intension of creating enmity between Muslims and others, had posted the video on YouTube,” Mr. Meeran said in his complaint filed on April 4, 2020. However, no action was taken on the complaint by the police. Earlier on December 9, Maridhas was arrested by Madurai City Police for his tweet that Tamil Nadu was becoming a haven for terrorists under the DMK government by linking the chopper crash in Coonoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youtuber-arrested-again-remanded/article37973897.ece
17 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||340 kg ganja seized in Tiruppur||Tiruppur City Police on Thursday seized 340 kg ganja with an estimated value around Rs. 40 lakh that was allegedly smuggled from Andhra Pradesh in a car during a vehicle check near Anupparpalayam in the city. According to the Anupparpalayam police, the driver of the sport utility vehicle (SUV) was caught when he attempted to flee from the spot. The police found 155 bags of ganja, each weighing around 2.2 kg. inside the car. The total worth of the contraband was estimated to be around Rs. 40 lakh, according to the police. M. Palpandi (27), the driver from Theni district, was arrested following the seizure. Commissioner of Police V. Vanitha inspected the seized ganja bags and the car. “This [seizure] was possible as we have intensified the vehicle checks in the morning hours,” she told mediapersons. The driver was remanded to judicial custody on Thursday, the police said. 12 kg seized from train In another incident, the Railway Protection Force (RPF), Salem division, on Thursday seized 12 kg of ganja with an estimated value of Rs. 1.20 lakh and eight kg of banned tobacco products valued around Rs. 7,800 during a search in Dhanbad – Alappuzha Express. The seized tobacco products were handed over to the Food Safety Department, Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/340-kg-ganja-seized-in-tiruppur/article37973932.ece
17 December 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Woman found dead||A 48-year-old woman was found dead with burns on a road in Karuvampalayam on Wednesday. According to police, the woman, a mentally challenged, allegedly self-immolated and died on the spot. The body was taken to the Government Medical College Hospital, Tiruppur, for autopsy. The Tiruppur Central police have registered a case and the reason to end life was yet to be ascertained, according to the sources. CCTV footage The CCTV footage, which was obtained by the police for the inquiry, went viral on social media platforms on Thursday.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-found-dead-with-burns-on-road/article37973933.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Annual Uroos festival to end tomorrow||The annual Uroos festival of Saint Hazarath Hakkeem Shaihu Dawood Kaami Valiyullah Aandavar Dargha, Muthupettai, which commenced during the first week of this month, will conclude on December 18 with the lowering of the Holy Flag. According to Dargah Managing Trustee S. Rafeek Ahamed Lebbai, the festival began with the hoisting of the Holy Flag on December 5 and the main event of applying sandal paste on the Holy Rowla Shariff was held in the early hours of December 15. Earlier, the holy pot containing the sandal paste was taken out in a procession from the dargha and returned to the starting point after going through the major thoroughfares of Muthupettai. Later, on the evening of December 15, the Anthikoodu festival was celebrated with religious fervour and gaiety, he said and added that a dhuva was performed on the day of hoisting of the Holy Flag invoking the grace of Almighty Allah to protect the people from the impact of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annual-uroos-festival-to-conclude-tomorrow/article37973984.ece
17 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Teacher held for sexually harassing students||A 46-year-old government high school teacher was arrested after he was accused of sexually harassing students at the school. Police identified the accused as Muralidharan, a teacher of the Government Higher Secondary School in Kil Kotagiri, Sholurmattam. According to investigators, the accused is alleged to have made suggestive statements to 11female students in the school. The girls are said to have reported the incidents to the school principal, who notified the Sholurmattam police. Police are investigating to ascertain whether Muralidharan was reported for prior offences by students at the school. He was remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teacher-held-for-sexually-harassing-students/article37973940.ece
17 December 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Poultry from Kerala banned in the Nilgiris||The Department of Animal Husbandry in the Nilgiris has posted teams at all eight checkpoints along the border to turn away vehicles carrying poultry from Kerala. This is part of the measures enforced since Thursday to check the spread of bird flu. Speaking to The Hindu , Joint Director of Animal Husbandry Bagavath Singh said bird flu cases were reported in parts of Kerala. “To ensure that the virus does not spread to poultry in Tamil Nadu, all poultry items from Kerala are stopped at the checkpoints and turned back,” he said. Vehicles disinfected A team has been posted at the Kakkanallah checkpoint bordering Karanataka to ensure that poultry from Kerala do not enter the district through Karnataka. All vehicles entering the district are sprayed with disinfectant. The precautions will be in force until the threat of the viral infection recedes, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poultry-from-kerala-banned-in-the-nilgiris/article37973893.ece
17 December 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Police intensify probe into jewellery heist||Police have intensified investigation in to the heist at a jewellery showroom in Katpadi, Vellore district. Unidentified miscreants drilled a hole into a gold retail chain store and decamped with valuables worth crores on Wednesday. Police said the suspects had drilled a hole in the wall at the back of the building and made away with 15 kilograms of gold jewellery worth over Rs. 8 crore. Inspector General of Police, North Zone, Santhosh Kumar, Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) A.G.Babu and Superintendent of Police visited the spot and conducted investigation. Talking to reporters, Mr. Sathosh Kumar said four special teams have been constituted under the Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) to trace to the suspects. The CCTV footage showed suspects with face masks entering the premises. “Based on inputs, we are working on certain leads and investigating if there was any link with the persons involved in similar heist in Tiruchi a couple of years ago,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-intensify-probe-into-jewellery-heist/article37974341.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Awareness campaign launched in three districts to ensure 100% vaccination||The three districts of Vellore, Tirupattur and Ranipet have launched door-to-door awareness campaign to fulfil Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s direction to vaccinate 100% of eligible persons. The door-to-door campaign was launched by Water Resources Minister Durai Murugan at a function held in VIT College, Vellore, on Thursday. According to a press release, the door-to-door awareness programme is to be organised in the three districts by members of self-help groups, college students, officials of the local bodies and social activists, and the target is to ensure 100% vaccination of the population. In Vellore district, which has a population of 16,47,172 persons, the district administration has administered vaccine doses to 12,48,100 persons. Ranipet district has vaccinated 9,59,200 persons against a population of 12,65,933. In Tirupatthur district, a total of 9,44,700 persons have been vaccinated against a population of 12,46,845 persons. The campaigners along with the medical staff of primary health centres would be visiting the villages to administer the doses of the vaccine. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian and Handlooms and Textiles Minister R. Gandhi participated in the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-campaign-launched-in-three-districts-to-ensure-100-vaccination/article37974343.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Supreme Court to hear pleas on quota law||“The Most Backward Classes within the Backward Classes were identified in Tamil Nadu as early as 1957, when they were considered equivalent to the Scheduled Castes but without the factor of untouchability,” the petition explained. Some of these communities were impacted by the Criminal Tribes Act of the British. The recommendation for 10.5% reservation to the Vanniyakula Kshatriya was commensurate with their population as enumerated in a survey conducted in 1983 by the Tamil Nadu Second Backward Classes Commission. “The State had enacted the Act in 2021 only based on adequate authenticated data on the population of the Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities enumerated by the Tamil Nadu Second Backward Classes Commission in 1983,” the government said.   Tamil Nadu said the caste-wise population data disclosed by the Commission was the “only authenticated data available as of now before the State; and such data can be used effectively to plan for sub-classification of the backward classes of citizens”. The State said the High Court having brushed aside such an authentic survey just for the “insignificant” observations made by the dissenting members of the Commission could not be sustained. It said the High Court had focused on these observations rather than on the “stupendous” exercise conducted for two years by the Commission and the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/supreme-court-to-hear-pleas-on-quota-law/article37973894.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 47 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district reported 47 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total cases to 1,07,151. While 51 persons were discharged, 582 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 39 persons tested positive on Thursday. In Namakkal, 36 new cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Seven indigenous cases were reported in Krishnagiri and six cases in Dharmapuri. As per the bulletin, three deaths were reported in Salem.  Coimbatore district on Thursday reported 104 fresh cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 113 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,140 active cases on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-47-new-covid-19-cases/article37974032.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society, Sri Venugopala Perumal and Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal Temple: Thirukarthigai and Markazhi mahotsavam, Kovaipudur temple premises, 9.30 a.m.    PSG College of Technology: International conference on artificial intelligence for sustainable applications, 9.30 a.m.  PSG College of Arts and Science: Webinar on human behaviour and environmental sustainability, 9.15 a.m.  Bharathiar University : Enave-Women’s conference, 2 p.m.  Sri Ramakrishna Institute of Technology: Awareness programme on women’s safety, 10.30 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Webinar on innovation and entrepreneurship opportunities in the energy sector, 10.30 a.m.  Kathir College of Arts and Science: Workshop on digital marketing, 9.30 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Finance workshop, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37973935.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Dr. R.A.N.M. Arts and Science College: Tamil Peravai special programme, Bava Chelladurai, writer, chief guest, V. Rajamanikkam, president, The Mudaliyar Educational Trust, K.K. Balusamy, Secretary and Correspondent, presides, 10.15 a.m.  Nandha Engineering College: Motivational talk on career oppor tunities in Defence services by Captain K. Senthil Kumar (Retired), 10 a.m.  Nandha Arts and Science College: Dept. of Physics, Fresher’s Day, Jaga deesh Kumar Alagarasan, Post Doct oral Research Associate, Jiangsu Uni versity, China, chief guest, 10.30 a.m.  Sri Vasavi College (Self Finance Wing): Department of IT, two-day hands on training on Hardware and Networking, 9.30 a.m.    Kavery Engineering College: Faculty development programme on recent trends in IOT and its applications, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article37974033.ece
17 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Stringent anti-conversion Bill being given final touches||The proposed anti-conversion law, The Karnataka Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, that has stringent provisions for forced or induced conversion, is likely to come before the State Cabinet on Monday. Government sources said the draft Bill is “almost ready”, and is likely to be discussed in the Cabinet before it is piloted in the Assembly later next week. As per the draft of the Bill, forced conversion will be non-bailable and non-cognisable. It has some stringent provisions, including imprisonment for not less than three years and minimum fine of Rs. 25,000. The burden of proof as to whether conversion was by force lies with the religious converter. The draft of the Bill says that the Law Commission of Karnataka, after studying various laws on the subject and considering the situation in the State in its 30th report, has made recommendation to the Government to enact a suitable law. 1977 judgment The statement of objects and reasons cites the 1977 judgment of the Supreme Court in Rev. Stanislaus vs. State of Madhya Pradesh and Orissa that said that the right to propagate religion under Article 25 does not include the right to convert another person. It said, “In recent times the State has noticed many instances of conversion by means of allurement, coercion, force, fraudulent means, and also mass conversion. These instances caused disturbance of public order in the State. To prevent such instances which cause disturbance to public order and to punish persons indulging in such acts no legislation is in existence in the State.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stringent-anti-conversion-bill-being-given-final-touches/article37973842.ece
17 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Cong. leaders arrive on tractor to highlight Govt.’s ‘failures’||High drama prevailed outside the gates of the Suvarna Soudha here on Thursday when Congress leaders came riding on a tractor to highlight the “failures” of the ruling party on various fronts. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, among others, rode a tractor from Belagavi city to the Suvarna Soudha, about 10 km. However, they were stopped by the police at the gates, refusing entry to the tractors and hundreds of Congress workers who were part of the rally. As the session was in progress, some Congress legislators, including KPCC working president Eshwar Khandre, came to the Legislative Assembly and urged Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to allow the tractors to enter the Suvarna Soudha premises. They commenced a dharna in the well of the House to press for their demands, resulting in the Speaker adjourning the House for some time. An intervention was sought and the protest was taken up in the House when Janata Dal (Secular) legislator K. Annadani was speaking on the issue of Kannada flag being burnt by some miscreants in Kolhapur. Meanwhile, as the Congress rally was stopped at the gates, party leaders and workers entered into an argument with the police and insisted on entering in their tractors. Only after Mr. Kageri spoke to the police were the tractors allowed inside.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-leaders-arrive-on-tractor-to-highlight-govts-failures/article37973837.ece
17 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Smart parking project: Work on 32 roads will start soon, says Bommai||The State Government has taken up smart parking project on 85 busy roads in the heart of Bengaluru city and work on 10 roads has been completed, said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in the Legislative Council on Thursday. He was answering a question raised by Congress member P.R. Ramesh. The project is being implemented under private-public participation model with Building Control Solutions India Pvt. Ltd. The designing of smart parking with regard to 32 roads had been completed in consultations with the BBMP and the traffic police. The implementation of the project would start soon. The work on the remaining 43 roads would be taken up in a phased manner, he said. Regarding complaints on handling street lights in Bengaluru, he said the contract with the private company engaged to maintain street lights had been terminated. “We will soon float fresh tenders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smart-parking-project-work-on-32-roads-will-start-soon-says-bommai/article37973822.ece
17 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||State planning to roll out NEP at pre-primary level||Karnataka is considering implementing the National Education Policy 2020 at the pre-primary stage in select schools from the next academic year, according to Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh. Replying to Mahantesh Shivanand Kaujalgi of the Congress during the Question Hour in the Assembly, the Minister said the Government was thinking of introducing the NEP at pre-primary stage, but was yet to take a call on whether to introduce it for primary level also from the next academic year. The Government had decided to involve anganwadi workers in the process of implementation, the Minister said. Training was imparted to some anganwadi workers on an experimental basis, but the final training would be given only after completion of the curriculum under the NEP, the Minister explained. “We will implement the NEP in a methodical manner. All the necessary preparations are under way,” he said. Mr. Nagesh said committees had been set up to review the present status of education in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-planning-to-roll-out-nep-at-pre-primary-level/article37973833.ece
17 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Law Minister regrets suspension of 14 MLCs||Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs J.C. Madhuswamy on Thursday expressed regret over the suspension of Congress members, including the Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council. Following this, the Congress withdrew its dharna after the House reassembled following the lunch break. Mr. Madhuswamy, speaking at the Council on Thursday, said the ruling party should not have moved the resolution seeking the suspension of Congress members when the House was not in order. “We regret the move. It should not have happened,” he said. He was replying to Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil’s remarks that for the first time the Leader of the Opposition had been suspended in the Council. “Congress members did not go to the well challenging the Chairman’s ruling on the request to debate the alleged land-grabbing by a Minister and a legislator. But, we wanted the Chief Minister to sack the accused Minister,” he said. Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti had suspended Mr. Patil and other members of the Congress on Wednesday when they staged a dharna on the issue of alleged land-grabbing by Urban Development Minister B.A. Basavaraj and MLC R. Shankar. Mr. Madhuswamy said he would convey the Opposition party’s demand for action against the Minister to the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/law-minister-regrets-suspension-of-14-mlcs/article37973834.ece
17 December 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||State to get Rs. 8,298 cr. for power infrastructure||Karnataka is set to get Rs. 8,298 crore for upgrading its power infrastructure under the Centre’s Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme (RDSS). Announcing this in theAssembly on Thursday, Energy Minister V. Sunil Kumar added that thefunds werebound to improve the power distribution infrastructure, especially in northern Karnataka. Allocation of funds would commence after a high-level meeting convened by the Centre on December 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-get-rs-8298-cr-for-power-infrastructure/article37973832.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sinkhole develops on J.C. Road causing traffic to pile up||A portion of the busy J.C. Road near Ravindra Kalakshetra caved in early Thursday morning, resulting in a sinkhole, almost eight feet deep and a few feet wide. Though the sinkhole was large enough to cause accidents, there were fortunately no incidents as the road caved when there was no traffic. “If it had happened even a few hours later, there would have been bumper-to-bumper traffic which could have led to accidents,” said Mutturaj, a private firm employee who takes the road every day. A large part of the road was blocked as earth movers were brought in to dig the hole further so that it could be refilled. This threw traffic out of gear for almost the entire day on the busy J.C. Road, which in turn resulted in pile ups in the Central Business District. B.S. Prahalad, chief engineer (Road Infrastructure), BBMP, said the sinkhole was formed due to erosion of soil from below the road surface. “Such sinkholes are usually formed when there is a leakage in water or sewage below the road. With excessive seepage, water carries soil particles to the lowest level, causing a cavity below the road surface. If utility lines are punctured, soil enters the pipeline and sub-soil volume gets reduced, also causing a cavity,” he explained. He added that in Bengaluru, horizontal drilling for the laying of optical fiber cables and Bescom power lines often punctures water and sewage lines below the road. “Other causes for such sinkholes may be if any old wells are closed or if any excavation work is taken up nearby. But in this case, we have almost ruled out these causes,” he said. BBMP has taken up work to fill the sinkhole. “The point of leakage will be identified and addressed, after which the sinkhole will be filled with sand, boulders, wet mix macadam which has good water drainage properties and these will be laid layer by layer and compacted,” Mr. Prahalad added. The condition of the city’s roads has come under severe criticism of late, even by ruling party BJP MLAs. Mahadevapura MLA Arvind Limbavali had recently raised the issue in the ongoing winter session of Karnataka Legislature in Belagavi and said there was no coordination between agencies. This, he argued, was having a direct adverse impact on the condition of roads. In September, a large sinkhole was formed on Tannery Road due to the tunnelling work by Namma Metro. Fortunately, no one was harmed in that incident as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sinkhole-develops-on-jc-road-causing-traffic-to-pile-up/article37973820.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BIFFes slated to held in Feb.||The Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy has announced that the 13th edition of Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFes) will be held in February 2022. It was slated to be held in April 2021, but was postponed indefinitely due to the second wave of COVID-19. However, with fears of Omicron cases rising and the State government imposing a limit of 500 persons at any public gathering, there are fears that BiFFes may be postponed again. However, the organisers are determined to put up a show this year. “Whatever the situation, the festival will be held in February 2022,” said Sunil Puranik, chairperson, Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy. “We worked for four months in 2021, selected films and just two weeks before the festival, the second wave broke out. The government imposed restrictions on public gatherings making it impossible to hold the festival. We were deeply frustrated and saddened. This year, we have decided to hold it in February 2022, whatever the situation is in accordance with the State government’s guidelines,” he said. While most film festivals in India and across the world migrated online or were held in a hybrid mode in 2020 and 2021, BIFFes was one of the very few that refused to go online. Though the organisers are hoping to host the festival in theatres, they are considering moving to a hybrid mode. “We hope the COVID-19 situation won’t be alarming in February 2022, but if it is we are thinking of moving the festival to a hybrid mode or even completely online. But BIFFes will be held and not cancelled,” Mr. Puranik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/biffes-slated-to-held-in-feb/article37973813.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five more cases of Omicron||Five more cases of Omicron have been detected in Karnataka, taking the total number of patients infected with the new variant of coronavirus to eight. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who tweeted about the new cases, said all of them have been vaccinated with two doses of Covishield. The five persons are: a 19-year-old female returning from the U.K., a 36-year-old male returning from Delhi, a 70-year-old female returning from Delhi, a 52-year-old male returning from Nigeria, and a 33-year-old male returning from South Africa. Two of these patients are primary contacts of an Omicron-confirmed case in Delhi. While four have been admitted to private hospitals of their choice, one has been admitted in the designated Omicron facility in Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute. The 19-year-old returned from the U.K. on December 13 with a negative report and tested positive during screening on arrival at the airport. Although, she was shifted to Bowring hospital on the same day, the patient chose to get admitted to a private hospital on December 14. She is asymptomatic and her vitals are stable, according to the health department. The 52-year-old person who returned from Nigeria on December 13, came with a negative RT-PCR report. However, he tested positive on arrival at the airport on December 14 in Bengaluru. “However, as he had a connecting flight to Belagavi in two hours, he was given permission to travel. He immediately got himself isolated at home on reaching Belagavi and was later been shifted to the District Hospital there. His condition is stable and his two primary contacts have been quarantined and tested,” said an official statement. The two who travelled from Delhi (70-year-old and 36-year-old) on December 3 after attending a wedding are primary contacts of an Omicron confirmed case in New Delhi. Both of them tested positive on December 6 at a private lab in Mahadevapura. While one of them is asymptomatic, the senior citizen has mild symptoms. Both have been shifted to a private hospital for further management. Two of the their three primary contacts have tested positive for COVID-19. The person, who returned from South Africa via Delhi and landed in Bengaluru on December 9, had tested negative at Delhi airport. He isolated himself at home after landing in Bengaluru but got voluntarily tested again at a private lab after he developed mild symptoms on December 10, and his reports returned positive on December 11. He has been shifted to a private hospital and all his four primary and 25 secondary contacts are negative. New cases Karnataka on Thursday reported 303 cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 30,01,554. With two new deaths, the toll rose to 38,279. This is apart from 29 deaths due to non-COVID-19 reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-more-cases-of-omicron-in-state/article37973825.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools up in arms over govt. demand for sports fees||A circular issued to government, aided, and unaided schools has principals and management members bewildered as they have been asked to pay sports fees for two academic years – the period when physical classes for the most part had been cancelled and all activities had come to an abrupt halt due to the pandemic. The Department of Public Instruction has asked all school managements to pay Rs. 5 per child for students in Classes VI and VII, and Rs. 15 for those in Classes VII, IX, and X. The circular issued by the Physical Education (Director) stated that schools should pay fees for 2020-21 and 2021-22 academic years as well as pending dues if any for 2019-2020. School managements, many of whom are under financial constraints, are up in arms as they were allowed to only collect tuition fees for the 2020-2021 academic year and had to provide a discount on tuition fees. The Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS) has demanded that the government roll back the order. “We are barely able to sustain conducting academic activities this academic year and the department wants to conduct sports fees. In fact we don't think any sports activities will be conducted this academic year,” said D. Shashi Kumar. A head of a private school in North Bengaluru said that the school had to let go of all its physical educators in June 2020. “On what grounds do we ask the parents to pay these fees? How can we charge for sports without conducting any physical activity?” she said. However, Vishal R., Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that while co-curricular activities in schools were banned, sports activities had not been banned. “All games do not have to be played in close contact,” he said. He added that the funds would be used to buy equipment and improve sports infrastructure at the taluk level in schools that have larger student intake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-up-in-arms-over-govt-demand-for-sports-fees/article37973831.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Charter firm launches helicopter service from Bengaluru to Kodagu||BLADE India, a private charter service, has announced launch of its helicopter services in Karnataka with a service between Bengaluru and Kabini in Kodagu. The service would reduce travel time between Bengaluru and Kabini to an hour compared to seven hours by road. Flights from Bengaluru would take off from Jakkur aerodrome. In Kodagu district, there is the option to land either at Evolve Back Resorts in Kabini or the Mercara Downs Golf Course in Madikeri. The one-way tariff per person from Bengaluru to either destinations in Kodagu district is Rs. 16,000. Amit Dutta, MD, BLADE India, said: “Karnataka boasts of some of the most beautiful destinations in India. However, their accessibility is a pain point. Six-seven hours of road travel from Bangalore eat into precious time that travellers could otherwise spend enjoying their holiday.” Thomas Emmanuel Ramapuram, Director, Sales at Evolve Back Resorts, said, “Pay-Per-Seat service is a game-changer, which is common in high-end destinations like the Maldives and in Africa. This is a huge boost for luxury travel in Karnataka and will transform our leisure tourism industry in the months to come.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/helicopter-service-to-kodagu-launched/article37973821.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gayana Samaja concerts from today||The 27th anniversary S.V. Narayanaswamy Rao Memorial Music Festival organized by Sree Ramaseva Mandali Trust will be held from December 17 to 21 at Bengaluru Gayana Samaja at Basavanagudi. The inaugural concert of the music festival will be by Sudha Raghunathan on December 17 from 6.45 p.m. to 9.15 p.m. The last concert on December 21 will be by Jayateertha Mevundi, Hindustani vocalist, from 6.45 p.m. to 9.15 p.m. The festival will be held with a live audience. The entry for all the concerts will be by invitation and donor passes. However, for the special concerts on December 20 and 21 from 9 a.m. to 3.15 p.m., the entry will be free. Concerts can also be viewed through the link: https: //shaale.com/watch/svn The Trust will present S.V. Narayanaswamy Rao National Award for 2021 to renowned vocalist Madurai T.N. Seshagopalan on December 18. There will be a vocal concert by Vid. Seshagopalan on Sunday between 11.15 a.m. and 1.15 p.m. Minister B.C. Nagesh will present the award. Former Chairman, ISRO, Dr. K. Kasturirangan, Rajya Sabha Member K.C. Ramamurthy, will participate in the event. For details, call 080-26604031.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gayana-samaja-concerts-from-today/article37973817.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Driver held for robbing woman with fake gun||The Gangamma Gudi police arrested a 32-year-old taxi driver who allegedly used a fake gun to rob a woman when she was alone at home on Wednesday afternoon. According to the police, the taxi driver, Lingappa, who hails from Vijayapura and lives in Singapura Layout in the city, barged into the woman’s house while she was with her three-year-old child. “He threatened her at gunpoint and took away her gold chain worth Rs. 5 lakh before escaping in his car,” said the police. Based on the complaint, the police analysed CCTV footage from in and around the area to identify the taxi driver. “Lingappa was arrested in less than 16 hours after he committed the crime. We have recovered the gold chain, a fake gun and the car he used,” the police added. Huge debt Lingappa allegedly confessed to the police that he had incurred a huge amount of debt after taking personal loans from his friends and money lenders. Unable to repay the loan with his earnings, he decided to rob others. He was booked under robbery and remanded into judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/driver-held-for-robbing-woman-with-fake-gun/article37973818.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kannada flag burning: Government to pass resolution condemning act||Taking exception to burning of the Kannada flag at Kolhapur in Maharashtra recently, the State Government on Thursday agreed to pass a resolution condemning the act. The announcement came from Revenue Minister R. Ashok in the Legislative Assembly after Janata Dal (Secular) member K. Annadani raised the issue. Mr. Ashok said the matter would also be raised with the Maharashtra Government. “Such incidents affect the two linguistic communities living peacefully,” he said. Earlier, raising the issue in the Zero Hour, Mr. Annadani said that though the incident was reported on Tuesday, the Government had not taken up the issue. Later, when the House met again after an adjournment, the proceedings were disrupted for some time when discussion was not allowed since it was the Zero Hour following which JD(S) members trooped into the well. There were demands for the arrest of the culprits. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, who intervened, said that since the incident had happened in Maharashtra, arrests cannot be made. “Flag burning incident is unfortunate and against the federal system. The House can pass a resolution condemning the act,” he suggested. Later, the Government agreed for a resolution to be passed by the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-flag-burning-government-to-pass-resolution-condemning-act/article37973840.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Last year’s U-turn||Last year, following the Technical Advisory Committee’s recommendations, the then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had initially announced night curfew from December 23 till January 2 from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. However, on the same day, he revised the timings from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m. and said it will be in force from December 24 till January 1. In 24 hours, Mr. Yediyurappa took a U-turn and rolled back the decision on night curfew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/last-years-u-turn/article37973827.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MoU signed||BEML Limited, a public sector undertaking, signed an MoU on Thursday with RITES Limited, a transport infrastructure consultancy and engineering company, to explore and jointly bid for opportunities in the fields of metro systems and export of rolling stock. According to a release from BEML, as part of the MoU, RITES will provide expertise in design, engineering, marketing and any other support that may be required for tapping domestic and overseas opportunities, while BEML will be responsible for manufacturing of customised metro coaches and rolling stock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mou-signed/article37973815.ece
17 December 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the following areas due to quarterly maintenance work. The areas to be affected are: 66/11KV Shobha Sub-Station: Cessna Garden, Outer Ring Road, Central Mall and surrounding areas, Sarjapura Road, Ibbalur Village, Bellandur, Ambalipura, Green Golen Layout, Bellandur, Harlur Road, Kasavanahalli, Kaikonda Halli, Junnasandra, Halanayakana Halli. Power supply will also be affected on December 18 and 19 from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. in these areas: 220/66/11 KV EPIP Sub-Station - Annayya Reddy Layout, ITPL Main Road, B and C Blocks, AECS Layout, Maruthi Layout, Silver Spring Road, Veerappa Reddy Layout, Chinnappanahalli, BEML Layout, Vinayaka Layout and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article37973816.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC relief to chairperson of Kollur temple committee||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday allowed the chairperson and one of the members of the managing committee of the famous Kollur Sri Mookambika temple in Udupi district to perform day-to-day functions of their position sans the right to vote in committee meetings for now. Interim order A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the interim order on an appeal filed by K. Chandrashakara Shetty, chairperson, and Ganesh Kini, one of the members of the committee. Set aside A judge on November 15 had set aside the election to the post of chairperson while holding that both Mr. Shetty and Mr. Kini could not have been allowed to participate in the meeting held in April to elect chairperson as both of them had ceased to be members of the committee as they had submitted their resignation. Appointed members Refusing to accept contention that they had withdrawn their resignation before the meeting, the judge had said that the principles of the law that gives an opportunity of withdrawing the resignation to an employee who depends on job for livelihood is not available to the members appointed to the managing committee of a temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-relief-to-chairperson-of-kollur-temple-committee/article37973826.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BEL receives Rs. 2,400 crore order from HAL||Bharat Electronics Ltd. received an order worth Rs. 2,400 crore from Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. for the manufacture and supply of 20 types of airborne electronic systems to be fitted on the LCA Tejas fighter aircraft. The order spanning five years from 2023 to 2028 involves the supply of critical avionic Line Replaceable Units (LRUs) related to Digital Flight Control Computers, Air Data Computers, Weapon Computers, LRUs related to Radar Warning Receiver (RWR) and Head Up Display. The order for supply of avionic systems for 83 Tejas MK1A fighter aircraft would be executed by two Strategic Business Units of BEL – Electronic Warfare & Avionics, Bengaluru, and BEL-Panchkula, Haryana. All the systems would be delivered to HAL in a ready-to-board condition. Anandi Ramalingam, CMD, BEL, said, “BEL is geared up to supply the critical avionics LRUs as per the delivery schedule. We look forward to continuing our strong partnership with HAL for more such programmes.” R. Madhavan, CMD, HAL, said, “The LCA Tejas programme is an excellent example of the synergy between eminent Indian defence establishments, such as HAL, DRDO and BEL. The current order for the development and supply of 20 types of critical avionics LRUs for Tejas MK1A is a shot in the arm for the Make in India and Atmanirbhar Bharat initiatives.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bel-receives-rs-2400-crore-order-from-hal/article37973814.ece
17 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Armed forces have contributed to development of technology too’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that apart from protecting the country from external aggression and in internal security issues, the Armed forces had contributed a great deal in the field of technology development. He was speaking after paying tributes at the war memorial at Maratha Light Infantry Regiment Training Centre in Belagavi on the occasion of ‘Swarna Vijay Divas’ organised to mark the golden jubilee celebrations of India’s win over Pakistan in the 1971 war. Highlighting the significance of technology in defence forces he said, technology was playing a bigger role in the military across the world and India was second to none in technology he said, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had empowered Indian defence forces in technology. Praising the bravery the Indian armed forces, especially in 1971 war against Pakistan, Mr. Bommai said that it exemplified the power, tact, valour, and coordination of the armed forces. In the 13 days of the war 3,863 were martyred and over 9,000 injured. India scored a thumping victory and over 90,000 personnel of the Pakistani army surrendered, he recalled. Referring to the Independence day celebrations of Bangladesh, he said that Bangladesh was celebrating its independence because of the the help by the Indian Armed forces and he was proud that he was part of the ‘Vijay Diwas’ celebrations. The Chief Minister said that the Government had already issued order enhancing the cash rewards given to gallantry and non-gallantry awardees. The Param Vir Chakra awardee will now get Rs. 1.5 crore instead of Rs. 25 lakh given earlier. “The rewards have been increased by almost five times, meeting a long time demand,” he said. On the occasion, tributes were paid to Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and others who lost their lives in the recent helicopter crash. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, Major General J.V. Prasad, and other dignitaries paid tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/armed-forces-have-contributed-to-development-of-technology-too/article37974045.ece
17 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Farmers seek more compensation, proper survey||Seeking early and proper disbursement of crop loss compensation in accordance with the extent of loss, scores of farmers staged a demonstration in Hubballi on Thursday and submitted a memorandum to the Hubballi tahsildar. The protest was staged under the aegis of the Raita Krishi Karmikara Sanghatane (RKS) before the mini Vidhana Soudha in Hubballi. Staging the demonstration, the farmers said that the Government had released crop loss compensation without conducting any proper survey. Consequently there had been no scientific way of assessment of the extent of loss to the horticultural crops and crops in irrigated and rain-fed areas, they said. The protesters demanded that the crop loss should be properly assessed after taking into consideration the expenditure done by the farmers for sowing and farm activities. Instead of making approximate assessment proper surveys should be conducted, they demanded. They then submitted a memorandum to Hubballi Rural Tahsildar Prakash Nashi. In the memorandum, they have said that the Government had given crop loss compensation of Rs. 6,800 per hectare for rain fed areas, Rs. 13,500 per hectare of irrigated lands, and Rs. 18,000 for horticultural crops. It should be increased three-fold and compensation should be given to all the crops that had suffered losses, they have demanded in the memorandum. Responding to their plea, Mr. Nashi said that there were complaints of not receiving the compensation although it had already been released and steps would be taken to get surveys done through panchayat level staff. He promised to bring the demand for additional compensation to the notice of the Government. The protest was led by State vice-president of RKS M. Shashidhar and other office-bearers including Laxman Jadagannavar, Sharanabasava Gonawar, Deepa V., and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-seek-more-compensation-proper-survey/article37974047.ece
17 December 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Welfare fund for weavers being contemplated: Chief Minister||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that the State Government was contemplating imposing a small cess on business units in order to establish a welfare fund on the lines of Labour Welfare Fund to provide various facilities to the weavers. He was responding to the charter of demands submitted by weavers during a meeting convened to discuss the issues concerning weavers at Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) in Belagavi on Thursday. Mr. Bommai said that the State Government will take all necessary steps to provide a steady market and fair prices for weavers’ products. On the various demands of the weavers, he said that various government departments would be asked to procure their requirement for dress materials and saris from the weavers in accordance with the capacity of the weavers. Apart from fixing specific quantity for procurement, steps would also be taken to providing digital marketing facilities to the handloom products through Karnataka Handloom Development Corporation, he said. The Chief Minister assured the weavers that a positive decision after consultation with the Finance Department would soon be taken on providing subsidy to professional weavers on the lines of Tribal Sub Plan. He also instructed the officials of the Revenue Department to take necessary steps on converting unauthorised habitations into revenue villages or colonies. He also instructed the officials from Pollution Control Board to come up with necessary guidelines in order to prevent harassment to professional weavers who work from home. Mr. Bommai agreed to consider the weavers’ demands on providing scholarship for students from the weavers’ families, increasing the amount under zero interest loan scheme, healthcare facilities to weavers. Steps would be taken after consulting Finance Department, he said. The Chief Minister also said that the Government was contemplating amalgamation of three corporations pertaining to looms and weavers and agreed to the demand of a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the families of those weavers, who took the extreme step of ending their lives due to the hardships caused during the COVID-19 induced lockdown. He also promised to get reports on the facilities extended to weavers in the neighbouring States of Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu and consider incorporating them in the State. Ministers Govind Karjol, Shivaram Hebbar, Shankar Patil Munenakoppa and senior officials apart from the leaders of weavers community took part in the meeting. During the meeting it was decided to cancel the decision to hand over the Skill Development Centres established under New Textile and Garment Policy from Textile Department to Skill Development Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/welfare-fund-for-weavers-being-contemplated-says-chief-minister/article37974043.ece
17 December 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Ballari miner unhappy with Survey of India’s response||Ballari-based miner and activist Tapal Ganesh, who has been fighting against what he termed “illegal mining” in Ballari district, took exceptions to the response of the Survey of India (SoI) to the objections he had raised over the methodology adopted by SoI for demarcating the interstate boundary between Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh in Ballari district. There had been allegations that Obulapuram Mining Company (OMC) owned by BJP leader and former minister Gali Janardhana Reddy had illegally carried out mining along the Karnataka-Andhra Pradesh inter-State boundary in Ballari district and altered the inter-State borderline to show the mined area as a part of Andhra Pradesh because the company had the mining licence obtained by that State. Upon the Supreme Court directions, the SoI, the national survey and mapping organisation, had undertaken the survey to demarcate the actual boundary between the two States and completed its task recently. Mr. Ganesh has, however, raised objections to the methodology adopted by the SoI in the demarcation of the boundary line and alleged that the survey agency was trying to cover up the illegal mining and protect Mr. Reddy. He had also written various authorities, including Ballari Deputy Commissioner, Chief Secretary to Karnataka Government and SoI itself. The Deputy Director of Land Records, Ballari had written two letters to Deputy Survey General and Director of Geo-spatial Data Centre, Hyderabad bringing Mr. Ganesh’s objections to the latter’s notice. Responding to the letters, the Director of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Geospatial Data Centre on December 2, wrote back making it clear that the “inter-State boundary between Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh States has been aligned taking into consideration the contentions/ consensus of both Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka Governments”. “... the alignment of the boundary has been agreed upon by the Governments of both Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh States as per the guidelines of the honourable Supreme Court,” the letter said. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Ganesh said that the SoI had not considered the contours, ridges and rock marks shown in the Ballari Reserved Forest Map of 1896 for fixing the inter-State boundary despite his repeated requests. He added that the survey team had, on the ground, used defective toposheet 57 A/16. “In its justification, SoI says that rock marks are recent ones. But, there are many records since 1960 to prove that these rock marks are over a hundred years old and tallied with the boundaries shown on the contours of Ballari Reserve Forest Map of 1890,” Mr. Ganesh said. According to Mr. Ganesh, the SoI’s avoidance of rock marks RMK1/34 (a bi-junction of Tumti and H. Siddapuram villages) and RMD2/35 (a tri-junction of Tumti, Vittapuram and Malpanagudi villages on the hilltop), has resulted in the displacement of the original boundary line between Point-63 and Point-67 by about 400 metres inside Karnataka. “It means that Karnataka has to give up its large iron-ore-rich area, where the OMC had carried out illegal mining on Andhra Pradesh license, to Andhra Pradesh. It also makes OMC’s illegal mining legal and allows the culprits to go scot-free. The SoI survey team deliberately adopted the incorrect survey method just to protect Mr. G. Janardhan Reddy,” Mr. Ganesh said. To a question, Mr. Ganesh said that he would explore all options, including approaching the Surveyor General of India, before knocking on the doors of the Supreme Court. “As per the guidelines meant for the specific Karnataka-Andhra Pradesh inter-State boundary survey, the Surveyor General of India would take final decision if any objection is raised on the methodology adopted to demarcate the inter-State boundary. I would approach the Surveyor General of India now,” Mr. Ganesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ballari-miner-unhappy-with-survey-of-indias-response/article37974042.ece
17 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Listen to your intuition not to commit any mistake: Rev. D’sa||Over 300 persons out of 1,254 persons, against whom police have recently closed rowdy sheets, attended a transitional meeting organised by the Mangaluru City Police here on Thursday. Speaking at the programme, Fr. Muller Medical College and Hospital Administrator Rev. Fr. Rudolph Ravi D’Sa said if one listens to one’s intuition, one would not commit any mistake as the intuition clearly tells what was wrong and what was right. Shaping one’s life is one’s own hand and no one should get influenced by others, he said. The revered land of Tulunadu was known for peace, love, harmony and amity. However, of late, there have been instances of breach of peace. Violence, fire and enmity could not be put down by the same gestures; only love and friendship could end them, Rev. D’Sa said. A.J. Institutions chairman A.J. Shetty and Unity Hospitals chairman C.P. Habib Rehman asked people whose rowdy sheets were closed not to worry about the past; but work towards a bright future. All of them could lead respectful life if they change their approach to life, they said. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said he conducted as many as six review meetings to discuss about people in rowdy sheets as such persons have to appear before jurisdictional police stations during festivals and other important programmes. There were 3,263 persons against whom rowdy sheets were opened when he assumed office. Of them, 80 people were senior citizens, 663 were people against whom cases were disposed off in courts and 513 had not involved in any criminal activity for long. After much deliberations with Deputy Commissioners, Assistant Commissioners, and Inspectors, Mr. Kumar decided to close rowdy sheets against 1,254 persons. He urged those persons to get reformed and lead a dignified life. Deputy Commissioners of Police Hariram Shankar (Law and Order), B.P. Dinesh Kumar (Crime and Traffic) and Chenna Veerappa Hadapad (City Armed Reserve), Assistant Commissioner of Police (South) Ranjith Bandaru and other police officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/listen-to-your-intuition-not-to-commit-any-mistake-rev-dsa/article37974237.ece
17 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Vested interests trying to tarnish the image of BJP’||The BJP said here on Thursday that some vested interests are trying to tarnish the image of the party and its State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel through their social media postings that the latter is a weak leader. Addressing presspersons, president of Dakshina Kannada unit of the party Sudarshan Moodbidri said that those are the works of “unsatiated souls” who will not succeed in getting their self interests full filled. Mr. Moodbidri said that some “unseen hands” are making efforts to create a rift in the BJP by posting some comments. Such interests are unhappy that the coastal belt is the citadel of the BJP. He said that some persons behind such postings will not be able to create any rift in the party which is no built on the basis of social media postings. “The BJP whether in power or not will be with the Hindu organisations,” he said. Referring to Uppinangady incident, he said that the BJP condemned attack on police by the PFI activists. He said that some forces are trying to create unrest in the society in the coastal belt. Police should not give scope for any law and order issues in the city on Friday in case if a procession to the office of the Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police by any organisation relating to the Uppinangady incident is allowed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vested-interests-trying-to-tarnish-the-image-of-bjp/article37974240.ece
17 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MIA decked up with Christmas decor||With the arrival of Christmas, the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) is showcasing Christmas installations set up as a symbol of light, prosperity, and happiness. The installations, comprising Christmas trees, have ushered in festive spirit at the airport, said a release from MIA. Two artistically designed Christmas trees that tower to a height of 14.5 feet – at the departure and arrival hall respectively, beam with the festive spirit. They have become the signature selfie points for passengers and stakeholders too, MIA said. Two reindeers – one with each of the trees along with two balls, an illumination and message standees, complete the décor. The reindeers are six feet tall, and the Christmas balls are two feet high and three feet wide. Also, two illumination standees are placed at international and domestic security hold area on the first floor, and two unique message standees at the domestic and International SHA on the ground floor. Mangaluru airport has been constantly adding features for passenger needs. December will continue to be full of surprises for all passengers using MIA. The Christmas décor will be in place at the respective area till 5 January 2022, MIA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mia-decked-up-with-christmas-decor/article37974232.ece
17 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Nationalised bank employees strike work||Hundreds of employees of nationalised banks boycotted work and held demonstrations in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Thursday protesting the Centre’s proposed Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, that reportedly seeks to privatise national banks. Being held under the banner of United Forum of Bank Unions as a part of its two-day continuous protest demonstration against the amendment, the first day of the protest went on smoothly. Banking services available across counters were affected during the day. The employees will continue to hold protest demonstrations on Friday too. While employees assembled outside State Bank of India branch at Hampanakatte in Mangaluru, they held demonstration outside the Canara Bank’s Court Road branch in Udupi. The United Forum in a statement said the Union Government’s proposal in 2000 to sell 33% stakes in public sector banks did not materialise as the Government fell due to lack of majority. Subsequent Governments continued the efforts to privatise PSBs. The present Government’s 2021 budget proposal to privatise two PSBs and IDBI met with stiff opposition from the United Forum, it recalled. The forum noted that in a developing country like India where banks deal with huge public savings and play a leading role to ensure broad-based economic development, PSBs with social orientation would be the most appropriate need. Therefore, the forum has been opposing successive governments move to privatise PSBs for the last 25 years, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nationalised-bank-employees-strike-work/article37974235.ece
17 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||18 new cases in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada reported 15 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday. With 16 patients getting discharged after treatment the active cases in the district stood at 156. The test positivity rate was at 0.24 %. Udupi district reported three new cases. After four patients were discharged the active cases in the district were at 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/18-new-cases-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada/article37974243.ece
17 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Gold seized from woman at airport||Customs officials at Mangaluru International Airport on Thursday seized 739 grams of smuggled gold valued at Rs. 36.43 lakh from a woman passenger hailing from Thalangara, Kasaragod district, Kerala. She arrived from Dubai by an Air India flight No IX 384. The gold in paste form mixed with solid gum was smuggled through concealment in grey coloured plastic pouch and stitched inside the undergarment, a tweet from Customs said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-seized-from-woman-at-airport/article37974244.ece
17 December 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Veera Rani Abbakka Utsava on December 21||The silver jubilee of Veera Rani Abbakka Utsava will be celebrated on the premises Ullal City Municipality on December 21. Awards Addressing presspersons here on Thursday, chairman of Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy Dayananda G Kattalsar said that this year’s Veera Rani Abbakka Award will be presented to writer Chandrakala Nandavara at the valedictory function of the utsava. The Veera Rani Abbakka Puraskar for 2021 will be given to writer K.A. Rohini. Former Vice-Chancellor of Kannada University, Hampi and also Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) B.A. Vivek Rai will deliver the keynote address at the inaugural session. Earlier, a procession will be taken out from Thokkottu to Ullal. There will be literary sessions, multilingual kavi gosthi, and cultural programmes at the utsava. The utsava will be jointly organised by the academy, the Ullal City Municipality and Veera Rani Abbakka Utsava Samiti, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/veera-rani-abbakka-utsava-on-december-21/article37974238.ece
17 December 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||MESCOM will conduct a meeting of its consumers to address their grievances at its sub-division office in Kadaba on December 21 from 11 a.m. to noon. It will be on the virtual mode. The link is https://meet.google.com /qmo-phcj-ofq. Phone 08251-200159.    There will be no power supply to Hampankatta Old Bus Stand, K S Rao Road, Sharavu Maha Ganapathi Temple Road, P M Rao Road, Lady Goschen Hospital, GHS Road and Central Market areas on December 18 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. It is for maintenance works.    The Government Toolroom and Training Centre, Baikampady Industrial Area has invited applications to appoint guest teachers. The applicants should have two years of industrial experience. Apply by December 31. The applicants should be engineering graduates/diploma holders in mechanical, electrical or electronics disciplines.    Department of Backward Classes Welfare has invited applications from those candidates doing Ph.D. for sanctioning fellowship or monthly scholarship of Rs. 10,000. Apply by December 30. For details log on to its website or contact 8050770004.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37974241.ece
17 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tight security for procession in Srirangapatna||Security was beefed up in Srirangapatna in view of the Hanuma Maladharane procession organised by the Mysuru division of the Hindu Jagarana Vedike, on Thursday. The area surrounding the Masjid-E-Ala - constructed during the period of Tipu Sultan - was barricaded and it was out of bounds for the public as a precaution. The measures stemmed from fears and concerns expressed by members of the minority community and Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) that there was a conspiracy to vandalise or damage the historic mosque during the event. In the procession, inflammatory slogans were raised but the strong posse of police ensured that there was no law and order incident. However, three persons, said to be making a video recording of the procession were roughed up by a section of the Vedike members forcing the police to intervene and whisk them away to safety. Nearly 1,000 policemen, including about 100 in plain clothes who were mingling with the crowd, were deployed as part of the security measure while a few more platoon of the cops were on standby. The security was supervised by Mandya SP N.Yathish and involved 5 DYSPs, 14 units of District Armed Reserve, 5 platoons of Karnataka State Reserve Police and one unit of Quick Response Team (QRT). Posters The security concern was consequent to posters which appeared in the town a few days ago that announced the programme of Hanuma Maladharane but also had an image of the mosque. Though the members of the vedike had claimed that the fears of the SDPI and other leaders was unfounded, the police did not take any chance and their presence was felt at every corner of the town. The Hanuma Maladharane procession had drawn members of the Hindu Jagaran Vedike and devotees from Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Hassan and Madikeri. The procession commenced from Ganjam and passed through the fort and the narrow lanes to reach the venue of the programme near Sriranganathaswamy temple. Extra attention Locals said the procession during Hanuman Jayanti was a regular affair but it garnered attention due to the posters and the social media message expressing fears for the safety of the mosque. Hence even the security was stringent compared to earlier years, they added. The police said the deployment will be in place till the participants return to their respective hometowns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tight-security-for-procession-in-srirangapatna/article37974262.ece
17 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Merit scholarships for MSc students at CFTRI||A function was organised at CFTRI in Mysuru on Thursday to distribute the Kerry scholarship to students securing the highest marks in the entrance exams for its MSc (Food Technology) for the 2021-23 batch. A statement from CFTRI said the scholarships were bagged by Riya Saini, Krishna Kumar Upadhyay and Valcea Pearl D’Cunha. CSR activities The merit scholarships have been instituted by Kerry Ingredients India Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru, a manufacturer of food ingredients, as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities. The scholarship, which starts from 2021-22, consists of tuition fees, boarding and lodging fee and development fee. The three students will be eligible for the scholarship for the entire course duration. Further, three students, who secure the highest marks in the first year exams of MSc (Food Technology) will be eligible for scholarships in the final year, said a statement. The scholarship award programme held at Cheluvamba Hall of CFTRI on Thursday was attended by CFTRI Director Sridevi Singh, who delivered the presidential address, besides representatives from Kerry Ingredients India. The MSc (Food Technology) course was started in the year 1964 as part of International Food Technology Training Centre (IFTTC) at CSIR-CFTRI in Mysuru. Admission Admission for the course is through national-level entrance examination with an intake of 29 students. Additional two seats are reserved for industry personnel and one seat for defence personnel. AcSIR degree The degree will be awarded by Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), which was established in 2010 by a resolution of the Government of India and the Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research Act 2011, notified as an “Institution of National Importance”, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/merit-scholarships-for-msc-students-at-cftri/article37974259.ece
17 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Bank strike cripples financial operations||Banking and financial operations were badly affected in Mysuru and surrounding districts on Thursday consequent to the bank employees’ strike against the Banking Law (Amendments) Bill 2021. The strike was part of a nation-wide agitation called by various unions of bank employees under the aegis of the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU). More than 1,500 employees in Mysuru district alone, drawn from nearly 400 branches, including workmen and officer staff stayed away from their duties and staged a demonstration in front of the State Bank of India’s zonal office in the city. They raised slogans against the bill which is likely to be introduced in the current session of Parliament. H. Balakrishna, convenor of UFBU in Mysuru, said that the customers were informed ahead of the stir which will also be held on Friday and will affect banking operations. The ATMs have been replenished with cash while cash deposit machines will remain functional and the public could make use of it. Friday’s demonstration will be at the SBI main branch on Sayyaji Rao Road. The UFBU office-bearers said the proposed amendment will pave way for the privatisation of the existing public sector banks in future and affect the economy. The PSBs act as a catalyst to the economy and provide financial succour to the needy and the economically weaker sections of the society. They have also played a major role in the development of agriculture, small trade, small businesses, SSIs, transport etc., and the total advances by the banks had increased from Rs. 3,500 crore in 1969 to Rs. 110 lakh crore in 2021. The UFBU claimed that in the process, common people have been brought under the ambit of banking and when the world economy and banking suffered a crisis and a meltdown in 2008, the PSBs helped the Indian economy to sustain. What is of concern is the huge non-performing assets (NPA) of the PSBs but the major share is that of the corporates and the big businesses and hence it is not the nationalisation of the banks which has failed but the default by the big corporates, according to the UFBU which provided a list of major defaulters. It pointed out that what is equally significant was that time and again the PSBs have bailed out the ailing banks in the private sector. Recently the RBI has also cancelled the licences of a few private banks as a result of which the public confidence in private banks was eroding, according to the UFBU which called for withdrawal of the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill. Employees of all the public sector banks took part in the strike.  H. Balakrishna, convenor of UFBU in Mysuru, said that the customers were informed ahead of the stir which will also be held on Friday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bank-strike-cripples-financial-operations/article37974257.ece
17 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Activists storm godown, ghee racket unearthed||A spurious ghee racket has been busted in Mysuru after activists stormed a godown at Hosahundi on the outskirts of the city on Thursday. Large quantities of palm oil, vegetable cooking oil, colouring and flavouring agents, besides packaging material in the name of ‘Nandini’, which is the brand name of pure ghee produced by Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF), have been seized. A team of food safety officers rushed to the godown after receiving a complaint from KMF and seized about 1,000 kg of ghee, 500 kg of palm oil and 500 kg of vegetable cooking oil. A large quantity of packaging material and two vehicles were also seized and the godown has been seized, said P.M. Prasad, Mysuru’s designated officer for Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). Samples of the seized material will be sent to the laboratories for testing to check for adulteration. Senior police officials including Superintendent of Mysuru district police R. Chetan too visited the spot. The racket came to light after members of the public received a tip-off and stormed the godown with an organisation. Later, it was brought to the notice of KMF, which in turn alerted the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/activists-storm-godown-ghee-racket-unearthed/article37974263.ece
17 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Declared elected||Congress candidate D. Thimmaiah and JD (S) candidate C.N. Manje Gowda were formally declared elected to the Legislative Council from the dual-member Mysuru-Chamarajanagar local bodies’ constituency. According to Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Gautham, who was the Returning Officer for the elections, the two were declared elected after the “sixth count”, which entailed transfer of votes in the preferential ballot papers. A total of seven candidates were in the fray including BJP’s Raghu Kautilya, Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha’s Vatal Nagaraj and independents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/declared-elected/article37974253.ece
17 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Four palace elephants shifted to Gujarat||Four of the six elephants that were under the custody of the erstwhile royal family of Mysuru, have been shifted to Gujarat. The elephants which are in transit, left Mysuru late on Tuesday night and will be housed at Elephant Care Centre at Jamnagar. Seetha, Ruby, Gemini and Rajeshwari are being transported in trucks and the Forest Department veterinarians had certified that they were fit to travel. “We conducted tests and examined the elephants for contagious diseases if any and all tests proved to be negative and hence they were declared fit for travel’’, according to Deputy Conservator of Forests V. Karikalan. However, the Forest Department was in the dark about the transportation of elephants at night. “We received an email about their transportation and an official went to the palace to check for them and found that only 2 out of 6 remained in the stables,” he said. The permission was issued by the Chief Wildlife Warden and soon after receiving the permit the elephants were shifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-palace-elephants-shifted-to-gujarat/article37974254.ece
17 December 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Youth found murdered||A 24-year-old youth was found murdered in Ramanahalli village on the outskirts of Mysuru. Arjun, who is a driver of earth moving machines, left his house on Wednesday night after receiving a call on his mobile. Later, he was found brutally stabbed and bludgeoned to death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-found-murdered/article37974260.ece
17 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tributes paid to Gen. Bipin Rawat, others||Rich tributes were paid in Mysuru on Thursday to the late Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and the other officers of the defence forces, who lost their lives in the helicopter crash in Nilgiri hills recently. A large number of ex-servicemen from Mysuru region and their families, serving Army and Air Force personnel, NCC cadets and the general public participated in a meeting organised at Squadron Leader A.B. Devayya Bhavan in Mysuru under the aegis of VeKare Ex-Servicemen Trust and Kodagu Ex-Servicemen Welfare Association, Mysuru, on Thursday. Two-minute silence Two minute of silence was observed in honour of the departed souls by the gathering after Group Captain Ajay Dudeja (retd.), former Commanding Officer, Air Force Selection Board, Mysuru, and Colonel Srinivas, Administrative Officer of NCC Group Headquarters, Mysuru, lit the traditional lamps and paid floral tributes. Group Captain Ajay Dudeja, Harish Machia Kodandera, son of late World War II veteran, and founder president of VeKare Ex Servicemen Trust Mandetira Subramani addressed the gathering. Deputy Director, Dept. of Sainik Welfare & Resettlement, Mysuru, Dr. Balasubramanya, Vice-President of VeKare Ex-Servicemen Trust, Shakunthala Subramani, Honorary Secretary of the Trust, S. Somashekara, Vice President of Kodagu Ex-Servicemen Welfare Association, Mysuru East, Veteran Subedar K.U. Bheemaiah and other office-bearers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tributes-paid-to-gen-bipin-rawat-others/article37974264.ece
17 December 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tigress trapped, villagers relieved||A tigress aged around 10 was trapped and tranquillized by the Forest Department staff at Nanachi near Kutta in Kodagu on Thursday. The tigress was suspected to be preying on domesticated animals in the villages on the forest fringes and hence, the local community had complained to the authorities seeking its capture and relocation. A shepherd too was attacked sometime ago fuelling fear among people for theirs and the safety of their livestock. The authorities set a bait, combed the area, and deployed elephants Abhimanyu, Bheema for the purpose. The tigress was trapped and cornered during the operation and the veterinarians have decided to shift it to Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tigress-trapped-villagers-relieved/article37974050.ece
17 December 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Temple fair suspended||To prevent rising COVID-19 cases, the Yadgir district administration has suspended the annual fair of Mailarlingeshwar Temple in Mailapur village in Yadgir district. In a release, R. Ragpriya, Deputy Commissioner, after holding a preliminary meeting in Yadgir on Thursday, said that temple authorities are only allowed to offer puja in a simple manner. “The taluk administration and concerned officials of the departments will take appropriate action,” she added. The fair attracts nearly 5 to 6 lakh devotees from Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Maharashtra participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-temple-fair-suspended/article37974048.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Kannada can’t be made compulsory language for UG’||“Prima facie, we are of the view that the matter of making Kannada a compulsory language in higher education on the basis of National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 is a question which requires consideration. As such, the State Government at this stage shall not insist on making Kannada language compulsory,” the court said. Though the Bench in its order of December 13 had directed the State Government and universities not to precipitate the matter, advocate for the petitioner-students Sridhar Prabhu pointed out that the students, despite December 13 order, were unable to opt for languages of their choice for present year. However, Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi said that the petitioner-students should not face any difficulty in pursuing Kannada language in the first-year UG course as records show that all of them had studied Kannada as one of the language till their II-year pre-university course. The A-G also said that already four lakh students have been admitted to UG courses so far and the admission process is almost over, and any order on language policy would impact the academic programme. Additional Solicitor General of India M.B. Nargund sought more time to clarify Centre’s stand on the State Government’s policy while pointing out that “making any language compulsory in any particular State on the basis of implementation of NEP-2020 would have a vast ramification and as such the Union Government has to take a decision in consultation with the State Government in this regard.” When the A-G requested to limit the benefit of the interim order to students who have filed the petition, the Bench declined the request stating that all students have to get benefit of the interim order. “Don’t politicise the issue,” the Bench told the A-G while adjourning hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kannada-cant-be-made-compulsory-language-for-ug/article37974052.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Four-lane road from Bilikere to Holenarsipur?||There is a glimmer of hope for regular commuters and motorists traversing between Mysuru and Hassan of better road connectivity in the days ahead. While the existing road from Hassan to Yedegowdanahalli near Holenarsipur has a four-lane stretch, there on it is a two- lane stretch till K.R.Nagar Road-Mysuru-Madikeri Road junction near Bilikere where the highway again has a four-lane stretch. Hence Mysuru MP Pratap Simha has urged Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari to convert the road into a four-lane stretch from Yedegowdanahalli to Bilikere for ease of travel and uniformity of roads. Mr. Simha has also indicated that Mr. Gadkari had agreed to his proposals and has thanked him for it in a release. He said the existing road was also not in conformity with the traffic density and if converted to a four-lane stretch, would provide better connectivity to places of tourist importance besides ensuring safety. The vehicular density of the current road was 11,000 PCU (Passenger Car Unit) and warranted an upgradation. Mr. Simha also wanted the approval of the alignment of the highway declared in principle as an NH from Channarayapatna-Holenarsipur-Arkalgud-Kodlipet-Madikeri-Virajpet-Makkuta on the Karnataka-Kerala border. Seeking an improvement to the corridor and approval of the alignment Mr. Simha said that alignment plan was submitted in 2018. Movement of freight from Kodagu to other regions was affected and this had affected the economy of the hilly district and so he wanted the works to be expedited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-lane-road-from-bilikere-to-holenarsipur/article37974255.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Paying tributes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/paying-tributes/article37974246.ece
17 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Mararikulam police station bags ISO certification||The Mararikulam police station in Alappuzha has bagged International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) 9001:2015 certification. The certification was given to the police station for preventing and detecting crime, maintaining law and order, establishing public peace, tranquillity and other policing activities with a people-friendly atmosphere, and promoting green protocol and environment-friendly surroundings. District Police Chief G. Jaidev said Mararikulam was the first police station in Alappuzha district to receive the ISO certification. 24x7 surveillance To ensure law and order, the Mararikulam police conduct round-the-clock surveillance of areas under its jurisdiction with the help of 42 CCTV cameras installed in different locations. Besides, patrolling was done during nights in association with resident associations. As part of community policing, the Mararikulam police have developed a stronger bond with the public. For differently abled Apart from maintaining law and order, the police station offers a people-friendly atmosphere and eco-friendly surroundings. It has a ramp and toilets for the differently abled, restrooms, separate room for women and children, drinking water, library, garden, aquarium, parking and refreshment area. The police station has a rooftop solar plant, air-conditioned rooms for station house officer and sub-inspector, a computer room, restrooms for police personnel, a reception desk, and a PRO desk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mararikulam-police-station-bags-iso-certification/article37974208.ece
17 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||SNDP Yogam branch secretary found dead||Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam Purakkad branch secretary was found dead at the branch office on Wednesday night. The deceased was identified as C. Raju, 54. He reportedly ended his life. The Ambalappuzha police said a note left behind by the deceased had been recovered. It blamed organisational issues for his taking the extreme step. His family has demanded a detailed probe into the death. He was the secretary of the branch for the past nine years. Suicide prevention helpline: 1056/0471-2552056||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sndp-yogam-branch-secretary-found-dead/article37974209.ece
17 December 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Policeman suspended for ‘abusing’ woman doctor||Aneeshmon, a civil police officer who was serving as a personal security guard to Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian, has been placed under suspension for misbehaving with a woman doctor at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha. G. Sparjan Kumar, Inspector General of Police, who issued the suspension order, directed the Deputy Superintendent of Police (SSB), Alappuzha, to conduct a detailed inquiry into the incident and submit a report within two months. Aneeshmon’s father Kunjukunju who was undergoing treatment at the MCH died on December 11. His health had deteriorated around 11 p.m. and he was shifted to a room for resuscitation. Aneeshmon forcibly entered the room and shoved the house surgeon to the ground and verbally abused her alleging negligence. According to the statement, he also threatened other medical staff there. The Ambalappuzha police had registered a case against him based on the statements of the house surgeon and other medical staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/policeman-suspended-for-abusing-woman-doctor/article37974200.ece
17 December 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Demands placed before panel, says Augustine||Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine says the government has submitted its demands before the supervisory committee on the Mullaperiyar dam appointed by the Supreme Court. However, they are not informed to the apex court. He told mediapersons at Thodupuzha on Thursday that the government would demand underground photography of the Mullaperiyar dam. The State would also demand that an international agency conduct a study, he said. The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the State to approach the supervisory committee on issues related to the water level. At maximum level Meanwhile, the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam continued to be at the maximum level of 142 ft on Thursday. The tunnel discharge was 900 cusecs and average inflow 844 cusecs. Spillway shutter 3 of the dam remained open at 10 cm. The water level in the Idukki dam receded to 2,399.98 ft on Thursday. For nearly two weeks, the level had remained above 2,400 ft. The power generation at Moolamattom was at a moderate level of 9.863 million units on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demands-placed-before-panel-says-augustine/article37974163.ece
17 December 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Gagarin re-elected Wayanad CPI(M) secretary||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] leader P. Gagarin was re-elected district secretary of the party at the party district conference that concluded at Vythiri in Wayanad on Thursday. Briefing mediapersons on the proceedings of the district conference, Mr. Gagarin told reporters that he was re-elected district secretary unanimously at the conference. The number of the new district committee members had been increased from 26 to 27 in view of the increase in the party membership in the district, Mr. Gagarin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gagarin-re-elected-wayanad-cpim-secretary/article37974138.ece
17 December 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||World Heritage Site status sought for Edakkal caves||K.P.A. Majeed, Chairman, Committee on Government Assurances, has said the panel will recommend to the State government to secure UNESCO’s World Heritage Site status for the Neolithic petroglyphs on the walls of Edakkal caves on Ambukuthi hills in Wayanad district. Speaking to mediapersons at Edakkal caves after the second-day visit of the panel to major tourism destinations in the district on Thursday, Mr. Majeed said that the petroglyphs on the walls of the cave should be conserved for future generations. The panel, consisting of Sebastian Kalthinkal, K. Ansalan, Vazhoor Soman, and T. Siddique, MLAs, visited various tourism destinations in the district.  Info collected The panel also collected information from district-level officials of tourism, forest, environment, and local self-government departments on various waste management projects being executed in tourism destinations in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/world-heritage-site-status-sought-for-edakkal-caves/article37974137.ece
17 December 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Report to be prepared on protection of sacred groves||A report will be prepared and submitted before the Assembly on the basis of the visit and collection of information on the protection and maintenance of important sacred groves (kavus) in Kannur district, E.K.Vijayan, MLA, Chairman of the Assembly Committee on Environment, has said. Kannur has 39 sacred groves under the Malabar Devaswom Board. There are also kavus protected by private individuals. The committee will also visit kavus in Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/report-to-be-prepared-on-protection-of-sacred-groves/article37974125.ece
17 December 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Aged man found dead||The post mortem of a 70-year-old man, who was found dead inside his house at South Bazaar here, has revealed that he might have died of malnutrition. The two-day-old body of Abdul Razik, who was living with his wife and daughter, was found in a room at his house on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aged-man-found-dead/article37974130.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||13 new faces in CPI(M) district panel||C.N. Mohanan will continue to lead the Ernakulam district committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) as the district conference of the party that concluded here on Thursday unanimously elected a 46-member team that included 13 new faces. Six among the 46 are women. Thirty-three members from the previous committee have been retained. The strength of the district committee has been increased to 46 from the earlier 45 members. P. N. Balakrishnan and P. J. Varghese, who were part of the previous committee, were not included. The new faces are A.A. Anshad, Princy Kuriakose, N. C. Ushakumari, P. A. Peter, Shaji Muhammad, A. P. Udayakumar, K. B. Varghese, C.K. Varghese, C. K. Saleemkumar, M. K. Babu, P. B. Ratheesh, A. G. Udayakumar, and A. P. Prinil. A. P. Udayakumar and Pushpadas, member of the previous committee, are siblings. Eight vacancies had emerged in the previous committee after disciplinary action was taken against six leaders over their non-performance in the Assembly election. Zakir Husain, former area secretary of Kalamassery, was removed after he faced the music for allegedly amassing unaccounted assets and indulging in financial irregularities while another post remained vacant following the death of T. K. Valsan. The new district secretariat comprises of C. N. Mohanan, M. P. Pathrose, P. R. Muraleedharan, M. C. Surendran, John Fernandez, K. N. Unnikrishnan, C. K. Pareed, M. Anilkumar, C. B. Devadarshanan, T. C. Shibu, and Pushpadas. The strength of the district secretariat has been increased to 12 from the earlier 11 members. Six members in the earlier secretariat have been retained. C. K. Manisankar, and N. C. Mohanan, who faced disciplinary action, were removed from the secretariat. K. J. Jacob, T. K. Mohanan, and P. M. Ismail were not retained. Mr. Mohanan, who was elected as district secretary for the second term, had served as chairman of the Greater Cochin Development Authority. He was elected as district secretary in June, 2018, after the then secretary Mr. P. Rajeeve was elected to the State Secretariat. Mr. Mohanan was State president of the Democratic Youth Federation of India from 1994 to 2000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/13-new-faces-in-cpim-district-panel/article37974152.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kundannoor-Angamaly NH may skip Thripunithura Bypass||Over 200 families on the 8.50-km-long Thripunithura Bypass, whose land was either frozen or acquired three decades ago for the project that has remained on paper, have been left in the lurch once again, as the stretch does not figure in the alignment of the Kochi-Theni Greenfield National Highway 85 and the Kundannoor-Angamaly NH 66 Bypass, it is learnt. The Thripunithura Bypass did not take off, although the Public Works Department (NH wing) had partly completed land acquisition for the first phase of the bypass, from Mattakuzhy to Thiruvankulam. Even as the stalemate continued, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) came up with two new NH proposals, and assured that efforts would be made to integrate the alignment of either of the national highways with that of the bypass. Technical study Even as the NHAI probed ways to go ahead with the proposal to include it in the alignment of the six-lane Kundannoor-Angamaly NH Bypass, the technical study found that it could cause a curve in the alignment of the proposed NH. This has made the inclusion of land acquired or frozen for Thripunithura Bypass in the NH project a non-viable proposition. It was up to the PWD to complete the rest of the land acquisition that it set in motion three decades ago, and if needed, ready a link road with the proposed NH Bypass, said sources. Earlier this year, the PWD had requested the NHAI to include the entire 8.50-km alignment of Thripunithura Bypass with either of the two upcoming national highways, so that the long-overdue bypass project could be realised. Members of Parliament too had repeatedly raised the issue. Thomas Chazhikadan, MP, had demanded in the Lok Sabha that the alignment of the Thripunithura Bypass should pass through Kottayam, Ernakulam and Chalakudy Parliamentary constituencies and three Assembly constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kundannoor-angamaly-nh-may-skip-thripunithura-bypass/article37974158.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Coastal cargo service from Jan.||The success of the coastal container movement from the Kochi port to the Beypore and Azheekkal ports, introduced in the first week of July this year, has encouraged the State Ports Department to consider introduction of a new coastal service linking Kollam, Kochi, and Beypore in January next year. V.J. Mathew, Chairman of the Kerala Maritime Board, said on Thursday that the present service linking Kochi and Beypore had completed 35 voyages. Discussions to finalise the new service would be held in Kochi on December 21. The present coastal voyages carry an average of 50 containers each and the vessel, now linking the ports on the coastal route, has 100 TEU capacity. Munshid Ali, honorary secretary of the Kerala Exporters’ Forum, said the coastal movement had livened up the cargo transport scene. Around 400 containers are moved via the coastal route to Beypore and Azheekkal from Kochi on a monthly basis. Meet on Saturday The exporters’ forum has now taken an initiative to arrange a meeting with Ports Minister Ahammad Devarkovil in Kozhikode on Saturday. The meeting will be attended by stakeholders in the sector, including vessel operators, port management representatives, industrialists, traders and those others in the export-import business, he said. One of the encouraging development for those calling for developing the coastal movement of cargo was the recent export of 28 containers of plywood from Kannur to Malayasia from Azheekkal via Kochi. The increasing volumes on the coastal route have resulted in more enquiries and transport of consignments such as rice from Andhra Pradesh and cement is now under consideration by stakeholders. There are two voyages a week and though each voyage takes about a day to reach Beypore, the lack of sufficient draft is a problem that forces the vessels to wait for high tide before entering the port area. Dredging of the port to achieve the required draft is one of the key issues that will be discussed at Saturday's meeting. Memorandum In a memorandum submitted to the Ports Minister earlier this year, the exporters’ forum had appealed to the government to take steps to increase the draft at the port. One of the problems associated with dredging in Beypore is related to deposing of the dredged material. However, a solution has been found to address the problem, Mr. Ali said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-coastal-cargo-service-likely-from-jan/article37974155.ece
17 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Clamour to clear bottlenecks at Vyttila Junction growing louder||Enraged at the maddening traffic hold-ups at Vyttila and on roads that lead to the junction, despite the commissioning of a six-lane flyover, bus operators, residents’ associations, traders and others have revived their plan to jointly kick-start an agitation demanding that the Public Works Department (NH wing) clear all bottlenecks that hamper smooth movement of vehicles. This comes in the wake of the PWD not dismantling parts of the roundabout and massive islands that it built beneath the flyover, in order to carve out more space to park vehicles awaiting the signal, and to clear the junction faster. Bus operators and regular commuters are amongst the worst affected by snarls caused by unscientific planning at the junction, said Nelson Mathew, district president of Private Bus Operators Association. “It is in this context that efforts are on to revive an agitation to wake up government agencies from their lethargy. Hardly 30% of the motorists who cross the junction rely on the flyover, while others from different directions jostle for limited space beneath the structure. The police permitting vehicles from Kaniampuzha road to directly enter the junction has worsened the chaos at the junction.” “None can lose sight of the thousands of litres of fuel, time and human energy that are wasted when vehicles wait on end for the signal. This in turn worsens pollution as well,” he said. The PWD must learn from the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) the smooth and effective way in which vehicles were routed beneath the rebuilt flyover at Palarivattom. The government ought to have lend an ear to Metroman E. Sreedharan, who advocated twin flyovers at Vyttila, the biggest junction in Kerala, Mr. Mathew added. Police agitated Decrying the PWD’s delay in dismantling the structures it built beneath the flyover, a senior traffic police official said the police are hamstrung since they occupy considerable space at the busy junction. Echoing a similar view, Raghupathy L., a trader who set up a business at the junction forty years ago, said traffic hold-ups on all roads that lead to the junction can be averted if the PWD knocks away parts of the massive traffic islands and the roundabout it built beneath the flyover. “This space is currently used for sleeping by beggars and others. In addition, the agency and Vyttila Mobility Hub Society must act in tandem, to optimally use the space within the hub to redirect vehicles,” he said.  Hardly 30% of motorists who cross the junction rely on the flyover, while others jostle for limited space beneath the structure Nelson Mathew District president, Private Bus Operators Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clamour-to-clear-bottlenecks-at-vyttila-junction-growing-louder/article37974144.ece
17 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Crèches sought for migrant children||Migrant working parents are staring at the disconcerting prospect of leaving behind their minor children alone at home exposing them to exploitation, including sexual abuse. The increasing number of cases being registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in the migrant worker-intense rural areas like Perumbavoor, of late, perhaps has to be seen in this context. “Even children too young are being left alone making them vulnerable to sexual advances by other migrant workers and local residents alike not to mention the self-inflicted physical harm on playing with gas stoves, etc. With no other alternative, some working migrant mothers take their children with them to worksites, which further endanger the safety of children by exposing them to high levels of pollution like in the case of plywood factories or brick kilns and freak accidents,” said George Mathew, chairperson, Progressive Workers’ Organisation. “Like anganwadis, the crèches under the Rajiv Gandhi National Crèche Scheme also remain closed since the outbreak of the pandemic,” said Sini K.S, District Child Protection Officer. Under the scheme, crèches run by NGOs are being funded on satisfying certain criteria. Mr. Mathew said crèches are too few and far between. “Instead, they should be set up in migrant-intense areas,” he said. POCSO cases Meanwhile, the police are staring at a peculiar problem of POCSO cases involving migrants. “Underage marriage is an acceptable custom in many villages from which they hail. But when they come here and then approach healthcare institutions on medical emergencies or treatment, they get reported,” said R. Ranjith, Station House Officer, Perumbavoor. He said the increase in POCSO cases was not reflective of the crime index as such but indicated the increased reporting of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crches-sought-for-migrant-children/article37974161.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cong. aiding RSS interests: Kodiyeri||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Thursday accused the Congress of supporting the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s goal of making the country a ‘Hindu Rashtra’. Rahul Gandhi’s speech Alleging that the RSS had softened its stance towards the party, Mr. Balakrishnan said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s speech at the party rally in Jaipur calling for the return of the rule of Hindus was a deliberate attempt to aid the interests of the RSS. “What is the difference between the Congress and the RSS as both the organisations wanted to establish a Hindu Rashtra,” he asked at the public meet held in connection with the conclusion of the Ernakulam district meet of the CPI(M) here on Thursday. IUML position Asking the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) to explain its position with regard to Mr. Gandhi’s statement, Mr. Balakrishnan said the Revolutionary Socialist Party, a constituent of the United Democratic Front, should also make their stance clear on whether they agreed with the views of the Congress leader. The CPI(M) State secretary alleged that the IUML was aiding the interests of the Jamaat-e-Islami by trying to flare up Muslim sentiments as seen in the Waqf rally held in Kozhikode. “The party leaders also stooped to the level of making personal allegations against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his family members at the rally,” he said. Mr. Balakrishnan accused the Congress of joining hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party to scuttle the development of the State. SilverLine project “Both the parties are now opposing the infrastructure projects after the previous Left Democratic Front government cleared the decks for the implementation of such works. The government has made it clear that those handing over land for the SilverLine rail project would be fairly compensated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-aiding-rss-interests-kodiyeri/article37974149.ece
17 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Provide infra for night autopsy: HC||The Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the State government to provide all infrastructure, including medical and paramedical staff, for conducting post-mortem examination at night in five medical college hospitals in the State. The court observed that a decent burial, without unnecessary delay in legal formalities, immediately after the unnatural death of a person, was also a Constitutional right. Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan, while passing the directive, observed that it was part of the fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution to live with dignity. This included not only the dignity of a person when he was alive but also that following his death. The State could not say there was no adequate infrastructure or staff in hospitals or cite financial difficulties for creating such additional facilities for early completion of legal formalities in unnatural death cases. No hurdle Disposing of a writ petition seeking a directive to the government to provide manpower and facilities for conducting night post-mortem, the court observed that the laws of procedure, whether statutory or otherwise, could not be a hurdle for early burial of body if the relatives and friends of the deceased requested for the same. In case of unnatural deaths, the bereaved family members could not sit in their house but had to queue up at police stations for early conduct of inquest of the body and, thereafter, in front of hospital authorities for early post-mortem examination. The court directed the Chief Secretary to issue a circular fixing the time limit for conducting inquest and post-mortem examination in six months. The Chief Secretary should order that once an unnatural death was reported, it was the duty of the State machinery to complete the inquest and post-mortem examination and release the body within a time frame. Expenses The court also directed the Chief Secretary to declare in the circular that the expenses for taking the body in unnatural death cases to hospital for post-mortem examination and to other places, if necessary, for conducting the inquest should be borne by the State. The writ petition was filed by Hitesh Sankar T.S., secretary, Kerala Medico-Legal Society, and Jiju V.S. of Malappuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/provide-infra-for-night-autopsy-hc/article37974164.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Health department calls for strict observation of quarantine norms||The Health department has asked people who have returned from abroad and are in quarantine not to violate rules and guidelines in the wake of four cases of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 being reported in Ernakulam. Rules violated The directive to comply with the norms came after it was found that a person who had reached here from Congo on December 7 violated quarantine norms. The person visited a hotel after he gave blood samples and took RT-PCR test at a hospital in Palarivattom on December 10. He visited a mall near Maradu along with his brother in the evening. On December 11, he went alone in his car to the hospital to give sample for RT-PCR test. An official communication by the Health department said Congo was not included in the category of ‘at-risk’ countries. But, the man tested positive for the Omicron variant. Hence, people coming from countries which are yet to report such cases should also undergo self-isolation or remain in quarantine as directed by the Health department. They should not interact with family members or visit public places during the observation period. The persons have to comply with the SMS (sanitise, mask and social distance) protocol to check the spread of the disease. An intensive vaccination campaign will be held in the district from December 18 to 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-department-calls-for-strict-observation-of-quarantine-norms/article37974157.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police withdraw ‘terrorist link’ references from remand report||The Aluva police have withdrawn the controversial references regarding the “need for probing the terrorist links” from its remand report filed against three Youth Congress workers, who were arrested in connection with a recent public protest. The police had included the reference in the remand report while seeking the custody of Al Ameen, Anas Pallikuzhi, and M.A.K. Najeeb, who were arrested in connection with the protest organised by the Congress demanding justice for the family members of Mofia Parveen, a young woman, who had committed suicide. The Youth Congress workers were also accused of destroying public property. As the reference triggered a barrage of public protests against the police, the authorities suspended two police officials from service. However, the police sought to remove the references, which according to them, were wrongly included in the remand report. The Station House Officer of the Aluva East Police Station submitted a request in this regard before the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court, Aluva. ‘Minister involved’  Meanwhile, the Ernakulam DCC president Muhammad Shiyas alleged that a Minister from the State was behind the police report, which highlighted the need for probing the terrorist links. He alleged that the Minister was attempting to create divisions among the people for the benefit of the BJP. The reference had also created a divide in the police force, he alleged. The CPI(M) was attempting to save its face in the issue by suspending two policemen, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/terrorist-reference-withdrawn-from-remand-report/article37974159.ece
17 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Man arrested for theft||The Perumbavoor police on Thursday arrested a man on the charge of snatching the bracelet of a passenger at the KSRTC bus stand. The arrested was identified as Nisar, 34, of Palakkad. The bracelet worth around Rs. 40,000 was allegedly stolen while the passenger was waiting at the bus stand. It was reportedly recovered from the accused when he was checked following suspicion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-for-theft/article37974294.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Senior leader walks out of CPI(M) district meet||The final day of the district meet of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) witnessed dramatic scenes after P.N. Balakrishnan, senior district leader, walked out of the meeting in protest against his non-inclusion on the new district committee. Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, State secretary of the party, was on the dais when Mr. Balakrishnan raised his voice against the decision not to include him in the 46-member district committee. A former member of the district committee, he alleged that the leadership had no concrete reason to offer for his non-inclusion. He walked out of the meeting as soon as the list of the newly-elected committee members was announced at the venue of the district committee meet in Kalamassery. Mr. Balakrishnan expressed his willingness not to retain the primary membership of the party as a mark of protest. C.N. Mohanan, who was re-elected the district secretary, said that some would have to be removed for including new faces in the district committee. The 69-year-old Mr. Balakrishnan was under the lens of the party leadership after he had posted some comments against party members in the social media. The members, who were criticised by him, had replied in the same tone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/leader-walks-out-of-meet/article37974148.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Appeal against verdict upholding VC’s posting||An appeal has been filed before a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court against the verdict of a single judge upholding the reappointment of Gopinath Ravindran as Vice Chancellor (VC) of Kannur University. In the appeal filed on Thursday, Premachandran Keezhoth, member, Senate, Kannur University, and Shino P. Jose, member, Academic Council (Management Studies), Kannur University, said the single judge had failed to consider that there was no distinction in law between an appointment and a re-appointment. The judge had upheld the reappointment. Wrong premise The petitioners termed fundamentally wrong the legal premise in the single judge’s observation that for reappointment as per the proviso to Subsection (10) of Section 10 of the Kannur University Act, there was no requirement for constituting the selection committee as was done during the initial appointment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/appeal-against-verdict-upholding-vcs-posting/article37974165.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Metro carols contest||The Kochi Metro's carol songs competition as part of its Christmas events titled ‘Frosty Fest 2021’ will be held on December 19 at Aluva, Edappally, Vyttila and Ernakulam South metro stations. The first three winners will receive a cash award of Rs. 10,000, Rs. 7,500 and Rs. 5,000 respectively. The timings are as follows: Aluva metro station: 10 a.m. - 11 a.m.; Ernakulam South: 12 p.m. -1 p.m.; Vyttila: 3 p.m. - 4 p.m.; Edappally: 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Each team should have a minimum of five members, across any age group. There is no registration fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/metro-carols-contest/article37974154.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||One held for sexual abuse||The Cheranalloor police on Thursday arrested a man accused of sexually abusing a woman by promising to secure her a makeup artist’s job in the movie industry and then cheating her of around Rs. 3.50 lakh. The arrested man was identified as Suresh Kumar, 46, of Thiruvananthapuram. He allegedly sexually exploited the woman, a resident of Edappally, in lodges at various place in the guise of taking her to shooting locations. The accused also allegedly cheated the woman and her relatives of Rs. 3.50 lakh. He had gone into hiding since then. He reportedly has similar cheating cases against him in police stations in various districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-sexual-abuse/article37974162.ece
17 December 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Yet to get permission for work, says PWD||A senior Public Works Department official said an estimate to dismantle structures that hamper vehicle movement at Vyttila had been readied early this year and sent to the Chief Engineer (PWD-NH wing), based on a demand by the traffic police and others. “We are yet to get a direction to go ahead with the work. An administrative sanction is needed since it would be a new work, which would also involve relocating a few traffic lights and a KSEB transformer,” the official said. No decision The State government has not taken a decision to widen narrow parts and bellmouths of the junction, over three years since local PWD officials readied a preliminary report. Sources in the department said land would have to be acquired, especially on the eastern side of the flyover, where two or three more lanes are needed to cater to the ever-increasing traffic volume.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yet-to-get-permission-for-work-says-pwd/article37974142.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Woman jumps into backwaters||A young woman reportedly jumped off the Kannangattu bridge into the backwaters in West Kochi late on Thursday. Eyewitnesses identified the woman as a 23-year-old from Palluruthy though it is yet to be confirmed by the police. The incident occurred around 7.30 p.m. A team was dispatched from Fort Kochi police station and efforts were on to rescue her late into the night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-jumps-into-backwaters/article37974147.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||One arrested||The Palarivattom police on Thursday arrested a man accused of roaming around the State and outside on scooter and snatching gold chains. The arrested was identified Muhammed Mustafa, 34, of Malappuram. He was arrested in connection with a case registered for snatching a chain on December 5. The police said he had snatched gold chains from Thrissur, Palakkad, and Kozhikode. He has reportedly stolen chains collectively weighing around 100 sovereigns from various places in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-arrested/article37974156.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held on cheating charge||The Perumbavoor police on Thursday arrested a man on charge of cheating a job aspirant by promising him a job in Canada. The arrested was identified as Shibu Ummar, 48, of Alappuzha. He along with co-accused Jishnu allegedly cheated a resident of Chelamattam of Rs. 10 lakh by promising to arrange visa for a job in Canada. A woman named Sathyaja is also an accused in the case. The amount was transferred to the accounts of the accused and they shared it among themselves, said the police.  Held for theft The Perumbavoor police also arrested a man on charge of snatching the bracelet of a passenger at the KSRTC bus stand. The arrested was identified as Nisar, 34, of Palakkad. The bracelet worth around Rs. 40,000 was allegedly stolen while the passenger was waiting at the bus stand. It was reportedly recovered from the accused when he was checked following suspicion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-cheating/article37974153.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IT space in State to touch 3 crore sq ft by 2026||The three IT parks in the State and SmartCity Kochi will collectively offer a built-up space in excess of 3 crore sq ft by 2026. John M. Thomas, CEO, Kerala IT Parks, announced this at a press conference held at Infopark, Kochi, on Thursday. At present, the three IT Parks collectively offer 2 crore sq ft. “One has to look at the speed of growth in the IT sector. While it took us about three decades to hit 2 crore sq ft, we are about to achieve half of that in the next five years. This would not have been possible without the private-public partnership model,” said Mr. Thomas. The export revenue from the three IT Parks stood at Rs. 15,100 crore during 2021. It will be in the range of Rs. 18,000 crore to Rs. 20,000 crore if the revenue of companies from outside the parks and non-export revenue are also taken into account. “Cyberpark [in Kozhikode] registered the biggest growth of 77% followed by Kochi Infopark at 21% and Technopark [in Thiruvananthapuram] at 8%. Technopark would have recorded much greater growth but for the temporary space constraints,” said Mr. Thomas. The IT Parks are planning to reinvent by focusing on three aspects – improving the overall surrounding ecosystem and access, and giving a facelift to the parks themselves. “While we focused on developing the IT infrastructure, we neglected the overall social ecosystem. We are giving a big push towards achieving that by facilitating quality supporting infrastructure in transportation, shopping, health and education in association with the government and other stakeholders. Bringing more international flights to Thiruvananthapuram, providing walkways, cycle tracks, eco-friendly transportation are all part of it,” said Mr. Thomas. Parks will be given a facelift by plugging the gaps that prevent them from developing the ambience of modern IT parks and by bringing in co-developers of international repute. Mr. Thomas said proposals were being explored to facilitate angel funding to fill the funding gap for the development of start-ups. While multiple agencies offer funds up to Rs. 50 lakh, there is a dearth of funding in excess of Rs. 50 lakh and up to Rs. 2 crore. “We are also working towards the seamless transition of start-ups to IT Parks,” said Mr. Thomas, who also holds temporary charge of the Kerala Startup Mission. Efforts are also on to bring in multinational companies not having presence in the State to the IT Parks for which interventions have been made at the top level, including by the Chief Minister’s office. “We are getting plenty of enquiries for space in IT Parks from both existing and new companies. Kerala has managed to grab a fair share of the IT growth since the pandemic. We are also encouraging companies to return to the parks by restoring transportation facilities and reopening eateries besides proposals for holding cultural fests,” said Mr. Thomas.  While it took us about three decades to hit 2 crore sq ft, we are about to achieve half of that in the next five years. This would not have been possible without private-public partnership model John M. Thomas CEO, Kerala IT Parks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/it-space-in-kerala-likely-to-touch-3-crore-sq-ft-by-2026/article37974146.ece
17 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||PCB engineer arrested on charge of taking bribe||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) sleuths on Thursday took into custody an environmental engineer with the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) for allegedly taking bribe from a rubber tyre vendor in Pala. The accused was identified as A.M. Haris, district environment officer in Kottayam. He was arrested while taking Rs. 25,000 as bribe from the owner of a rubber retreading company in Pala. Acting on a complaint lodged by Jobin Sebastian, owner of P.J. Rubber retreading company at Ullanad, near Pala, the VACB sleuths laid a trap by giving phenolphthalein-applied currency notes to be handed over to the accused and caught him red-handed. VACB officials later raided his apartment near Aluva and unearthed unaccounted cash worth Rs. 17 lakh. The money, in currency notes of 500 and 2,000 was stashed in different places, including a pressure cooker and rice pot. The officials seized documents of his bank deposits and immovable assets such as 33 cents of land and a 2,000 sq ft house in Thiruvananthapuram. According to officials, the apartment owned by the accused near Aluva was worth around Rs. 80 lakh. During the raid, officials recovered documents of his foreign trips to more than 10 countries. He was produced in the Vigilance court and remanded. Village officer held Meanwhile, in a separate incident in Pathanamthitta, the VACB sleuths arrested a village officer at Omallur while allegedly taking Rs. 3,000 as bribe from a person for conducting mutation of property. The arrested was identified as Santhosh Kumar S.K., 53.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-engineer-arrested-on-charge-of-taking-bribe/article37974211.ece
17 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Global meet at MGU||A three-day international conference on ‘Infection, Treatment and Prevention — A Comprehensive Approach,’ organised by the Nano Centre and the School of Energy Materials under Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, will begin here on Friday. The event, being held in view of the challenges posed by the COVID-19 outbreak, is co-hosted by experts from Austria, Montenegro, Russia, and the Philippines. Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas will preside. Fifty delegates from various countries will take part. Details are on the websitewww.holistic.mictromol.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/global-meet-at-mgu/article37974210.ece
17 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Nobel laureate delivers online lecture||British biochemist and Nobel laureate Sir Richard John Roberts delivered online the fifth Berchmans Erudite Lecture organised by St. Berchmans College, Changanassery, on December 14. The one-hour lecture, ‘Why you should love bacteria’, sought to strike down the negative notions associated with bacteria and also elaborated on the numerous benefits that these microorganisms do to the human body. The speaker also noted that GM bacteria could be a game changer with lot of potential and stressed that the probiotic benefits were increasingly acknowledged with the dissection of microbiomes as never before. Fr. Reji P. Kurien, Principal, SB College, delivered the welcome speech while P.J. Thomas, head, Department of English, presided over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nobel-laureate-delivers-online-lecture/article37974201.ece
17 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode to get 13 more fair price hotels||Following the Kudumbashree-model ‘Janakeeya Hotel’ to support hunger-free projects and the supply of fair price food, the Department of Food and Civil Supplies is planning to open 13 ‘Subhiksha’ hotels in Kozhikode district. The proposal is to open at least one hotel in each Assembly constituency within March, 31, 2022. The hotels will supply meal at just Rs. 20 apart from ensuring fair price for all other food items supplied as breakfast and snacks. For each sold meal, Rs. 5 will be given extra by the government to entrepreneurs concerned as handling charges. To generate additional income, the management team will be allowed to supply fried dishes as additional items with separate charges. “The main attraction of the project is that the department will be bearing all the major expenses to start the venture. Kudumbashree units, voluntary groups, non-governmental organisations and cooperative societies can think of taking it up by complying with rules,” says District Supply Officer K. Rajeev. According to him, an initial fund of Rs. 10 lakh to arrange basic facilities will be granted for each hotel apart from rental expenses and other maintenance fund. The district-level committee with the District Supply Officer as convener will be finalising each project after scrutiny. The committee will also be responsible for fixing the price of each food item. There will also be efforts on the part of the committee to mobilise sponsors’ support for meeting initial investments. If possible, buildings owned by local bodies and government departments will be selected for the new venture. Rates fixed by the Public Works Department will be given as rent to building owners. Furniture and other items needed for each project will be supplied separately by the Food and Civil Supplies department using its own fund or with the support of sponsors. One of the main goals of the project is to encourage free food supply schemes for the bedridden and seriously-ill patients in various parts of the district. Organisations and individuals interested in sponsoring meal for them will be encouraged to approach Subhiksha hotels for partnership. Though sponsors will have to pay for the meal, it will reach the targeted group of beneficiaries free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-to-get-13-more-fair-price-hotels/article37974139.ece
17 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Resident doctors resume emergency duty at MCH||Functioning of the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, continues to remain affected due to the indefinite strike by postgraduate medical students (junior resident doctors), which entered the 16th day on Thursday. Though the striking resident doctors resumed attending emergency services from Thursday, sources said that this would only provide a temporary relief. Over 70 non-academic junior resident doctors (NAJRs) have started coming to work too. The strike, part of a national-level protest, was launched in December first week, and the junior resident doctors initially boycotted outpatient services, ward duty, and elective surgeries. They are demanding that the State government request the Centre to expedite NEET-PG allotment, a four per cent hike in stipend, and appointment of NAJRs. From December 10, they kept off from emergency duty such as casualty and intensive care unit as well. The sources said patient services in wards and casualty continue to be compromised. Evaluation of patients admitted in wards are not being done because of lack of manpower. Doctors are sending back patients in non-complicated conditions to their homes. Non-essential surgeries are being postponed. Though normally the services in the outpatient department get over by the afternoon, they are being extended to 3.30 p.m. or up to 5 p.m. these days. Long queues are seen outside many sections. Though many patients who are aware of the strike are avoiding a visit to the medical college hospital, many others from faraway places are still coming to the institution. Meanwhile, a section of teachers claimed that the strike had hit academic work as well. Since assistant professors and others are deputed to wards and outpatient department at the hospital, they are struggling to devote enough time for teaching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resident-doctors-resume-emergency-duty-at-mch/article37974129.ece
17 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘India will lead the world in innovation’||Infosys co-founder Kris Gopalakrishnan has said that the growth model of this century will be founded on innovation, and not on consumption. Inaugurating the Centre for Digital Innovation and Transformation (CDiT) of the Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode (IIM-K) via online on Thursday, he said that India would lead the world in innovation in the 21st century. “And this would be that of India’s century,” Mr. Gopalakrishnan added. He expressed hope that the CDiT would strive for excellence to come up with sustainable business ideas and create better products through core research activities for the betterment of society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/india-will-lead-the-world-in-innovation/article37974135.ece
17 December 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Central team reviews COVID situation in Kozhikode||A Central team of officials that visited Kozhikode on Thursday directed the district administration to ensure speedy completion of second dose of COVID vaccination. The team held a meeting with District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy and discussed the death rate, test positivity rate, vaccination and tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/central-team-reviews-covid-situation-in-kozhikode/article37974131.ece
17 December 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||New bar association office-bearers||M.S. Saji and K. Sreekanth were elected president and secretary respectively of the Calicut Bar Association here on Thursday. The other office-bearers are M. Jayadeep (vice president), K. Brijul and E. Anjana (joint secretaries); and K.V. Jyothiprasad (treasurer).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-bar-association-office-bearers/article37974128.ece
17 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Police raid SDPI, PFI offices in Palakkad||The police raided the offices of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and the Popular Front of India (PFI) at several places in the district on Thursday in connection with the murder of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh worker A. Sanjith. The raids were conducted at the PFI and SDPI offices at Nenmara, Cherpulasseri, Shoranur, Puthunagaram, and Athikkode. Police sources indicated that some incriminating pieces of evidence were recovered in the raids. Incident in November Sanjith was hacked to death by a gang of men at Mambaram, near here, while travelling along with his wife on a motorcycle on November 15. The men who came in a white Maruti 800 car hit his bike and hacked him to death. There were more than 30 hack wounds on his body. PFI activists were found to have been behind the murder. Although the police arrested two persons involved in the murder and another who helped them, the main culprits are still at large. BJP plans stir Sanjith’s family had protested alleging slackness on the part of the police. The BJP too is planning an agitation against the police. The police sources said that Thursday’s raids were part of a move to strengthen the investigation. They were hopeful of catching the culprits soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-raid-sdpi-pfi-offices/article37974215.ece
17 December 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Painting contest gauges mental health of tribal kids||Five Cube Trust, a non-governmental organisation working for tribal upliftment, conducted a unique painting competition for the tribal children of Attappady recently. About 300 children in the age group of 8-15 took part in the competition that covered Varagambadi, Vechapathi, Gongeeyoor and adjacent hamlets of Attappady. The children were asked to portray how they were affected by COVID-19. The competition was held in five batches in seven days. Good response “The response of the tribal children was amazing. Their sketches reflected their state of mind, giving us an opportunity to measure their mental and physical health,” said Ajil Ahamed Sharif, a member of the Five Cube Trust. Mr. Sharif said they closely evaluated the children’s response and offered them customised mentoring, including psychiatric and sports sessions. He said the second phase of the current tribal upliftment programme would begin on February 14, 2022. “We are taking a holistic approach to alleviate the troubles of the tribal population. The idea behind this initiative is to not only offer educational facilities to tribal children, but also to improve their health and well-being,” said Mr. Sharif. Limited evidence He said tribal children were increasingly vulnerable to mental and physical health issues. “Available limited evidence supports high level of stigma, myths and misconceptions about illnesses amongst the tribal children,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/painting-contest-gauges-mental-health-of-tribal-kids/article37974204.ece
17 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Thanka Anki procession begins on December 22||The procession carrying the Thanka Anki (golden attire) will set off to Sabarimala from the Sree Parthasarathy temple at Aranmula on December 22. According to the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), it will be kept for darshan at the Aranmula temple for two hours from 5 a.m. on the day. TDB president K. Ananthagopan will be present when the procession begins. The procession will be accorded receptions at various points en route and reach Pampa on December 25. It will be accorded a reception at Sharamkuthi before being taken to the Sabarimala temple. The presiding deity at Sabarimala will be adorned with the attire prior to the deeparadhana in the evening. The Mandala puja at Sabarimala will be performed on December 26 afternoon and the temple will close after Athazha puja the same day, marking the culmination of the 41-day Mandalam season. The temple will open for the Makaravilakku festival on December 30 evening and the devotees will be permitted to the hilltop from next day morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thanka-anki-procession-begins-on-december-22/article37974166.ece
17 December 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Clean-up at market, stadium||The Field Outreach Bureau, Kottayam, under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, in coordination with the NSS unit, Catholicate College, conducted a cleanliness drive at the Pathanamthitta market and the municipal stadium on Thursday. The programme was organised as part of Swachhata Action Plan and Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav special outreach programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clean-up-at-market-stadium/article37974212.ece
17 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cybersecurity division of police on the anvil||The government is mulling the formation of a cybersecurity division in the Kerala Police, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The proposed wing is expected to considerably bring down the rate of cybercrimes in the State. The Chief Minister was speaking while inaugurating a two-day-long hackathon organised at the Special Armed Police (SAP) ground in Peroorkada on Thursday. Elaborating on the growing utility of drones that are used for several purposes ranging from disaster relief and rescue efforts, agriculture and survey, he, however, said crimes have also increased with the emergence of technology. Drones are being utilised to smuggle narcotic substances and arms as well. A Drone Forensic Laboratory was established by the police to study such advancements and pre-empt nefarious activities, he said. An air show of drones was organised in connection with the event. V.K. Prasanth, MLA, presided over the function. State Police Chief Anil Kant, senior police officers and experts in the field of drone technology also participated. Transport Minister Antony Raju will be the chief guest at the valedictory function on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cybersecurity-division-on-the-anvil/article37974221.ece
17 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Keen on investment-friendly climate: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the government remains committed to its goal of creating an investor-friendly climate in the State. He also raised caution against attempts made by certain sections to torpedo the State’s development. Formally inaugurating LuLu Mall at Akkulam here on Thursday, Mr. Vijayan elaborated on the efforts to attract investments and generate employment opportunities in the State. Investments “The government has set a target of bringing in investments to the tune of Rs. 10,000 crore. As part of positioning itself as investor-friendly, the government has gone the extra mile to introduce a legislation that will enable entrepreneurs with investments over Rs. 50 crore to obtain licences within seven days, provided all other requirements are met. In addition, micro, small and medium enterprises will be permitted to operate without licences for the first three years,” he said. The existing mode of inspections that have often inconvenienced industrialists will transition to a computer-based centralised inspection system, Mr. Vijayan said. He alleged that such efforts have come under threat with extortionists working to prevent business ventures from reaching fruition. “Certain quarters that harbour a vengeful attitude towards the State have been hell-bent on disrupting development. Sparing no efforts in their bid, they pursued various tactics, including petitioning the President, against such endeavours. Caution must be exercised against such elements who claim to work for public interests,” the Chief Minister said. The Chief Minister also presented the Lulu Group the Indian Green Building Council certificate for the country’s largest green ‘gold’ rated shopping mall. Presiding over the function, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the enterprise that had an investment of Rs. 2,000 crore would provide a major impetus for the State starved of investments and in the clutches of the pandemic and a fiscal crisis. LuLu Group International Chairman and Managing Director M.A. Yusuff Ali, who delivered the welcome address, said he felt it his duty to invest in his home State before anywhere else. Political unity He lauded the political unity in Kerala for attracting industrialists to set up shop in the State. United Arab Emirates (UAE) Minister of State for Foreign Trade Thani bin Ahmed Al-Zeyoudi and UAE Ambassador to India Ahmed Abdulrahman AlBanna spoke. A video message by Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan was screened on the occasion. With a built-up space of nearly two lakh sq m, the shopping mall is touted to generate 5,000 job opportunities and indirectly benefit an equal number. Hypermarket The major attractions include a 18,500-sq m hypermarket, Funtura play area that includes roll glider, wall climbing, trampoline line and 7D theatre, a 2,500-seater food court, and numerous shopping brands. PVR Cinemas will soon launch a 12-screen multiplex theatre at the mall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-bent-on-investment-friendly-climate-cm/article37974133.ece
17 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI frowns on Bindu’s letter to Governor||The State council of the Communist Party of India (CPI) has reportedly frowned upon Higher Education Minister R. Bindu’s contentious letter to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan seeking service extension for Kannur University Vice Chancellor Gopinath Ravindran beyond the retirement age. Dr. Bindu had also demanded that the Chancellor disband the search committee for a new Vice Chancellor (VC). When pressed whether the Minister had overstepped her Constitutional bounds by allegedly bringing executive pressure to bear on Mr. Khan, CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran said: “I do not think the Minister has the authority to make such a recommendation. Maybe, it is my ignorance. But everything is in the answer.” Mr. Rajendran said the High Court had upheld the VC’s extension. The judiciary had extinguished any scope for further debate on the issue. The CPI also demanded that the government settle the ongoing postgraduate medical students’ strike. Mr. Rajendran defended the State police and said Kerala’s law enforcement was the best in the country. But there were bad apples in every basket. The police had in-built mechanisms to weed out malpractices. SilverLine project The CPI placed the onus on the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government to redress public concerns over the environmental and economic impact of Kerala’s semi-high-speed railway project SilverLine. The CPI said the government required everybody onboard, including naysayers, before forging ahead with the mega scheme. Mr. Rajendran threw his weight behind SilverLine at the council meeting by some accounts. He reportedly pointed out that it was the LDF’s election promise. People had seconded the LDF manifesto and voted it back to power for a second consecutive term. SilverLine has immense public support. The government would allay any residual fears about the project. The CPI slammed the Congress-led United Democratic Front for working in cahoots with the BJP to scuttle Kerala’s mega infrastructure development plan. The CPI also slammed UDF MPs for moving the Centre against SilverLine. New members The State council also reportedly weighed whether to admit persons leaving the CPI(M) on their own into the CPI fold. Some members reportedly suggested that the CPI accord such persons due organisational recognition commensurate with their political experience and rank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpi-frowns-on-bindus-letter-to-governor/article37974168.ece
17 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tomato vans roll out to curb price rise||With tomato prices climbing up once again, the Agriculture department has rolled out ‘Thakkali Vandi’ in a bid to keep the prices down. The mobile outlets, which will also have other vegetables and fruits, will sell tomato at Rs. 50 a kg, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has said. In all, 28 mobile outlets will be introduced, two in a district, operating from 7.30 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. The Agriculture Minister flagged off the first two mobile outlets in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday evening. The tomato vans are part of a market intervention programme launched by the department to curb the price rise that has hit the vegetable markets in Kerala. The department is also planning to source tomato directly from farmers in the northern States, he said. After vegetable prices shot up in November following rain-induced crop damage in the southern States, the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) had started procurements from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. At present, the agency is sourcing 40 tonnes of vegetables daily from the two States. The Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK) also sources 170 tonnes locally to meet the market demand. Direct purchase Paperwork is also progressing for making direct purchase from farmer producer organisation (FPO) in Tenkasi. This week, the government had sanctioned Rs. 8 crore for undertaking market intervention programmes through Horticorp and the VFPCK. The department plans to launch a Njanum Krishiyilekkayi campaign from January 1 to promote household-level farming of vegetables. Vegetable seeds and saplings will be distributed free of cost as part of the initiative, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tomato-vans-roll-out-to-curb-price-rise/article37974170.ece
17 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State police launch ‘Kaval’||The Kerala police would step up undercover plainclothes operations to deter organised crime. The special drive, themed ‘Kaval (Guard),’ would focus on felonies that create insecurity in society and undermine citizens’ quality of life. It would entail a crackdown on petty crimes such as drug peddling, street violence and thuggery. The police would make public places safe for women at all hours. State Police Chief Anil Kant has asked officers to focus on petty crime and see that it does not progress to significant criminality. The special drive entails active crime mapping. The police would plot crime-prone spots and detail the nature of crimes reported from different localities. It would keep a tab at all times on offenders, particularly those out on bail or parole. Repeat offenders Mr. Kant also recommended the vigorous application of the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act to deter repeat offenders. He has also asked the police to protect the dignity of citizens at all costs. Their life and property were paramount. Moreover, particular focus should be given to the marginalised section of society. They should feel welcome at station houses. Cracking down on theft and robbery was a priority. Tackling drug trafficking was also high on the agenda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-launch-kaval-to-curb-organised-crime/article37974205.ece
17 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Waste dumping on MCH campus: SHRC seeks report||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has sought a report on dumping of waste from Government Medical College Hospital, SAT Hospital, and Government Dental College at the site that was used for parking of cars on the medical college campus. Acting on a petition by former Corporation councillor G.S. Sreekumar and human rights activist Jose Y. Das, commission chairperson Antony Dominic directed the Government Medical College Principal to look into the matter and submit the report within four weeks. Leachate The complainants alleged that leachate from the waste was flowing towards the houses and wells of people living nearby. The situation was such that doors and windows of houses could not be opened. Though a complaint was filed, no action was taken by the authorities. Though more than 2,000 kg of waste was generated on the campus every day, it had an incinerator that could process only 600 kg of waste, the complaint said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waste-dumping-on-mch-campus-shrc-seeks-report/article37974419.ece
17 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KIIDC to step up production of bottled water ‘Hilly Aqua’||Production and sales of ‘Hilly Aqua,’ the bottled water brand of the Kerala Irrigation Infrastructure Development Corporation (KIIDC) will be stepped up, Minister for Water Resources Roshy Augustine said on Thursday. Hilly Aqua will continue to be sold at Rs. 13 per litre, he added. The Minister’s announcement has come a day after the Kerala High Court stayed a State government order capping the retail price of bottled water in the State at Rs. 13 per litre. Mr. Augustine said the government does not intend to increase the price of its ‘Hilly Aqua’ brand. KIIDC functions under the Irrigation Department. At present, the Thodupuzha plant of ‘Hilly Aqua’ produces one and two litre bottles, and the Aruvikkara plant, 20-litre jars. By January, KIIDC will start production of one-litre bottles from the Aruvikkara plant and 500 ml bottles from Thodupuzha. ‘Hilly Aqua’ is sold for Rs. 10 per litre at the food outlets of the Prisons Department, the direct outlet of ‘Hilly Aqua’ in Thodupuzha, distributors’ outlets in Ernakulam and Idukki districts and the outlet run by the Secretariat Employees' Cooperative Society in Thiruvananthapuram. The 20-litre jar is priced at Rs. 60.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/production-of-hilly-aqua-to-be-stepped-up/article37974206.ece
17 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||PG students rejoin emergency services||Postgraduate medical students or junior residents in government medical colleges in the State who were on an indefinite strike boycotting all hospital services, including emergency services (except COVID duty) for the past five days, toned down their agitation on Thursday by rejoining emergency services. However, they continued to stay away from other patient care services. Though detailed discussions had taken place on Wednesday between the striking medicos and a team of Health department officials led by Health Minister Veena George, the talks remained inconclusive, following which the medicos had decided to continue the stir. The Kerala Medical Postgraduates’ Association (KMPGA) had said that though the discussions were very productive and they could air all their grievances, no decision could be arrived at on issues such as appointment of more resident doctors or stipend hike. No talks Talks were slated to continue on Thursday with Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Asha Thomas on all issues, including the calculation of stipend hike. Though representatives of the KMPGA had been given an appointment with Dr. Thomas, discussions did not take place on Thursday. KMPGA State president M. Ajithra later said a Secretariat employee had misbehaved with her while she was waiting to meet Dr. Thomas at the Secretariat. She has since filed a police complaint. Dr. Ajithra said that even though the PG medicos continued to be on strike, they had decided to take up emergency duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pg-students-rejoin-emergency-services/article37974176.ece
17 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||WB native held for abusing child||The Kazhakuttam police have arrested a 30-year-old-migrant worker for allegedly sexually harassing a one-and-a-half year old child. A press note issued by the Kazhakuttam police has identified the accused as Rajnath Urav of Alipurduar in West Bengal. He is accused of committing the crime on Monday. He was caught from an abandoned house near the Karyavattom campus, the press note added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wb-native-held-for-abusing-child/article37974418.ece
17 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Exam focus area is 60% of portion||The government has issued orders fixing the focus area for preparation of question papers for the SSLC, higher secondary and the vocational higher secondary examinations in March 2022. The focus area has to be fixed at 60% of the total portion to be studied. Seventy per cent of the questions will be from this 60% component. Sufficient choices will be given to the extent of 50% extra marks. This follows a proposal from the Director of General Education earlier this month. The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) Director had also submitted guidelines for fixing the focus area. The focus area will be prepared and published by the SCERT. Last year, the focus area had been fixed at 40%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-area-fixed-at-60-for-exams/article37974327.ece
17 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PWD monitoring teams in all Assembly segments||The Public Works department (PWD) has decided to form Assembly constituency-level monitoring teams to inspect and report on the condition of roads and other structures managed by it. The mechanism would be in place in 2022, Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas said here on Thursday. To be headed by a senior department engineer in each of the 140 constituencies, the teams will carry out periodic inspections of roads, bridges, buildings and rest houses and report to a State-level panel consisting of three Chief Engineers. The reports would be scrutinised by his office, Mr. Riyas said. Cleared by the PWD Mission Team, the proposed mechanism was in line with the requirements laid down in the PWD Manual. It was designed to ensure that field work, an often neglected but critical aspect of departmental duties, was carried out efficiently. “The aim is to guarantee transparency, quality and timely completion of projects,” he said. The monthly reports filed by the teams will be accompanied by video footage and photographs. The PWD was also developing a software for filing the reports, Mr. Riyas said. Access to info The PWD hoped to introduce a project management system, which would allow the public access to information regarding projects, early next year, he said. Mr. Riyas said repairs were in full swing on damaged roads now that the rain had subsided. The government had sanctioned Rs. 213.41 crore for the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pwd-monitoring-teams-in-all-assembly-segments/article37974169.ece
17 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Training for panchayat officials||The secretary of a panchayat cannot disqualify an elected member of the local body, State Election Commissioner A. Shajahan pointed out on Thursday. Inaugurating an online training session for grama panchayat secretaries, Mr. Shajahan referred to provisions in the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act which lays out conditions for the disqualification of an elected member. The elected member is permitted to show due cause and apply to the elected council for reinstatement within 15 days. Or he/she can file a petition before the State Election Commission, he said. Mr. Shajahan underlined the importance of maintaining error-free electoral rolls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-for-panchayat-officials/article37974217.ece
17 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Campaign against dowry to go on till March 8||The first phase of ‘Sthreepaksha Navakeralam,’ a campaign being organised by the Kudumbashree against dowry and harassment of women, will go on till March 8, International Women’s Day, Minister for Local Self-government M.V. Govindan has said. ‘Sthreepaksha Navakeralam’ will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday. Mr. Govindan said all neighbourhood groups (NHGs) in the State will organise discussions as part of the campaign. A project will be prepared for activities to be implemented by each NHG in its area. This will be done after a study of all families in the area. It will be followed up by women’s meetings in the more than 22,000 wards in the State. The action plans prepared by NHGs in each ward will be presented, discussed, and codified for forming ward-level action plans. Empowerment meetings At the next level, women empowerment meetings will be organised at the panchayat/municipal level. Kudumbashree community development society (CDS) governing body, local bodies’ governing body, experts, and celebrities will attend these meetings in which the ward-level action plans will be discussed and codified to come up with action plans at the local body-level. The district-level meetings will discuss at length the action plans prepared at the local body levels and codify these. The draft district plan will be presented at a seminar to be attended by representatives of district administration, district and block panchayats, and various departments and prominent people from the cultural field. Any recommendations that arise will be included in the final action plan. On March 8, a conclave will be held. To implement the action plan that emerges at the conclave at the State level, social literacy activities will be taken up by the Kudumbashree, the Minister said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-against-dowry-harassment-of-women/article37974220.ece
17 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||633 new cases||The district recorded 633 COVID-19 cases and 711 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 5,967 on Thursday. A TPR of 7.9% was recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/633-new-cases/article37974420.ece
17 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrests of prime accused recorded||The Pothencode police on Thursday recorded the arrests of Sudheesh alias Unni and ‘Muttayi’ Shyam, two of the prime accused in the murder case of Kalloor native Sudheesh last week. With their arrests, as many as 10 people have been brought to book in the sensational case. The second accused, ‘Ottakam’ Rajesh who is suspected to have led the quotation gang remained on the run. All the three main accused have several pending cases including those relating to murder attempts. Shyam is the brother of the deceased’s wife. Unni and Shyam had been apprehended a day ago from a hideout near Vembayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrests-of-prime-accused-recorded/article37974422.ece
17 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UAE may open mega food park in State||Thani Ahmed Al Zeyoudi, UAE Minister for Foreign Trade, has promised the State government to explore the prospect of investing in a mega food park in the State. Dr. Zeyoudi made the pitch at a meeting with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Thursday. The UAE government planned to open three food parks in India. Mr. Vijayan requested Dr. Zeyoudi to consider Kerala as one of the sites and Dr. Zeyoudi said he would discuss the proposal with the technical team. He promised Mr. Vijayan to complete the Red Crescent project to construct free modern housing for the homeless under the aegis of the LIFE Mission. The UAE Minister invited Mr. Vijayan to visit the Dubai expo and Mr. Vijayan said he would visit Dubai in February next.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uae-may-open-mega-food-park-in-state/article37974167.ece
17 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bottled water: State to appeal against stay||The government is planning to appeal against the Kerala High Court order staying the State’s decision to reduce the price of bottled water from Rs. 20 to Rs. 13. Food Minister G.R. Anil said on Thursday that the appeal would be filed after examining the legal aspects. The government had the interests of the common man in mind while deciding to slash the price. “The court observed that bottled water comes under the purview of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and not the Kerala Essential Article Act, 1986. The government, however, feels that bottled water is a separate commodity.” He urged the Centre to back the State government decision in public interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bottled-water-state-to-appeal-against-stay/article37974171.ece
17 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3,404 new COVID cases||The State reported 3,404 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday when 56,580 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden now stands at 52,07,826. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State stands at 43,946 as on Thursday, with the State adding 320 deaths, including 36 recent ones, to the official list. The State’s active case pool dwindled to 34,171, with 4,145 more recoveries. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 633, followed by Kozhikode 523, Ernakulam 501, Thrissur 269, Kottayam 262, Kannur 227, Kollam 215, Malappuram 147, Pathanamthitta 135, Alappuzha 131, Palakkad 128, Idukki 80, Wayanad 79 and Kasaragod 74 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3404-new-covid-cases/article37974174.ece
17 December 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New Trivandrum Club office-bearers||Kuleena N.Jayakumar ( left) has been elected president and N.Muraleedharan secretary of the Trivandrum Club. Other office-bearers have also been elected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-trivandrum-club-office-bearers/article37974425.ece
17 December 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Sahitya akademi awards presented||The State witnessed progressive moves like gender equality in uniforms in some schools. But it is equally disappointing that a group of youth came out in protest against them, Kerala Sahitya Akademi president Vaisakhan has said. “We need to be careful against such repressive interventions that backtrack social development,” he said. He was speaking after inaugurating a function at the Kerala Sahitya Akademi hall in Thrissur on Thursday to distribute the akademi awards. Akademi vice president Khadeeja Mumthas presided. Honour Writers Mambuzha Kumaran, Sidharthan Paruthikkad and M.A. Rahman were honoured for their overall contributions. P.F. Mathews (novel); Innocent (humour); Sreejith Poyilkkavu (drama); K. Raghunadhan (biography); Sangeetha Sreenivasan (translation); and Priya A.S. (children’s literature) received awards. Endowment awards too were distributed at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sahitya-akademi-awards-presented/article37974216.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Local fishers to resist sale of stock from other States||Local fishermen owing allegiance to various trade unions have warned of obstructing the sale of low-cost fish brought here from various other States with a claim that it had been spoiling the fruit of their labour. Coming down heavily against wholesale agents in the sector, fishermen organisations’ leaders said here on Thursday that they would launch an indefinite stir in various harbours if the Fisheries Department failed to take note of the “unfair trade”. According to the Swathanthra Matsyathozhilali Federation, the low-cost trade without complying with any official price fixing mechanism and quality standards, was emerging as a challenge to the local fishermen and allied workers. They alleged that the reduced price was a trickery to sell off poor quality fish in the market and create an unhealthy competition with the local fishers. Wholesale traders “By the time we reach the local market with fresh catch, the inter-State wholesale dealers will wind up the day’s trade. With their increasing presence in the market, the local fishers are struggling to sell off their stock with a fair sales margin,” said a local fisherman from Chaliyam. He also claimed that there was a constant effort to portray local fishers as agents of unfair trading and reduce the demand for their catch. The Swathanthra Matsyathozhilali Federation leaders said the wholesale agents were mostly found securing the cheap stocks from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu to take control of the local market and suppress the local suppliers. Some of the influential inter-State agents were also found threatening the local fishermen who questioned the unfair trade. Meanwhile, some of the local fish vendors said there was no fall in the usual demand for local catch considering the quality aspect. Despite the inter-State agents’ active presence in the field with a highly competitive pricing, it was not well-received by the majority, citing suspected adulteration and the use of unhealthy preservatives, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-fishers-to-resist-sale-of-stock-from-other-states/article37974134.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Bennichen Thomas to coordinate tiger search||An infuriated mob in the area detained a group of officials in the morning demanding protection to their lives and property from wildlife attacks. They also raised the demand to change the strategy to capture the tiger. More than 120 forest personnel have been engaged in the operation on Thursday and their combing was on even late in the evening by following the pugmark of the animal, but the animal was yet to be tracked, D.K. Vinod Kumar, Chief Conservator of Forests, northern circle, Kannur, told The Hindu. As many as six teams of experienced forest personnel, a team consists 30 members each, would be drawn up from Kannur and Kozhikode districts to widen the strategy and they would comb in suspected hideouts of the big cat such as bushes, plantations, and forest on Friday, said Mr. Vinod Kumar, who is supervising the operations. Hiring volunteers They would try to scare away the tiger from its hideouts by disturbing it. ‘We are also planning to hire volunteers from local people who are skilled in scaring operations as a part of the strategy,’’ Mr. Vinod Kumar said, adding they would help the forest personnel in the operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bennichen-thomas-to-coordinate-tiger-search/article37974202.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Musician honoured||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/musician-honoured/article37974219.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Against privatisation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/against-privatisation/article37974293.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Against privatisation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/against-privatisation/article37974173.ece
17 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNTUA College of Engineering, a jewel of A.P.||The Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University College of Engineering, Ananthapuramu, that is celebrating its Platinum Jubilee on December 18, is a jewel in the crown of State technological education in many aspects, as it is the first such institution to be established in the combined Madras Presidency producing one of the finest professionals the country boasts of. G. Satheesh Reddy, Secretary of Department of Defence R&D and current Chairman of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), was a student of this college in the 1980-84 batch and will be the chief guest at the Platinum Jubilee Celebrations. Under the Post-World War Reconstruction of Development Programme, the college was established in 1946 at the Madras University (now Anna University) campus at Guindy in Chennai, with an intake of 120 students, as till then only one Government Engineering College was existing covering Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Kerala. The college was inaugurated by Omandur Ramaswamy Reddiar, the then Chief Minister of Madras state. Two years later, the college shifted to the present 185-acre sprawling location on 10 June 1948 and the then Director of Education D.S. Reddy started the college. According to present Vice-Chancellor G. Ranga Janardhana, it was a memorable occasion, and Mr. Reddy had taken extraordinary interest in the college, as he belonged to Anantapur, and used to visit the college as often as he could. It was in 1958 that the college was shifted to the present permanent buildings accommodating the administrative block, laboratories, engineering departments, library, and hostel blocks. The hostel blocks D and H did not have power and only one kerosene lantern was provided for every two and three rooms, which the present generation cannot even imagine, opine the faculty. The Engineering College Principal P. Sujatha feels it was a matter of great luck for her to be in this position and be part of history and teaching in the institution that was started by some of the greats like T. S. Venkataraman, K.T. Ganapathy, J. Raja Rao, N.S. Krishna Swamy, A. Srinivasan, and S. Srinivasan. These founding teachers were reverentially called ‘Pilgrim fathers’ by M.V. Rajgopal, the then vice-chancellor, as they too moved to Anantapur in 1948. S. Anantha Krishnan, the then Associate Professor was the first staff member, and Major Marley was the first special officer, and they moved to Anantapur in June 1948. Affiliation The college, in the first two decades, grew from strength to strength and was affiliated to four universities during this period. Initially, it was part of Madras University, then moved to Andhra University just for two years, then S.V. University, and finally to the J.N.T. University. The college became a constituent college of the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad, in 1972 and later a constituent college of the JNT University Anantapur, since August 2008. Former UPSC Member Y. Venkatarami Reddy, Amaraja Batteries former CMD Galla Ramachandra Naidu and retired engineer-in-chief, Irrigation and Adviser, Polavaram Project, M. Giridhar Reddy are some of the prominent alumni of the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jntua-college-of-engineering-a-jewel-of-ap/article37973777.ece
17 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||An evening of music and dance for JNTU students||It was a dream evening for the students and alumni of JNTU College of Engineering, Ananthapuramu, on the first day of the three-day Platinum Jubilee Celebrations on the college campus with everyone thoroughly cheering for the performers at the cultural programmes organised on the occasion at the university main auditorium on Thursday. Dance to the latest numbers, some traditional classical performances set the mood for the evening, while the members of the alumni association had an interaction with the students in the hostels and on the college campus sharing some of their experiences. A souvenir was released by APSCHE Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy on the occasion and the alumni of this college shared their memories and association with the staff and how it influenced their future life. Former JNTUA Vice-chancellor and former UPSC member Y. Venkatarami Reddy recounted his association with the college at various stages. Former Vice-Chancellor of VTU, Karnataka, Balaveera Reddy suggested that the college students must make use of the strong alumni association and use their services or expertise. Also, lighting a torch to start the Platinum Jubilee Celebrations flame began like a relay with Mr. Y. Venkatarami Reddy lighting the torch and handing over to JNTU current Vice-Chancellor G. Ranaga Janaardhana and was passed on to college principal P. Sujatha, and to other heads of the departments. The torch was finally taken by the Alumni Association members and given to Mr. Hemachandra Reddy who lit the main torch that would remain burning for the next three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/an-evening-of-music-and-dance-for-jntu-students/article37973784.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kannada can’t be made compulsory for UG: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday said that the Government cannot insist on making Kannada a compulsory language for first-year undergraduate courses from this academic year till further order of the court. The court also gave liberty to the students of the first year UG courses to select languages of their choice while asking both the State Government and the universities not to compel students to pursue Kannada as one of the languages for the present academic year till further order from the court. However, the students who have taken Kannada as one of the languages as their choice can do so, the court said. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, passed the interim order while hearing a PIL petition filed by Samskrita Bharati Karnataka Trust, Bengaluru, and others, and another petition filed by Shivakumar K.G. and other students. The petitioners have challenged the State’s policy of making Kannada a compulsory language for UG courses from this academic year “on the pretext of implementing NEP 2020”. “ Prima facie , we are of the view that the matter of making Kannada a compulsory language in higher education on the basis of National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 is a question which requires consideration. As such, the State Government at this stage shall not insist on making Kannada language compulsory,” the court said in its order. Though the Bench in its order of December 13 had directed the State Government and universities not to precipitate the matter, advocate for the petitioner-students Sridhar Prabhu pointed out that the students, despite December 13 order, were unable to opt for languages of their choice for the present academic year. However, Advocate General Prabhuling K. Navadgi said that the petitioner-students should not face any difficulty in pursuing Kannada language in the first-year UG course as records show that all of them had studied Kannada as one of the language till their II-year pre-university course. The Advocate General also said that already four lakh students have been admitted to UG courses so far and the admission process is almost over, and any order on language policy would impact the academic programme. Additional Solicitor General of India M.B. Nargund sought more time to clarify Centre’s stand on the State Government’s policy while pointing out that “making any language compulsory in any particular State on the basis of implementation of NEP-2020 would have a vast ramification and as such the Union Government has to take a decision in consultation with the State Government in this regard.” When the Advocate General requested to limit the benefit of the interim order to the students who have filed the petition, the Bench orally declined the request stating that all students will have to get benefit of the interim order. “Don’t politicise the issue,” the Bench orally told the Advocate General while adjourning further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kannada-cant-be-made-compulsory-for-ug-hc/article37973756.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA ‘jokes’ about rape in Assembly||A “joke” on rape, this time by a senior Congress leader, crept into the debate on rain damage in Karnataka on Thursday, shocking many. When Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri expressed helplessness about not being able to curtail the long speeches of members, former Speaker Ramesh Kumar said, “There’s a saying... when rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it.” He told Mr. Kageri, “That is the situation you are in too.” The comment was greeted by loud laughter by Mr. Kageri. In the aftermath of the gang-rape of a student in Mysuru in August, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra had drawn flak for saying that Opposition was politicising the incident and “raping him.” While he said that it was no more than a “joke”, he later had apologised. Back in 2019, as Speaker, Mr. Kumar had drawn the ire of women members by comparing himself to a rape survivor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-jokes-about-rape-in-assembly/article37973758.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||TAC recommends Section 144, night curfew in the run up to New Year||Celebrations that draw crowds and revellers on New Year’s Eve in the State will not be allowed this year too, if the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee’s (TAC) recommendations are implemented. Recommending curbs for Christmas and New Year celebrations in Karnataka, TAC has advised the government to impose Section 144 from December 22 to January 2 and night curfew from December 30 till January 2 in Bengaluru and other identified cities across the State. The committee that met on Wednesday submitted a report to the Government recommending that permission should not be granted to hold parties on roads and in public places, especially in the context of Omicron. Night curfew should be imposed from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. from December 30 to January 2, the TAC report stated. In public places “Gatherings/celebrations on major roads, malls, and other public places, especially at party hubs like Brigade Road, M.G. Road, Commercial Street, and surrounding areas should be prohibited. However, regular activities/business can be allowed to continue in pubs, restaurants, clubs, and other similar establishments with strict COVID-19 Appropriate Behaviour,” stated the report. “We have recommended that all service personnel in these party hubs should be fully vaccinated and have a negative RT-PCR that is not older than 72 hours with a validity for 14 days. Only fully vaccinated people should be allowed entry in these places,” TAC sources said. Recommending that the restrictions should be imposed not just in Bengaluru but in identified major cities across the State, TAC has said more than 200 people should not be allowed to congregate from December 22 to January 2, including in places of worship. Entry to all places of worship - churches, temples and mosques - should be allowed only for fully vaccinated people with mandatory and proper use of masks, the report stated. Asserting that these restrictions are essential in the context of Omicron, TAC chairman M.K. Sudarshan told The Hindu on Thursday that TAC had made the recommendations taking into consideration last year’s experience and the COVID-19 situation globally. “In the context of Omicron and international arrivals, we have to be extra cautious. Although the current COVID-19 situation in Karnataka is not alarming, the next one month is crucial and immediate measures to curb transmission through international and inter-State arrivals should be initiated,” he said. Minor spurt C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, who is also part of TAC, said subdued new year celebrations are essential to sustain the low Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of 0.04% in the State. “We are observing a minor spurt of cases similar to what was seen in the beginning of first and second waves. In the context of Omicron, it is the right time to take all precautionary measures seriously. We have to ensure proper ventilation and entry of only fully vaccinated people in indoor and closed door meetings, failing which they can become potential super-spreading events,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tac-recommends-section-144-night-curfew-in-the-run-up-to-new-year/article37973720.ece
17 December 2021||Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Association seeks GI tag for Andhra Pradesh’s paper sweet||The Sir Arthur Cotton Atreyapuram Pootharekula Manufacturers Welfare Association, which operates from East Godavari in Andhra Pradesh, has filed an application seeking Geographical Indication (GI) tag for the famous Atreyapuram Pootharekulu, also known as paper sweet. P. Sanjai Gandhi, IP Attorney and Advocate, Nodal Officer, Geographical Indication Registration of Products, Government of Tamil Nadu, who filed the application on behalf of the association, told The Hindu that this sweet is made by skilled women from the local community in that region. The sweet is prepared in the village of Atreyapuram and adjacent villages in Atreyapuram Mandal in East Godavari district. On an average, these women make this sweet in 3-5 days and it is priced between Rs. 20-Rs. 25 per piece. Each woman makes around 600 pieces per day. “A lot of Telugu people live across the globe and there is a huge potential for this sweet in the export market,” he noted. According to details provided in the application, this sweet is made of dry fruits such as cashews and almonds, naturally obtained jaggery or powdered sugar and desi ghee wrapped in wafer-thin rice sheets. The rice is procured locally from the Konaseema belt. This recipe has been passed on since 300 years. And over the years, the stuffing inside this sweet has slowly changed and it is also being made with chocolate powder, powdered sugar and hot spicy ingredients. This year in August, the Department of Posts in Andhra Pradesh released special covers on Atreyapuram Pootharekulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/association-seeks-gi-tag-for-aps-paper-sweet/article37973714.ece
17 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for cheating medical distributors||The Chittoor police arrested a 35-year-old man from East Godavari district in Chandigarh on charges of cheating two medical distributors in Chittoor to the tune of Rs. 60 lakh on the pretext of supplying them medical equipment and CT scan machines at cheaper rates. Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy told the media here on Thursday that the accused, Jala Sanjay, a native of Jakkampudi Palyam of Rajahmundry Urban, established contacts with the two medical distributors three months ago, introducing himself as a dealer. He collected advance payments online to the tune of Rs. 60 lakh from them but later kept avoiding their calls. The distributors informed Chittoor police in December. The whereabouts of the accused were traced to Chandigarh. A special party rushed there and took Jala Sanjay into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-cheating/article37974271.ece
17 December 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gutkha worth Rs. 10 lakh seized, six held||The Nimmanapalle police of Madanapalle sub-division on Thursday nabbed six members of an inter-State gang belonging to Chintamani in Karnataka, allegedly involved in smuggling of gutkha and chewable tobacco products into Chittoor district, and seized a lorry and a car with stocks worth Rs. 10 lakh, at Tavalam Cross on the outskirts of Madanapalle. The police also seized Karnataka-made liquor bottles worth about Rs. 10,000 from the lorry. The police said that during the last several months, surveillance was mounted on the Bengaluru-Madanapalle road to check smuggling of contraband goods. The vehicles were heading for Kalluru village on the Punganur-Pakala road. During interrogation, it was revealed that one Syed Saif (26) of Chintamani was allegedly supplying bulk stocks to the gang. Lorry driver Irshad Khan and cleaner Patan Hussain and four others were nabbed. The police said two more key persons would be arrested soon. Sentenced Meanwhile, the Puttur judicial magistrate court on Thursday sentenced three persons to three years rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 on each for manufacture and trading of illicit liquor. The Vedurukuppam police said the three accused, residents of Devaragudipalle village near Puttur, were arrested in 2020 on charges of brewing illicit liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gutkha-worth-rs-10-lakh-seized-six-held/article37974270.ece
17 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Theatres that filed pleas in HC allowed to hike rates||The Andhra Pradesh High Court has ruled that only those cinema hall managements that have filed a writ petition against G.O. 35 are allowed to increase the prices of tickets, while the remaining have to abide by the provisions of the G.O. In the memo (No. 1579050/GENLA/2021) dated December 1, 2021, the government had banned the screening of special shows. Similarly, in G.O. 35 dated April 8, 2021, the government had prohibited collection of increased rates for movie tickets. Hearing the review petition filed by the government on Thursday, a Division Bench of the High Court ruled that the relaxation in pricing of movie tickets would apply only to those managements that had filed writ petitions in the court against G.O. Ms. No 35. The managements of three cinema halls in Tenali, 225 cinema halls in the north coastal region and East Godavari districts were exempted from the provisions of the G.O. and were free to decide the prices of movie tickets. Powers to JCs Managements that seek to screen benefit shows, or enhance the ticket prices should submit applications individually to the respective Joint Collectors, and the authority to fix prices of movie tickets rests with the Joint Collectors. Principal Secretary (Home) Kumar Viswajeet said the provisions of the G.O. 35 would continue to be in existence for the other managements of movie halls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/theatres-that-filed-pleas-in-hc-allowed-to-hike-rates/article37974282.ece
17 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A surprise stop for Lokesh||Telugu Desam Party general secretary Nara Lokesh during his padayatra at Tadepalli, had a surprise stop at the Jana Sena Party office in Kunchanapalli. Waving his hands, he went up to the supporters of Jana Sena Party and had a brief chat with them. Later he continued his padayatra through the village .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-surprise-stop-for-lokesh/article37973783.ece
17 December 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Enumeration of chilli crop losses on, says Minister||Home Minister M. Sucharita has said that the enumeration of losses due to black virus attack on chilli crop will be done and the issue will be brought to the notice of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Home Minister along with Collector Vivek Yadav and MLAs was reviewing the loss caused due to the deadly virus here on Thursday. The Horticulture Department in a powerpoint presentation explained about the losses caused due to viruses, the steps taken to recover the losses, the research done on viruses and the enumeration of losses. “We are hearing that farmers are using tractors to destroy chilli crop on their own. This is a pathetic situation and we will apprise the Chief Minister of the alarming situation and ensure that the farmers are paid compensation. The congenial atmosphere has allowed the virus to cause maximum losses to farmers,” said Ms. Sucharita. Farmers cultivated chilli on 1.06 lakh hectares and they spent Rs. 70,000 to Rs. 1 lakh per acre. Even a tenant farmer pays Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 30,000 per acre. Mr. Yadav said 90% of the crop was damaged due to the virus. MLAs Alla Ramakrishna Reddy, Kilari Venkata Rosaiah, Bolla Brahmanaidu, Undavalli Sridevi. Joint Director Vijaya Bharathi was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enumeration-of-chilli-crop-losses-on-says-minister/article37974283.ece
17 December 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Charminar’s arch gets a new glow||The Kali Kaman now has a coat of peach. Workers on scaffolding perched like birds are applying the final layer of peach paint to the 60-foot high arch that was built along with the Charminar in the 1590s. Cleared of all the encroachments, the grandness of the arch is apparent from a great distance. “The big breakthrough was when the building which was almost attached to the arch was demolished. We could work without hindrance. Now, if we can persuade the shop owners running their business from the Kaman, our work will be complete,” says Shrinivas Sulge of Laxmi Hericon that’s executing the project. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation officials managed to demolish the encroachment in May this year. The vegetal growth on the roof of the building has been cleared and a coat of lime mortar over square red tiles is being laid to waterproof the structure. Ten outlets have been added to the roof to drain the rainwater. “We removed 8 inches of rubble and then started our work on the roof,” informed Mr. Sulge. It was called Kaman-e-Sharkh or the eastern arch according to ‘Tareeq-e-Qutb Shahi’. “There was an Ashoor Khana inside the Kaman. During Muharram, the arch would get covered with black flags and look black and it acquired the sobriquet of Kali Kaman. In the ’90s the Alams were moved out to Panjey Shah and the rangrez (colour dyers) moved in permanently,” informs Mubbashir Ali Khan, who is researching Ashoor Khanas of Hyderabad. Now, workers and visitors have to enter the quarter of dyers to climb the 60 steps to reach the top of the building. The arch is surrounded by kite sellers, zari workers, jewellers, and a new café called ‘Le Mitron’. “The colour is not peach. It is earthen hue. It is the building’s original colour as lime mortar was mixed with bricks during construction,” informs Mr. Sulge. The workers use a water-based lime emulsion ‘verona lime emulsion’ for the final colour coat. According to the product information it “creates a stable link with the surface, maintaining the level of vapour permeability of the support facilitating the evaporation of internal humidity. Its level of alkalinity prevents the development of mould and bacteria.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/charminars-arch-gets-a-new-glow/article37973716.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 more Omicron cases in Telangana||Four more Omicron cases were detected in Telangana on Thursday. Of them, three are from Kenya and one is of Indian origin, said Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao. With this, seven Omicron cases were detected in the State, including three (7-year-old boy sent to Kolkata) from Wednesday. Out of these, one passenger is from an ‘at-risk’ country and seven from ‘non-risk’ countries. All passengers who come from ‘at risk’ countries undergo RT-PCR tests. In case of fliers from ‘non-risk’ countries, 2% samples are collected at random for COVID test. If anyone from the two categories test positive for COVID, their samples are sent for genome sequencing. The DPH said that a thorough investigation into the four new Omicron cases was in progress. Whenever a case is detected, immediate contacts of the patients are traced and samples are collected for RT-PCR tests. From December 1 to 16, 6,764 people have come from ‘at-risk’ countries and 21 tested COVID positive. 190 test COVID positive The State of Telangana has recorded 190 COVID cases on Thursday, taking the total to 6,79,064. Two more COVID patients died. The new cases include 80 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 14 from Rangareddy, 13 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 12 from Hanamkonda, and 10 from Mahabubabad. From March 2, 2020 to December 16 this year, a total of 2.91 crore samples were tested and 6,79,064 were detected with coronavirus. Out of the total cases, 3,805 were active cases, 6,71,247 recovered, and 4,012 people died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-more-omicron-cases-in-telangana/article37974066.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 Sri Lankans accused of trying to revive LTTE||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has charged 15 Sri Lankans, arrested in connection with smuggling of arms, ammunition and drugs to India, with attempting to revive the activities of the proscribed Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) and waging war against Sri Lanka. Some of the accused were arrested from a fishing vessel in the Arabian Sea on March 25 and drugs, arms and ammunition were seized from them. According to the chargesheet filed at the Special Court of the agency in Kochi, the accused had conspired and sailed to India from the Kudawella harbour in Sri Lanka in the fishing vessel Ravihansi. They also took with them 300 kg of heroin and prohibited arms and ammunition. Some of the accused had procured narcotic drugs, arms and ammunition from countries such as Iran and Pakistan and transported them through sea route to Sri Lanka and India. Some others were charged with attending conspiracy meetings at various places in Tamil Nadu to reviving the LTTE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-lankans-accused-of-trying-to-revive-ltte/article37973724.ece
17 December 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC wants TDB commissioner to oversee Sabarimala activities||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Thursday directed the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) Commissioner to personally oversee the entire affairs at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple during the Mandalam-Makaravilaku festival to ensure that no inconvenience is caused to pilgrims and smooth conduct of the festival. The Bench comprising Justice Anil K. Narendran and Justice P.G. Ajithkumar passed the order on a report filed by the Sabarimala Special Commissioner. The court directed the commissioner to depute 20 additional staff at the establishment wing and 200 additional class 4 employees for special duty at Sabarimala, Pampa and Nilackal in two days. If any of the employees deputed for special duty at Sabarimala, Pampa and Nilackal are reluctant to join duty, other than on genuine medical grounds, they should be proceeded against by initiating disciplinary proceedings. Tractor plying timings Meanwhile, the Bench modified the timings of the plying of tractors along the trekking path to Sabarimala for transporting raw materials for preparing 'prasadam' and 'annadanam’ and puja articles. Acting on a petition by the TDB, the court permitted the use of one tractor of the Vishudhi Sena from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. for removal of waste from Pampa to Charalmedu, beyond the regulated timing, to keep the trekking route clean and hygienic for use of pilgrims. The court permitted the use of tractors for the transportation of raw materials from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. from Monday to Thursday. It also granted permission to transport puja articles from 5 a.m. to 7 a.m. every day. The other stakeholders, including hoteliers, were allowed to transport perishable items such as vegetables and fruits from Monday to Thursday between 10 p.m. and 3 a.m. using tractors. The court ordered the police to have a constant watch to detect any rash and negligent driving of tractors through the trekking path or even use of such vehicles beyond the permission granted in the order of the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-wants-tdb-commissioner-to-oversee-sabarimala-activities/article37973723.ece
17 December 2021||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ducks culled in Kottayam, Alappuzha to curb bird flu||As many as 16,976 birds in duck farms located across the three villages of Neendoor, Kallara and Vechur were culled by the officials over the last two days to combat bird flu. Officials said the culling operations had been completed at Neendoor and Kallara, while slaughtering of the remaining stock at Vechur was slated for Friday. The authorities had identified about 28,000 to 35,000 birds for culling to ensure the containment of the virus. The rapid response team, divided into 10 groups, began the culling operations on Wednesday and killed 11,268 ducks in three panchayats on the first day. The second day, meanwhile witnessed the culling of 5,708 ducks from the Kattamada region at Vechur. The ducks killed on the second day belonged to Madanam (3,000), Suresh Kumar (425), Sunimon (1,500) and Baiju (783), all major duck farmers of the region. Following the slaughtering, the ducklings were burned in a pit and the farms were subjected to disinfection drives. The operations are being jointly carried out by the Animal Husbandry and Health departments, and the local bodies. The operations are continuing without a break under heavy police deployment and with the help of the Fire and Rescue Services department. Badly hit region The duck farmers of northern Kuttanad, already reeling under the impact of back-to-back floods and COVID-19, are in a new flap following the outbreak of this highly contagious virus. With previous outbreaks in mind that saw thousands of birds culled and significant economic losses, the latest outbreak has left them completely devastated. In Alappuzha, culling of ducks within one-km radius of the bird flu-hit areas in Nedumudi and Karuvatta grama panchayats was completed on Thursday. Officials of the Animal Husbandry department said 15,665 ducks belonging to five farmers were culled by rapid response teams in the two grama panchayats. On Wednesday, around 2,000 ducks of a farmer were culled in Nedumudi. Apart from Nedumudi and Karuvatta, bird flu (H5N1) was confirmed in ducks in Thakazhy grama panchayat last week. Rapid response teams had culled more than 9,000 birds, mostly ducks, within one-km radius of the infected area there. Officials said that duck mortality had also been reported from a few other places in the district.  (With inputs from Alappuzha bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ducks-culled-in-kottayam-alappuzha-to-curb-bird-flu/article37973726.ece
17 December 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||CAG raps Union Ministries for elephant deaths on rail tracks||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) has pulled up the Union Ministry of Railways and the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) for neglecting the elephant corridors in the Palakkad railway division. Elephants continue to die on tracks despite the Ministries jointly initiating short- and long-term measures, the CAG says in its latest report. Neither the Railways nor the Governments of Tamil Nadu and Kerala have approached the authorities concerned of the Centrally sponsored Project Elephant for a permanent mitigation plan in the Podanur-Palakkad rail section. Seven elephant passages have been identified in the 48-km section which passes through the reserve forests of the Western Ghats. This section is part of the main line from Chennai to Thiruvananthapuram via Erode. Seven passages Two of the seven passages are in Tamil Nadu, three in Kerala and the remaining two fall in both States. On an average, 61 express and passenger trains pass daily through the section where wild elephants cross the track frequently. The railway line passes through the forests for 16.5 km, of which 5 km is between Ettimadai and Walayar in Tamil Nadu and 11.5 km in Kerala. Ten elephants were killed due to train hits in the Kanjikode-Madukkari section during 2006-10 and four between 2016-17 and 2018-19, sources say. In its 260-page, the CAG says no underpass or overpass has been constructed in the identified locations so far by the Railways or the State governments. Precautionary steps Precautionary measures such as providing ramps for trapped elephants between Ettimadai and Walayar, setting up watch towers for monitoring their movement, building percolation ponds and installing infrared ray equipment to detect the presence of elephants have failed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cag-raps-union-ministries-for-elephant-deaths-on-rail-tracks/article37973718.ece
17 December 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bhuma Akhila Priya blessed with son||Former Minister Bhuma Akhila Priya, hailing from Allagadda in Kurnool district, was blessed with a son on Thursday at a hospital in Hyderabad. Mother and daughter are safe, said family sources. It is coincidentally the birth anniversary of Ms. Akhila Priya’s mother and her political mentor Bhuma Shobha Nagi Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/akhila-priya-blessed-with-son/article37974269.ece
17 December 2021||MANGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 PFI activists arrested in Uppinangady||The Uppinangady police on Thursday arrested 10 Popular Front of India (PFI) activists allegedly involved in rioting outside the police station and attempted to murder Bantwala rural police sub-inspector Prasanna Kumar on Tuesday. Police gave the names of the accused, arrested on PSI Kumar’s complaint as, Mohammed Tahir, Sadiq, Abdul Mubarak, Abdul Sharin, Mohammed Jahir, Sujir Mohammed Faizal, Mohammed Hanif, N. Kasim, Mohammed Asif and Tufail Mohammed. Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane said search was on for the other accused involved in all three cases. The situation in the town, meanwhile, remained peaceful on Thursday while the prohibitory orders clamped by the Puttur Assistant Commissioner continued in Sullia, Puttur, Kadaba and Belthangady taluks till Friday midnight. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has said the administration fully supports the police force so as to maintain law and order in the district. If anyone has grievances about police action, they could approach the district police complaints authority of which he is the chairman and seek redressal, Dr. Rajendra said. Western Range Inspector General of Police Debajyothi Ray, Mr. Sonawane and other senior police officers visited Uppinangady on Wednesday to take stock of the situation. Additional forces, including personnel from neighbouring Udupi district, have been deployed in Uppinangady and other sensitive places. In his complaint, PSI Kumar said the demonstration outside Uppinangady police station by PFI activists on Tuesday demanding the release of suspects in an assault case appeared to become violent around 9.30 p.m. He along with other officers, including Puttur Deputy Superintendent of Police Gana P. Kumar, Bantwala Circle Inspector T.D. Nagaraj, Puttur Women PS Inspector Thimmappa Naika, Belthangady PSI Nanda Kumar, Subrahmanya PSI Jamburaj Mahajan, Puttur Rural Udaya Ravi and other personnel went to disperse the unruly mob. At that time, the activists took out sharp weapons and soda bottles from an ambulance brought by them and began attacking police party even as one of them attempted to stab Mr. Kumar in his stomach with an intention to kill him. While trying to prevent the attack, the PSI received injuries on his palm, he said. DySP Ms. Kumar received injuries in stone pelting while the activists ran into a nearby masjid to take shelter. They also damaged police vehicles and injured some other police personnel, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-pfi-activists-arrested-in-uppinangady/article37973727.ece
17 December 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mixed fortunes for tobacco growers||The year 2021 had begun on an optimistic note for the tobacco growers in south coastal Andhra Pradesh, as the markets hit by the COVID-induced economic crisis the previous year bounced back. The farmers in the traditional tobacco growing areas in Prakasam and Nellore districts received a remunerative price, thanks to the favourable grade mix. The bright grade accounted for the lion’s share of the crop when compared to the previous year, when the grade out-turn was poor with a majority of the crop being low grade, spurring the State government to intervene through the Markfed to create market buoyancy. Better price As a result, the farmers could get a better than average price for the main commercial crop during the e-auctions held in the Southern Light Soil (SLS) and the Southern Black Soil (SBS) regions. The farmers in the two districts got an average price of Rs. 140 per kg for the 72 million kg marketed during 2021 against Rs. 116 per kg realised for the 84 million kg sold during the previous year, Tobacco Board sources said. The partial curfew imposed to combat COVID-19 coinciding with the peak marketing season gave anxious moments to the farmers, as the commodity regulator staff as well as the labourers contracted the virus that resulted in truncated e-auctions. Enthused by the better than average returns when the auctions were completed in August / September, the farmers began cultivation of the rabi crop in right earnest in October itself. But the recurrent weather systems that developed in the Bay of Bengal in November / December put paid to the hopes of the farmers as they suffered losses in the early phase of cultivation. Replantation However, the never-say-die-spirited farmers went for gap filling and re-plantation, incurring additional cost of Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000 per acre, as the incessant rains destroyed the crops in about 25% of the planted area. The crop coverage was only 30,283 hectares so far against the crop size of 49,602 hectares fixed by the crop regulator. Hoping against hope for the dry spell to prevail in December, they expect to complete transplantation of seedlings in full extent, said a group of farmers led by V.V. Prasad from Chekurpadu village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mixed-fortunes-for-tobacco-growers/article37974285.ece
17 December 2021||PALAKKAD/MALAPPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||E. Sreedharan quits active politics||Expressing his disenchantment with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), E. Sreedharan has said he would not continue in active politics. Addressing the media at his residence in Ponnani in Kerala on Thursday, the technocrat said he learned a big lesson from the defeat he suffered in the Assembly election held in April this year. “The BJP cannot make any progress in Kerala without changing itself,” he said. He said he did not need any political banner to continue his social work. “I entered politics not as an active politician, but as a bureaucrat. I entered politics in my old age. I could serve the country in many ways even before,” he said. The BJP did not win a single seat in Kerala in the Assembly election in spite of its high-profile campaigns by pumping in crores of rupees. Mr. Sreedharan’s dreams of leading the State’s development on the BJP banner too suffered a heavy jolt, forcing him to retreat from active politics. SilverLine project Mr. Sreedharan reiterated his opposition to the State’s ambitious 540-km semi-high-speed railway project, SilverLine. The project would not be viable and would push the State into heavy debts. He warned against the heavy environmental impact the K-Rail project could bring about for a tiny State like Kerala. The State was in need of yet another rail line, but the time was not ripe for it. The State was going through a financial crisis and it would have to wait for a few more years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/e-sreedharan-quits-active-politics/article37973728.ece
17 December 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lack of stadium hits sports in Srikakulam||Srikakulam district which is known to produce great sports personalities like Olympic medal winner Karanam Malleswari, does not have a stadium right now, thanks to the demolition of the Kodi Ramamurthy stadium five years ago. The government authorities hurriedly demolished all the structures in the stadium constructed in 1982 in 11 acres. It had been the perfect venue for all sports activities and national and international events. The then TDP government proposed to construct a new stadium with an estimated cost of Rs. 25 crore but failed to complete it, according to local persons. Due to the lack of funds, the present YSR Congress government also reportedly ignored its reconstruction. CPI(M) district secretary D. Govinda Rao said it would be difficult for local youngsters to get medals even in inter-district competitions in the absence of sports infrastructure. He asked the State government to take steps immediately for its reconstruction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lack-of-stadium-hits-sports-in-srikakulam/article37974314.ece
17 December 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APNGOs Association demands 54% fitment||Andhra Pradesh Non-Gazetted Government Officers’ (APNGOs) Association Srikakulam district president Hanumanthu Sairam on Thursday asked the State government to announce the Pay Revision Commission with 54% fitment and payment of seven arrears of dearness allowance at the earliest. As part of the State-wide agitations, the association organised a protest at the Tahsildar’s office in Srikakulam. ‘Demands ignored’ Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Sairam said that the State government was ignoring the legitimate demands being made by the employees. “The government should also scrap the Contributory Pension System. Services of contract and outsourcing employees should be regularised. GPF, APGLI bills needed to be cleared immediately,” said Mr.Sairam. Leaders of various associations including Sannasetty Rajasekhar and Rai Venugopalam were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apngos-association-demands-54-fitment/article37974309.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rally bats for three capitals||A rally was taken out by the intellectuals from the Rayalaseema region on the streets of Tirupati on Thursday expressing their support for the State government’s decision to set up three capitals and for the development of Rayalaseema. The rally assumed significance as it came a day ahead of the public meeting planned by the Amaravati farmers on the conclusion of their ‘Nyayasthanam to Devasthanam maha padayatra’. A large chunk of the participants comprised of college students, who raised slogans such as ‘Jai Rayalaseema’, and demanded equitable distribution of the projects and facilities across the State. Several activists who had favoured statehood for Rayalaseema in the past joined the rally and demanded that the government undo the damage done to the region in the past under various regimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rally-bats-for-three-capitals/article37974287.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to hold Tiruppavai discourses at 208 places||The Tirumala-Tirupati junior pontiff Sri Siriyakoil Kelviappan Govinda Ramanuja Jeeyar has hailed Tiruppavai as ‘Dravida Veda’, pointing out that it narrated the essence of the four Vedas in Tamil. The seer formally launched the series of spiritual discourses on ‘Tirupppavai’ composed by saint poetess Godha Devi, as Thursday marked the beginning of the auspicious Dhanurmasam or the Tamil month of Margazhi, which is observed in a grand manner in the TTD temples. He said Tiruppavai explained the adorable bond between a devotee and the Almighty in a succinct form. TTD’s Dharmic Projects Officer Vijaya Saradhi announced that the discourses on Tiruppavai would be conducted in 208 locations across the country during the 30 days. Public Relations Officer T. Ravi explained the role of Godha Devi in perpetuating the Bhakti cult. Scholar Chakravarti Ranganathan will narrate the essence of each of the 30 verses daily at Annamacharya Kalamandiram in the city, while noted classical singer Dwaram Lakshmi renders the Pasurams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-hold-tiruppavai-discourses-at-208-places/article37973757.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD hospital gets cath lab to perform advanced keyhole surgeries||Sri Padmavati Children’s Cardiac Hospital, the newly-launched facility of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to treat infants with heart complications, got yet another facility on Thursday, when its Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy inaugurated an advanced cath lab. “The lab, set up at a cost of about Rs. 5 crore, uses keyhole technology to fill the holes in the hearts of infants, obviating the need to perform a surgery. The patients can be discharged within 24 hours of an operation and they will be in a position to attend school in less than a week,” said Mr. Subba Reddy after inaugurating the facility. The hospital, inaugurated by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on October 11, houses 70 beds, including 40 with ICU support. The hospital has set a record by performing 16 open heart surgeries for patients in the age group of 25 days to 18 years. “At present, 170 children are on the waiting list to undergo heart surgeries,” the Chairman said. He directed the officials to arrange for adequate supply of medicines and allied material so as to perform 100 such procedures in a month free of cost under the Aarogyasri scheme. Mr. Reddy later visited the ICU and general wards, apart from interacting with the parents of infants recovering from a surgery. TTD Joint Executive Officer V. Veerabrahmam, Chief Engineer Nageswara Rao, SVIMS Director B. Vengamma, BIRRD OSD Reddeppa Reddy, CS Resident Medical Officer Sesha Sailendra and hospital Director Srinath Reddy accompanied him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-hospital-gets-cath-lab-to-perform-keyhole-surgeries/article37974273.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati boy’s project selected for national expo||A ‘wealth from waste’ project conceived and prepared by K. Mohammad Affan, a Class X student of Dr. Kishore’s Ratnam High School, here has been selected for a national-level science exhibition. The project demonstrated how electricity could be produced from waste material. The working model was the highlight at the State-level Children’s Science Congress-2021, and was further recommended for the national-level exhibition. Affan was felicitated on Thursday by principal T. Purushotham Reddy, manager P. Vamsi Krishna and teacher and guide Y. Manjula for his accomplishment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-boys-project-selected-for-national-expo/article37973786.ece
17 December 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SPMVV at 604th rank in global level||Sri Padmavati Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) has been placed at the 604th position at the global level and 24th among Indian institutions in the Rankings 2021 announced by UI Green Metric (University of Indonesia), which received 956 entries from universities worldwide and 35 from India. Vice-Chancellor Jamuna Duvvuru expressed delight at the varsity securing the 24th position among Indian universities in its maiden entry into the rankings. SPMVV Director of University Rankings P. Venkata Krishna, expressing happiness over the ranking, said it would be of immense use to university leaders in their efforts to put in place eco-friendly policies and manage behavioural change among the academic community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spmvv-gets-604th-global-rank/article37974274.ece
17 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A record attempt in energy conservation||Special Chief Secretary (Housing) Ajay Jain has said that Andhra Pradesh is going to set a record by implementing world-class energy efficiency technology in the ‘housing for all’ scheme, that is touted as the country’s largest such programme. Addressing a seminar titled ‘Eco-Niwas Samhitha’ on Residential Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC), as a part of the National Energy Conservation Week-2021, here on Thursday, Mr. Ajay Jain said the cost effective housing for all would be a boon for the low-income groups as well as the construction sector in the State. He said the State would be the first in the nation to build around 28.3 lakh houses with modern technologies to improve energy efficiency that would help in reducing the greenhouse gas emissions. He said the State was building 15.6 lakh houses under the ‘PMAY - Navaratanalu Pedalandariki Illu’ under the first phase at an estimated cost of Rs. 28,000 crore. Tie-up with BEE “The construction of 10.72 lakh houses is under way in 10,055 layouts. The government has decided to adopt energy efficient measures in the construction of these houses. The A.P. State Housing Corporation has tied up with the BEE for adoption of energy efficient measures,” he said. “The government is providing energy efficient appliances such as bulbs, tubelights and fans to each household. Utilising energy efficiency building designs in construction of houses is only an option for the beneficiaries of housing scheme but not mandatory,” he added. Energy codes Mr. Ajay Jain said the ‘YSR Jagananna Colonies’ would be provided with CC roads, drains, water supply, electricity, Internet and other facilities. Secretary (Energy) N. Srikant said the construction sector in A.P. alone consumed 42% of energy out of the annual consumption of around 60,943 mega units. “Energy codes for new buildings are an important measure for ushering in energy efficiency in the building sector. The State has the potential to save around 15,000 MU. As of now, we have implemented energy conservation and energy efficiency programmes that can achieve energy savings to the tune of 5,600 MU annually,” Mr. Srikant said. BEEP-India director Sameer Maithel said the ‘Indo-Swiss energy efficient building technology’ would help in reducing temperature by not less than 3 to 5 degrees inside the house in comparison with the temperature outside. It also ensures adequate natural ventilation, minimum 20% electricity savings and safe and healthier environment in the building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-record-attempt-in-energy-conservation/article37974277.ece
17 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three succumb to COVID-19 in State||The State reported three COVID-19 deaths and 148 infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. One death each was reported in Chittoor, Guntur and Krishna districts. In the past two days, six deaths were reported in as many districts. The cumulative death toll and infection tally increased to 14,474 and 20,75,419 respectively. The number of active cases was put at 1,814. The total number of recoveries was 20,59,131. The recovery rate remained at 99.22%. Daily positivity rate The daily positivity rate of the 33,043 samples tested was 0.45% and that of the 3.089 crore samples tested so far was 6.72%. In the past three days, nearly one lakh samples had been tested, and their daily positivity rate was less than 0.5%. Chittoor reported 34 infections in the past day. It was followed by Srikakulam (18), West Godavari (18), Guntur (16), Krishna (14), East Godavari (11), Nellore (10), Visakhapatnam (10), Anantapur (5), Vizianagaram (5), Prakasam (4) and Kadapa (3). There were no infection cases in Kurnool. The overall district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,94,977), Chittoor (2,48,437), West Godavari (1,79,895), Guntur (1,79,134), Visakhapatnam (1,58,705), Anantapur (1,58,182), Nellore (1,46,999), Prakasam (1,38,776), Kurnool (1,24,212), Srikakulam (1,23,625), Krishna (1,20,549), Kadapa (1,15,925) and Vizianagaram (83,108).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-succumb-to-covid-19-in-state/article37974280.ece
17 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workshop for government doctors held||A team of 50 doctors from the Department of Medical Education, AP Vaidhya Vidhan Parishad and AP Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation, led by the Special Secretary to Govt. (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) G.S. Naveen Kumar, underwent training in the modernisation of health facilities management, in Hyderabad at a two-day workshop held at Continental Hospital and Apollo Hospitals. Mr. Naveen Kumar said that the issues such as improving standards of government hospitals by making small differences and topics were discussed at the workshop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workshop-for-government-doctors-held/article37973780.ece
17 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cloth merchants stage protest against GST hike||Members of The Cloth Merchants Association (Vastralatha) staged a protest against the proposed hike of Goods and Services Tax on textiles from the new year, at Vastralatha on Thursday. The cloth merchants said that the government had decided to increase GST on textiles from 5% to 12% from January 1, 2022. They said both the merchants as well as the consumers would be be impacted by the hike in GST and demanded that the central government immediately withdraw its decision. The merchants said that protests would be intensified in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cloth-merchants-stage-protest-against-gst-hike/article37973779.ece
17 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank employees oppose privatisation of banks||A large number of bank employees led by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), Andhra Pradesh, an umbrella organisation of various bank employees' unions, protested against the Central government's proposals to privatise the public sector banks. Launching the two-day strike at Dharna Chowk on Thursday, they demanded that the government scrap the National Monetisation Pipeline, withdrawal of The Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, an increase of interest rates on deposits, reduction of service charges. “It appears that the Central government is all set to go ahead with its plan to privatise banks. The government wants to privatise banks incurring losses in favour of some corporates. Privatisation is not just an issue of the bank employees. Employees will continue to protest against the government’s decision and will launch an indefinite strike if necessary,” a union leader said. Slogans raised Employees, including a large number of women, raised slogans against the central government. Meanwhile, bank services were hit due to the strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bank-employees-oppose-privatisation-of-banks/article37973781.ece
17 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||KL varsity convocation to be held tomorrow||KL deemed to be University will award degrees to 3,444 students during the convocation scheduled to be held on December 18. In a press conference here on Thrusday, University vice chancellor Saradhivarma said that Indian Space Research Organisation Chairman K. Sivan would be the chief guest of the convocation. He said 40 students would be awarded gold medals and 40 would be awarded silver medals during the convocation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kl-varsity-convocation-to-be-held-tomorrow/article37973782.ece
17 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||69% of eligible beneficiaries fully vaccinated in state||The State has administered over 6.54 crore doses of vaccine against COVID-19 to eligible beneficiaries in so far and over 97% of them received at least one dose. Of the total 3.95 crore eligible persons (as per the Office of Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India), 2.71 crore (68.82%) were fully vaccinated in the State and 1.11 crore persons were due to receive a second dose of the vaccine. As of 6 p.m. on Thursday, over 1.58 lakh doses were administered in the State. During the last week, only 15 lakh doses were administered while in the previous week 30 lakh doses were administered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/69-of-eligible-beneficiaries-fully-vaccinated-in-state/article37974278.ece
17 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Funds for housing based on construction progress’||Krishna district Joint Collector (Housing) Shrivas Nupur Ajay Kumar has said that funds for the Jagananna housing scheme will be released to the beneficiaries only based on the progress of the construction of the houses every week. In a release, Ms. Nupur said that so far the government had released Rs. 56 crore fund to 11,589 beneficiaries who showed the progress of the construction of the houses. Of them, 7,413 beneficiaries achieved basement level construction and 1863 beneficiaries showed roof level construction, while 2,182 showed slab level construction. Construction of 132 houses was completed, she said. She called upon the beneficiaries to speed up construction of the houses as rains subsided and layouts were accessible. She said construction material was made available at the godowns in the layouts. She said sand availability would be increased by setting up one sand reach in every mandal and arrangements to provide slab chips, electrical components, doors and windows, plumbing material and others were being made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/funds-for-housing-based-on-construction-progress/article37974451.ece
17 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘38 crore unorganised workers in the country’||Union Minister of State for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Labour and Employment Rameshwar Teli said that there are 38 crore unorganised workers in the country as per the 2017-18 periodic labour force survey. In a written reply to the question posed by MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, Mr. Teli stated that over 45.83 lakh workers had registered themselves for the PM Srama Yogi Man Dhan pension as of December 8, 2021. In a reply to another question by Mr. Reddy, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said that there are 32 automatic weather stations and 61 automatic rain gauge stations in Andhra Pradesh which had the longest coastline of 974 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/38-crore-unorganised-workers-in-the-country/article37974279.ece
17 December 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Volunteer attacks constable, held||The Machilipatnam police arrested a man for allegedly injuring a constable attending a ‘dial 100’ complaint during the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. According to police, the accused M. Krishna who was reportedly in an inebriated condition attacked the constable Srinivas at his in-laws house in Lakshmanrao Puram. Mr. Krishna was working as a ward volunteer with the 11th Secretariat of the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/volunteer-attacks-constable-held/article37974450.ece
17 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana Governor takes a tour of shipyard||Governor of Telangana and Lt. Governor of Puducherry Tamilisai Soundararajan, who is on a two-day tour of the city, visited Hindustan Shipyard Limited on Thursday. The Governor visited the steel shops, building dock and repair dock at HSL. She appreciated the infrastructure capabilities available at HSL. Chairman and Managing Director (CMD) of HSL Hemant Khatri spoke on the vast potential of HSL to secure high-value constructions and refit orders and meet the future requirements of Indian Navy and Coast Guard, thus propelling the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ initiative of the Government of India. Mr. Khatri said that HSL was in the process of finalising the contract for construction of five Fleet Support Ships (FSS), worth over Rs. 20,000 crore by the end of the 2021-22 fiscal. Considering the past expertise gained by the shipyard in timely completion of normal refit of ‘INS Sindhuvir’, HSL is hoping to undertake normal refit of another Indian Naval Submarine. The CMD apprised the Governor that HSL was modernising at a rapid pace with almost Rs. 1,000 crore to be spent on infrastructure in the next two to three years towards infrastructure augmentation. HSL has signed MoU s with other organisations for mutual cooperation for tapping domestic/export markets, both in defence and non-defence sectors. The Governor also visited the Shipyard Exhibition, being organised at HSL Colony as part of the ongoing ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ from December 13 to 19. She went round the exhibition and showed keen interest in knowing about the various kinds of ships and submarine models, tools, equipment and maritime history displayed at the exhibition. She appreciated HSL for its historical importance and service towards the nation. Earlier, the Governor arrived at the airport at 1.55 p.m. and visited Sankara Matham at Dwaraka Nagar in the city. She will visit Andhra Medical College (AMC) on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-governor-takes-a-tour-of-hsls-facilities/article37974448.ece
17 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Araku area hospital gets an operation theatre||An operation theatre was inaugurated at the Araku area hospital by Collector A. Mallikarjuna on Thursday. Speaking at the inauguration, Mr. Mallikarjuna said that comprehensive measures are being taken to boost medical infrastructure in the Agency areas of the district. “Operation theatres have been provided at Paderu district hospital, Araku area hospital and the Community Health Centre (CHC) at Chintapalli, and special grants of Rs. 20 lakh, Rs. 15 lakh and Rs. 5 lakh were sanctioned to them respectively. The State government has appointed nine specialist doctors for the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam. It has sanctioned Rs. 1.5 crore to the Paderu district hospital, and Rs. 90 lakh for the Araku area hospital for provision of infrastructure and equipment,” the Collector said, adding that three surgeries would be done at the Araku hospital on Thursday. Mr. Mallikarjuna said that all kinds of surgeries would be done at these hospitals, based on the need. Gyanaecologists and anaesthetists were being sent to these hospitals on deputation. On the initiation of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer Ronanki Gopalakrishna, mega medical camps were being organisd in the Agency areas once in 15 days, the Collector said. Araku MLA Chetti Phalguna appealed to people in the constituency to use the facilities being provided at the hospital. The operation theatre would be useful for people of Araku Valley, Dumbriguda and Anantagiri mandals. It would save the tribal people the trouble of going all the way to Visakhapatnam for surgeries, the MLA said.. Additional District Medical and Health Officer Leela Prasad, local tahsildar, MPDO, engineering officials, and medical officers of the hospital participated in the programme. Tribal science exhibition The Collector also visited the tribal science exhibition being organised at Talarisinghi Tribal Ashram School at Paderu. The exhibition would help promote a scientific temper among students, he said. Participating as chief guest at the Girijana Vigyana Sambaralu–2021, organised at the school on Thursday, Mr. Mallikarjuna said that the science festival would also help in promoting traditional sports and culture. Mr. Gopalakrishna said the festival would help in bringing out the latent talent among tribal students. A total of 426 models were on display at the expo. These include 90 each in mathematics and English, 80 in physical science, 96 in biological science and 70 models in social studies. Competitions in archery, volleyball, kho kho, Kabbadi, athletics and archery were being held as part of the festival. Zilla Parishad Chairperson J. Subhadra and Director of Tribal Welfare V. China Veerabhadrudu spoke. Earlier, portraits of B.R. Ambedkar, revolutionary freedom fighter Alluri Seetharama Raju and mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan were garlanded by guests. Sub-Collector V. Abhishek, Deputy Director of Tribal Welfare G. Vijay Kumar, DEO L. Chandrakala and Agency DEO Ramesh Babu participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/operation-theatre-set-up-at-araku-area-hospital/article37974311.ece
17 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank staff join hands for two-day strike||Employees and officers of public sector banks in the district participated in the two-day nationwide strike, in response to a call given by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) on Thursday. A rally was taken out on the banner of Visakhapatnam District Bank Employees Coordination Committee from Saraswathi Park to LIC Building to protest the move of the Central Government to privatise public sector banks and demanding withdrawal of the proposed Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill. A large number of officers, owing allegiance to the Canara Bank Officers’ Association, staged a protest at the Canara Bank Regional Office at Siripuram. Local Regional Secretary V. Rama Ratna Kumar demanded a repeal of the decision to privatise public sector banks (PSBs). Describing the PSBs as the backbone of the Indian economy, he said that they were extending credit to various sectors like agriculture, MSMEs, infrastructure, service sector, loans to weaker sections and education loans, as per the policies of the government. PSBs were the only banks functioning in rural, hilly and remote areas of the nation, irrespective of the profitability of the bank, they said. The PSBs had absorbed huge NPAs made by a few large corporate companies, which had defaulted to the tune of Rs. 4.64 lakh crore and the government has settled their dues to the tune of only Rs. 1.64 lakh crore and the remaining Rs. 3 lakh crore had to be written off by the PSBs, causing huge losses to these banks, they said. The participants raised slogans against the Banking Laws Amendments Bill – 2021. Employees and officers of different PSBs staged a protest at Gandhi Park near the GVMC office. UFBU Visakhapatnam chapter convener A. Sushma and leaders of nine affiliated unions participated in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bank-staff-join-hands-for-two-day-strike/article37974447.ece
17 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division marks Railway Week||Waltair Division of East Coast Railway celebrated the 66th Railway Week at Srinivasa Kalyana Mandapam on Thursday evening. The Railway Week is celebrated to commemorate the first train journey in India in 1853. Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy, who participated as chief guest, said that the Railway Week celebrations provide an opportunity to review the performance of each unit of the Railways to recognise the meritorious services provided by the officers and staff. He complimented the railway personnel for their valuable contribution to the growth of the Railways. Waltair Division has bagged six ‘Efficiency Shields’ in Coaching Depot, Finance, Personnel, Stores (Scrap Disposal), Signal & Telecom and Sports at the 66th Railway Week celebrations at the zonal level. Merit awards were presented to 230 staff for their outstanding performance and shields to various branches. Mr. Satpathy received the shields along with branch officers on behalf of Waltair Division, at a function held at the zonal headquarters in October this year. ECoR WWO president Parijata Satpathy, ADRM (Infra) Sudhir Kumar Gupta, ADRM (operations) C. Surya Lakshmi and WWO vice-president Kavita Gupta participated as guests of honour. Earlier, Senior Divisional Personnel Officer R.N.A. Parida welcomed the gathering. Various cultural events were organised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waltair-division-marks-railway-week/article37974460.ece
17 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar held on business opportunities in Mexico||A webinar on business opportunities in Mexico was organised by the Federation of Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FAPCCI), here on Thursday. Addressing the gathering, Emeka John Eni, managing partner and lead consultant, Mexican Incorporation, said that Mexico is the fifteenth largest economy in the world and the second largest economy in Latin America, after Brazil. “Mexico also serves as the first trade partner of India in Latin America. Mexico not only serves as a gateway to the United States and Canada, but is in itself a big attractive market. India’s economic engagement with Mexico is much deeper than what it has with its closest neighbours. It is, therefore, of great interest to assess the current bilateral economic relations between India and Mexico and look for opportunities that provide mutual gains,” he said. Speaking about the trade composition, Mr. John Eni said that both Mexico’s export and import basket with India are highly concentrated in a few sectors. India’s exports to Mexico mainly comprise automobiles, organic chemicals, electrical machinery, nuclear reactors and articles of aluminum, iron and steel. Automobiles alone comprise a big chunk in the export basket, with India being the second largest exporter of automobiles to Mexico, after the U.S. He also said that there are a plethora of Indian firms operating in Mexico in a range of sectors, with the most prominent ones being Information Technology (IT), pharmaceuticals, automobiles, steel, and mining. He also spoke on the legal compliances for foreign companies in Mexico. P. Vydehi, secretary of FAPCCI, gave a brief presentation on the potential sectors of Andhra Pradesh for increase in export and import trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-held-on-business-opportunities-in-mexico/article37974453.ece
17 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CRPF, NYK felicitate tribals at youth exchange programme||The 198 Battalion of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has organised an interaction programme with tribal youths from the interior Agency areas with its rank and file followed by high tea and light entertainment. These youths were selected by the CRPF with the help of Nehru Yuva Kendra (NYK) Sangathan as a part of the 13th Tribal Youth Exchange programme. The tribal youths left for Ranchi in Jharkhand State on Thursday evening as part of a cultural exchange programme. An escort from CRPF and NYKS will be accompanying the youth during their tour. In the past, some of the selected youth were taken to Bengaluru. Some of the participating students told that visiting cities like Visakhapatnam and Bengaluru was an experience of a lifetime. They were impressed by life outside the Agency area. Kavinder Kumar Chand, Commandant of 198 Bn, said that in Agency areas, most of the children drop out of school and are usually the prime recruits for Maoists. Education and exposure to the new world are the best way to wean them away from Maoists, he said. The Nehru Yuva Kendra (NYK), Visakhapatnam, felicitated the tribal youths who came from interior Agency areas of the district, at a programme organised at the Youth Hostel Building on Beach Road on Thursday. District Youth Officer G. Maheswara Rao addressed the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crpf-nyk-felicitate-tribals-at-youth-exchange-programme/article37974461.ece
17 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vice Admiral Sanjay is ENC Chief of Staff||Vice Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan assumed charge as Chief of Staff of the Eastern Naval Command here on Thursday. Vice Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan was an alumnus of the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla; Defence Services Staff College, Wellington; Naval War College, Mumbai; and the National Defence College, New Delhi. The Vice Admiral, who is a gunnery and missile systems specialist, had vast experience at sea and ashore. He had commanded an Indian Coast Guard Inshore Patrol Vessel, missile vessels ‘Vibhuti’ and ‘Nashak’, and the guided-missile corvette ‘Kuthar’. He had also been the commissioning commanding officer of the indigenously constructed state-of-the-art stealth frigate ‘Sahyadri’. He had commanded the Eastern Fleet from February 2020 to February 2021. He was deputy commandant and chief instructor of National Defence Academy before assuming new charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vice-admiral-sanjay-is-enc-chief-of-staff/article37974141.ece
17 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NCC special yachting camp concludes||The National Cadet Corps Special Yachting Camp 2021 that began on December 8 concluded here on Wednesday. The camp was organised under the aegis of the Indian Naval Sailing Association, and cadets from NCC Directorates in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, the North-east States and Odisha took part in the camp. During the camp, cadets were imparted training on sailing and yachting on Enterprise and Laser-class boats, kayaks, and windsurfing. The cadets were also provided training on boat rigging, handling winds and waters and safety on boats. The camp commenced after ascertaining the COVID-19 negative status and swimming proficiency of the participants. Cadet Snehamanjari Behera from Odisha was adjudged the most proficient sailor and was awarded a level upgradation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ncc-special-yachting-camp-concludes/article37974465.ece
17 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||An ode to fallen soldiers||As the country celebrated 50 years of the decisive victory in the 1971 Indo-Pakistani War in the form of ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’, the Eastern Naval Command celebrated the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas by paying tributes to the personnel of the armed forces who laid down their lives during the course of the war, here on Thursday. A floral wreath was placed at the ‘Victory at Sea’ War Memorial on RK Beach on Thursday morning by Vice Admiral Sreekumar Nair, Director General of Naval Projects, Visakhapatnam. A 50-man guard was paraded at the venue and a two-minute silence observed as a mark of respect to the dead. The nation celebrates Vijay Diwas on December 16 every year to commemorate the historic victory against Pakistan in the 1971 War.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fallen-soldiers-remembered/article37974312.ece
17 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curtains on Energy Conservation Week||An exhibition, displaying some of the techniques adopted for conservation of energy like implementation of automation of lighting, solar street lights and electric vehicles, marked the conclusion of the National Energy Conservation Week, at the DRM Office on Thursday. The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (ECoR) observed the National Energy Conservation Week from December 8. Awareness campaigns were organised by displaying banners, posters, stickers and holding rallies with energy-saving slogans at different railway stations and locations of Waltair Division to create awareness among the public as well as the railway staff. The expo also showcased BLDC fans that utilise less energy, i.e. 27 W instead of 60W, Remote Sensing Lighting System, LED Lights and insulated geysers, which can retain the heat of water for up to six hours and, inverter type AC systems and battery powered vehicles like cars and two wheelers were also displayed. Addressing officers and staff at a seminar on ‘Energy Conservation’ organised on the concluding day, Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy suggested the use of renewable forms of energy like solar and wind, which were available in abundance in nature. He said apart from installation of solar panels, use of LED lights with provision of timers would be more economical and conserve energy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curtains-on-energy-conservation-week/article37974458.ece
17 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pinnacle- 2021 college festival begins||The annual college festival of the Integral Institute of Advanced Management (IIAM) ‘Pinnacle-2021’, began on a grand note in Visakhapatnam on Thursday. The festival was inaugurated by K.V.R. Reddy, NACL, cluster head (Human Resources), in the presence of Prerana Baid of ACN Info Tech, Vijaya Rudraraju, Director IIAM and S.P. Ravindra, dean and secretatry of IIAM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pinnacle-2021-college-festival-begins/article37974462.ece
17 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IAS trainees visit VPT||Chairman of Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) K. Rama Mohana Rao interacted with trainee Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers who visited VPT on Thursday. Briefing the officers, the Chairman explained about the functioning of the Visakhapatnam port and the available infrastructure facilities, cargo handling capacity, and modernisation covered storage facilities, solar power, and various other operations of the port.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ias-trainees-visit-vpt/article37974463.ece
17 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strike by bank staff holds up transactions||Financial transactions worth Rs. 500 crore were disrupted due to a strike by bank employees in Vizianagaram district who were opposing the merger of public sector banks. United Forum of Bank Unions organised a rally from Fort Brach to the main branch of State Bank of India in Vizianagaram on Thursday. UFBU Vizianagaram district convener M. Rajasekhar Gupta said that employees from 250 branches of 12 banks participated in the strike. Mr. Gupta said that deposits made in private banks would not be as secure as those made in government banks, and sought the interest of the public in ‘protecting the banking system’ in the country. Similar protests were held across the State, with staff in large numbers organising protests against the Centre’s policies regarding the banking sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/strike-by-bank-staff-holds-up-transactions/article37974307.ece
17 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. urged to look into pensioners’ grievances||Andhra Pradesh Government Retired Employees Association’s Vizianagaram unit president Ramachandra Panda on Thursday urged the State government to ensure payment of pensions on the first day of every month, stating that many pensioners needed to pay EMIs and fulfill other financial commitments in the first couple of days of every month. Speaking to reporters, he urged the government to clear pending DAs and bills of surrendered earned leaves and other overheads. Directive sought on health insurance Mr. Panda asked the government to give a clear directive to hospitals to provide treatment quickly to pensioners covered under health schemes as they were unable to make rounds of hospitals at critical times. Mr. Panda said that a meeting would be organised in Vizianagaram on Friday on the occasion of Pensioners Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-urged-to-look-into-pensioners-grievances/article37974443.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trudging along||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trudging-along/article37974445.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drowned in books||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drowned-in-books/article37973788.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/religious-fervour/article37974291.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Winter canopy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/winter-canopy/article37974455.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Race against rain||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/race-against-rain/article37973730.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,TELANGANA||Karnataka to roll out e-Sahamathi app for sharing documents for jobs||The Karnataka Government will soon roll out a mobile app, e-Sahamathi, a tool to empower citizens to own, control, and share their data with various private and public companies to get jobs, seek admissions in universities or colleges, and so on. The digital platform developed by the e-Governance Department of the Government with the support of the National Informatics Centre would enable citizens to share their personal data with companies and universities. Under the system, a citizen has to login using his/her Aadhaar number and share data with companies by making a request to the consent manager of e-Sahamathi. The consent manager would send the data to the companies/universities or any other entities where he/she is seeking job or admission or other purposes. However, universities and companies have to register with e-Sahamathi for sending the data. The new system would eliminate physical verification of certificates/documents and avoid delay and corruption, said Rajiv Chawla, Additional Chief Secretary, E-governance. This will become operational within the country, he added. Given with the citizen’s consent, it provides only the necessary data with accuracy and ensures lawfulness, fairness, and transparency, he said. So far 63 private and government universities in Karnataka have registered with the platform. Among the big educational institutions, only IIIT, Dharwad, and IIM-B have not joined the platform and talks are on with them, he said. The platform would provide certificates of Class X (SSLC) candidates since 2003 and Class XII (PUC) since 2008. It would provide documents of degrees and other courses of the last 10 years, Mr. Chawla said. The facility would be helpful for companies during the recruitment process. Since submission of certificates would be by universities through digital platform, it would eliminate submission of fake certificates by candidates. However, universities have the right to collect fees from an individual or the companies for submission of certificates, the IAS officer said. A fee of Rs. 50,000 is fixed for registration. “Only credible and noteworthy firms would be enrolled. The fee would be used for maintenance of the e-governance system,” Mr. Chawla said. The official ruled out the possibility of sharing data with any private firms for commercial purposes. A committee headed by the Additional Chief Secretary will monitor applications and enrol firms after payment of fee, he said. Consent manager Mr. Chawla said, “The department is responsible for making data available to any data seeker/consumer upon valid consent. Consent manager is responsible for collecting, updating, and revoking consent based on citizen’s request.” The platform would also provide sharable data such as jobs provided under the MGNREGA scheme, and weather forecast. Karnataka would be the first State in the country to launch this system, which would become operational after the inauguration by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in a few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-to-launch-e-sahamathi-app-for-sharing-documents-for-jobs-education/article37973839.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Officials under severe pressure||Civil Supplies Minister Gangula Kamalakar has said that officials of his department were under severe pressure with huge arrivals of paddy cultivated in kharif at market yards but the Centre setting a cutoff for purchase. In a press release, the Civil SuppliesMinister, Mr Gangula Kamalakar, pointed out that the Central government had permitted procurement of 59.60 lakh tonnes of paddy which would yield 40 lakh tonnes of rice after milling. But, the TelanganaState government had already procured 50 lakh tonnes of paddy and another 40 lakh tonnes was likely to reach market yards with the harvest of crop still going on, the Minister said. “The civil supplies officials were under pressure how to procure the remaining paddy. The same would be discussed with the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao at a meeting tomorrow”, the Minister said. ‘Pro-farmer policies’ The Civil Supplies Minister added that the high cultivation of paddy in the State was a result of pro-farmer policies of government, commissioning of Kaleswaram lift-irrigation project, 24 hour free power supply to agriculture, investment support of Rs 5,000 an acre under Rytu Bandhu, availability of quality seed and timely supply of fertilizers. The State government was committed to overcome hurdles set up by Centre by its indifference to farming community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/officials-under-severe-pressure/article37974089.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Genpact plans centre in Warangal||Global IT major Genpact will be setting up a tech centre in Warangal, a move bound to strengthen Telangana government efforts to promote IT growth beyond Hyderabad to tier-II cities in the State. An announcement on the proposed facility was made by Genpact leadership team following a meeting with IT and Industries Minister K.T.Rama Rao. In setting up the centre, Genpact will join Tech Mahindra, Mindtree and Cyient, who already have established campuses in Warangal. A release from the Minister’s office on Thursday said Genpact CEO Tiger Tyagarajan was happy to note that Warangal is very close – an hour and a half away – to the company’s Pocharam campus and boasts of a very strong academic ecosystem comprising an NIT and plenty of tier-II engineering colleges from where the firm can source quality talent for the tech centre. He was hopeful that Warangal will emerge as important tech centre for the company. Genpact, which has a global headcount of over one lakh across many countries, will be starting the facility in Warangal soon with 100 people. “My compliments to CEO Tiger Tyagarajan and his team on supporting our endeavour to strengthen IT in tier 2 towns,” Mr.Rao said. Stating that Genpact decision to establish a tech centre will provide a huge boost to the IT sector in Warangal, the Minister highlighted the advantages of setting up campus there. The State government is having plans to develop urban infrastructure in Warangal and ease the commute in the city. Warangal also has a very good connectivity with Hyderabad and the corridor is fast developing. Besides Mr.Tyagarajan, the team from Genpact that interacted with the Minister, IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan and officials included Senior Vice President, Global Infrastructure and Logistics Vidya Srinivasan, VP and India Operations Leader Satish Vadlamani and VP, Legal Counsel Madhu Babu. Telangana government has been encouraging IT companies to establish offices in tier II cities. As part of this emphasis, the government has developed IT Towers in Khammam, Karimnagar and Warangal. Works on IT towers in Nizamabad, Mahabubnagar and Siddipet are at various stages of completion, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/genpact-plans-centre-in-warangal/article37974092.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||Every farmer family that came here had a story to tell||A demonstration demanding ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh as assured by the government to families of farmers who committed suicide witnessed an outpouring of pathetic tales near Indira Park here on Thursday. Within a span of two years the world of Savara (Shabad) Padmamma turned upside down, literally. She is native of Madaram village in Parigi mandal of Vikarabad district. Her husband Bandaiah had two acres of land and he had cultivated cotton and maize. They had also bought two bulls by spending about Rs. 2 lakh. Lack of irrigation and failure of bore-well resulted in crop loss. Not only that, he could not even feed the bulls properly due to drought conditions and sold them for Rs. 40,000. All these conditions forced him to take extreme step and on August 6, 2018, he committed suicide by hanging. This was the beginning of Padmamma’s problems. Her son Naresh (25), already married, was shocked with the suicide of father. Their debt has mounted to Rs. 6 lakh and he could not find any solution to the problem. He approached the local officials for ex gratia but of no use. He had a depression because of the pressure mounted by money lenders and committed suicide by consuming pesticide on November 13, 2020. Now taking care of mentally unsound son Krishnaiah, 70- year old mother-in-law Ankamma has become the responsibility of Padmamma. She is taking care of the land and also works as labourer in neighbouring fields. “I do not know what to do and how to lead the life. Future is worrying. How to take care of my mother-in-law and son is a big question and why the government has been not coming forward to help people like us?” asked Ms. Padmamma at the dharna chowk on Thursday. The story of 25- year old Chikkudu Manjula, native of Lakdaram village in Kondapaka mandal of Siddipet district was too pathetic. Her husband had committed suicide by consuming pesticide on December 18, 2016, and no government assistance was extended to the family. She has three daughters and at the time of incident, her younger daughter was three months old. “I moved around government offices several times but of no use. Where should I go now?” questioned Manjula, controlling tears. These two women are among the scores of families of farmers, who had committed suicide, who came to participate in the ‘Praja Darbar’ (Public Hearing) organised the Rytu Swarjya Vedika at Indira Park on Wednesday. The Jury of Praja Drabar included Prof. Haragopal, Kavitha Kuruganti, V. Sandhya and G. Jhansi. The Praja Darbar has demanded the government to pay ex-gratia to the families of farmers who had committed suicide as per GO 194 and give due recognition to tenant farmers. Later the farmers families held a rally at Indira Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/every-farmer-family-that-came-here-had-a-story-to-tell/article37974094.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||156 kidney stones removed from 50-year-old patient||Doctors at the Preeti Urology and Kidney Hospital in Hyderabad have removed 156 kidney stones through keyhole opening from a 50-year-old patient from Hubli, Karnataka, this week. The doctors claimed that this was the highest number of kidney stones ever removed from a single patient in India, using laparoscopy and endoscopy, instead of a major surgery. “The patient is also a case of ectopic kidney as it was located near his abdomen, instead of its normal position in the urinary tract. Though the presence of kidney in an abnormal location is not the cause of problem, removing stones from the kidney located abnormally was surely a challenging task,” as per a press release. 100 kidney transplants Over 100 kidney transplantations have been performed at NIMS this year. Health Minister Harish Rao congratulated doctors for the feat. Majority of the 100 beneficiaries are men (75). Of the 100 transplantations, 97 were done free by the government, including 90 under Aarogyasri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/156-stones-removed-from-patients-kidney/article37974067.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR unveils new facilities at Woxsen University||Minister of Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao unveiled four new facilities at Woxsen University in Kamkole near Sangareddy. These include Bloomberg finance lab, a central library of 70,000 sft, a 10-acre mega sports arena and a 75,000 sft high-tech academic block. The new additions are sectoral first and student-centric state-of-the-art facilities. KTR said that the emphasis on research was what impressed him and argued that one cannot push innovation without good strides in research and produce world class entrepreneurs. “Most of the renowned private institutions have taken this step and Woxsen is treading in the right direction with its focus on research,” he said, according to a statement. Appreciating the founder and president of the university Praveen K. Pula, the Minister asked him to continue to invest in Telangana and said that the government will support him. KTR urged the business leaders, who were part of the inauguration, to explore the German model of apprenticeship and support Woxsen by offering practical exposure to students. Minister of Education Sabitha Indra Reddy, and commissioner of College Education Navin Mittal were present. Woxsen is one of the first private universities of Telangana spread in a sprawling 200-acre land. This residential campus houses over 1,000 students from across India and abroad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-unveils-new-facilities-at-woxsen-university/article37974076.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress MLA Jagga Reddy closeted with KTR||Telangana Congress committee working president and Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy ran into IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao at official programmes at Sangareddy on Thursday. Also present in the programmes was Mr. Reddy’s Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) rival in Sangareddy district Chinta Prabhakar and MPs K. Prabhakar Reddy and B.B. Patil. Finance and Health Minister T. Harish Rao who was expected to attend as Minister representing the erstwhile Medak district was conspicuous by his absence. During an informal discussion at Collectorate, Mr. Rama Rao reportedly asked Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy to take care of Telangana Rashtra Samithi leaders. Mr. Reddy jokingly told the Minister that the latter had a bigger role in the matter. Mr. Rama Rao invited both Mr Jayaprakash Reddy and Mr. Chinta Prabhakar on to the dais. Mr. Reddy had broken away with the Telangana Rashtra Samithi 15 years ago after having been elected to Assembly on the party ticket. Since then he had a running feud with the TRS leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-mla-jagga-reddy-closeted-with-ktr/article37974096.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Ready to face KCR in next elections’||Former Minister and BJP MLA from Huzurabad Eatala Rajender said on Thursday that he was ready to contest against Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao if his party ‘orders’ him to do so in the next elections. “I have been elected seven times from Huzurabad, so there is no need, but I will, if I am asked to,” he told a ‘Meet the Press’ programme organised by the Telangana Journalists Union. “One thing is clear, people of Telangana have lost their faith in Mr. Rao, Harish Rao or any of the ministers because their words and deeds have not matched. The party is a gone case and am confident the BJP will come to power,” he asserted. “Take the case of job notifications, double bedroom housing and the somersaults on agriculture policy, it is clear the TRS Government announces them just before any elections and forgets about them later,’ he said. Like most regional parties, TRS is run by Mr. Rao with an iron hand with no internal democracy and hence, has to take the responsibility for the current sorry state of affairs in TS. “No one is happy including elected representatives of the ruling party. They are enjoying the fruits of being in power as the term is for another two years. A majority are aware the TRS has no future and once this is clear, who will stay there?,” questioned the former Minister. His only agenda is to put an end to the dynastic rule in Telangana. Mr. Rajender said no government can survive if the farmer is in tears and this was happening in TS due to the ‘lopsided’ agriculture policies introduced without any perspective planning by the CM. “What is left is propaganda from media outlets owned by the ruling party and whenever a organisation turns critical, the immediate plan is to take it over,” he charged. The BJP leader said he had joined the national party wholeheartedly and there is no ground for any kind of groupism. “I am not the kind to change parties often. I have been in TRS for 20 years and everyone knows my record there. I was pushed out of the party and forced to resign as MLA,” he reminded. The MLA advised Mr. Rao to “first take care of TS” before he can think of leading the Third Front across the country. Union president K. Prasada Rao and general secretary B. Swami participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ready-to-face-kcr-in-next-elections/article37974099.ece
17 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Visakhapatnam Port Trust eyes cargo from Hyderabad||The Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) plans to reach out to companies in Hyderabad, encourage them to use their facilities instead of those in Mumbai, and will offer them attractive concessions, Durgesh Kumar Dubey, Deputy Chairman VPT said. Mr Dubey pointed out that the VPT is closer to Hyderabad than the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust, and that the former remains the cheapest port in the country. The intention is to reach out to the pharmaceutical sector, as well as the coal sector. He said that Hyderabad has great potential and the expectation is to have 1 million tonnes of cargo from here. The VPT, from April to November this year, has handled as much as 44.98 million tonnes of cargo and is ranked fourth among the major ports and second on the East Coast Ports in terms of volumes handled. In FY 2020-21, as much as 36.79 million tonnes was handled by port berths. The cargo handled during the same period by private operators was 22.05 million tonnes. The VPT, at the moment, has a capacity of 126 million tonnes. Mr Dubey said that the VPT gives a concession of 70% on vessel related charges on 250 transshipment containers. In terms of port dues and pilotage for container vessels with GRT more than 50,000 metric tonnes, a concession of 80% is being given. He also said that the VPT, which handles all kinds of cargo, including gas, crude oil, and explosives, is touted as the second gateway to Nepal. The VPT’s iron ore berth is capable of handling 2 lakh DWT vessels with a draft up to 16.5 metres. The VPT is connected to trust railways through the railway yards to the Chennai-Howrah main lines of East Coast Railway. It operates own railway system with a track length of about 186 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vpt-eyes-hyderabad/article37974102.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bank strike impacts services||Public sector bank branches across the State were shuttered and customers could not access services, through the facilities, as a two-day nationwide strike called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) against privatisation began on Thursday. An estimated 35,000 bank employees in the State were part of the strike, Bank Employees Federation of India’s Telangana general secretary P. Venkataramaiah said. Employees of regional rural banks and private banks were not part of the strike, he added. Stating that all public sector bank branches were closed and no services were possible for customers, he said the situation is expected to remain the same on the second day of the strike. Sources in the banking industry said there were no reports of ATM running of cash as anticipating the strike most of the banks would have replenished their facilities on Wednesday. They however, did not rule out the possibility of a cash out scenario at ATMs on Friday. A protest demonstration was organised, as part of the strike, by the bank unions near the SBI LHO in Koti in which the participants raised slogans. Describing the strike as total, All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) general secretary C.H. Venkatachalam in a statement said bank employees are conscious that bank privatisation will not be in the interest of the country, economy and people, besides affecting their jobs, job security and future prospect. The UFBU had called for the strike protesting against the move of the Centre to privatise public sector banks and to introduce the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the current session of the Parliament, which will enable the government to reduce their equity capital in the PSBs to less than 51%, he said. AIBEA is one of the nine constituent unions of the UFBU. Of the nine, two unions are not participating in the strike. A number of unions in RBI, LIC, cooperative banks as well as central trade unions are extending support to the strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bank-strike-impacts-services/article37974082.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Hyderabad poised for growth in defence, aerospace sector’||DRDO chairman and secretary of the department of defence R&D Satheesh Reddy called for the academia, research labs and micro, small and medium enterprises, to come together to form a complete ecosystem for strong growth in the defence and aerospace sector. The sector is expected to flourish in the near future and Hyderabad already having a strong base in defence and aerospace will be in the forefront, he said, and underscored the need for qualitative research and development to achieve success, for India to emerge as a leading exporter in defence products. Dr. Reddy was addressing the 5th edition of the annual flagship event, Defence Conclave - Strategies for bridging technology, start-ups and exports in India’s defence sector, organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry virtually on Thursday. The government has earmarked 64% of defence procurement budget for the local industry and a lot of effort is going into strengthening local capabilities. Domestic supply chains need to thrive and network with original equipment manufacturers, said additional secretary, department of defence production, Sanjay Jaju. TS Industries secretary Jayesh Ranjan said that the State happens to be the hub of both start-ups, defence production and defence research. A perfect ecosystem that can bridge the gaps in technology, start-ups and exports and enhance the country’s defence capabilities, he said, and suggested policy level interventions in creation of level playing field for new generation entrepreneurs to enter into the sector. Chairman and MD of Ananth Technologies and CII TS convenor P. Subba Rao said that the defence industrial policy has to be supplemented by the strategy for exports without which the economic base of the industry would be difficult to sustain in the present economic competitive environment. CII CMD Sameer Goel sought online export authorisation procedures to be streamlined through portals. Kalyani Rafael CEO and MD Rudra Jadeja said that policy interventions are required in technology transfer, foreign direct investment and conducive environment for sustainability of business operations, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-poised-for-growth-in-defence-aerospace-sector/article37974073.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR lays stone for veg., non-veg market||IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao said that the State government is according top priority for the development of municipalities and as part of which various developments are being taken up. Addressing a gathering after laying foundation stone for the construction of integrated vegetable and non-vegetable market at district headquarters town of Sangareddy along with Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy and MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy on Thursday, Mr Rama Rao said that Rs. 15.31 crore for Sangareddy town, Rs. 16.09 crore for Zaheerabad, and Rs. 7.95 crore for Sadashivapet town are being released every month. He promised to release another Rs. 50 crore to Sangareddy and Sadashivapet municipalities in the next one week or 10 days. Informing that so far Rs. 3,140 crore was already released to various municipalities after commencement of Pattana Pragathi programme, he said that vegetable and non-vegetable markets are being constructed in every municipality at a total cost of Rs. 500 crore. Stating there used to be pending of wagers for four months in the past, the Minister said that their wages were increased to Rs. 12,000 and are being paid every month without fail. He said that medical college and nursing college were sanctioned for Sangareddy by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, he said that the medical college will come into functioning from next year. He said that the government is actively considering regularising the lands that are under occupation by poor people. Sangareddy MLA and TPCC working president T. Jayaprakash Reddy has also participated in the programmes and submitted a memorandum urging the Minister to extend metro rail from Patancheru to Sangareddy, providing house sites to 40,000 poor people in the constituency, developing Mahabubsagar as tourist destination and sanctioning money for the construction of Mahila Sangham buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-lays-stone-for-veg-non-veg-market/article37974320.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kharif paddy procurement scales new high||Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation (TSCSC), the nodal agency for paddy procurement in the State on behalf of Food Corporation of India (FCI), has set a new record in purchase of paddy produced in Kharif by procuring 50.04 lakh tonnes so far, surpassing the previous best of 48.75 lakh tonnes during the last Kharif Marketing Season. Chairman of the Corporation M. Srinivas Reddy stated here on Thursday that in spite of adverse conditions such as untimely rains during the procurement period the purchases of paddy were in record extent. The quantity of 50.04 lakh tonnes was purchased from about 9 lakh farmers and the value of the paddy procured so far was about Rs. 9,500 crore, he noted. The procurement of paddy during the last KMS was 37 lakh tonnes by now and it was about 13 lakh tonnes higher this year compared to last year, in spite of multiple problems such as shortage of gunny sacks, shortage of labour (hamalis), storage space, the delay of lifting the custom milled rice pertaining to the last Rabi season by the FCI and others. He explained that only Punjab and Haryana States were ahead of Telangana in Kharif paddy procurement and in Southern States Telangana was far ahead of other Stats in procurement as no State had procured even a quarter of the quantity Telangana had procured so far. Mr. Srinivas Reddy further stated that of the 6,849 paddy procurement centres opened so far this season, 1,810 have already been closed in 14 districts following completion of purchases there. The procurement was nearing completion in Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Sangareddy, Siddipet, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Karimnagar, Nirmal and Mancherial districts. The total Kharif paddy purchases at minimum support price in the State had reached 2.47 crore tonnes so far starting from 2014-15 KMS. Another 20 lakh tonnes of paddy was expected arrive at the procurement centres this season, Mr. Srinivas Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kharif-paddy-procurement-scales-new-high/article37974091.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Inter first year results released; 49% pass||The first year Intermediate results released on Thursday saw 49% of candidates clearing the exams in the general stream with girls again performing much better than boys registering 55% passes as against 42% of boys. Out of the 2,04,537 girls who appeared 1,12,580 passed while out of the 2,05,374 boys who took the exam only 87,206 could clear. The exams were conducted from October 25 to November 3 in 1768 examination centres. Among those who passed 1,02,808 secured A Grade (Greater than or equal to 75% marks); 55,707 secured B Grade (Greater than or equal to 60% and less than 75% marks); 26,988 secured C Grade(Greater than or equal to 50% and less than 60% marks) and 14,283 secured D Grade (Greater than or equal to 35% and less than 50% marks). The results are available on https://tsbie.cgg.gov.in; http://examresults.ts.nic.in and http://results.cgg.gov.in and students can download their Memorandum of Marks with Photo and signature from 5 pm on December 17. In case of any complaint or discrepancies found in the results students can approach the BIE through concerned college principals. Clinical psychologists The BIE has also taken the services of clinical psychologists to help the students to overcome any problem related to stress, strain, tension, anxiety and nervousness. Students can contact the clinical psychologists from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. to speak to them. They can be reached at Dr. Anitha (9154951704); Dr. Mazher Ali (9154951977); Dr. Rajini (9154951695); P. Jawaharlal Nehru (9154951699); S. Sreelatha (9154951703); Sailaja Pisapati (9154951706) and Anupama Guttimdevi (9154951687). Those who wish to get recounting and reverification of their scripts done have to apply online by paying Rs. 100 per paper for Recounting and Rs. 600 per paper for Scanned Copy-cum-Reverification of answer book, through TSBIE website ‘http://tsbie.cgg.gov.in’. The last date is Dec. 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inter-first-year-results-released-49-pass/article37974100.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS mulls consortium approach to garner IT investments||A consortium approach involving sector-specific IT companies that have operations in Hyderabad will be pursued by the State government to attract fresh investments, a senior official said on Thursday. “We are looking at ten such consortiums,” IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said, citing BFSI, cybersecurity, SAS, animation and gaming services and AI/ML as some of the areas of interest. The idea is to create consortium based on verticals the companies are focused and through them attract investment from firms working in those areas. Besides helping attract investment, the consortium would serve as a forum to discuss and address issues such as the need for specific courses in colleges to address the demand for talent in a particular area. It will be a unique approach and “we want to make a difference and be a role model for the country,” Mr.Ranjan told the Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) annual innovation summit and awards function here on Thursday. He also commended HYSEA’s role in preventing layoff during the first wave of pandemic. The job fair organised by the Association was an important initiative and beneficial for SMEs, he added. The annual innovation summit and awards event was the 29th in the series and organised by HYSEA and Software Technology Parks of India. A conference on the theme ‘Digital Convergence: Touching Lives and Businesses’, product expo and annual industry awards formed part of the event. Chairman of Indian Blockchain Standards Committee and founding member of Succeed Innovation Fund and former president of HYSEA J. A. Chowdary was presented the Lifetime Achievement Award. Awards were presented to IT/ITES companies and start-ups for achievements in exports, productivity and product development. COO and ED of Tata Consultancy Services NG Subramaniam, in a talk on ‘The IT Industry – New Ways, New Answers’, said that cloud adoption and cloud transformation, algorithm and intelligent optimisation and AI/ML would be significant growth areas in future. Hyderabad attracts the best minds and talent and it has always taken lead in product development as well as research and development, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-mulls-consortium-approach-to-garner-it-investments/article37974071.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||3i Infotech to hire 500 people in two months||IT firm 3i Infotech plans to hire 500 people over the next two months for the Business Process Services (BPS) division it set up recently in Hyderabad. The hiring will be facilitated through social, digital platforms via referral programmes and other offline initiatives, the company said in a release. In the first phase, 3i Infotech would be looking to hire local talent within Hyderabad to serve its regional and market specific clientele and later scale its operations to include other geographies and markets. Portfolio of offerings The portfolio of offerings under the BPS division will encompass – Application, Automation and Analytics Services (AAA) and will cater to customers across domains, including retail, e-commerce, telecom, BFSI, media and entertainment and manufacturing. The company said it will be pivoting to a voice-based technology-led model to drive substantial cost savings by 20% for its customers. MD and Global CEO Thompson P. Gnanam said “with the onslaught of the pandemic we have seen a surge in organisations adopting automation and digitization. To navigate this change, 3i Infotech’s BPS arm has come up with a unique technology-led solution that is poised to become a game changer and a disruptor in the outsourcing space, both domestic and international.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3i-infotech-to-hire-500-in-two-months/article37974069.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pet food firm to expand facility in TS||Pet food company, Mars Petcare India, has entered into an MoU with the Telangana government to expand its factory in the State with an investment of Rs. 500 crore. The brownfield project will help meet the rising demand for manufactured pet food, create jobs, support ‘Make in Telangana’ initiative, promote State producers and fuel Asia-wide exports from the region, the company said in a release on Thursday. It, however, did not specify the timeline when the expansion will be completed. The announcement on the investment followed a meeting the company leadership had with Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao. The Minister assured that the project will be considered for tailor-made incentives under the mega project category. The company said that the plant’s capacity is to be expanded by adding a second dry extruder line. The project will also facilitate expansion of the packing line capacity, upgrade the utility system and the white space to support growth along with required extensions in utilities. It will augment capacity by almost 65 kilotonne to satisfy the demand not only in India but across Asia for dry pet food. This investment will create more employment and up-skill the local manpower. The company intends to hire 180-200 people in different roles and provide them with on-boarding and training. With focus on gender diversity, significantly there would be more jobs for women. Mars Petcare said it will continue to contribute towards the welfare of villages in Siddipet district and help grow local businesses from where raw materials will be sourced. Managing director Ganesh Ramani said, “We started our first manufacturing plant in Hyderabad in 2008. The expansion will help us keep up with India’s increasing demand and create multiple jobs for the local population.” Assuring support for the company’s expansion project, the Minister said, “We would also like to have raw material sourcing agreements... looking at a partnership between Telangana and Mars Petcare for best business and social progress outcomes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pet-food-firm-to-expand-facility/article37974070.ece
17 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Techie found dead||A techie was found dead on the premises of his PG hostel at Telecom Nagar in Gachibowli in the wee hours of Thursday. The victim, Pedugu Surender Reddy (30), a native of Ongole, who was staying in a PG hostel, ended his life by jumping from the sixth floor of the building around 2 a.m. His body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy.  (Roshni - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)  SHE Teams counselling As many as 1,515 adults and 58 minors who were caught by SHE Teams across the State while eve-teasing or harassing women over the phone or social media were counselled on Wednesday and Thursday. The Women Safety Wing was successful in organising an online counselling session module every month for the respondents of SHE Teams. Ryot torches paddy crop Meanwhile in Peddapalli district, upset over the pest attack on his paddy crop during the just concluded kharif season, a distraught farmer set ablaze his paddy field on two-and-a-half-acre land at Chandapalli village on Thursday. The farmer identified as Thota Peddanna had gone to his field on Thursday morning and set it on fire apparently distressed over the failed crop and mounting financial burden. Some farmers of the adjoining fields tried to persuade him to refrain from torching his paddy field, but to no avail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/techie-found-dead/article37974087.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lapse in response time to trace Somalian||A lapse in response time to trace people in Telangana with COVID was exposed as there was at least one day delay in tracing the 23-year-old Somali man infected with Omicron. Samples collected from him were sent for genome sequencing on Monday (December 13) after he tested positive. However, efforts were not made to trace him even after knowing his COVID status. The efforts were initiated after the genome sequencing results, received on Tuesday night (December 14), revealed that he had Omicron. Before that, he went to at least two corporate hospitals in Hyderabad after landing here on December 12. The Somalian was traced on Wednesday afternoon when he stepped out of an auto. When Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao was asked about the possibility of the foreign national coming in contact with a large number of people, he said that would be done. What followed the lapse in response time was hectic activity by Health staff to trace everyone he had come in contact with including people at hospitals, at Tolichowki where he was residing, and other places. The Health staff have collected samples from more than 500 people in Paramount Colony for RT PCR tests till Thursday night. 25 Health teams Around 25 Health teams have been on the task of collecting samples from foreign nationals residing in Paramount Colony, Tolichowki. Each team had a lab technician, Auxiliary Nursing Midwife (ANM), and an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA). However, the tired staff said that food, water and other resources were not provided to them during their elaborate ground work. They went from door to door to collect samples for RT PCR tests. Their work started at around 7.30 a.m. on Wednesday and ended at 11 p.m. The schedule was almost the same on Thursday too. “We are not provided food and water. We had to buy it ourselves while on the job,” said a Health worker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lapse-in-response-time-to-trace-somalian/article37974063.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||100 kidney transplants at NIMS this year||Over 100 kidney transplantations have been performed at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) this year. Specialists have been performing these transplantations every year since 2016. Only in 2020, there were no transplantations due to COVID-19. Health Minister Harish Rao congratulated doctors at NIMS for the feat. Majority of the 100 beneficiaries in 2021 are men (75). A kidney transplantation at NIMS costs around Rs. 10-12 lakh. Of the 100 transplantations, 97 were performed free of cost by the Telangana government, including 90 under Aarogyasri scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/100-kidney-transplants-at-nims-this-year/article37974316.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ISB, Capacity Building Commission join hands||The Indian School of Business (ISB) has entered into a knowledge partnership agreement with Capacity Building Commission (CBC). ISB will work with the CBC as a training and content partner. It would also create learning resources and teaching material, including commissioned research and a bank of case studies generated from the Indian public sector. Dean Madan Pillutla and Capacity Building Commission secretary Hemang Jani signed the agreement, ISB said in release on Thursday. The CBC has been established by the Central government to help realise the vision to enhance the execution capacity of the Indian State by radically improving the government’s human resource management practices and augmenting the capacity of India’s 25 million civil servants. “It is a privilege to be able to contribute to Mission Karmayogi and bring our faculty’s research-led insights to augment CBC’s ambitious plans,” Mr. Pillutla said. Member-HR of CBC R. Balasubramaniam said, “The CBC strives to inculcate a culture of learning and building competencies to make the civil service a catalyst for growth. We are confident that the partnership with the ISB will usher in new insights to achieve the grand vision of Mission Karmayogi.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/isb-capacity-building-commission-join-hands/article37974068.ece
17 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fake IT officers held for ‘raiding’ realtor’s home||Apparently inspired by Bollywood film, Special 26, a dacoity gang which conducted fake raids on the residence of a realtor at Gachibowli on Monday posing as Income Tax officials, ran out of luck after five members of their gang were apprehended by the Cyberabad police within hours. The accused were identified as Yendla Aravind (27), Nelapudi Murali Sridhar (27), Pasagada Venkatrao (28), Punnani Mohan (24), all from West Godavari district, and Somani Sandeep (22) from Krishna district in Andhra Pradesh. Announcing the arrest on Thursday, Commissioner of Police M Stephen Raveendra said that the gang members were apprehended by the Special Operations Team of Madhapur zone near RC Puram. Over 1.27 grams of gold ornaments and five mobile phones, worth Rs. 1.20 crore, was recovered from their possession. According to Mr. Raveendra, at around 1.10 p.m. on Monday, four unknown persons went to one Venkata Subramanyam’s flat in Jayabheri Orange County, Nanakramguda, when his wife Chekka Bhagyalaxmi was at home. They claimed to be IT officers, showed their identity cards and entered the house, made the inmates sit and carried out searches and ‘seized’ around 1.34 kg gold ornaments from the locker and fled away from the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fake-it-officers-held-for-raiding-realtors-home/article37974083.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rules for child artists||In case of child working as an artist, he/she should not be allowed to work for more than five hours in a day and for not more than three hours without rest. Producers of any audio-visual media production or any commercial event involving the participation of a child should involve a child only after obtaining the permission of the magistrate of the district where the activity would be performed. They should furnish an undertaking ensuring that there was no abuse, neglect or exploitation of such child during the entire process of shooting. At least 20 per cent of the income earned by the child from the production should be deposited in a fixed deposit account in a nationalized bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rules-for-child-artists/article37974104.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ICAI to set up CoE in Hyderabad||The Institute of Cost Accountants of India (ICAI) will set up a state-of-the-art Centre of Excellence at the Financial District that will have modern classrooms with hi-tech facilities. Newly-elected president of ICAI P. Raju Iyer said that the new centre will have the best facilities of international standards as it wants to expand to the international student base. He said that they have launched several courses recently that include Diploma in Data Analytics, which is required for budding cost accountants to get into business and proficiently do analytical work. Diplomas in Artificial Intelligence, and Insurance Management and Risk based Internal Auditing have also been launched to meet the rising demand from the industry, he said, adding that ICAI being the largest body in Asia and the second largest body in the world was entering into MoUs and agreements with various countries where ICAI courses of Cost and Management Accounting (CMA) will be launched. He also said that for the first time, online exams are being conducted to ensure participation of all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/icai-to-set-up-centre-of-excellence/article37974074.ece
17 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Anniversary of Shaheen Bagh protests in city||A clutch of citizens came together on Thursday to commemorate the second anniversary of the Shaheen Bagh protests that roiled the national capital after Citizenship Amendment Act was passed in 2019. “The protests at Shaheen Bagh and Jamia Millia Islamia were the inspiration for the farmers’ agitation. Now, we are taking inspiration from the farmers’ movement and we will launch agitations till the CAA is repealed,” said Khaleeda Parveen, while addressing a large gathering at Lamakaan on Thursday afternoon. The venue was covered with photographs from Shaheen Bagh as well as from protest marches across the country. Some of the participants brought in their own tricolours to the meeting and sat with them while listening to speakers. “We the people are against the law that is discriminatory. Like the farmers said their dharna has ended but the andolan is going on, we will carry on the protests,” said Sarah Mathews, who organised the meeting. “Many young people are still in jail. This should end quickly and the law should be scrapped,” said Ms. Mathews.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/anniversary-of-shaheen-bagh-protests-in-city/article37974077.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HMWSSB extends last date||The government has issued orders extending the last date for submitting applications for free drinking water supply till Dec.31. The scheme was launched in January this year and those interested in making use of it should have a functioning meter and link the customer account number with Aadhaar to get 20,000 litres water free every month. Those living in slums should only ensure CAN is linked to Aadhaar even without having a meter. The bills being generated, who are not yet part of the scheme, will be given an opportunity to pay them in four instalments without any penalty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hmwssb-extends-last-date/article37974080.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vijay Diwas celebrated||The local military authorities and 1971 war veterans have organised a wreath laying ceremony at the Martyrs Memorial in Parade Grounds at Secunderabad and also at the Artillery Centre, Hyderabad, to mark the 50th anniversary of 'Vijay Diwas', commemorating the historic victory achieved when the Eastern Army Commander of Pakistan, Lt Gen AAK Niazi, signed the "Instrument of Surrender" to the Indian Army. The military band, officers and soldiers attired in full ceremonial dress adorning glittering medals depicting their various achievements in their service paid their homage to their brethren in uniform who had laid down their lives in defending the Republic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vijay-diwas-celebrated/article37974097.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Office-bearers of HCA to abide by SC verdict||Five members of the Hyderabad Cricket Association’s Apex Council - Messrs R. Vijayanand (Secretary), K. John Manoj (vice-president), Surender Agarwal (treasurer), Naresh Sharma (joint secretary), Anuradha (Councillor) - informed media that they would abide by the directive of the honourable Supreme Court with regard to the functioning of the Association. “There have been several differences in the Apex Council regarding a number of issues over the last one year or so. And, these matters have also been contested in the Courts seeking redressal,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/office-bearers-of-hca-to-abide-by-sc-verdict/article37974085.ece
17 December 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fake lucky draw racket busted, 3 held||The Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (East Zone) team along with Amberpet police busted a fake lucky draw racket and apprehended three persons. The accused are Guduru Dinesh, 36 D. Shiva, 32, proprietor of SDJ Enterprises from Madannapet, and S. Mallikarjun, 42, from Saidabad. Police said that the accused indulged in the collection of huge amount of money on the pretext of monthly prizes/gifts and thereby duped innocent people for their wrongful gain. Rs. 2.81 lakh in cash, five mobile phones and other incriminating material was seized from their possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fake-lucky-draw-racket-busted-3-held/article37974084.ece
17 December 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Transparency in teacher transfers sought||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has demanded that teachers transfers be done online to ensure transparency in the process. In a statement here, he questioned the urgency with which the transfers are being taken up and said this will only pave for corruption and those with connects will get an opportunity leaving lakhs of other hapless. He asked why was the government in a hurry to complete the process in just 10 to 15 days where lakhs of teachers were involved. He suggested that discussions should be held with the Teachers Unions representatives and their suggestion be considered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/transparency-in-teacher-transfers-sought/article37974323.ece
17 December 2021||MYSURU,TELANGANA||More than 2 lakh acres of forest encroached||More than two lakh acres of forest land in the State has been encroached out of the total forest cover of around 42.19 lakh hectares. This is according to Minister for Forests Umesh Katti, who responded to an unstarred question posed by MLC M. Narayanaswamy in the Council early this week. The Minister stated that the area under forest cover in the State is 42,19,163 hectares of which protected forest area is 242,533 hectares and in all 2,04,131.582 acres have been encroached. The maximum extent of encroachment has taken place in Shivamogga where 81,502.44 acres of forest land is under encroachment followed by Chikkamagaluru with 30,641 acres. In Uttara Kannada 28,344.212 acres of forest land is under encroachment, according to the Minister. The other districts with significant amount of encroachment includes Chamarajanagar (4,505.09 acres), Kolar (6,606.28 acres), Kodagu (7,158.82 acres), Gadag (5,172.28 acres), Dakshina Kannada (4,057.55 acres), Haveri (3,071.17 acres), Bidar (3,274 acres), among others. So far, the Government has also registered 1,09,627 cases in connection with the encroachment with 50,172 cases having been registered in Shivamogga. In Uttara Kannada, 22,281 cases have been filed and 8,335 cases have been registered in Chikkamagaluru. However, there is no mention of cases that have seen a closure or the extent of encroached forest land reclaimed in the Minister’s reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-lakh-acres-of-forest-encroached/article37973828.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,TELANGANA||SC to hear pleas on Vanniyar quota law||The Supreme Court on Thursday held that admissions to higher education institutions and appointments to State government jobs made this year under the Vanniyar quota would not be disturbed, but barred fresh appointments and admissions until February 15 next. It passed the direction when it took on board a batch of petitions, including one by the Tamil Nadu government, challenging a Madras High Court decision to quash a State law which provided 10.5% internal reservation to the Vanniyars within the overall 20% quota for the Most Backward Classes (MBCs). A Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, B.R. Gavai and B.V. Nagarathna said no fresh appointments to government services or admissions to higher education institutions should be made till February 15, the next date of hearing. But admissions and appointments made, pursuant to a High Court order of August 25, would not be disturbed. As the High Court did not stay the law, the appointments and admissions were made. But it quashed the law on November 1, leaving the appointments and admissions vulnerable. The Bench said the case had to be heard expeditiously since it had implications for the future of a large number of students and government employees. It scheduled back-to-back hearings for February 15 and 16. It asked the lawyers to prepare their pleadings and organised three lawyers from either side to compile the records and arguments to avoid delays. ‘A pioneer’ Tamil Nadu argued that the High Court’s decision to quash the law was based on the ground that the State had no legislative competence and the special reservation was provided with caste as the basis and without quantifiable data. Justice Rao, at the beginning of the hearing, referred to the Constitution (105th Amendment) Act that restored to the States the power to identify socially and educationally backward classes. The government said Tamil Nadu had been a “pioneer” in the grant of reservation. “The Most Backward Classes within the Backward Classes were identified in Tamil Nadu as early as 1957, when they were considered equivalent to the Scheduled Castes but without the factor of untouchability,” the petition explained. Some of these communities were impacted by the Criminal Tribes Act of the British. The recommendation for 10.5% reservation to the Vanniyakula Kshatriya was commensurate with their population as enumerated in a survey conducted in 1983 by the Tamil Nadu Second Backward Classes Commission. “The State had enacted the Act in 2021 only based on adequate authenticated data on the population of the Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities enumerated by the Tamil Nadu Second Backward Classes Commission in 1983,” the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sc-to-hear-pleas-on-vanniyar-quota-law/article37974322.ece
17 December 2021||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||Distraught farmer sets paddy field ablaze||Upset over the pest attack on his paddy crop during the just concluded kharif season, a distraught farmer set ablaze his paddy field on two-and-a-half-acre land at Chandapalli village in the district on Thursday. The farmer identified as Thota Peddanna had gone to his field on Thursday morning and set it on fire apparently distressed over the failed crop and mounting financial burden. Some farmers of the adjoining fields tried to persuade him to refrain from torching his paddy field, but to no avail. Narrating his tale of woe, the distraught farmer said he raised sannalu (fine variety paddy) on his two-and-a-half-acre land nurturing hopes of good harvest in the recent kharif season. “But the pest attack played havoc and all my efforts to control the pest proved futile, posing a huge financial burden on me,” he deplored. He added that he set fire to the paddy field under unavoidable circumstances, unable to recover even the cost of production due to crop damage caused by pests and afford the huge harvesting cost. Meanwhile, local farmers pleaded with the authorities to extend support to the distraught farmer to help him surmount the financial difficulties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/distraught-farmer-sets-paddy-field-ablaze/article37974321.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Tourist hotspot||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tourist-hotspot/article37974079.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Tourist hotspot||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tourist-hotspot/article37974318.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Kannada can’t be compulsory for UG courses, says High Court||In a setback to the Karnataka government, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday said that the government cannot insist on making Kannada a compulsory language for first-year undergraduate courses from this academic year till further order of the court. The court also gave liberty to the students of the first year UG courses to select languages of their choice while asking both the State government and the universities not to compel students to pursue Kannada as one of the languages for the present academic year till further order from the court. However, the students who have taken Kannada as one of the languages as their choice can do so, the court said. A Division Bench passed the interim order while hearing a PIL plea. The petitioners have challenged the State’s policy of making Kannada a compulsory language for UG courses from this academic year “on the pretext of implementing NEP 2020”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kannada-cant-be-compulsory-for-ug-courses-says-high-court/article37973973.ece
17 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Kin refuse to cremate body of lynching incident victim||The family and relatives of a Scheduled Caste man, who was allegedly beaten to death by a few upper caste men on suspicion of theft in Haryana’s Hisar, refused to cremate the body for the second successive day on Thursday. They demanded the arrest of the accused and compensation. Two cousins of the deceased were also beaten up in the incident and they had sustained injuries. Wants compensation “The families of the victims have been holding demonstration for the past two days and have refused to cremate the body. We have been demanding the arrest of the accused named in the first information report, a compensation to the victims as per the provisions in the law, Government jobs and security and arms licences for the family members. Besides, the family of the deceased should be paid a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh from the CM Relief Fund and the injured be given Rs. 25 lakh each,” said Rajat Kansal, Scheduled Caste rights’ activist in Hisar. Vinod, 38, a resident of Hisar’s Mirkan village, and his cousins Sandeep, 26, and Bhal Singh, 35, were allegedly beaten up by around two dozen upper caste men from the same village on suspicion of stealing an inverter, battery and water pump motors. According to the FIR, the accused took the three victims on the outskirts of the village on December 14 and beat them up with rods, and punched and kicked them to “teach them a lesson”. Vinod sustained serious injuries and was declared brought dead when taken to a hospital. Inebriated state Mr. Kansal alleged that the accused were in an inebriated state and continued to beat up the victim even after he had died. Deputy Superintendent of Police, Hisar-II, Narayan Chand said two persons, Rajpal alias Balu and Ishwar, have been arrested. Six teams have been constituted to arrest the remaining accused. “Five persons were named in the FIR and around a dozen more people named in the supplementary statement,” said Mr. Chand. Hisar Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni said around Rs. 6 lakh was sanctioned to the victims’ family as per the provisions of the law and the remaining amount would be disbursed as prescribed in the law. Ms. Soni said she had met the victims’ families on Wednesday and their only demand was the arrest of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kin-refuse-to-cremate-body-of-lynching-incident-victim/article37973963.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||HC stays Delhi Govt. directive banning cross-gender massage||The Delhi High Court on Thursday put on hold the Delhi Government’s guidelines banning cross-gender massage services in the Capital noting there was no reasonable connection between the absolute ban and preventing prostitution at spas. Welcoming the order, spa owners, who had moved the High Court against the policy, said the Government has been targeting spas by delaying their opening after the lockdown followed by the guidelines to prohibit cross-gender massages. Justice Rekha Palli said she was of the view that “this kind of an absolute ban on cross-gender massage cannot be said to have any reasonable connection with the aim of the policy, which is to regulate the functioning of the spas and ensure that no illegal trafficking or prostitution takes place in the city”. Deterrent measures Justice Palli said that while the authorities ought to have taken deterrent measures to regulate the spa centres against such illegal activities, it prima facie appeared that the policy to impose a blanket ban was framed without any consultation with professionals involved in spa services. The High Court ordered that the operation of the policy will remain stayed till further orders. It, additionally, directed the three municipal corporations and the Delhi police to carry out inspection in their respective area within one week, and take appropriate steps for closure of all unlicensed spas. Policy guidelines The High Court’s direction came while hearing a batch of petitions filed by Association of Wellness Ayurveda & Spa and owners of spa centres, who were affected by the Delhi Government’s policy guidelines prohibiting cross-gender massages and the consequent directions passed by the municipal corporations. The petitioners claimed that many spas have been closed down for engaging in cross-gender massage and others are being threatened by officials on the basis of the new guidelines. “Every industry, workplace and businesses have some bad apples but that doesn’t mean that every spa centre across the State is running a prostitution and human trafficking racket,” one of  the petitions said. The association said that cross-gender treatment has been “part of the traditional massage practices” and assuming prostitution to be only in the “heterosexual domain” is illogical. “Defaming spa centres across Delhi as some kind of prostitution hub/brothels has severely affected the business of the petitioners as customers are scared to visit the centres which are already suffering from the COVID-19 pandemic,” the association said in its petition. ‘Permanent solution’ Pooja Chatterjee, president of Delhi Wellness Spa Association (DWSA), and a petitioner in the case, welcomed the judgment and said that she hoped for a “permanent solution” to the prohibition on cross-gender massage services. She said, “We agree that all unlicensed spas that run rackets should be closed but that does not mean every centre is involved in such activities. Spas have already suffered a financial setback due to the COVID-19 lockdowns, and now people are scared to enter spas because such a prohibition on cross-gender massages makes them question their safety.” Ravi Tandon, vice-president of the DWSA, said he was discontent with the Delhi Government’s “behaviour towards spa owners”. The Government had delayed the opening of spas after the first lockdown and they had to file a petition in the Delhi High Court to have them reopened, and this happened after the second lockdown as well, he said. “Then it came after spas with the prohibition on cross-gender massages and the BJP-led civic bodies also made a similar decision for political gains,” Mr. Tandon said. New licence policy Earlier, the South and East Delhi Municipal Corporations had announced a ban on cross-gender massages. The South civic body had said that the prohibition was approved under a new licence policy for spas and massage centres and that it was approved by “Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal”. East civic body Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said that the civic body “will respect the Delhi High Court’s order”. “However, I feel that the Delhi High Court will go back on its decision and will find that our move to prohibit cross-gender massages was right. I believe that the maximum number of these spa establishments are linked to problematic activities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-stays-delhi-govt-directive-banning-cross-gender-massage/article37973955.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘Govt. cut petrol price to curb revenue fall’||The Delhi Government reduced the price of petrol by more than Rs. 8 per litre earlier this month primarily because it was losing out on revenue from the sale of petrol as it was costly compared to Noida and Gurugram, an official source told The Hindu . The Government had projected the move as one to provide “relief from inflation” to the people and did not mention the fall in sale of petrol in the city or revenue to the Government. “In October and November, both sale of petrol in kilolitres and the VAT (value added tax) collected from it by the Government fell as petrol was costly in Delhi. The decision to cut VAT on petrol was taken with an aim to make it cheaper and thus, increase the sale of petrol and Government’s revenue from it,” the source said. The Government slashed the price of petrol by reducing VAT it collects for every litre of petrol sold to 19.42% from 30%. The source said there was a 25%-30% fall in VAT the Government collected from the sale of petrol in the first three weeks of November compared to August-September. Provide relief But in an official statement on December 1, the Delhi Government had said, “Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal held an in-depth discussion with the Cabinet on how the general public can be provided relief from the back-breaking inflation. The CM expressed deep concern for the people in the current situation and was of the view that it is essential for the Government to reduce prices at this juncture to support the public. The Delhi Cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, has decided to provide relief to the people by reducing the rates of VAT on petrol. Delhi’s VAT rates are now at a historic low.” When asked about a fall in amount of tax collected being the reason behind reducing rate of VAT, an official working closely with the Chief Minister’s Office said, “It was not mentioned in the Cabinet note [of Cabinet meeting concerned] that the VAT [on petrol] was reduced due to a fall in revenue.” But he did not give further details. “Despite multiple attempts, the Delhi Government spokesperson did not offer a comment.” In May last year, the Delhi Government had increased the VAT on petrol to 30% from 27% and that of diesel to 30% from 16.75%. Currently, petrol is cheaper in Delhi than Noida and Gurugram, which borders the national capital, and many petrol-filling stations have advertised it too. “Petrol, Diesel now cheaper than Noida/Gurugram/Faridabad available in Delhi,” reads a flex at a filling station. Sales pick up Delhi Petrol Dealers’ Association spokesperson Nishit Goel said petrol was cheaper by Rs. 2 per litre in Noida compared to Delhi in October and Rs. 8 per litre in November. “People were filling petrol from Noida and because of this, the sale of petrol in Delhi was down by one-third in November. We wrote letters to the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister. Later, we met the Deputy CM and requested him to reduce the VAT on petrol. Only after that, the Government slashed the rates,” Mr. Goel said.  People were filling petrol from Noida. The sale of petrol in Delhi was down by one-third in November. We wrote letters to the CM and Deputy CM. Only after that, the Govt. slashed the rates Nishit Goel Delhi Petrol Dealers’ Association spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-cut-petrol-price-to-curb-revenue-fall/article37973961.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||City traffic police at the receiving end of road rage||From being dragged on a car’s bonnet to getting involved in both verbal and physical scuffles with drivers, traffic police personnel have faced it all while on duty across the city’s 53 traffic circles in 12 districts. Six days ago, traffic police constable Mukesh, deputed at Kalkaji Circle, was hit by an SUV when he signalled it to stop after jumping a red light at the T-point in Pul Prahladpur. Mukesh fell on the road and sustained injuries while the errant driver fled the spot. Number of cases According to sources, nearly 100 cases of obstruction of duty, criminal force or assault have been lodged in police stations where traffic personnel have been verbally abused or assaulted as a result of scuffles with drivers. According to senior traffic police officers, these cases pertain to instances where IPC Sections 186 (voluntarily obstructing any public servant in the discharge of his public functions) and 353 (assaulting or using criminal force to any person being a public servant) have been used to lodge an FIR. “These IPC Sections are invariably invoked…other provisions are used based on severity of the offence,” the officer said. In 2018, 20 such cases were lodged, in 2019, there were 25 cases, while last year there were 24 cases and in 2021, till October, as many as 25 cases have been registered, senior officers disclosed. In another recent instance of assault on a traffic policeman in Rohini, a driver allegedly bit an assistant sub-inspector’s finger when the latter stopped and asked him to show the car’s documents. Unavoidable situations According to senior traffic officers, constables and other staffers posted at various circles are specifically briefed on avoiding any confrontation with commuters and act strictly as per law. “Such incidents are unavoidable as commuters might think they are on the right side of the law while the traffic inspector might think otherwise...in any such occurrence which turns to a physical brawl, an FIR is registered at the nearest police station under the relevant sections,” said an ACP-level officer, requesting anonymity. Another officer said that in order to minimise physical scuffles, automated challan system or e-challans have helped to a great extent, ensuring camera-based regulation of traffic violations. “Though the numbers are worrying, the digitisation of the challan system have helped reduce such incidents of police-commuter violence. We have also trained our staffers to use Violation Over Camera Application (VOCA) on their mobiles, through which any car violating traffic laws can be captured along with its registration number and a notice is automatically generated,” another traffic officer said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-traffic-police-at-the-receiving-end-of-road-rage/article37973959.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||CAQM to decide today on easing curbs||The Centre’s Air Quality Commission informed the Supreme Court on Thursday that a decision on resuming construction activities, which have been identified as a major source of pollution in the Capital, will be taken on Friday. The court on December 10 asked the panel to take a decision within a week on relaxation of the restrictions imposed by the court on pollution sources, including industries, constructions and factories in Delhi. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the commission, updated the court about the decisions taken. He said industries that were earlier permitted to function only eight hours a day have now been allowed to function through the day but only for five days a week. Mr. Mehta said thermal plants that were shut down would continue to be so, but no new plants would be closed. Mr. Mehta said over 40 flying squads were keeping an eye out for sources of pollution in Delhi-NCR. “But still the air quality is bad,” Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, heading a three-judge Special Bench, said. Take suggestions The court directed the commission to take suggestions from the public and experts to mould “permanent solutions” to combat pollution in Delhi. The court posted the case to the first week of February.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/caqm-to-decide-today-on-easing-curbs/article37973969.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Friday prayers: rein in ‘hooligans’, says plea||A former parliamentarian has moved the Supreme Court to initiate contempt action against Haryana authorities for not reining in “hooligans” who have created an atmosphere of communal hatred and terror for worshippers offering Friday prayers in Gurugram. The petition, filed by former Rajya Sabha MP Mohammad Adeeb, said inaction violates a Supreme Court judgment of 2018 which mandated that authorities should not be either silent spectators or tolerate communal violence and use the law against hate crimes.  False narratives The petition said the malicious attacks and false narratives on the prayers were made through social media platforms. It said the prayers were held in the open “due to compulsion”. However its conduct was portrayed as illegal and “some sort of encroachment”. The petition said the objections to the prayers have grown louder and more frequent. The police have not intervened despite complaints made. The petition has sought action against the Chief Secretary and the DGP of Haryana. The petition drew attention to December 3 and claimed how a large group of people were chanting communally divisive slogans at sites of namaz. “While a considerable number of police forces were present, despite the same videos emerged clearly showing such persons as having no fear of law. The police reportedly detained some persons from the mob, but the same were subsequently let off the same day,” the plea said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/friday-prayers-rein-in-hooligans-says-plea/article37973968.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||Data protection Bill has provisions for ‘right to be forgotten’, Centre tells HC||The Centre has informed the Delhi High Court that the Personal Data Protection Bill 2019, which was tabled in Parliament on Thursday, contains provisions related to the ‘right to be forgotten’. ‘Right to be forgotten’ is a fairly new concept in India where an individual could seek to remove or delete online posts which may contain an embarrassing picture, video or news articles mentioning them. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), in an affidavit, stated that the international legal concept of ‘right to be forgotten’ is evolving in India. “The right to privacy is a fundamental right and it also includes the right to be forgotten,” the Ministry said. The affidavit highlighted two judgments passed by the Orissa High Court and the Karnataka High Court where they have accepted the doctrine of the ‘right to be forgotten’ as an essential part of the ‘right to privacy’. MeitY’s affidavit came in response to a petition filed by two businessmen before the High Court seeking to remove certain articles, relating to a criminal case lodged against them, from various online platforms. Businessmen Jaideep Mirchandani, an NRI, and Siraj Amani, in their joint petition, said they were aggrieved by certain online articles related to their arrest in a 2002 case, from which they were acquitted in 2016. The petition argued that even though the businessmen “had been honourably discharged by the competent courts, yet the alleged articles and wrong information available against petitioners continue to haunt them”. The businessmen said they have the ‘right to be forgotten’ or the ‘right to delink’ in the context of the facts and circumstances of the case. The Ministry added that the Information Technology Act provides for blocking certain information for public access.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/data-protection-bill-has-provisions-for-right-to-be-forgotten-centre-tells-hc/article37973951.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||Police save Instagram influencer’s life||A team of north Delhi’s Burari police station saved the life of a 25-year-old Instagram influencer on Wednesday night as she tried to harm herself live on the social media platform. At 9.55p.m., Station House Officer inspector Rajender Prasad received information that a woman was live on Instagram and was trying to take her life at her residence in Burari. “She may or may not have harmed herself but it appeared that she would because she was making gestures and saying words that suggested so,” a senior officer said. A team headed by Mr. Prasad went to the spot. The team was provided with GPS pin and the home address of the woman but the SHO decided to follow the GPS pin, a calculated risk, the officer said. After reaching the location, one of the team members called on the woman’s mobile number to find her house. “The member told her that his wife needed to be taken to a hospital and the woman’s vehicle was blocking the street. When the woman came to her balcony and started looking for the car we had mentioned, we spotted her,” the officer said. Sources said the woman’s husband is a Central Government employee and she is well-educated. Though he was in the house at the time of the incident, he was unaware of what his wife was up to. The police said the woman was later counselled. “We don’t know her reason for taking the step but it appears that this was for a few minutes of attention online. But we are glad that she is safe,” an officer said.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-save-instagram-influencers-life/article37973952.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC blames local bodies for allowing slums to mushroom in major cities||The Supreme Court on Thursday rued that major cities have “turned into slums” due to unbridled encroachments. The court blamed the local bodies for allowing slums to mushroom in major cities. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar said municipal corporations and local bodies needed to take responsibility to clear encroachers off public lands. The court addressed the Railways, which it called one of the largest landowners in the country, about the vast scale of encroachments on its lands. The Bench said the ordinary citizen was paying tax, and it was the responsibility of the Railways to protect public property from trespassers. “This is the sad story going on for 75 years and we are celebrating the 75th year of independence next year ... It is ultimately the taxpayers’ money which will go down the drain,” the court remarked orally, calling for stern actions against encroachments. The court was hearing appeals against the nods given by the Gujarat and Punjab and Haryana High Courts to evict encroachers from railway property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sc-blames-local-bodies-for-allowing-slums-to-mushroom-in-major-cities/article37973974.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||SDMC nutrition gardens in 48 schools||With the aim of educating primary school students on the subject of nutrition, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation on Thursday announced that 48 of its schools are now equipped with nutrition gardens. Packed with freshly grown produce such as spinach, tomato, okra, carrot and fruits such as mango, pomegranate, mulberry, the civic body aims to utilise the produce as part of the students’ midday meal programme while providing them with first-hand knowledge on gardening. More schools SDMC Commissioner Gyanesh Bharti said similar nutrition gardens at 100 more schools will be started by the end of December and all “568 schools” under the civic body will have a nutrition garden by “the end of January, next year”. Mr. Bharti, further added, “Schools that are facing shortage of land will start a nutrition garden[s] with the help of pots and fruits [and] vegetables will be planted and grown in them. Arrangement of pots will be made for such schools and the Horticulture Department has been asked to cooperate with the schools. The department will also organise workshops for starting nutrition gardens.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sdmc-nutrition-gardens-in-48-schools/article37973966.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||FIR against air passenger with live cartridge in bag quashed||The Delhi High Court has quashed an FIR registered against a woman who was found carrying a live cartridge in her bag while travelling to Goa from the Indira Gandhi International Airport here. Justice Subramonium Prasad said there are several other orders of the High Court in which it had taken similar action on the ground that if the accused is not in a conscious possession of the ammunition, he or she cannot be prosecuted for the offence under the Arms Act. The woman, an IT professional, contended that the ammunition belonged to her father, who holds a valid .32 bore revolver licence and it was inadvertently carried in her bag. “In the facts and circumstances of this case, this court is inclined to quash the FIR dated February 5, 2021, registered at the police station at IGI Airport, New Delhi, for an offence under Section 25 of the Arms Act 1959 and the proceedings emanating therefrom,” the High Court said. The woman, represented by advocate Amit Sahni, argued that there was only a single live cartridge without there being any firearm, which showed that she was not in a conscious possession of the ammunition and that she could not be prosecuted under the Arms Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fir-against-air-passenger-with-live-cartridge-in-bag-quashed/article37973953.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||‘No ‘severe’ Omicron case in city so far’||Eighty-five new COVID-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours — the highest in more than five months — taking the total number of cases to 14,41,935, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Thursday. The last time more new cases were reported was on July 8, when 93 cases were reported. On August 1 also, 85 new cases were reported. A total of 56,027 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.15%, which is also the highest in more than five months, as per the bulletin. There were no new COVID-19-related deaths in 24 hours and the total number of deaths stood at 25,100. Of the total cases, 14,16,360 people have recovered and there are 475 active cases. A total of 10 people have been detected with Omicron variant of COVID-19 till now in the city, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said. The Minister said that till Wednesday there were eight cases and there are no severe cases till now. Also, one of the 10 patients was discharged last week, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-severe-omicron-case-in-city-so-far/article37973965.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Time to remember||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/time-to-remember/article37973971.ece
17 December 2021||Washington,||U.S. faces a double coronavirus surge as Omicron advances||The new Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 speeding around the world may bring another wave of chaos, threatening to further stretch hospital workers already struggling with a surge of Delta cases and upend holiday plans for the second year in a row. The White House on Wednesday insisted there was no need for a lockdown because vaccines are widely available and appear to offer protection against the worst consequences of the virus. “Our Delta surge is ongoing and, in fact, accelerating. And on top of that, we’re going to add an omicron surge,” said Dr. Jacob Lemieux, who monitors variants for a research collaboration led by Harvard Medical School. “That’s alarming, because our hospitals are already filling up. Staff are fatigued,” leaving limited capacity for a potential crush of COVID-19 cases “from an Omicron wave superimposed on a Delta surge.” Based on specimens collected last week, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Omicron accounted for about 3% of genetically-sequenced coronaviruses. Percentages vary by region, with the highest — 13% — in the New York/New Jersey area. But Harvard experts say these are likely underestimates because Omicron is moving so fast that surveillance attempts can’t keep up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-faces-a-double-coronavirus-surge-as-omicron-advances/article37973460.ece
17 December 2021||Seoul,||‘N. Korea trying to hide executions from world’||North Korea has tried to stop leaks to the outside world about its public executions in recent years, suggesting Pyongyang may be responding to international scrutiny of its human rights record, a Seoul-based research group has said. The Transitional Justice Working Group analysed satellite imagery and collected testimonies of 23 public executions during the era of Kim Jong-un, who took power a decade ago following the death of his father in December 2011. North Korean escapees said executions were carried out at closely monitored sites with authorities keeping a close eye to ensure no information gets out, the TJWG said in a report released on Wednesday. “In recent years, North Korea appears to be strategically selecting places away from the border area to carry out these killings,” said the NGO, which has a stated non-partisan mission of documenting human rights abuses and seeking justice for victims. “Monitoring and control of the assembled audience at these events is tightening to prevent information on public executions from leaking outside the country.” “Our findings suggest that the Kim (Jong-un) regime is paying more attention to human rights issues as a response to increased international scrutiny.” Escapee accounts are near-impossible to independently verify because of North Korea’s strict control of access to its people and records. Ahyeong Park, the report’s lead author, said the organisation carefully assessed accounts for consistency, only choosing those it found to be most reliable. Pyongyang has long been accused of using state killings to instil fear among its population, and Mr. Kim has executed top aides in the past — including his powerful uncle Jang Song Thaek in 2013. Seven of the public executions were for watching or distributing South Korean videos, which are banned by Pyongyang, according to the TJWG report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/n-korea-trying-to-hide-executions-from-world/article37973454.ece
17 December 2021||Paris,||Record 488 journalists jailed, 46 killed in 2021, says RSF||There are currently 488 media professionals imprisoned around the world, the highest number since Reporters Without Borders began counting more than 25 years ago, the NGO announced on Thursday. By contrast, the number killed this year — 46 — was the lowest since it began issuing annual tallies, due to the relative stabilisation of conflicts in the West Asia. China jails 127 scribes China once again has the highest number of imprisoned journalists at 127, said RSF. The most dangerous countries were once again Mexico and Afghanistan, with seven and six journalist deaths respectively, followed by Yemen and India with four apiece. The number of detained scribes has risen by some 20% over the past year, largely due to crackdowns on the media in Myanmar, Belarus and Hong Kong. RSF said it had also never seen so many female journalists detained, with the overall number of 60 representing a third more than 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/record-488-journalists-jailed-46-killed-in-2021-says-rsf/article37973455.ece
17 December 2021||Washington,||U.S. imposes sanctions against China over abuse of Uighurs||The Biden administration said on Thursday it is imposing new sanctions on several Chinese biotech and surveillance companies and government entities for actions in Xinjiang province, the latest step against Beijing over human rights abuses of Uighur Muslims. The Commerce Department is targeting China’s Academy of Military Medical Sciences and its 11 research institutes that focus on using biotechnology to support the Chinese military. The move will bar American companies from selling components to the entities without a licence. “The scientific pursuit of biotechnology and medical innovation can save lives. Unfortunately, the PRC (People’s Republic of China) is choosing to use these technologies to pursue control over its people and its repression of members of ethnic and religious minority groups,” Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo said. “We cannot allow U.S. commodities, technologies, and software that support medical science and biotechnical innovation to be diverted toward uses contrary to U.S. national security,” she said. The official, explaining the Commerce Department actions, noted that U.S. intelligence has established that Beijing has set up a high tech surveillance system across Xinjiang that uses biometric facial recognition and has collected DNA samples from all residents, aged 12 to 65. Meanwhile, the Senate gave approval on Thursday to a Bill barring all imports from China’s Xinjiang region unless businesses can prove they were produced without forced labour. The Bill now goes to President Joe Biden, who is expected to sign it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-imposes-sanctions-against-china-over-abuse-of-uighurs/article37973462.ece
17 December 2021||Dapa,||Super Typhoon Rai hammers Philippines||Thousands of people in the Philippines fled their homes and beachfront resorts as Super Typhoon Rai pummelled the country Thursday, with a charity warning the storm could hit coastal communities “like a freight train”. Rai is the strongest storm to hit the disaster-prone archipelago this year. It was packing maximum sustained winds of 195 km an hour as it made landfall on the southern island of Siargao at 1:30 p.m., the State weather forecaster said. “This monster storm is frightening and threatens to hit coastal communities like a freight train,” said Alberto Bocanegra, head of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies in the Philippines. “We are very concerned that climate change is making typhoons more ferocious and unpredictable.” The weather bureau warned “very destructive” winds could cause “heavy to very heavy damage to structures and vegetation”, along with widespread flooding and rain-induced landslides. More than 98,000 people sought emergency shelter as the storm charged across the Pacific Ocean and slammed into the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/super-typhoon-rai-hammers-philippines/article37973458.ece
17 December 2021||Tehran,||Iran: no nuclear images for IAEA until curbs end||The UN atomic watchdog will not be able to examine camera images from a nuclear facility near Iran’s Karaj until sanctions are lifted, an Iranian official said on Thursday. The comment came a day after Tehran and the IAEA said they had reached deal on replacing the cameras at the facility which makes centrifuges. Iran says the video surveillance cameras were damaged in a June attack that it blames on Israel. “The cameras will be installed in a way that they take images which will be stored in the cameras’ memory,” said Behrouz Kamalvandi, spokesman for the Atomic Energy Organisation of Iran. “When they are full, the memory cards will be removed and placed under the joint control of Iran and the Agency,” he said. “In other words, the Agency will not have any access to the information before sanctions are lifted.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-no-nuclear-images-for-iaea-until-curbs-end/article37973451.ece
17 December 2021||Brussels,||EU for booster shots as festive season nears||A summit of European Union leaders on Thursday is trying to coordinate action to tackle the surge of coronavirus infections across the continent and the emergence of the new Omicron variant while keeping borders open. With the festive season looming, the bloc’s leaders want to avoid a confusing mixture of rules and to ensure all 27 member states are on the same page and that COVID-19 certificates continue to guarantee unrestricted travel. The European Council said before the talks in Brussels that “any restrictions should not undermine the functioning of the single market or hamper travel between EU member states and to Europe.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-summit-to-discuss-spread-of-omicron/article37973448.ece
17 December 2021||Paris,||France bans most UK travel as Omicron fears mount||France said Thursday it would ban non-essential travel to and from Britain in a bid to curb the lightning spread of the Omicron variant. French citizens and EU nationals could still return to France from the U.K., but they will now need a negative COVID-19 test less than 24 hours old||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/france-bans-most-uk-travel-as-omicron-fears-mount/article37973449.ece
17 December 2021||Yangon,||Hundreds of Myanmar rebels flee to Thailand after clashes||Hundreds of Myanmar villagers have fled to Thailand after junta troops clashed with an ethnic rebel group, officials said on Thursday. Fighting between Karen National Union (KNU) and the military broke out on Wednesday in the town of Lay Kay Kaw near the Thai border — the first such clashes in months. A Thai government official said about 700 people had crossed the border, and would be given food and shelter.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hundreds-of-myanmar-rebels-flee-to-thailand-after-clashes/article37973450.ece
17 December 2021||Santo Domingo,||Nine killed in Dominican Republic plane crash||Nine people, including Puerto Rican music producer “Flow La Movie” died on Wednesday when a private plane crashed at the Las Americas airport in the Dominican Republic capital Santo Domingo, the aircraft’s owner Helidosa said. The Gulfstream plane crashed when it attempted to make an emergency landing due to a malfunction after taking off for Florida from another airport near the Dominican Republic capital, local media reported.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nine-killed-in-dominican-republic-plane-crash/article37973453.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Is the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act past its expiry date?||The recent killing of 14 civilians in Nagaland’s Mon district by the Indian armed forces has put the spotlight back on the efficacy of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) of 1958. If its raison d’etre was to quell militancy and make way for the peaceful integration of insurgency-hit regions, has it served its purpose? In a conversation moderated by S. Anandan , Patricia Mukhim and Major General (retd.) Gajinder Singh discuss the moral, legal and political questions pertaining to the controversial legislation and its impact. Edited excerpts: The Santosh Hegde Committee, appointed by the Supreme Court to look into six of the 1,528 alleged extrajudicial killings in Manipur, noted in its report in 2013 that the “continuous use of the AFSPA for decades in Manipur has evidently had little or no effect on the situation”. Has the Act been counterproductive? Patricia Mukhim:It is evident that the Act has not succeeded in its mission of containing insurgents because even today in Manipur, there are 32 active militant outfits. In Nagaland, because of the peace talks, most of the outfits have come under one umbrella, the NSCN(I-M) [National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak-Muivah)], which is very ambiguous in its demands. The Supreme Court said that a grave situation of law and order must occur for a region to be declared a ‘disturbed area’ and that Section 3 of the AFSPA cannot be construed as conferring power to issue a declaration without any time limit. The Disturbed Areas Act is reviewed every six months because without it in place, you cannot have the AFSPA. In 2015, the Tripura Chief Minister, Manik Sarkar, cited a drop in militancy to revoke the Disturbed Areas Act, with which the AFSPA too went away. The AFSPA is a colonial law which hangs over our heads like the Sword of Damocles. It must go as it is prone to abuse and also shows that the country cannot come up with an anti-insurgency or a counter-insurgency force. When you use the Army against your own people, you are actually abusing the Army because it is trained to fight the enemy, not its own people. By sending the Army to fight its own people and then creating an uproar about the abuse of the AFSPA, you are making the Army schizophrenic. Gajinder Singh:The normalisation of the situation in many parts of the country — be it in Mizoram; Tripura; the Cachar Hills of Assam; the Tirap, Changlang and Logding districts of Arunachal Pradesh; or areas south of the Pir Panjal in Jammu and Kashmir — was made possible by the armed forces. In fact, the removal of the AFSPA from Tripura is testimony to what the forces have been able to achieve. They couldn’t have done this without the legal provision for their deployment in counter-insurgency areas. However, I would say that the final solution to insurgency or terrorism is not military in nature; it is political and economical. The Army has normalised the situation many times in J&K and the Northeast. But the State governments, and to a certain extent the Central government, have not been able to carry forward the political process. Three Chief Ministers in the Northeast have now demanded that the Act be repealed. Many a time, the Centre undermined federalism by refusing to listen to the States, while on occasions, the States themselves have wanted the Act to stay. So, is AFSPA being used more as a political tool? PM:Perhaps what is needed is a referendum on the AFSPA because the State governments and the Centre are playing football with it. As I said earlier, when Mr. Sarkar revoked the Disturbed Areas Act, the AFSPA automatically went away. Why are the other State governments not doing the same? In 1958, the nation-building process was at its nascent stage and the country was in no position to understand its periphery. So, to have the military bring in a certain degree of law and order in a conflict situation for a short period would have been forgiven. But the Act is not meant to continue forever. It is ethically, morally and legally wrong. Perhaps it’s time for the people to rally under a common platform and go to Jantar Mantar to voice their views. It’s difficult for the entire Northeast to come together, as every State has got a border problem with Assam. It would also depend on the ruling dispensation in each State. But politics apart, you have to show that you mean business. Otherwise, this will become another dead issue before long. GS:The prolonged deployment of the armed forces for internal security duties is not desirable. No one wants to be fighting their own people. The State governments must review the security situation and see if they need the presence of the Army and the Assam Rifles in their States. They need to see if their police forces are capable of handling the situation. If they don’t feel the need to have the Army or the Assam Rifles, they should ask for the withdrawal of these forces. The AFSPA is just a tool; it’s a legal provision for the Army to operate in these areas. However, we would want the State police forces to be enabled to control the situation on their own. The Army should be preparing all the time for war against external aggression. Lt. Gen. (retd) D.S. Hooda in 2018 said it would perhaps be better to replace the AFSPA with a more humane, acceptable legislation, which would also provide better legal protection to the soldiers in counter-insurgency areas. GS:I’m not aware of what he said. But notwithstanding that, many people have demanded its repeal. Some feel that there’s a need to modify this Act, while some others think it should be replaced with something else. The Jeevan Reddy Committee, the J.S. Verma Committee, and the Second Administrative Reforms Commission have all commented along these lines. Having served in these areas for a very long time, I think the Act can be amended to make it more humane. But repealing it or replacing it in full is not going to work if the armed forces are to operate in these areas. It is actually an issue of perceptions. Data do not actually support the bad opinion about the AFSPA. On many occasions, the Supreme Court has upheld its legality and endorsed the dos and don’ts which were laid out by the Army headquarters. And at the ground level, the commanders and the soldiers are sensitive and know that they are operating against their own people. But is there any mechanism for accountability? The AFSPA grants blanket immunity to the forces. Further, the Government of India (GoI) has reportedly denied permission to prosecute any armed forces personnel in cases of alleged fake encounters investigated by the CBI. PM:There isn’t any mechanism at the moment because the GoI also has its hands tied. If it uses the Army, it cannot disable the Army by diluting the Act in some way. And the Army will not want to operate in that kind of situation. But why is the Army not used in the Maoist-affected areas? There too people and uniformed personnel are killed. Are the people of the Northeast and J&K not India’s own people that they have to be fought with the Army? GS:Having served in the Northeast for seven tenures, I can say that there cannot be a more wrong assumption. The Northeast is very close to the hearts of the people of the rest of India, especially people like me. There’s an argument that the continuous enforcement of the AFSPA has derailed the peace process, involving the NSCN (I-M) in this case, with large sections of the people disenchanted that they have been kept out of the process. PM:The NSCN(I-M) could have demanded revocation of the Act as a prerequisite for the peace talks back in 1997 itself when it became a party to it. It’s only now that it is jumping on the bandwagon, clamouring for the Act’s repeal. In Nagaland, the people are traumatised because they are caught between the state and non-state forces. The non-state forces extort money from businesses, entrepreneurs, the government, government employees. Even development funds are being shared with militant outfits. So, there’s a total absence of law and order in these States. For instance, we don’t have an opposition any longer in the Nagaland Assembly. All the 60 MLAs have joined the government on the plea that they will ensure the culmination of the 25-year-old peace process. But that’s not happening. How does the NSCN(I-M)’s demand for a flag and a separate Constitution work in the Naga-inhabited areas of Manipur which have given up the demand for sovereignty? The GoI is very clear that it is not going to allow any territorial rearrangement. But by demanding a flag and a Constitution, the NSCN(I-M) wants the peace talks to go on unresolved. GS:The law-and-order situation is really bad in these States. There are large numbers of highly indoctrinated, seditious, violent elements who are lured by money and the gun culture. They go about collecting ‘taxes’ on everything, and the police and the local administration are quite ineffective. In most of these disturbed areas, there’s a communal, tribal, ethnic divide that makes the local police partisan as well. It is the Army or the Central police force that restores some degree of law and order in these places. As for the NSCN(I-M), it uses the ceasefire in Nagaland to keep moving around. It has no reason to conclude the peace process. But it’s not just them; there are many splinter groups that carry out extortion. So, the forces have to intervene. Are civil society organisations coming together to raise the issues with the Centre? PM:The Nagaland Gaon Bura Association, with representation from all 16 tribes of Nagaland, had written to the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister asking them to conclude the deal on what had been agreed with the NSCN(I-M). But the Centre did not respond. You have put the people of Nagaland in a situation where they are in no position to speak up, because speaking up has consequences. At least, thankfully now, because of social media which offers anonymity, they are able to express themselves. How do people lead a normal life in the shadow of the gun? PM:When some things happen over a long period, they become part of your culture. You learn to live with it, although you are unhappy. You have a government that is held hostage by the NSCN(I-M). On the other side, you have people with guns. The situation is the same in Assam and parts of Arunachal Pradesh. This problem is compounded by the 16-km free movement zone on either side of the 1,643-km India-Myanmar border. It aids the smuggling of arms and drugs and the movement of militants. Shouldn’t there be a stricter border regime? GS:The presence of the armed forces in these States is not so formidable as to be intimidating. If anything, it has only positively impacted people’s lives. Barring a few undesirable incidents, which get investigated, people’s daily lives are unaffected. And the situation along the India-Myanmar border is much better now with the use of technology, communication and the forward movement of Assam Rifles posts.   When you use the Army against your own people, you are actually abusing the Army because it is trained to fight the enemy, not its own people. Patricia Mukhim||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/is-the-armed-forces-special-powers-act-past-its-expiry-date/article37973447.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Reflections on flying blind into the storm||An increasingly asked question is, “If COVID-19 cases were to suddenly rise now, in a third wave of the disease, would India be better prepared than we were for the second wave in April-May of 2020?” In the past two weeks, such a question has been motivated by reports of Indian cases of the Omicron variant, despite India reporting record low case numbers currently and there being considerable relaxation in COVID-appropriate behaviour. Worryingly, Omicron cases across the United Kingdom are set to constitute, by some modelling predictions, more than 50% of all COVID-19 cases there in two to four weeks, displacing the Delta variant. Omicron cases in Denmark are rising steeply. It has been reported that the severity of these cases appears less than was associated with the previous Delta wave, but these are early days for a new variant reported three weeks ago. The two sides So where do we stand? There are positives. The extreme shortages of oxygen that we saw barely six months ago will hopefully not be a feature of a third wave. We have now vaccinated more than 50% of the adult population with both doses of vaccine, and approximately 85% have received one or two doses. Vaccines for the 12 year-18-year-old population as well as booster shots for frontline health-care workers, those who are immunocompromised, and those above 60 years are being discussed currently. When implemented, these will protect those currently most vulnerable, based on booster and variant data from elsewhere. Ramping up testing to deal with a spike should not require an increase in capacity. We have more vaccine doses than in May 2021 and the potential for oral antiviral therapy in the near future. But there are negatives. Several of these have been discussed since the novel coronavirus pandemic began. Of those we could list, we highlight an urgent and important one — the lack of publicly available data on the pandemic from Government sources, particularly in regard to testing, but also in terms of being able to correlate disease severity with age, prior medical conditions, locations and other variables. A letter and action taken In April 2021, we and 900 other scientists, co-signed a letter addressed to the Prime Minister of India. The letter contained the following message, among others: “While new pandemics can have unpredictable features, our inability to adequately manage the spread of infections has, to a large extent, resulted from epidemiological data not being systematically collected and released in a timely manner to the scientific community.” Within a day of this letter becoming public, the Principal Scientific Adviser, Prof. K. VijayRaghavan promised prompt action, with his office listing nodal personnel in the main agencies responsible for COVID-19 data collection which could be contacted for these data. Now, six months later, what progress has resulted? As far as we can see, none. Data from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), India’s premier medical research agency, remains inaccessible. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has not responded. The CoWIN data (The Government web portal for COVID-19 vaccination registration) contains valuable information but beyond the real-time data on vaccine delivery by doses, as displayed, it is of little value for future planning and prediction unless it can be tied to testing data and clinical information at the level of individuals. Data is pivotal Why are these data needed? If we knew that a person had tested positive on successive tests separated by, say four months or more, with a negative test in-between, that would suggest a reinfection. We could then infer the probability of such a reinfection. With information about testing and vaccination status, we could compute the probability of a vaccine breakthrough event. By checking to see whether the positive test happened after the first but before the second dose of vaccine, or after the second dose, the relative efficacy of such single vaccine doses at preventing disease could be derived. By examining symptoms reported after a vaccine breakthrough event, we could understand the extent to which vaccines reduce disease severity. Add to this a layer of sequence information, and we could study the impact of new variants. The Indian Council of Medical Research holds data on every COVID-19 test conducted in India. At this stage of the novel coronavirus pandemic, it seems unfathomable that these data are not correlated to the vaccine data in the CoWIN platform. Data on hospitalisations, etc. are apparently available at the State level, but seem inaccessible which, considering both the enormous resources devoted to COVID-19 across government agencies and the use of universal health IDs and records, demonstrates that we have a long way to go. If we cannot do this for COVID-19, what is the likelihood that we will accurately record other health conditions? The most trustworthy and granular data on cases in India have resulted from the remarkable and public-spirited work of a volunteer organisation, Covid19India.org. Their volunteers maintained a public website where data were culled from individual reports by States, even sometimes from informal sources, such as journalist groups or citizen science reports. Their work has now been taken over by several other voluntary groups, all operating on the same broad principles of data accessibility: covid19bharat.org, incovid19.org and covid19tracker.in. For the COVID-19 data void in India to be filled by volunteer groups and not by the Government is unusual by any means. The Government has access to more data than these groups. Yet, it is the data put out by these groups that appears to be trusted more, even by those in the Government. We have laid the stress on data availability because this is the one area where a swift realignment is possible. Setting right a public health system that has been underfunded — and, in some cases, neglected — over decades, is a harder task, but we must not fail to recognise that data is a public good. The more widely data are shared, the greater the likelihood of integration of the rapidly shifting scientific frontier with clinical practice. South Africa’s experience South Africa’s actions with its sequencing data when the Omicron variant was first detected are illustrative. With the advantages of a relatively high-quality surveillance system among low- and middle-income countries (LMIC) countries, bolstered by a commitment towards transparency and data accessibility, South Africa’s rapid sharing allowed the world to prepare swiftly for the appearance of the highly mutated Omicron variant. From the experience of other countries, it is likely that Omicron will spread in India, as it has elsewhere in the world. We do not know currently — and it would be irresponsible to extrapolate on the limited information available to us so far — about what this might lead to, but it is clear that pre-emptive decisions on vaccination and other measures could be made faster and better if more integrated data were available. Now, more than ever before, is the time for us to urgently re-assess our attitude towards data for public health purposes and the role of national health agencies in sharing data, generated with public funds, with scientists in India and across the world. The title of our piece is ‘... Flying blind into the storm”. If we do not pay attention to this now, that is indeed what we will be reduced to in the months to come. Dr. Gagandeep Kang is Professor of Microbiology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu. Gautam I. Menon is a Professor at Ashoka University, Sonepat and at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reflections-on-flying-blind-into-the-storm/article37973440.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The WTO’s challenge to MSP is another frontier to cross||The demand of farmers to provide a legal guarantee for the minimum support price (MSP) for their produce has triggered a nationwide debate. Some believe it would be “fiscally ruinous” to procure all the 23 crops for which MSP is announced annually. Others contend that procuring these crops would be a logistical nightmare. There is yet another dimension of this debate that has largely gone unnoticed. Can India provide a legal guarantee for MSP without violating its international law obligations enshrined in the Agreement on Agriculture (AoA) of the World Trade Organization (WTO)? As a trade-distorting subsidy One of the central objectives of the AoA is to cut trade-distorting domestic support that WTO member countries provide to agriculture. In this regard, the domestic subsidies are divided into three categories: ‘green box’, ‘blue box’ and ‘amber box’ measures. Subsidies that fall under the ‘green box’ (like income support to farmers de-coupled from production) and ‘blue box’ (like direct payments under production limiting programmes subject to certain conditions) are considered non-trade distorting. Countries can provide unlimited subsidies under these two categories. However, price support provided in the form of procurement of crops at MSP is classified as a trade-distorting subsidy and falls under the ‘amber box’ measures, which are subject to certain limits. To measure ‘amber box’ support, WTO member countries are required to compute Aggregate Measurement of Support (AMS). AMS is the total of product-specific support (price support to a particular crop) and non-product-specific support (fertilizer subsidy). Under Article 6.4(b) of the AoA, developing countries such as India are allowed to provide a de minimis level of product and non-product domestic subsidy. This de minimis limit is capped at 10% of the total value of production of the product, in case of a product-specific subsidy; and at 10% of the total value of a country’s agricultural production, in case of non-product subsidy. Subsidies breaching the de minimis cap are trade-distorting. Consequently,  they have to be accounted for in the AMS. The procurement at MSP, after comparing it with the fixed external reference price (ERP) — an average price based on the base years 1986-88 — has to be included in AMS. Since the fixed ERP has not been revised in the last several decades at the WTO, the difference between the MSP and fixed ERP has widened enormously due to inflation. For instance, according to the Centre for WTO Studies, India’s ERP for rice, in 1986-88, was $262.51/tonne and the MSP was less than this. However, India’s applied administered price for rice in 2015-16 stood at $323.06/tonne, much more than the 1986-88 ERP. When this difference is accounted for in the AMS, the possibility of overshooting the de minimis limit becomes real. Procuring all the 23 crops at MSP, as against the current practice of procuring largely rice and wheat, will result in India breaching the de minimis limit making it vulnerable to a legal challenge at the WTO. Even if the Government does not procure directly but mandates private parties to acquire at a price determined by the Government, as it happens in the case of sugarcane, the de minimis limit of 10% applies. Very recently, a WTO panel in the case, India – Measures Concerning Sugar and Sugarcane , concluded that India breached the de minimis limit in the case of sugarcane by offering guaranteed prices paid by sugar mills to sugarcane farmers. Peace clause The AoA needs to be amended so that it provides adequate policy space to run an MSP-backed food security programme. Although a permanent solution is nowhere in sight, the countries have agreed to a peace clause. The peace clause forbids bringing legal challenges against price support-based procurement for food security purposes even if it breaches the limit on domestic support. However, the peace clause is subject to several conditions. For example, it can be availed by developing countries for the support provided to traditional staple food crops to pursue public stockholding programmes for food security (procuring food to provide free ration through the Public Distribution System). Furthermore, the peace clause is applicable only for programmes that were existing as of the date of the decision and are consistent with other requirements. Countries are also under an obligation to notify the WTO if their subsidies exceed the permissible level. For instance, earlier this year, India reported to the WTO that it gave subsidies worth $6.31 billion for rice in 2019-20 while the value of rice production was $46.07 billion. In other words, the subsidies were 13.6% of the total value of production as against the de minimis level of 10%. India’s procurement for rice and wheat, even if it violates the de minimis limit, will enjoy legal immunity. However, India will not be able to employ the peace clause to defend procuring those crops that are not part of the food security programme (such as cotton, groundnut, sunflower seed). Even if the AoA is amended to exclude MSP-backed procurement for food security purposes from the AMS, procurement for other crops at prices higher than the fixed ERP would be considered trade-distorting and thus subject to the de minimis limit. Therefore, India needs to recalibrate its agricultural support programmes to make use of the flexibilities available in the AoA. Some alternatives Arguably, India can move away from price-based support in the form of MSP to income-based support, which will not be trade-distorting under the AoA provided the income support is not linked to production. Alternatively, one can supplement price-based support (keeping the de minimis limit in mind) with an income-based support policy. However, it will be arduous especially given the climate of high misgiving prevailing between the farmers and the political establishment. The recent fiasco with the three repealed farm laws demonstrates that reforms in agriculture, no matter how sagacious, cannot be shoved down the throats of the farmers. The Government needs to engage with the farmers and create an affable environment to convince them of other effective policy interventions, beyond MSP, that are fiscally prudent and WTO compatible. Prabhash Ranjan is Professor and Vice Dean, Jindal Global Law School, O.P. Jindal Global University. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-wtos-challenge-to-msp-is-another-frontier-to-cross/article37973433.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The reporter’s COVID dilemma||On September 30, 2020, as the photographer and I were driving towards Chandpa police station in Hathras district of western Uttar Pradesh, COVID-19 was the last thing on our mind. A Dalit girl, who had allegedly been raped and murdered by four upper-caste men, had been cremated by the administration without the family’s permission. It was a story that needed to be told. We didn’t stop to wonder whether the mother of the girl would open up about the crime from chhe foot ki doori (six-feet distance). And we were not going to tell her about the importance of wearing a mask when she was faced with the biggest crisis of her life. Hundreds of anguished villagers, who crowded the courtyard, had no protection against the virus. Their immediate concern was that the administration had cremated their ‘daughter’ without their permission. A reporter, unlike a photojournalist who can capture the mood through a zoom lens, has to spend time with the protagonists to get the details — masks or no masks. This has been a dilemma for reporters for two years now. I first faced this dilemma while reporting on the migrant workers as they started returning home in March 2020, when the virus was an unknown entity. My father was terminally ill. However, I had to report on the incident. And no amount of cleaning and bathing washed off my doubts and anxiety. The pandemic has left reporters in a state of quandary. If we don’t go to the spot, it feels like our conscience will get seared. If we do, we put our family, particularly elderly parents, in danger. Recently, a leading filmmaker told me that when you are focused, your immunity is high. I agree but does this pass on to the family of the earnest journalist as well? As the news from Hathras spread, the local administration tried to turn the village into a containment zone, possibly to keep the media out of a big developing story, but the ploy didn’t work. All the journalists descended there. The farmers’ agitation also took place during the pandemic but the administration, which swooped down on the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act agitation after COVID-19 became a reality, refrained from stopping this one. They seemed equally lenient with political rallies and panchayat polls. At the morchas, farmers hardly wore masks. And once again, journalists had to spend time with them to understand their concerns. Preventing journalists from doing their story, as the police tried in Hathras, is one method of controlling the narrative by the powers that be. The other is the attempt to manage headlines. In March this year, while reporting on the preparations of the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar, a senior official asked me why I was so concerned about the possibility of a holy congregation becoming a hotspot when hundreds of people are roaming in “your Chandni Chowk”. When I pointed out that in the case of the latter, no government money was being spent on putting up massive hoardings, inviting people to attend a religious assemblage during the pandemic, he asked for a favourable headline. “Rest we will manage,” he chuckled. I made it clear that a reporter doesn’t write the headlines. Days later, the Kumbh Mela did emerge as a hotspot of the virus but, during my stay, a young barber at Har Ki Pauri suggested a way out to minimise the damage. He said the barber union had decided that only a select few young barbers would work for a month and they would share the income with the whole community. I wondered then if journalists too could share information with one another and do their jobs. Confident about having survived the first COVID-19 wave, I returned to the ground to cover the migrant workers’ journey during the second wave. This time I was not as lucky. Perhaps that was because Delta was a stronger variant or perhaps it was because, as the filmmaker said, I was just not as focused to have high immunity. anuj.kumar@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-reporters-covid-dilemma/article37973442.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||In the name of the father||A Special Investigation Team of the Uttar Pradesh police has concluded that the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, U.P., on October 3 that claimed the lives of eight people was a “pre-planned conspiracy”. Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra is a key accused in the case. He was in a convoy of cars that mowed down farmers protesting against the controversial farm laws that have since been repealed. Two of the cars were owned by the Minister. In subsequent violence on that day, three BJP workers who were part of the convoy were lynched by the protesters. The charges are yet to be proved in a court, but the Minister is on the defensive as the Opposition stalled Parliament for two days, demanding his dismissal. The charges against his son are serious. The police have sought to drop the initial charges they had brought against the accused under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 304A (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), Section 279 (negligent driving), and Section 338 (causing grievous hurt). They now seek Section 307 (attempt to murder), Section 326 (causing hurt with dangerous weapon), Section 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), and Section 3/25 Arms Act against Ashish Mishra. It could be argued that a father is not accountable for his son’s actions, but in this instance it is disingenuous. The son has been a key character in the father’s politics, by all accounts, and the Minister’s continuation in the Council has become morally untenable. Mr. Sharma has aggravated the situation for himself by misbehaving with a journalist who asked him a question on the issue. His behaviour, caught on camera, is unbecoming of a Minister. The violence unleashed by the Minister’s followers on October 3 was one of the factors that forced the hand of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who had ruled out the repeal of the farm laws all along. The BJP appears to be defending the Minister though the official argument has been limited to the point that the matter cannot be discussed in Parliament as it is before a court. Mr. Mishra’s adventurism has turned out to be costly for the BJP, but the party may be cautious in dealing with him. The Assembly election is due in Uttar Pradesh, and the party may not want to ruffle feathers any further. An element of an internal power struggle in the BJP’s U.P. unit is unmistakable in the violent incident and the police response that followed. Mr. Mishra had political calculations in taking a combative stance against farmers. But he may have to pay a price for it now, as the incident puts the State and Central governments of the party on the back foot. Fairness demands that he must not stay on as a Union Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-the-name-of-the-father/article37973434.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Wrong forum||India’s negative vote at the UN Security Council (UNSC) on a draft resolution on climate change is a reflection of its long-held opposition to expanding the UNSC’s mandate into areas that are already being dealt with by other multinational fora. The resolution, piloted by Ireland and Niger and which had the support of a majority of the UNSC members, was voted down by India and Russia — it has veto powers — while China abstained. Their position is that the UNSC’s primary responsibility is “maintenance of international peace and security” and climate change-related issues are outside its ambit. But the supporters of the resolution argue that the climate is creating security risks in the world, which will exacerbate in the future with water shortage, migration and a destruction of livelihoods. Germany had circulated a similar draft last year which was never put to vote in the Security Council as the Trump administration opposed it. Now, with support from the Biden administration, the developed world is pushing to include what they call “climate security” in the agenda of the UNSC. While the urgency to take action to tackle climate change is appreciated, the attempt to securitise the climate agenda could have unintended consequences. Bringing the issue under the UNSC will also give more powers to the world’s industrialised countries, which hold a veto power, to decide on future action on climate-related security issues. Currently, all matters related to climate change are being discussed in the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), a specialised agency. And with over 190 members, its framework has made progress in tackling climate change. It is this process that led to the Kyoto Protocol, the Paris Agreement and the recent COP26 summit, and has put in place an international approach to combat global climate change. Sure, there is valid criticism that decision making at UNFCCC conferences is slow and there has to be faster collective action to tackle climate change and associated challenges. But the solution is not outsourcing decision making to the five permanent members of the UNSC. Also, it is wrong to look at climate change through the prism of security. Each nation faces different challenges in transitioning into a greener economy. As India’s Permanent Representative at the UN T.S. Tirumurti pointed out, the developed countries, all big polluters, have not met the promises they made with regard to climate action. The least developed and developing countries should be encouraged to keep the promises they made with financial assistance. This needs to be a collective process and the best way is through the UNFCCC, where decisions made are by consensus. The UNFCCC should not only make sure that the promises made by member countries, especially the powerful ones, in previous conferences are kept but also expand the scope of discussions to include climate-related security issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/wrong-forum/article37973435.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Bangla Desh is born (From an Editorial)||With the formal surrender of the Pakistan army at its headquarters in Dacca, the war in the eastern sector has ended without unnecessary bloodshed, as Gen. Manekshaw suggested. At the same time, the new State of Bangla Desh has truly arrived as a “free country” as our Prime Minister crisply put it when announcing the good news to the Lok Sabha. The acting President, Syed Nazrul Islam, and the Prime Minister, Mr. Tajuddin Ahmed, have been functioning at Jessore. Now their government can make its triumphant progress to the capital city where a thousand Mukti Bahini guerillas had been fighting the Pakistan army. Bangla Desh has already been recognised by India and Bhutan. It now awaits recognition from other countries many of which have watched its struggle for liberation with sympathy. It will eventually seek membership of the United Nations whose Charter it has already accepted. Though its chief leader, Sheikh Mujibur Rehman, is nowhere near the scene of rejoicing — he is reported to be in a Pakistani prison at Lyallpur — the other leaders have already drafted a democratic, secular and socialist constitution which will in due time be discussed and passed into law by the members of the provincial and central assemblies who were elected last December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bangla-desh-is-born-from-an-editorial/article37973441.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||FDI may decline 20% in FY22, trend to weigh on rupee: UBS||Inflows into India via foreign direct investments (FDI) may decline by about 20% this fiscal after the all-time high investments of close to $82 billion received in FY21, UBS Global said in a research report on Thursday. “India’s net FDI inflows have slowed in the first half of calendar year 2021 after very strong FDI inflows in the second half of 2020,” UBS said in the report. “The latter was due to the services sector, which continues to dominate FDI inflows, with e-commerce and digital platforms the new wave, while manufacturing has lagged,” it added. “We see risk of FDI inflows declining by about 20% year-on-year, in 2021-22 — which could weigh on the rupee near term — before recovering in 2022-23 and beyond,” UBS economists said in a report titled ‘Asian net inward FDI on track for a record year — what happens next?’ Net FDI inflows in India are not expected to fully offset the country’s current account deficit this year, but the reshoring of supply chains due to the pandemic is a ‘relative positive’ for more investments into India and ASEAN countries, the Swiss firm suggested. FDI inflows in the first half of this year were about $31 billion. “It appears that the reshoring dynamic is impacting South Asian economies less than China,” it pointed out. Asia is expected to receive the highest FDI this year, going well past the previous record net inward FDI of $252 billion in 2013. UBS economists expect FDI inflows into India to rise to about $85 billion by FY26 and to almost $100 billion over five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fdi-may-decline-20-in-fy22-trend-to-weigh-on-rupee-ubs/article37973420.ece
17 December 2021||new delhi,||Power discoms owe gencos more than Rs. 1.56 lakh cr.: Singh||Total outstanding dues owed by power distribution utilities or discoms to generation firms (gencos) are estimated to be more than Rs. 1.56 lakh crore, Parliament was informed on Thursday. “Discoms have not been able to pay the generation companies for the power procured, and the outstanding payments to generation companies are estimated to be in excess of Rs. 1,56,000 crore,” Power Minister R. K. Singh said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. Reforms deliberated “The outstanding dues to renewable generators are around 11 months of revenues. Therefore, reforms have been deliberated upon in consultation with the states and all stakeholders,” The condition of most of the State government-owned distribution companies is a matter of grave concern, the Minister stated. Their AT&C (aggregate technical and commercial) losses at the end of 2019-20 range from an average of 21% to a maximum of 60.16%. The gap between Average Cost of Supply (ACS) and Average Revenue Realised (ARR) excluding Regulatory Assets and Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY) grants averages 60 paise per unit in 2019-20 and the accumulated losses of all discoms in the country by 2019-20 have risen to Rs. 5,07,416 crore, he informed. About government’s plans to introduce a Bill, enabling the power consumer to choose from multiple service providers, the minister said, “No final decisions have been arrived at so far.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/power-discoms-owe-gencos-more-than-rs-156-lakh-cr-singh/article37973422.ece
17 December 2021||COIMBATORE,||Poultry firm Suguna unveils Delfrez brand||Poultry major Suguna Foods on Thursday introduced the Delfrez brand for its processed poultry and mutton products. Suguna’s processed chicken and mutton products and eggs would be sold under the Delfrez brand online and offline, said Vignesh Soundararajan, ED. The group plans to invest Rs. 100 crore in the brand and open more than 1,000 outlets by 2025, he added. Suguna currently has 250 retail outlets in three southern States. These will be rebranded as Delfrez, with 40 more stores added in the next 4-6 months in the westand north. The product range available under the brand would also be expanded. “By rebranding the processed chicken, mutton and egg products, we want to focus on the farm-to-fork concept,” Mr. Soundararajan said. “Currently, about 5% of our business is from processed products. These should contribute to 20% of the company’s top-line by 2025” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/poultry-firm-suguna-unveils-delfrez-brand/article37973418.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Mineral output to rise with changes to rules’||The government on Thursday said that amendment in mineral auction rules will encourage competition that will ensure more participation in the sale of blocks. The Ministry of Mines has notified the Minerals (Evidence of Mineral Contents) Second Amendment Rules, 2021 and the Mineral (Auction) Fourth Amendment Rules, 2021 to amend the Minerals (Evidence of Mineral Contents) Rules, 2015 (MEMC Rules) and the Mineral (Auction) Rules, 2015 (Auction Rules), respectively, the Mines Ministry said. “These amendments would encourage more participation in auction and promote competition,” the Ministry said. This will facilitate State governments in identifying more blocks for auction of composite licence. These amendments were aimed at identifying more mineral blocks for auction and thereby increasing pace of exploration and production resulting in improving the availability of minerals in the country, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mineral-output-to-rise-with-changes-to-rules/article37973424.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Regulation needed for cryptocurrencies: IMF||International Monetary Fund (IMF) Chief Economist Gita Gopinath has made a strong case for regulating cryptocurrencies, saying it will always be a challenge to ban them as they operate from offshore exchanges. Ms. Gopinath also suggested a global policy and coordinated action for regulating cryptocurrencies. “I think cryptocurrencies are a particular challenge for emerging markets. It seems to be more attractive to adopt cryptocurrencies and assets in emerging economies than in advanced economies,” she said while addressing an event organised by the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) on Wednesday. India is contemplating bringing a Bill in Parliament to deal with the challenges posed by the unregulated cryptocurrencies. Currently, there are no particular regulations or any ban on use of cryptocurrencies in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/regulation-needed-for-cryptocurrencies-imf/article37973428.ece
17 December 2021||ANANTAPUR,||Kia unveils RV Carens, sales seen by March||Kia India on Thursday unveiled the look of its new recreational vehicle (RV) manufactured at its Anantapur facility. The model is expected to go on sale in select markets in the country in the first quarter of 2022, according to Kia. In a release, the automaker said the Kia Carens would be a three-row RV and would be introduced with six standard airbags across variants. “India is diverse, and the people here have different preferences,” said Kia India MD and CEO Tae-Jin Park, while unveiling the model. “I believe this is the most exciting insight we tried to unlock while developing the Carens,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kia-unveils-rv-carens-sales-seen-by-march/article37973412.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,||Ola raises $500 mn from global firms||Mobility platform Ola has raised $500 million through term loan B from international institutional investors. The proposed loan issuance received a ‘staggering response’ from investors with interest and commitment of $1.5 billion, the firm said. The company would utilise the funds to ‘fuel its vision’ for the future of mobility across its various businesses, including ride-hailing, vehicle commerce, food delivery, quick commerce and financial services, it said.   Ola was among only a few Indian firms to raise capital through the TLB route, the firm claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ola-raises-500-mn-from-global-firms/article37973413.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,||ALL rolls out CNG vehicle E-Comet Star||Ashok Leyland Ltd. (ALL) rolled out its CNG vehicle E-Comet Star. The vehicle comes fitted with H series 4-cylinder BS VI engine, the firm said. It has an ability to provide higher fluid efficiency, better tyre life, longer service intervals and overall lower maintenance cost with enhanced turnaround time and total cost of ownership for the fleet owners, the company said. “Today, we have introduced the first of many CNG trucks based on the highly successful E-Comet platform,” said Sanjay Saraswat, head - M & HCV. “This will lead our product offensive in the fast-growing CNG segment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/all-rolls-out-cng-vehicle-e-comet-star/article37973416.ece
17 December 2021||Hyderabad,||MSN’s generic drug gets USFDA’s tentative nod||Drugmaker MSN Labs on Thursday said its abbreviated new drug application for a generic version of Cangrelor has received tentative approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (USFDA). The product will be manufactured at the state-of-the-art injectable facility here, the firm said. It is used during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) to reduce the risk of blood clots and heart attack. The approval comes close on the heels of MSN receiving Drugs Controller General of India’s approval for Canreal, its generic version of Cangrelor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/msns-generic-drug-gets-usfdas-tentative-nod/article37973411.ece
17 December 2021||Mumbai,||CMS Info Systems unveils Rs. 1,100-crore IPO||CMS Info Systems Ltd. (CMS) has fixed a price band of Rs. 205 - Rs. 216 per equity share of Rs. 10 for the Rs. 1,100-crore IPO that will open on December 21. Promoter Sion Investment Holdings Pte. Ltd. (an affiliate of Baring Private Equity Asia) will be diluting up to 35% of its 100% stake in the company.  The company operates cash management and managed services for ATMs, including end-to-end financial cards issuance and management for banks and card personalisation services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cms-info-systems-unveils-rs-1100-crore-ipo/article37973415.ece
17 December 2021||DHAKA,||Confident India faces the Pakistan test||Defending champion India, back to its best after a slow start, would look to continue its experiments with caution when it takes on Pakistan in its third round-robin match of the Asian Champions Trophy men’s hockey tournament here on Friday. Olympic bronze medallist India did not have the best of starts in the tournament, its first after the historic Tokyo campaign, as Korea came from two goals down to hold the Manpreet Singh-led side 2-2 in the tournament opener. However, the Indians came out a completely different side against Bangladesh on Wednesday, thrashing the hosts 9-0 in a lop-sided affair. Experiments  Striker Dilpreet Singh slammed a hat-trick of field goals, while Jarmanpreet Singh found the net twice from set pieces as the Graham Reid-coached team experimented with its penalty corners, trying out variations instead of direct flicks from vice-captain Harmanpreet Singh and Varun Kumar. It was a dominant display by India in all aspects of the game against Bangladesh and the holder would look to do the same against Pakistan on Friday. The Indian defence has been led well by Harmanpreet, while the skipper holds the key in midfield. The forward-line has shone bright with Lalit Upadhayay scoring three goals from two games while comeback man Akashdeep Singh, who missed out on a berth in the Tokyo Olympics squad, registered his name on the scoresheet on Wednesday. But the Indians can’t afford to relax on Friday, especially against Pakistan, which, too, boasts of a rich hockey history although the game is on the decline in that nation. India and Pakistan were declared joint winners in the last edition of the ACT in 2018 in Muscat after the final was washed out. Going by past record, Pakistan definitely holds an edge but on form, India starts as the favourite.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/confident-india-faces-the-pakistan-test/article37973791.ece
17 December 2021||London,||Arsenal thrives without axed star Aubameyang||Arsenal showed it can thrive without axed star Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang as the Gunners moved into fourth place in the Premier League with a 2-0 win against West Ham, while the top-flight’s coronavirus crisis deepened on Wednesday. Gabriel Martinelli and Emile Smith Rowe netted in the second half of a fiery London derby at the Emirates Stadium that saw West Ham’s Vladimir Coufal sent off. Arsenal is one point above fifth-placed West Ham after a second successive victory eased the drama surrounding Mikel Arteta’s decision to strip Gabon forward Aubameyang of the club captaincy.  Watford’s match at Burnley was postponed less than three hours before kick-off on Wednesday after “an ongoing Covid outbreak” left the Hornets with insufficient players to fulfil the fixture. Erling Haaland scored twice on Wednesday as Borussia Dortmund trimmed Bayern Munich’s lead at the top of the Bundesliga table to six points with a 3-0 win over bottom side Greuther Fuerth. Haaland struck either side of half-time before Dutch striker Donyell Malen grabbed Dortmund’s late third goal to seal the win. Haaland has scored 19 goals in 15 games for Dortmund this season and the towering Norwegian again shone at Signal Iduna Park. Dortmund is also six points ahead of third-placed Leverkusen, which was held to a 2-2 draw at home by Hoffenheim on Wednesday. Earlier, Japan forward Daichi Kamada scored his first Bundesliga goal of the season to give Eintracht Frankfurt a 3-2 win at Borussia Monchengladbach on Wednesday following a flurry of second-half goals.  The results: Premier League: Arsenal 2 (Martinelli 48, Smith Rowe 87) bt West Ham 0; Brighton 0 lost to Wolves 1 (Saiss 45+1); Crystal Palace 2 (Zaha 2, Ayew 65) drew with Southampton 2 (Ward-Prowse 32, Broja 36); Burnley v Watford (postponed due to coronavirus).   Bundesliga: Borussia M’Gladbach 2 (Neuhaus 6, Bensebaini 54-pen) lost to Eintracht Frankfurt 3 (Borre 45, Lindstrom 50, Kamada 55); Borussia Dortmund 3 (Haaland 33-pen, 82, Malen 89) bt Greuther Fuerth 0; Bayer Leverkusen 2 (Schick 37, 63) drew with Hoffenheim 2 (Stiller 80, Dabbur 83); Union Berlin 0 drew with Freiburg 0; Augsburg 1 (Caligiuri 86-pen) drew with RB Leipzig 1 (Silva 19) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arsenal-thrives-without-axed-star-aubameyang/article37973430.ece
17 December 2021||Adelaide,||Warner and Labuschagne put Australia on top||Australia shrugged off the late withdrawal of new skipper Pat Cummins because of coronavirus concerns to dominate England on the opening day of the second Ashes Test and reach 221 for two at stumps. Marnus Labuschagne was dropped twice but remained unbeaten on 95 at stumps on Thursday after sharing partnerships of 172 with David Warner (95) and 45 with Steve Smith. Neser for Cummins Smith returned to the Australian captaincy for the first time since the 2018 sandpaper scandal after Cummins was ruled out. He was deemed to be a close contact of a positive COVID-19 case when he dined at a restaurant on the eve of the match. Medium-pacer Michael Neser was drafted into the team in place of Cummins. Smith won the toss and just about everything else went Australia’s way to start the day-night Test. He was unbeaten on 18 after waiting most of the day to bat, with Australia losing just two wickets despite an England attack bolstered by the return of Jimmy Anderson and Stuart Broad. Twice lucky Wicketkeeper Jos Buttler took a brilliant catch in the first hour to dismiss opener Marcus Harris (3) but then dropped Labuschagne twice — once down legside when he was on 21 and the other when he fumbled a regulation chance off Anderson’s bowling with the second new ball when the Australian No. 3 was on 95. “That was massive for the team there. Just getting through that period, me and Steve there. Just sets us up for tomorrow,” said Labuschagne, who batted for almost six hours and faced 275 deliveries. “My job is to make sure I capitalise on that.” Veteran pacemen Anderson and Broad were recalled after missing the series opener and had the batters in trouble early, Australia surviving three reviews in the first hour and Warner taking 20 deliveries to get off the mark. The Australians grafted through 25 overs in the first session to be 54 for one and added 84 runs in 28 overs in the middle session to reach the second interval at 129 for one.  Warner and Labuschagne continued into the night session and posted their sixth century partnership, and their second in as many Tests after their 156 at the Gabba last week. But after doing all the hard work early, Warner hit a short, wide ball from Ben Stokes directly to Broad in the covers and his 167-ball innings ended on 95 — one better than his innings in Australia’s nine-wicket win in the first Test last week. It was a reward for Stokes, who should have had a wicket in the 35th over when Labuschagne gloved a chance down the leg side but Buttler couldn’t complete the catch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/warner-and-labuschagne-put-australia-on-top/article37973746.ece
17 December 2021||Kochi,||Diamond League changes controversial ‘final three’ format||It had received a massive thumbs down from many athletes and had caused much confusion and controversy. The Diamond League General Assembly, which met in Rome, has now changed the ‘final three’ format for the 2022 Diamond League, virtually the world series in athletics, which will see the best throw or jump from the entire competition winning the event. The old format did not consider marks achieved in the previous five attempts in the horizontal jumps and throws, with the top three athletes going into a fresh competition — the winner-takes-all last round — to pick the champion. The men’s long jump at the 2020 Stockholm Diamond League, where Sweden’s Montler Thobias had the lead after five rounds with 8.13m but saw South African Samaai Ruswahl taking the gold with a last round 8.09m, is a classic case. “I’m happy with my four times over 8m, but I’m not so happy with the competition system!,” Thobias had said after the event. The new format, which was approved following consultations with athletes, coaches, broadcasters and meet organisers, will see the best throw or jump from the entire competition, not just the final three, win the event with the silver going to the next best performance. And to bring in additional excitement to the competition, the ‘best’ performing athletes will compete at the start of each round, not at the end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/diamond-league-changes-controversial-final-three-format/article37974112.ece
17 December 2021||TENHIPALAM,||Three meet records on day 2||Three new meet records marked the second day of the Calicut University inter-collegiate athletics meet here on Thursday. All the records were set by women — R. Arathi (400m hurdles), Sandra Babu (long jump) and C. Anasvara (pole vault).  The results (winners):   Men: 800m: K.A. Akhil (Sree Krishna) 1:55.71. 20km walk: U. Midhun Krishna (Govt. Arts, Pathiripala) 1:44:38.94s. 110m hurdles: Sachu George (Christ) 15.18s. 400m hurdles: A. Rohith (Victoria) 53.23s. 4x100m: Sree Krishna 42.17s.   Triple jump: C.D. Akhil Kumar (Sreekrishnapuram) 15.42m. Pole vault: Athul Raj (Christ) 4.40m. Discus: K. Aravind (Christ) 41.12m.   Women: 800m: Elga Thomas (Ambedkar Memorial) 2:19.34s. 20km walk: Asha Soman (Christ) 2:03:25.35s. 100m hurdles: Ann Rose Tommy (St. Thomas) 14.27s. 400m hurdles: R. Arathi (Christ) 1:00.44s: NMR; OR: 1:00.80, K.J. Vijila. 4x100m: Christ 50.41s.   Long jump: Sandra Babu (Christ) 6.05m: NMR; OR: 5.97m, M.A. Prajusha). Pole vault: C. Anasvara (St. Thomas) 3.45m: NMR; OR: 3.35m, Anjali Francis. Discus: Megha Mariyam Mathew (Christ) 32.27m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/three-meet-records-on-day-two/article37974108.ece
17 December 2021||Huelva (Spain),||Sindhu, Srikanth move into quarterfinals||Defending champion P.V. Sindhu stormed into the women’s quarterfinals of the BWF World Championships with a straight-game win over Pornpawee Chochuwong of Thailand here on Thursday. Also entering the last eight was K. Srikanth. World No. 7 Sindhu defeated her Thai opponent, ranked three places below her, 21-14, 21-18 in 48 minutes. Sindhu thus avenged her twin losses to Chochuwong this season — group match of BWF World Tour Finals earlier this month and All England in March. Later, in the men’s singles, 12th seed Srikanth outplayed unseeded Guang Zu Lu of China 21-10, 21-15 to enter the last eight. However, the Indian women’s and men’s doubles pairs bowed out. Ashwini Ponnappa and N. Sikki Reddy lost 13-21, 15-21 to the Thai duo of Jongkolphan Kititharakul and Rawinda Prajongjai. Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty suffered a 20-22, 21-18, 15-21 defeat to Ong Yew Sin and Teo Ee Yi of Malaysia. Sindhu took an early 5-1 lead but Chochuwong rallied to keep pace at 5-4 and then 10-9. The Indian zoomed ahead from there on to pocket the first game. The second game was a tighter affair, though. Sindhu led 11-6 at the change of ends and the second half saw some long rallies with the Thai player winning a few of them. Sindhu was leading 16-10 but Chochuwong made a comeback of sort to reduce the gap to 18-15 and then 19-18. Sindhu won a crucial point after a long rally to make it 20-18 before taking the game and match.  The results: Women: P.V. Sindhu bt Pornpawee Chochuwong (Tha) 21-14, 21-18. Doubles: Jongkolphan Kititharakul & Rawinda Prajongjai (Tha) bt Ashwini Ponnappa & N. Sikki Reddy 21-13, 21-15.   Men: K. Srikanth bt Guang Zu Lu (Chn) 21-10, 21-15. Doubles: Ong Yew Sin & Teo Ee Yi (Mas) bt Satwiksairaj Rankireddy & Chirag Shetty 22-20, 18-21, 21-15 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-srikanth-move-into-quarterfinals/article37973732.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||BCCI unlikely to take any hasty step||India captain Virat Kohli’s eyeball-grabbing media conference has forced a shell-shocked BCCI into a huddle as it explores its options on how to deal with the crisis while ensuring that the team is not distracted by off-field drama ahead of an important Test series. The India Test captain, during a press conference before departing to South Africa for a three-match series, said that he was never asked “not to quit T20 captaincy”, contrary to what BCCI president Sourav Ganguly had said to various media outlets. Unusual situation There are hardly any instances in the past where it becomes a choice between the word spoken by a sitting captain, who is also the reigning superstar of Indian cricket, against a decorated former skipper, who holds the chair of the president. It is understood that no one in BCCI is happy at what transpired on Wednesday but they also understand that any strong reaction in their bid to do a quick-fix could be counter-productive. While Kohli reached South Africa this evening, the board president, in Kolkata, made it clear that he will make no public statement. “No statements, no press conference. We will deal with it, leave it to (the) BCCI,” Ganguly told media-persons in his home town. It is reliably learnt that the senior BCCI office-bearers, including Ganguly and secretary Jay Shah, were engaged in a zoom call on Wednesday where a collective decision was taken that none would do a press conference or issue a press release. “Expert opinion was taken on how to deal with the sensitive matter as it also involves the respect of a president’s office. The BCCI knows that a Test series is round the corner and any hasty decision or statement from them could affect the morale of the team,” a senior BCCI source said on conditions of anonymity. Best way The best way is for both the captain and the president to sit across the table and amicably sort out the difference of opinion or mis-communication where statements perhaps have been lost in translation. However, as of now, neither Ganguly nor Shah might speak to the captain. Normally, a centrally-contracted player is not supposed to make any critical comments about the establishment or office-bearers. But whether Kohli’s clarification on what transpired, in response to a question rather than making a statement, would amount to breaking the protocol is also a question. So there are no easy solutions to this problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-unlikely-to-take-any-hasty-step/article37973734.ece
17 December 2021||Karachi,||Pakistan completes 3-0 sweep||Mohammad Rizwan (86) and Babar Azam (79) starred with the bat as Pakistan defeated West Indies by seven wickets in the third and final T20I here at the National Stadium on Thursday. With this win, Pakistan won the three-match series 3-0. Earlier, Nicholas Pooran’s 64-run knock helped West Indies post 207/3 in 20 overs. Meanwhile, the Pakistan-West Indies ODI series due to start this weekend was postponed after a growing coronavirus outbreak in the visiting squad. Positive tests by three players and two staff on Thursday increased the number of virus cases to nine in the West Indies tour party. Mutually agreed Officials from both boards agreed to postpone the three-ODI series to next June. The series was due to begin here on Saturday. Rescheduling the ODIs, “will provide the West Indies with an equal opportunity to field their best available players for the World Cup qualification matches,” the boards said in a statement. All who tested negative were to leave Pakistan late on Thursday. T20 player and ODI skipper Shai Hope, left-arm spinner Akeal Hosein and all-rounder Justin Greaves, along with assistant coach Roddy Estwick and team physician Akshai Mansingh, were the latest positives. Last weekend, Sheldon Cottrell, Roston Chase, Kyle Mayers and a support staff tested positive and had to miss this week’s T20 series.  The scores:   West Indies 207/3 (Nicholas Pooran 64, Brandon King 43, Shamarh Brooks 49, Darren Bravo 34 n.o.) lost to Pakistan 208/3 (Mohammad Rizwan 86, Babar Azam 79). Pakistan won by seven wickets with seven balls to spare.   Pooran hit a career-best 37-ball 64 with six sixes and two boundaries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-completes-3-0-sweep/article37973740.ece
17 December 2021||London,||Mercedes withdraws appeal against Max||Lewis Hamilton’s Mercedes team on Thursday announced it was withdrawing its appeal against Max Verstappen’s controversial title-winning victory in the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix. The team said they had made the decision following “constructive dialogue” with governing body FIA with regard to establishing clarity for future racing scenarios. “We welcome the decision by the FIA to install a commission to thoroughly analyse what happened in Abu Dhabi and to improve the robustness of rules, governance and decision-making in Formula 1,” Mercedes said in a statement. “We also welcome that they have invited the teams and drivers to take part. The Mercedes-AMG Petronas team will actively work with this commission to build a better Formula 1 — for every team and every fan who loves this sport as much as we do. We will hold the FIA accountable for this process and we hereby withdraw our appeal.” Red Bull’s Verstappen claimed victory and the world title after the deployment of a late safety car in Sunday’s season-ending race in Abu Dhabi led to the Dutchman being placed right behind Hamilton, whom he then overtook on the final lap when the safety car was withdrawn. Mercedes had an immediate double appeal dismissed by the stewards, then lodged an intention to appeal against that decision, which it was required to trigger by Thursday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mercedes-withdraws-appeal-against-max/article37973741.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||Vivek and Atif do the star turn for OTHS||Vivek Kumar and Md. Atif scored four goals each in guiding One Thousand Hockey Legs team to a 9-0 victory over Amreli Jilla Vidyasabha, Gujarat, in a pool-A league match of the Steelbird 38th Nehru sub-junior hockey tournament at the Shivaji Stadium on Thursday. It was the second victory for OTHS, which had beaten Municipal High School, Panposh, in the inaugural match.  The results: Ritu Rani Academy, Patiala, 6 (Goldy 2, Chirag Sharma 2, Taranjot Singh, Sunny) bt Infant Jesus HSS, Hiranagar Kathua, 0.   One Thousand Hockey Legs 9 (Anil Kumar 4, Md. Atif 4, Vivek Kumar) bt Amreli Jilla Vidyasabha, Gujarat, 0.   Janta High School, Mapusa, 5 (Deepak Rajaram 3, Kirani Lamani, Sheikh Samir) bt Punjab Public School, Nabha, 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vivek-and-atif-do-the-star-turn-for-oths/article37973944.ece
17 December 2021||Gurugram,||Shafali is working overtime to improve her short-ball play||Two seasons old in international cricket, 17-year-old Shafali Verma is fully aware of the need to improve constantly and her immediate focus is on tweaking her short ball game against fast bowlers. Having made her India debut as a 15-year-old, Shafali has come a long way over the past 24 months and, alongside the elegant Smriti Mandhana, forms one of the most explosive opening pairings in women’s cricket. She has played a couple of Tests, six ODIs and 28 T20Is since making her debut in the shortest format in September 2019, enough exposure for top teams like Australia and England to work out her game. Not comfortable On tours of England and Australia this year, Shafali was peppered with short balls and she didn’t look particularly comfortable against them. To get better against the rising ball, Shafali is facing 200-250 balls from U-25 players, who can clock 125-130 kmph at Shri Ram Narain Cricket Academy here under the watchful eyes of her coach Ashwani Kumar. “It feels good that I have been able to complete two years in international cricket but there is a long way to go. I know the areas of my game I need to get better at and one of them is playing the short ball,” Shafali said after being named a Hyundai brand ambassador here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shafali-is-working-overtime-to-improve-her-short-ball-play/article37974231.ece
17 December 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Formula One finale to be reviewed by FIA for future lessons||The motorsports governing body for Formula One said it will conduct “a detailed analysis" of the wild ending at the season finale that decided the championship in favour of Red Bull driver Max Verstappen. The FIA said Sunday's title-deciding Abu Dhabi Grand Prix had created a controversy that is “tarnishing the image of the championship.” Verstappen claimed his first world title when he passed Lewis Hamilton of Mercedes on the final lap. He was given the opportunity after a key decision by race director Michael Masi. Hamilton had led 51 of the 58 laps until a crash by Nicholas Latifi brought out the safety car with five laps remaining. Verstappen stopped under yellow for a fresh set of tires, and Masi flipped his decision and let the drivers separating Verstappen from Hamilton pass the safety car under yellow. The race resumed with one lap remaining and Verstappen restarting second behind Hamilton. He passed Hamilton in the fifth turn and won his first title. Mercedes filed two appeals that were dismissed and has now asked for a further review from the International Court of Appeal. Verstappen is set to receive his championship trophy on Thursday night. The FIA delivered a report on the incident on Wednesday to the World Motor Sport Council in Paris, then said in a later statement the finish “notably generated significant misunderstanding and reactions from Formula One teams, drivers and fans." It said the argument "is currently tarnishing the image of the championship and the due celebration” of Verstappen and constructors' title winner Mercedes. The review will be to “draw any lessons from this situation and clarity to be provided to the participants, media, and fans about the current regulations.” “It is not only Formula 1 that may benefit from this analysis, but also more generally all the other FIA circuit championships," the FIA said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/formula-one-finale-to-be-reviewed-by-fia-for-future-lessons/article37974251.ece
17 December 2021||Mumbai,||Invitational races on December 19||The rescheduled Indian Turf Invitation Cup races will be held on December 19 (Sunday) at the Mahalaxmi Race Course. The mega event was originally planned to be run in April, but was not held as the Royal Western India Turf Club (RWITC) had to halt the Mumbai racing season abruptly due to COVID-19 restrictions. This year all four Group I Invitational races will be run the same day. The stellar attraction of the day — the Indian Turf Invitation Cup — will be sponsored by Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla. The first classic of the season, the Villoo C. Poonawalla Indian 1000 Guineas, would be the added attraction of the day. Unprecedented Speaking about the 59th edition of this prestigious event, RWITC chairman Zavaray S. Poonawalla said: “the landmark highlights of the day include the stakes money over Rs. 3 crore, the highest ever given out on an Invitation Cup day. “Seven Group races in a single day, including five Group I races — Indian Turf Invitation Cup, Sprinters Cup, Super Mile, Stayers Cup and 1000 Guineas — is unprecedented in the history of Indian horse racing. “Another highlight of the day will be free entry to all our members, owners and trainers with complimentary passes for two guests each.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/invitational-races-on-december-19/article37973846.ece
17 December 2021||MUMBAI,||Gujarat Panthers overcomes Delhi Binny’s Brigade||Vijay Sundar Prashanth beat Yuki Bhambri 13-7 and then joined Divij Sharan for a 13-7 victory in doubles that helped Gujarat Panthers defeat Delhi Binny’s Brigade 44-36 in the Tennis Premier League on Thursday. Earlier, Valeriya Strakhova had tied 10-10 with Peangtarn Plipuech. Divij and Valeriya lost to Manish Sureshkumar and Peangtarn which put Gujarat two games ahead in lead. Gujarat had earlier opened its account with a 43-37 win over Chennai Stallions. Mumbai Leon Army won its third match as it pushed Rajasthan Tigers to its third defeat as Sowjanya Bavisetti played a key role. She won her singles against Diana Marcinkevica and mixed doubles with Niki Poonacha with a thumping 15-5 margin over Aryan Goveas and Diana.  The results: Gujarat Panthers bt Delhi Binny’s Brigade 44-36 (Valeriya Strakhova tied Peangtarn Plipuech 10-10; Vijay Sundar Prashanth bt Yuki Bhambri 13-7; Divij Sharan & Valeriya lost to Manish Sureshkumar & Peangtarn 8-12; Vijay Sundar & Divij bt Yuki & Manish 13-7).   Mumbai Leon Army bt Rajasthan Tigers 46-34 (Sowjanya Bavisetti bt Diana Marcinkevica 11-9; Ramkumar Ramanathan lost to Prajnesh Gunneswaran 7-13; Sowjanya & Niki Poonacha bt Aryan Goveas & Diana 15-5; Ramkumar & Niki bt Aryan & Prajnesh 13-7).   Gujarat Panthers bt Chennai Stallions 43-37 (Valeriya bt Samantha Sharan 12-8; Vijay Sudnar lost to Sidharth Rawat 9-11; Valeriya & Divij tied Purav Raja & Samatha 10-10; Divij & Vijay bt Purav & Sidharth 12-8).   Mumbai Leon Army bt Delhi Binny’s Brigade 44-36 (Sowjanya bt Peangtarn 13-7; Ramkumar tied Yuki 10-10; Sowjanya & Niki lost to Manish & Peangtarn 9-11; Ramkumar & Niki bt Yuki & Manish 12-8).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/panthers-overcome-binnys-brigade/article37973807.ece
17 December 2021||Coimbatore,||Bhutia academy to hold trials in City||A few months ago former India football player Raman Vijayan was in the City to pick, train and develop professionallers. This time around, it is the turn of the Bhaichung Bhutia Football Schools (BBFS). The BBFS Residential Academy will hold trials for boys and girls, born between 2005 to 2012, at the PSG IMSR football grounds from 8.30 a.m. on Saturday. The talented few picked at the trials may well receive scholarships. BBFS is said to be the country’s largest and highest-rated football academy. It has four residential academies in Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala, which provide premium facilities such as state-of-the-art hostels, smart classrooms, senior academic and sports professionals, and sports complexes with full-sized natural football fields and health and fitness centres.  Co-founder and India’s longest-serving football captain Bhaichung Bhutia said in a statement BBFS’ aim was to provide a structured pathway for student-athletes to pursue academics without compromising on football. Interested candidates must pre-register at www.bbfootballschools.com or call 8448020010.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhutia-academy-to-hold-trials-in-city/article37973919.ece
17 December 2021||KOVILPATTI,||Kovilapatti — hockey in its veins||Kovilpatti fits the description of a hockey-crazy town to a T. The six gravel grounds — VOC Govt. HSS, Pandavarmangalam, Koosalipatti, Illupaiurani, K.R. College, Thittankulam — an SDAT-artificial turf in Krishna Nagar and the 12 hockey clubs testify to this. Also, State-level tournaments generally attract good crowds. Next generation Fittingly, the industrial town has readied the next generation of players who will represent Tamil Nadu, and hopefully the country, in the years to come. Of the 18-member Tamil Nadu squad competing in the ongoing Junior National men’s hockey championship here, nine players hail from Kovilpatti, including team captain Nishi Deva Arul. “What I like about these players from Kovilpatti is that their basics are good and fitness levels are more than average,” chairman of selectors of the Tamil Nadu State sub-junior, junior and senior teams, Olympian Thirumalvalavan told The Hindu here on Thursday. Interestingly, eight of the nine players have been accommodated at the Sports Hostel of Excellence (SHE) situated next to the SDAT-artificial turf, where the Nationals is being played. Captain Arul said: “What cricket is to Chennai, hockey is to Kovilpatti. We have grown up listening to stories of our seniors’ exploits,” he said. Goalkeeper R. Dhivakar said he was enjoying the facilities SHE has to offer. “There’s a good gym and we can play on the turf whenever possible.” Ambition About their ambition, the reply is in chorus: “We want to win a medal here and be part of the Indian junior team sooner rather than later.” Tamil Nadu head coach N. Muthukumar said the best indication of hockey’s popularity in Kovilpatti was the scene at the selection trials to SHE here. “At other sports hostels across TN, 40-50 students attend the trials, but here around 200 take part,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kovilapatti-hockey-in-its-veins/article37973923.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi University asks that the inter-varsity aquatics be postponed||The Delhi University has sought the postponement of the all India inter-University aquatics championship scheduled to be staged by Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences in Bhubaneswar, from December 22 to 25.  With classes being conducted online, Delhi University had planned to call the sports students and make arrangements for their accommodation so that they could give trials for selection and have preparatory training by the first week of December. However, the new Covid-19 variant discouraged officials from going ahead with their plan. Thus, they sought postponement of the inter-University competition to get a fair chance for everyone. One of the leading universities for sports in the country, Delhi fields teams in 27 disciplines in all. Meenakshi Pahuja, renowned long distance swimmer and assistant professor of physical education at Lady Shri Ram College, pleaded for the postponement at least till January 15. “Delhi University being a central University, 60 % are outstation students. Colleges are still in online mode. All hostels are closed,” said Meenakshi, trying to stress the difficulty of fielding sports teams in such a scenario.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delhi-university-asks-that-the-inter-varsity-aquatics-be-postponed/article37973945.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||NorthEast United keen to get back on track||NorthEast United FC will look to rediscover its rhythm when it hosts the bottom-placed SC East Bengal in an Indian Super League Season 8 fixture at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Friday. Last year’s semifinalist NorthEast United suffered losses in its previous two outings, the last being a humiliating 1-5 rout against Hyderabad FC. The Khalid Jamil-coached side is currently placed 10th with just four points from a win and a draw and is just a spot above East Bengal, the only side yet to win a match and has three points from as many draws. Defensive problems have plagued both teams. NorthEast United has conceded 11 goals (out of 13) from open play, the worst by any team in that department. East Bengal, on the other hand, has conceded 15 goals in six games. Injuries to key players and a lack of cohesion in the creative zone have affected NorthEast United as well as East Bengal. “Our start has not been that great. We missed a lot of players through injury. I am not giving any excuse, but I have never got all my six foreigners fit for selection in any game,” said Jamil. “We have come close to winning in a few games but we have failed to take those opportunities. We can’t afford to make mistakes against NorthEast United,” said the East Bengal coach Jose Manuel Diaz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/northeast-united-keen-to-get-back-on-track/article37974266.ece
17 December 2021||Mumbai:,||Sultan Suleiman claims feature||Trainer Altaf Hussain’s Sultan Suleiman (T.S. Jodha up) won the Sir Charles Forbes Trophy, the main event of the opening day’s races here on Thursday (Dec.16). The winner is owned by M/s. Dinsha P. Shroff, Munchi P. Shroff, Mrs. Aban N. Chotia & Mr. Saleem Fazelbhoy.  1. MAPLE STAR PLATE (1,600m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: SKY STORM (Sandesh) 1, Chieftain (T.S. Jodha) 2, Power Of Thor (Dashrath) 3 and Mascara (Parmar) 4. 1/2, 1-3/4 and 4. 1m 39.59s. Rs. 32 (w), 12, 10 and 42 (p). SHP: 21, FP; 149, Q: 42, Tanala: 872 and 673. Favourite: Hela. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt Ltd & Mr. Gaurav Gadhoke. Trainer: Imtiaz A. Sait.  2. SIR CHARLES FORBES TROPHY (1,600m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward: SULTAN SULEIMAN (T.S. Jodha) 1, Grand Accord (Bhawani) 2 and Flying Visit (Kirtish) 3. 1/2 and 3. 1m 44.25s. Rs. 17 (w), SHP: 18, FP: 35. Favourite: Sultan Suleiman. Owners: M/s. Dinsha P. Shroff, Munchi P. Shroff, M/s. Aban N. Chotia & Mr. Slaeem Fazelbhoy. Trainer: Altaf Hussain.  3. MASTER SHIFU PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: REMUS (Sandesh) 1, Myrcella (Zeeshan) 2, Seminole (T.S. Jodha) 3 and Speculator (Peter) 4. 1-1/2, Snk and 2. 1m 11.67s. Rs. 65 (w), 21, 32 and 36 (p). SHP: 149, FP: 1,616, Q: 904, Tanala: 5,599. Favourite: El Capitan. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Homi Mehta, Mrs. Liane Luthria, M/s. Jehangir Mehta & Milan Luthria. Trainer: Imtiaz A. Sait.  4. M D PETIT PLATE (1,800m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: TREASURE GOLD (T.S. Jodha) 1, Chopin (Neeraj) 2, Tasman (Parmar) 3 and Circle Of Love (Sandesh) 4. 1/2, 1-1/2 and Lnk. 1m 52.78s. Rs. 34 (w), 13 and 14 (p). SHP: 30, FP: 130, Q: 36, Tanala: 454 and 608. Favourite: Chopin. Owners: Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farms Pvt Ltd & Mr. Mukul Sonawala. Trainer: Bezan Chenoy.  5. AHMED I. RAHIMTOOLA TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86: SUNRISE RUBY (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Mount Moriah (Neeraj) 2, Joaquin (Zervan) 3 and Aegon (T.S. Jodha) 4. Nk, 1/2 and 5-1/2. 1m 10.59s. Rs. 38 (w), 15 and 29 (p). SHP: 41, FP: 201, Q: 86, Tanala: 236 and 64. Favourite: Joaquin. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co Pvt Ltd. Trainer: Hosidar Daji.  6. MURAJ GOCULDAS TROPHY (1,400m), Maiden, 3-y-o only, rated 20 to 46: MONARCHY (Kirtish) 1, Multiencrypted (Parmar) 2, Sentinel (Bhawani) 3 and Redifined (Neeraj) 4. 3/4, 1-1/2 and 3/4. 1m 25.52s. Rs. 18 (w), 12, 20 and 30 (p). SHP: 47, FP: 150, Q: 63, Tanala: 986 and 1,479. Favourite: Monarchy. Owners: Mr. Mehernosh H. Deboo & Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo. Trainer: P. Shroff.  7. BEJAN BHARUCHA PLATE (1,000m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: SUN GOLD (Kirtish) 1, Emrys (Parmar) 2, Windy City (Sandesh) 3 and Little More (Dashrath) 4. 1-1/2, Snk and 3. 59.09s. Rs. 65 (w), 14,16 and 13 (p). SHP: 46, FP: 237, Q: 88, Tanala: 241 and 94. Favourite: Windy City. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Mukul Sonawala & Mr. D.T. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP. Trainer: P. Shroff. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 7,048 (32 tkts.), 30%: 517 (187 tkts.). Treble: 428 (40 tkts.). Super Jackpot: 70%: Carried forward, 30%: 4,861 (2 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sultan-suleiman-claims-feature/article37974252.ece
17 December 2021||Kovilpatti,||Walkovers rule the day||One-sided matches and walkovers were the order of the day as the Junior National men's hockey championship got underway here on Thursday. There were issues with the generator at the venue for brief while creating minor tension among the organisers, but soon everything returned to normalcy.  The results: Pool C: Haryana bt Telangana 12-2; Bengal w/o Tripura; D: Chandigarh bt AP 23-0; Karnataka bt Mizoram 24-0; E: Maharashtra w/o Arunachal Pradesh .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/walkovers-rule-the-day/article37973796.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vinamrata does it for SAI-B||Two goals by Taranpreet Kaur kept Him Academy in the fight but SAI-B found the winning goal through Vinamrata Yadav as it won 3-2 in a Pool-A match of the Khelo India women’s under-21 hockey league at the Dhyan Chand National Stadium on Thursday. The SAI team had led 2-0 at half-time, thanks to goals from Reema Baxla and Mary Lotla, but Taranpreet enlivened the proceedings with two strikes in the 34th and 49th minutes to bring parity. However, Vinramrata had the final say.  The results: Odisha Naval Tata Centre 11 (Munmuni Das 2, Sandhya Kujur 2, Sunita Kumari, Priya Toppo, Ashima Rout, Nikita Toppo, Puja Ramchhuria, Nilam Kachhap, Kamla Singh) bt Mumbai School Sports Association 0.   India Juniors 8 (Deepika 3, Priyanka, Vaishnavi Phalke, Annu, Rutuja Pisal, Sangita Kumari) bt Raja Karan Academy 1 (Priya).   SAI-B 3 (Reema Baxla, Mary Lotla, Vinamrata Yadav) bt Him Academy 2 (Taranpreet Kaur 2).   Madhya Pradesh Academy 8 (Sadhna Sengar 3, Neeraj Rana 2, Priyanka Parihar, Kanchan Nidhi Kerketta, Seema Verma) bt Jai Bharat Academy 0.   SAI-A 1 (Sujata Kujur) drew with Pritam Siwach Academy, Sonepat, 1 (Manisha).   Sports Hostel, Bhubaneswar, 7 (Angela Toppo 2, Neha Lakra 2, Nitu Lakra, Rashmi Kishan, Nimabati Singh) bt Delhi Hockey 1 (Preeti).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vinamrata-does-it-for-sai-b/article37973797.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI:,||Storm Breaker for K. Srinivasan Memorial Cup||Storm Breaker runs with a good chance in the K. Srinivasan Memorial Cup (1,000m), the main event of the races to be held here on Friday (Dec. 17).  STAR HAVEN PLATE (1,200m), maiden 2-y-o only (Terms), 2-00 p.m.: 1. Berrettini (1) Md. Farhan Alam 56, 2. Choice (3) C. Umesh 56, 3. Sinatra (7) Shahar Babu 56, 4. Star Romance (8) Yash Narredu 56, 5. Windsor Walk (6) Akshay Kumar 56, 6. Wonderful (5) S. Kamble 56, 7. Royal Symbol (2) C. Brisson 54.5 and 8. Shivaratri (4) Nikhil Naidu 54.5.  1. STAR ROMANCE,   2. WINDSOR WALK, 3. CHOICE   REFUSE TO BEND HANDICAP (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, rated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Alexander (6) Yash Narredu 60, 2. Excellent Star (1) Dhanu Singh 60, 3. Exemplify (7) C.S. Jodha 60, 4. War Emblem (2) C. Brisson 59.5, 5. Abilitare (9) Shahar Babu 58.5, 6. Amber Lightning (4) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 7. Gift Of Perfection (5) Rajendra Singh 58.5, 8. Stillwater (8) P. Sai Kumar 58.5 and 9. Reign Of Terror (3) Kuldeep Singh 58.  1. ALEXANDER,   2. AMBER LIGHTNING, 3. EXEMPLIFY   HAPPY VALLEY HANDICAP (1,200m), 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 3-00: 1. Yaadein (7) S. Kabdhar 60, 2. Embrace (10) Akshay Kumar 59.5, 3. Wild Frank (12) C. Umesh 59.5, 4. Handsome (11) Sai Vamsi 58.5, 5. Shield Maiden (6) Manikandan 58.5, 6. Willows (2) Yash Narredu 58.5, 7. Glorious Sunlight (1) Nikhil Naidu 57.5, 8. Majestic Wind (9) Shaliyar Khan 57.5, 9. Full Of Surprise (8) R. Manish 57, 10. Arapaho (5) Shahar Babu 53, 11. Lady Blazer (3) S. Kamble 53 and 12. Victory Walk (4) Md. Farhan Alam 52.5.  1. WILLOWS,   2. HANDSOME,   3. GLORIOUS SUNLIGHT   SPARKS HANDICAP (Div. II), (1,400m), rated 40 to 65, 3-30: 1. Beethovan (1) Nikhil Naidu 60.5, 2. Star Elegant (4) Dhanu Singh 60, 3. Cotton Hall (8) Kuldeep Singh 58, 4. Karadeniz (9) C. Umesh 57, 5. Pirate's Love (6) R. Manish 57, 6. Speed Air (3) Yash Narredu 56, 7. Cavallo Vincente (2) Akshay Kumar 55, 8. Bohemian Grandeur (7) Nakhat Singh 54 and 9. King Roger (5) Nirmal Jodha 50.  1. KARADENIZ,   2. BEETHOVAN, 3. SPEED AIR   K. SRINIVAS MEMORIAL CUP (1,000m), rated 60 to 85, 4-00: 1. Priceless Ruler (10) Nakhat Singh 60, 2. Classic Remark (4) S. Kabdhar 59.5, 3. Strom Breaker (8) Yash Narredu 58.5, 4. King T'Chala (2) P. Sai Kumar 58, 5. Copper Queen (7) Farid Ansari 57, 6. Gallantry (1) C. Umesh 54.5, 7. Namak Halaal (9) A. Ayaz Khan 53.5, 8. Ayur Shakti (6) Ashhad Asbar 52, 9. Amendment (3) Akshay Kumar 50 and 10. Star Waves (5) S. Kamble 50.  1. STORM BREAKER, 2. AMENDMENT, 3. GALLANTRY   SPARKS HANDICAP (Div. I), (1,400m), rated 40 to 65, 4-30: 1. Breaking Bounds (3) Koshi Kumar 62.5, 2. Octavian (5) Inayat 62.5, 3. Mr Kool (2) Nikhil Naidu 61, 4. Penang (4) Akshay Kumar 60, 5. Renegade (8) Yash Narredu 59.5, 6. Excellent Phoenix (9) P. Sai Kumar 58.5, 7. Historian (6) Santosh G 58.5, 8. Eagle Prince (1) Nakhat Singh 57.5 and 9. Due Diligence (7) Ashhad Asbar 52.5.  1. MR KOOL,   2. PENANG,   3. RENEGADE   FRANKEST HANDICAP (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 5-00: 1. Glorious Sunshine (5) C. Umesh 60, 2. Dominant (11) A. Ayaz Khan 58, 3. Lucky Twenty One (3) S. Kamble 58, 4. Soul Mate (2) Akshay Kumar 58, 5. Sweet Fragrance (6) Yash Narredu 57, 6. Wind Symbol (4) Nikhil Naidu 57, 7. Wise Don (1) Kuldeep Singh 57, 8. Star Glitter (10) C. Brisson 55, 9. Wellington (7) C.S. Jodha 53, 10. Wonderful Era (9) Nakhat Singh 53 and 11. Swiss Agatta (8) Ashhad Asbar 51.5.  1. WELLINGTON,   2. SOUL MATE,   3. GLORIOUS SUNSHINE  Jkt: 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7; Mini jkt: 4, 5, 6 & 7; Tr (i): 3,4 & 5; (ii): 5, 6 & 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/storm-breaker-for-k-srinivasan-memorial-cup/article37973844.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI:,||Leopard Rock bags Stewards Trophy||Deepesh Narredu’s Leopard Rock (Yash Narredu up) won the Stewards Trophy, feature event of the opening day’s races here on Thursday (Dec. 16). The winner is owned by J.M. Livestock & M/s. Equest. Trainer Robert Foley and jockey Nakhat Singh scored a treble each on the day.  1. SENTOSA COVE HANDICAP (Div. II), (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: KINGS SHOW (C. Umesh) 1, Sifan (Ishwar Singh) 2, God’s Wish (Manikandan) 3 and Fabulous Show (P. Sai Kumar) 4. 1-3/4, nk and 3/4. 1m 15.66s. Owner: Mr. K.K. Belliappa. Trainer: Mandanna.  2. BABYLON HANDICAP (1,000m), Maiden 3-y-o only, rated 20 to 45: ANASTASIA (Yash Narredu) 1, Sovereign Power (Nakhat Singh) 2, Valeska (Nikhil Naidu) 3 and Amarone (Dhanu Singh) 4. 2-1/4, 1/2 and 3/4. 1m 1.84s. Owners: M/s. Stride Livestock & Mr. Chetan Shantilal Shah Mr. Suresh G. Advani. Trainer: D. Narredu.  3. THEOLOGY HANDICAP (Div. II), (1,000m), rated 20 to 45: ANNEXED (Shahar Babu) 1, Tifosi (Dhanu Singh) 2, Flying Safe (Yash Narredu) 3 and Uncle Sam (Ashhad Asbar) 4. 5-1/4, 1-1/4 and 1-1/4. 1m 1.94s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: B. Suresh.  4. THEOLOGY HANDICAP (Div. I), (1,000m), rated 20 to 45: EMPRESS ETERNAL (Nakhat Singh) 1, Fiat Justitia (Shahzad Alam) 2, Strong Breeze (Akshay Kumar) 3 and William Wallace (Yash Narredu) 4. 1, 1 and 2. 1m 2.53s. Owner: The Estate of Late Mr. R.M. Lakshmanan. Trainer: R. Foley.  5. APACHE HANDICAP (1,000m), rated 40 to 65: RIPPLING WATERS (Nakhat Singh) 1, Skylight (Kuldeep Singh) 2, Celeritas (M.S. Deora) 3 and Lady Royal (Nikhil Naidu) 4. Not run: Mon General and Corona Del Corsa. 1, 2-1/2 and snk. 1m 1.12s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: R. Foley.  6. STEWARDS TROPHY (1,200m), rated 80 & above: LEOPARD ROCK (Yash Narredu) 1, Wakeful (Dhanu Singh) 2, Mzilikazi (C. Umesh) 3 and Glorious Destiny (Md. Farhan Alam) 4. 5-3/4, nose and 1-3/4. 1m 12.37s. Owners: J.M. Livestock & M/s. Equest. Trainer: D. Narredu.  7. SENTOSA COVE HANDICAP (Div. I), (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: QUEENS HALL (C. Umesh) 1, Choir (M.S. Deora) 2, Star Fling (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Trending Princess (Dhanu Singh) 4. Not run Otus.1-1/2, 3/4 and lnk. 1m 15.10s. Owner: M/s. GMMSR Advisory Services. Trainer: Uthaiah.  8. FIRST TO THE POST HANDICAP (1,200m), 4-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25: LORD OF THE TURF (Nakhat Singh) 1, Mayflower (Kuldeep Singh) 2, Amazing Kitten (Shahar Babu) 3 and Sunday Warrior (Md. Farhan Alam) 4. 1-1/2, lnk and snk. 1m. 16.13s. Owner: Mr. A.C. Muthiah. Trainer: R. Foley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/leopard-rock-bags-stewards-trophy/article37973847.ece
17 December 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Thiruvananthapuram wins overall title||Host Thiruvananthapuram won the overall title in the State track cycling championships which concluded here at the LNCPE Velodrome on Thursday. Idukki second Thiruvananthapuram came first with 118 points followed by Idukki (53), which pipped Ernakulam (51) to the second place. A. Anandthu (Tvm) and Abinanth Murali (KCA) won a double each in the men elite category. Atharva Ashok Patil (Tvm) in boys’ under-16 and Anaxiya Maria (Idk) in girls’ under-14 categories also won a double each.  The results:   Men elite: Sprint: 1. A. Abhindhu (Tvm), (12.417s), 2. Agal Lal (Idk), 3. N. Ashif (Tvm); 15km scratch race: 1. R.J. Sujith (Tvm), (25:29.268s), 2. A. Anandhu (Tvm), 3. Frank Nelson (KCA).   30km point race: 1. A. Anandhu (Tvm) (61 points), 2. V.R. Adharsh (Tvm), 3. Frank Nelson (KCA).   Kerin race: 1. Abhinanth Murali (KCA), 2. N. Ashif (Tvm), 3. A. Abhindhu (Tvm).   Boys: Under-18: Sprint: 1. Amos Joseph (Koz), (12.837s), 2. B.S. Nandhu Krishna (Tvm), 3. V.Vivek (Pkd); 20km point race: 1. S.S. Adwaith Sankar (Tvm) (38 points), 2. Pranav S.Nair (Idk), 3. S. Vignesh (Tvm).   Under-16: 5km scratch race: 1. Atharva Ashok Patil (Tvm) (8:56.308s), 2. Muhammad Rahoof (Ekm), 3. R. Niranjan (Tvm).   Under-14: 200m flying lap: 1. S. Vaishnav (Tvm) (13.981s), 2. Abhishek S. Nair (Ekm) 3. Rishab Shyam (Ekm).   Women: 10km scratch race: 1. R.K. Arya Vinod (KCA) (22:02.699s), 2. Lidiyamol M. Sunny (Ktm), 3. K.V. Vinimol (Tsr).   Girls: Under-18: 6km points race: 1. Agxa Ann Thomas (Idk) (15 points), 2. Binila Mol Gibi (Idk), 3. Caroline Nigil (Ekm).   Under-16: 4km scratch race: 1. Srushti Kumbhoje (Tvm) (8:19.255s), 2. A.K. Karthika (Tvm), 3. R. Anugraha (Koz).   Under-14: 200m flying lap: 1. Anaxiya Mariya (Idk) (15.837s), 2. S. Sanjana (Ekm), 3. Anriya Antony (Ekm).   Team championships: 1. Thiruvananthapuram (118 points), 2. Idukki (53 pts), 3. Ernakulam (51 pts) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thiruvananthapuram-wins-overall-title/article37974111.ece
17 December 2021||VADODARA:,||Bad light denies Delhi||Delhi was denied by bad light after coming close to winning its Elite Group B Cooch Behar Trophy match against Kerala at the GSFC cricket ground here on Thursday. Needing 64 for a win, Delhi was 58 for four when play ended owing to poor light. Earlier, Shoun Roger’s defiant century (117) and a 46-run last-wicket stand between Edhen Apple Tom (29) and Amal Raj (16 not out) in 16 overs frustrated Delhi. Following on, Kerala scored 277 in the second innings.  The scores: Delhi 541/7 decl. drew with Kerala 327 & 277 in 97 overs (Shoun Roger 117, S.S. Sharon 31, Dev Lakra 5/42, Aatrey 3/88) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rogers-century-bad-light-deny-delhi/article37974110.ece
17 December 2021||Pala,||Gowri’s distinction||Gowri Nandana clocked the fastest time by a Kerala woman quartermiler this year while winning the gold at the Mahatma Gandhi University athletics championships at the Municipal Stadium here on Thursday. Coached by Olympian Mercy Kuttan in Kochi, the 19-year-old from Maharaja’s College clocked a personal best 54.70s — the fifth fastest time by an under-20 girl this year — as she beat former P.T. Usha Academy trainee K. Sneha (56.10s) of Mar Athanasius. Mar Athanasius dominated the opening day of the three-day meet by taking 11 golds and also walked away with the fastest man title which its Omkar Nath won in 10.70s. Assumption’s S.S. Sneha emerged as the fastest woman in 11.70s. Athanasius’ K. Ananda Krishna set the day’s lone record, in the men’s 10,000m, while Gayatri Sivakumar, who is chasing a high jump-triple jump double, won the women’s high jump.  The results (gold medallists only):   Men: 100m: Omkar Nath (Mar Athanasius) 10.70s. 400m: C.R. Anirudh (Athanasius) 48.50s. 1500m: Adarsh Binu (St. Berchmans) 4:03.10s. 10,000m: K. Anand Krishna (Athanasius) 30:43.70s MR, OR 31:01.20s. Long jump: K.M. Sreekanth (Athanasius) 7.41m. Hammer throw: Alex Joseph (Athanasius) 44.63m. Javelin throw: Anoop Valson (Athanasius) 64.32m.   Women: 100m: S.S. Sneha (Assumption) 11.70s. 400m: Gowri Nandana (Maharaja’s) 54.70s. 1500m: C. Chandini (Mar Athanasius) 4:36.00s. 10,000m: K. Swetha (Athanasius) 37:20.90s. High jump: Gayathry Sivakumar (Athanasius) 1.72m. Shot put: Nelsamol P. Saji (Athanasius) 11.62m, Hammer throw: Kessia Mariam Benny (Athanasius) 49.95m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gowri-nandanas-distinction/article37974116.ece
17 December 2021||CHENNAI,||TN will aim for an all-win record||The Tamil Nadu men’s team will look to finish with an all-win record when it takes on Kerala in the final league match of the South Zone National basketball qualifiers here on Friday. Kerala has already lost a match to Karnataka. The host recorded its fourth straight win with a 91-40 victory over Andhra Pradesh on Thursday.  The results: Men: Tamil Nadu 91 (Aravindh Kumar 17, Karthick 15, Lokeshwaran 12) bt Andhra Pradesh 40 (Intiyaz 15).   Karnataka 66 (Harish 15, Jinu 14) bt Puducherry 40 (Ashwin Kumar 12 , Gokul 11).   Kerala 76 (Seijin 23, Pranav 19) bt Telangana 50 (Kaushik 13, Vijay 10).   Women: Telangana 93 (Gulabshali 24, Pushpa 21) bt Tamil Nadu 54 (Nishanthini 25).   Kerala 79 (Chippy 16, Akshaya 14) bt Andhra Pradesh 31 (Dhana 10).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-will-aim-for-all-win-record/article37973843.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||BFC-ATK six-goal thriller ends in stalemate||A match of fluctuating fortunes between Bengaluru FC and ATK Mohun Bagan ended in an entertaining 3-3 draw at Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Thursday. It was ATK MB which took the lead when Subhasish Bose slotted home from a corner in the 13th minute. BFC equalised a few minutes later, with Cleiton Silva converting from the penalty spot. A clean header from Danish Farooq, off a corner, gave BFC a 2-1 lead. Just before half-time, ATKMB drew level. Fijian striker Roy Krishna made a great run before passing to Hugo Boumous, who shot past BFC custodian and skipper Gurpreet Sandhu. Boumous was thrilled to break his long barren run with a vital goal. ATK MB regained the lead after Prince Ibara brought Krishna down in the box. A clumsy Ibara shoved the attacker to the floor, leaving the referee with an easy decision. Krishna, making his 50th ISL appearance, made no mistake from the spot. Ibara made up for his lapse in the 72nd minute, rising high to score with a towering header from yet another corner. BFC head coach Marco Pezzaiuoli chose to keep Sunil Chhetri on the bench, while Ashique Kuruniyan played up front. Chhetri, who has struggled this season, came on as a substitute late in the outing, but failed to make an impact. The draw left ATKMB and BFC sixth and ninth.  The result: Bengaluru FC 3 (Cleiton 18, Farooq 26, Ibara 72) drew with ATK Mohun Bagan 3 (Subhasish 13, Boumous 38, Krishna 58).   Today’s match: NEUFC vs SC EB, 7.30 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-atk-six-goal-thriller-ends-in-stalemate/article37973736.ece
17 December 2021||Johannesburg,||Ombudsman finds instances of racism||South African cricket legends Graeme Smith, Mark Boucher and AB de Villiers were all found to have engaged in racially prejudiced conduct in a report by an independent ombudsman released on Wednesday. Cricket South Africa made public a 235-page interim report by Advocate Dumisa Ntsebeza, who headed a Social Justice and Nation Building Commission to investigate allegations of racial discrimination in South African cricket. CSA chairman Lawson Naidoo said the Board would study the report and “engage with it and its recommendations”. AB denies charges “I have wholly supported the aims of Cricket South Africa’s Social Justice and Nation Building process, to ensure equal opportunities in our game,” he wrote on Instagram and Twitter. “However, throughout my career, I expressed honest cricketing opinions only ever based on what I believed was best for the team, never based on anyone’s race.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ombudsman-finds-instances-of-racism/article37973738.ece
17 December 2021||Johannesburg,||Team India lands in South Africa||The Indian cricket team, led by skipper Virat Kohli, landed here on Thursday for the three-match Test series against South Africa, beginning on the Boxing Day at Centurion. “Touchdown South Africa,” the BCCI tweeted from its official twitter handle along with pictures of team members, including Test specialist Cheteshwar Pujara, Shardul Thakur and Shreyas Iyer, among others. The Kohli-led Test side had departed from Mumbai for the tour that includes three Tests followed by as many ODIs. Star opener and newly-appointed white-ball captain Rohit Sharma has been ruled out of the Test series against South Africa after sustaining a left hamstring injury during a training session in Mumbai. He was replaced by talented Gujarat opener Priyank Panchal. While the series opener will be hosted by Centurion, the other two Tests will be played at Johannesburg and Cape Town respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-india-lands-in-south-africa/article37973744.ece
17 December 2021||KOLKATA,||Andy Flower frontrunner to coach Lucknow||Former Zimbabwe captain Andy Flower has emerged as the frontrunner to become the chief coach of the Lucknow franchise in the 2022 IPL. Flower has already stepped down as assistant coach of Punjab Kings after joining it ahead of IPL 2020 and worked alongside head coach Anil Kumble for the last two seasons. K.L. Rahul, who was Punjab’s skipper for the last two seasons, is also expected to move to the Sanjiv Goenka-owned franchise. When contacted to comment on speculation over the head coach appointment, a team official said: “We have been hearing a lot of names. Only today someone wrote that Gary Kirsten is also becoming the coach. We are in talks with a few, but unless someone signs for us, we cannot confirm,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/andy-flower-frontrunner-to-coach-lucknow/article37974053.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Madhava shines in NCC’S win||A match haul of twelve wickets by off-spinner N.R. Madhava (four for 22. & eight for 76) helped National CC register a facile six-wicket win over the Mysore City Gymkhana in the two day KSCA Mysore zone first division league match played at the JSS-SJCE grounds here recently.  The scores:   I div.: National CC 206 in 57overs (A.M. Kiran 66, Nikash Narendra five for 62, K.P. Mahesh three for 33) & 129 for for four in 28.5 overs (Yashwanth Patel 49, Swarup Kumar 28, K.P. Mahesh three for 41) bt Mysore City Gymkhana 88 in 27.4 overs (N.R. Madhava four for 22) & 245 in 59.5 overs (K. Gagandeep 87, Karthik Manjunath 28, Nikash Narendra 44, N.R. Madhava eight for 76) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/madhava-shines-in-nccs-win/article37973795.ece
17 December 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||Baroda denies Karnataka||Harsh Desai slammed a century (111, 178b, 21x4, 1x6) for Baroda in the draw against Karnataka in the four-day Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) cricket championship Elite Group E match on Thursday. Baroda, forced to follow-on finished the day at 217 for two to deny Karnataka an outright win thanks to the century by Harsh Desai and a handy, unbeaten half-century by Priyanshu Moliya (50 n.o., 128b, 9x4, 1x6).  The scores:   Karnataka 607/6 decl in 133.4 overs drew with Baroda 330 in 144.5 overs (K. Shashi Kumar 5/82) & 217/2 in 68.1 overs (Harsh Desai 111, Priyanshu Moliya 50 n.o., Bhavishya Bhavesh Patel 41).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/baroda-denies-karnataka/article37973806.ece
17 December 2021||VIZIANAGARAM:,||Haryana beats Puducherry||Haryana recorded an innings and 35-run win over Puducherry in the Cooch Behar Trophy (under-19) four-day cricket championship Elite Group E match at Dr. PVG Raju ACA Sports Complex here on Thursday. Forced to follow-on and resuming at the overnight score of 105 for two, Puducherry was bowled out for 273 in the second innings despite Shashank cracking a century (109, 200b, 17x4, 3x6). For Haryana, Mayank Shandilya (four for 62) and Akhil Ahlawat (three for 40) bowled well.  The scores:   Puducherry 266 in 104 overs & 273 in 91.4 overs (Shashank 109, V. Nitin Pranav 32, Akash Pugazhanthi 33, Mayank Shandilya 4/62, Akhil Ahlawat3/40) lost to Haryana 574/7 decl in 140 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/haryana-wins-big-against-puducherry/article37973925.ece
17 December 2021||Alappuzha:,||KCA Pink T20 challenger from today||The second edition of the KCA Pink T20 challenger tournament will get underway at the SD College ground on Friday. Five sides — Team Ruby, Team Sapphire, Team Amber, Team Pearls and Team Emerald — will take part in the tournament which will be played on a round-robin league basis followed by the semifinals and the final. Will meet twice The teams will meet each other twice in the league phase. Each squad will be a mix of young talents and experienced seniors. The tournament is part of KCA’s endeavour to promote women’s cricket in the State. The tournament is held in partnership with TCM and the matches will be shown live on Fancode. The tournament will end on December 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kca-pink-t20-challenger-from-today/article37974109.ece
17 December 2021||Doha,||Mukund advances||Sasikumar Mukund beat qualifier Maik Steiner of Germany 7-6(2), 6-4 in the second round of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament here on Thursday.  The results:   $15,000 ITF men, Doha, Qatar: Second round: Sasikumar Mukund bt Maik Steiner (Ger) 7-6(2), 6-4.   First round: Rishi Reddy bt Axel Garcian (Fra) 6-4, 6-3; Sasikumar Mukund bt Digvijay Pratap Singh 4-6, 6-3, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF women, Cancun, Mexico: First round: Jessica Hinojosa Gomez (Mex) bt Sahaja Yamalapalli 6-1, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF women, Giza, Egypt: First round: Jasmijn Gimbrere (Ned) bt Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-0, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mukund-advances/article37973425.ece
17 December 2021||Pune,||Bengal, UP in quarterfinals||Bengal and Uttar Pradesh advanced to the quarterfinals of the Hockey India Senior Men’s National Championship by registering victories on the sixth day of the competition here. Odisha, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra also earned victories in their respective matches. In the day’s opener, Odisha beat Goa 14-0 in a Pool F game. In another Pool F match, Bengal beat Gujarat 19-0. Jharkhand earned a hard-fought 2-1 victory over Kerala to end the campaign on a winning note. TN finished on the top of Pool A with a dominating 11-0 win against Himachal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengal-up-in-quarterfinals/article37973429.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Clear the air, Gavaskar tells Ganguly||Sunil Gavaskar feels Sourav Ganguly is the best person to clear the air on Virat Kohli’s contradictory statement on the issue of captaincy, saying the BCCI president “surely should be asked” how the difference in perception arose. “I think it (Kohli’s comment) actually doesn’t bring the BCCI into the picture. I think it’s the individual who has to be asked where he got the impression he had conveyed such a message to Kohli. So, that's the only thing,” said Gavaskar. Discrepancy “Yes, he (Ganguly) is the BCCI president and surely he should be asked why there is this discrepancy. He is probably the best person to ask about the discrepancy in what you seem to have to say and what the Indian captain has said,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/clear-the-air-gavaskar-tells-ganguly/article37973742.ece
17 December 2021||THRISSUR:,||Kadathanad Raja drubs Luca||Aswathy S. Varma and Neelambari scored two each as Kadathanad Raja FA crushed Luca SC 6-1 in the Kerala Women's League football at the Corporation Stadium here on Thursday.  The result: Kadathanad Raja FA 6 (Aswathy S. Varma 14 & 79, Neelambari 40 & 90; K. Aswathi 74, M.R. Radhika 84) bt Luca SC 1 (K.M. Anjitha 69) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kadathanad-raja-drubs-luca/article37974113.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Jeevan on song for Sri Chaitanya||B. Jeevan’s century (136, 101b, 13x4, 1x6) was the highlight of Sri Chaitanya Junior Kalasala’s (Ramanthapur) victory over Oakridge School (Bachupally) in the HCA under-16 schools/colleges one-day cricket championship here on Thursday.   The scores: HCA under-16 schools/colleges tournament: Loyola Jr. College, Suchitra, 171 in 43.4 overs (Chandan Singh 54, Keshav 3/41, Haji 3/41) bt Slate The School, Abids, 158 in 31.1 overs (C. Pravas 61, D. Vamsi Reddy 5/35).   Mahabubnagar District 211/6 in 45 overs (Abdul Rafeay 54, Mohd. Shadab Ahmed 103, Sathwik 31 n.o., Manish 3/30) lost to Hyd. School of Excellence 212/6 in 44 overs (Om Dhanush 88, Arjun Reddy 73).   All Saints 239/8 in 46 overs (Dhanraj 55, Tameem 30 n.o., Pranay Aheer 34) bt Nalgonda 76 in 23.1 overs (Dhanraj 3/13).   Sri Chaitanya Jr. Kalasala, Ramanthapur, 368/5 in 50 overs (P. Raghava 38, B. Jeevan 136, Dhruva 49, B. Rohit Akash 59 n.o., B. Vishnu Vardhan 33) bt Oakridge School, Bachupally, 81 in 33.5 overs (B. Rohitakash 4/15, P. Raghava 3/22).   Warangal 285/6 in 50 overs (Pardhipan 36, Vithesh 72, Hardhik 35, D. Mandeep Singh 40 n.o., Arnav Kumar 3/68) bt Little Flower School, Abids, 189/8 in 50 overs (Arnav Kumar 32, Mohd. Abrar 63, Vithesh 3/29).   St. Anthony’s Jr. College, Kompally, 388/2 in 50 overs (Navadeep 157, Pranav 121, Tarun 37 n.o.) bt Johnson Grammar, Mallapur, 107 in 22.2 overs (Rajvardhan 43, R. Jashwanth Kumar 3/41).   Glendale Academy, Sun City, 273/6 in 50 overs (Rilasa Reddy 135, Likith 68) bt Oakridge, Gachibowli, 257/9 in 50 overs (Shreyas Goud 100, Shrunjith Reddy 55, Krish Kumar 40, Likith 3/47).   St. Joseph’s HS, Habsiguda,148/3 in 45 overs (P. Krishna 47, Rishi 39 n.o.) lost to Bhavan’s Sri Aurobindo Jr. College-A 149/1 in 19.3 overs (Sachiet 39, Vivek Gagan 51 n.o.).   Chirec Intl. 329/9 in 50 overs (V.V.S. Sarvajit 50, M.S. Anirudh 114, Aditya 61, Aryan Reddy 3/57) bt Little Scholar School 214 in 46.2 overs (G. Prem 88, Grivar 33, Hrishikesh 51n.o., Neel Rajesh 4/49, M.S. Anirudh 3/39).   Global Indian School 179 in 41.1 overs (Akhil Ram 56, K. Harshavardhan 69, Nithin 6/19) lost to Sri Chaitanya Techno School, East Marredpally, 180/4 in 29.2 overs (Siddharth Rao 78, Vivek Jain 3/35).   St. Peter’s HS, Bowenpally, 164 in 46.2 overs (A. Ram 84, K.P.V. Ruthik 4/36) bt Bhavans Sri Aurobindo Jr. College-B 40 in 11.3 overs (K. Karthik 5/31, A. Ram 5/7).   Karimnagar District 66 in 33.2 overs (Ayaan Ahmed 5/11) lost to Gowtham Model School, West Marredpally, 67/0 in 10.3 overs (M. Kshitij Reddy 32 n.o.).   Adilabad District 103 in 30.3 overs (D. Smith 50 n.o., E. Akshay Kumar 3/15, D. Sai Teja 5/22) lost to Telangana Social Welfare School 106/3 in 22.2 overs (J. Yuvaraj 45 n.o., Kashyap Pataskar 3/24).   Don Bosco, Erragadda, 91 in 40.5 overs (Sahil Sisodia Jain 5/10) lost to HPS Begumpet 92/1 in 15.4 overs (Charuhas Abhay 43 n.o.).    The Telangana Football Association will conduct a football match for former Sports Hostel players in memory of R. Ajay Babu, former national player, at Gymkhana Football Ground here on December 19. The match will feature many former internationals, including Alloysius Edwards, G.P. Palguna, Syed Arif, P.P. Rajkumar, Anand Kumar, Yedu Kondalu and Bheem Singh.   The Telangana State Chess Association will organise the second Telangana State online-ranking chess tournament for boys and girls in the age groups of under-8 to 16 years on December 19. For details call 7337578899 or 7337399299.   Navyabharathi Global School (Nizamabad) will conduct an inter-school cricket tournament, according to school chairman K. Santhosh Kumar. A separate schools tournament for girls was also being planned, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jeevan-on-song-for-sri-chaitanya/article37974054.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy win for Vizag Colts||Vizag Colts scored a seven-wicket win over United Cricket Club in the eighth United CC Friends memorial T20 cricket championship at Port Stadium here on Thursday.  The scores:   United CC 106/9 in 20 overs (D. Kiran Kumar 37, Ch. Yellaji 3/14) lost to Vizag Colts 107/3 in 10.4 overs (Priyam Ashish 51, N. Rajesh 32).   Galaxy CC 123/3 in 20 overs (V. Syam Sai Venkatesh 58 n.o.) lost to Srikakulam DCA 125/6 in 17 overs.   Metro CC 129/8 in 20 overs (K. Kranthi Kiran 53) bt City Police 87 in 15.1 overs (M. Santosh 33, Appanna Reddy 4/20, K. Vamsi Krishna 3/13).   County CC 155/5 in 20 overs (C.H. Siva 39 n.o., Ravi Kiran 41 n.o.) lost to ECoRSA 157/4 in 19.3 overs (G. Syam Sundar 60 n.o., P. MadhusudhanRao 39).      P. Prashant was bought by Chennai Blitz in the Prime Volleyball League and he happened to be the only one from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to be picked for the League. Prashant earlier played for Hyderabad Hawks in 2019 Pro Volleyball and was also in the senior India camp for the 2018 Asian championship. The Vizag-based spiker also played for Maldives club in Rupavahani international tournament (Colombo), Mangalore Spikers in the Oman National Day Cup and Alreef Panasia Club in Al Zayani International tournament in Bahrain. The Customs & Indirect Taxes employee played in seven Senior Nationals and three Federation Cups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/easy-win-for-vizag-colts/article37974055.ece
17 December 2021||KOCHI,||Important to take up responsibility: Ashalata||Maintaining focus and taking up responsibility will be important for the Indian women’s football team ahead of the AFC Asian Cup, to be hosted in the country next month, feels captain Ashalata Devi. The players are currently camping here in preparation for the continental showpiece to be held in Mumbai and Pune from January 10 to February 6. The team returned from Brazil earlier this month after taking part in a four-nation tournament. “It’s not easy maintaining focus ahead of such a big tournament, but I’ve found that it’s the little things that tend to help you with that,” said Ashalata. Among the 27 campers, 13 are under the age of 25 and senior players like Ashalata are helping out the younger ones. “In the larger scheme of things, it’s about taking responsibility. We all talk about this being a very young squad, and it’s great to have all the 19 and 20-year-olds,” said the defender according to a release from the All India Football Federation (AIFF). “They (younger players) bring great energy into the team. But at the same time, everyone needs to realise that they are not kids anymore. “They are in the senior team for a reason, being responsible off the pitch builds that mentality of doing the same on the pitch as well, and that’s the mentality that we all must have going into the Asian Cup,” Ashalata said. India will play its first group match against Iran on January 20 before taking on Chinese Taipei and China on January 23 and 26. Five teams from the tournament will qualify directly for the 2023 World Cup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/important-to-take-up-responsibility-ashalata/article37973794.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Dhakshish, Thanu finish on top||Dhakshish Aryan and Thanu Vishwas emerged the boys’ and girls’ winners at the ASTA AITA CS3 U-12 tennis championship here. While Dhakshish beat Anurag Shourya 6-2, 7-5, Thanu overcame Aylin Mirian Cornelio 5-7, 6-2, 6-2.     Preetesh scored an unbeaten 133 and S.J. Rakesh scalped five wickets (5/38) as the Freelancers CC-IISC Gymkhana match ended in a tie in the KSCA (Group I) fourth division league.  The scores:   Freelancers CC 263/9 in 50 overs (Preetesh 133 n.o., V. Deepak Kumar 39, B.H. Shashank 26) tied with IISC Gymkhana 263 in 50 overs (Kumar Apoorv 63, Priyabrata Maharana 60, Mohammed Tabish Khan 61, S.J. Rakesh 5/38).   Bharath CC 297/9 in 50 overs (Sumedh S.Rao 80, Raghavendra M. Balgi 50, M. Guru Prasad 39 n.o., R. Rahul 36, U. Vikas 3/43) bt City Cricketers (1) 81 in 23.2 overs (R. Rahul 5/44, T.M. Tarun 5/21).   Sparklers CC 162 in 39.3 overs (Y.M. Bharath 44, Raghavendra Eswar Rao 25, George Fernandes 46, Jay Desai 5/21) lost to Vijaya CC, Malur 166/4 in 34.1 overs (Mithul 88 n.o., Rohan Desai 52).   Friends Union Cricketers, KGF 167 in 44.1 overs (Shailender Singh 89, D. Udaya Shankar 25, P. Harshith Gowda 3/21) lost to Merchants CC (2) 168/6 in 39.4 overs (M. Arun 82 n.o., N.J. Gowtham 37 n.o.).   Crescent CC (1) 142 in 35.3 overs (Sujith 41, R. Monesh Ajay 47 n.o.) lost to Star SC, Nelamangala 145/7 in 32.2 overs (S.K. Biradar 56, B.R. Manoj 29 n.o., C.B. Mani 4/38).   Eleven Brothers CC, Magadi 245/8 in 50 overs (Shezan Khan 87, G. Amogh Varsha 39, Daanish Altaf 30, Shane Ryan 30, Chethanca 4/56) lost to National United CC 248/8 in 45.3 overs (Yeshwanth 26, Sachin Honakeri 44, T.V. Loukik 51, Arieska 44, Syed Zain 3/42, S. Aryan 4/37).   Jeevanbhimanagar CC 199 in 44.4 overs (Saharsh M.Reddy 47, G.V. Niteesh Kumar 50, Abin Joseph Raju 35, Rahul Ghosh 3/49, S.R. Srikanth Revankar 3/33, K. Darshan Kumar 3/17) bt Palace Orchard CC 182 in 44.5 overs (Ishaan Chugh 35, Anand Gowda 34, M.V. Sai Samarth 3/22).   Maharana CC 188 in 46 overs (Shivpratap Singh 32, Smaran Ramesh 47, Deshbhandari Sadashiva Shyamsundar 34, K.C. Narendra 3/39) lost to Duleep Cricketers 189/1 in 36.4 overs (A. Ranjith Kumar 81 n.o., Naveen Shankara 79 n.o.).   Malleswaram United CC 203 in 44 overs (N. Shashank 43, Bharath Kumar 42, Shaun Mendes 32, B. Srikanth 3/53, A. Vignesh Nag 3/26) lost to Sirupark SC 205/6 in 39.5 overs (S. Manjunath 61, R.K. Venkata Sunil 95, Shaun Mendes 3/44).   Spartons SC 272 in 49.3 overs (D. Vatsal Reddy 45, Mohammed Issaq Shariff 62, Ashok 90, Salvin Stanly 3/40, Salman 4/33) bt Friends Cricket Team 246 in 44.4 overs (Salvin Stanly 85, Nagraj Bankapur 32, G. Hari Vignesh 39, Salman 41 n.o., Ashok 3/39).   Vikram CC 135 in 40.1 overs (Raunak Singh 28, Santosh Kumar Bharadwaj 4/18) lost to Minerva CC 138/4 in 29.1 overs (P. Gourav 52 n.o., Manjunath 52 n.o.).   Victory CC 161 in 46.3 overs (Rajath Nag 31, Arshil Rajendra 59, K.S. Sanjeeva 4/16, Ravi Teja Upadrashta 3/44) lost to Ranji CC 162/3 in 31.1 overs (C.K. Manish 83 n.o., R. Anand Kumar 35 n.o.).      Rishan accounted for a brace as Stadium FC beat Boyka Academy 3-2 in a KSFA Youth Premier League match held at the Bangalore Football Stadium on Thursday.  The result: Stadium FC 3 (Rishan 44, 80+1, Hokip 52) bt Boyka Academy 2 (A. Suresh 34, Jestin 78) .    FC Bengaluru United fought back from two goals down to earn a 2-2 draw against Bengaluru FC in the BDFA Super Division League on Thursday.  The result: Bengaluru FC 2 (Marcarton Louis Nickson 18, Robin Yadav 26) drew with FC Bengaluru United 2 (Ronaldo Augusto Antonio 49, Kinshuk Debanath 76) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhakshish-thanu-finish-on-top/article37973805.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Badminton: BAI series senior National-ranking tournament, qualifying rounds, Fireball BA (Mogappair East) (8 a.m.), Smash Bounce (Korattur) & AIEMA (Ambattur), 9 a.m.   Basketball: South Zone National qualifiers, final day, Nehru Indoor Stadium, 8 a.m. & 4 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article37973845.ece
17 December 2021||Dharmapuri,||Inbarasaganan sizzles for Jayam RC||B. Inarasaganan claimed five for 20 as Jayam RC scored a 124-run win over Sangamithra CC in the Dharmapuri DCA first division league here recently.  The scores: I div.: Jayam RC 237 in 49.1 overs (M. Ravikumar 76, M. Silambarasan 44, C. Dinesh 4/59) bt Sangamithra 113 in 32 overs (B. Inbarasaganan 5/20).  II div.: Adilam Blasters 131 in 21.3 overs (G. Saravannan 30, P. Sasikumar 4/24, G. Selvaraj 3/21) lost to Sabari Hari 134/5 in 21.2 overs (G. Selvaraj 58 n.o.). Jaihind 61 in 22.4 overs (D. Jayaprakasam 3/12, S. Sathish 3/11) lost to Adhiyaman Kottai 62/4 in 12.5 overs (G. Vishnu 30).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/inbarasaganan-sizzles-for-jayam-rc/article37973918.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Moksha for Putana||Putana came with the evil intention of killing Krishna. But instead of milk mixed with poison, it seemed as if Putana fed Krishna milk mixed with her life, for Krishna sucked out her life, when she fed Him! He put in no effort to do so. He even enjoyed the milk that she offered to Him. True it was poisoned, but to Krishna it tasted sweet, because Putana had come with the exclusive intent of offering it to Him, and to no one else. She was giving Him whatever she could, and she was doing so without offering it to anyone else. The wicked Putana got moksha, when her life was taken by Krishna, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. If Putana should get moksha, then it is obvious that those who are sincere in their devotion to Him will assuredly get moksha. When Putana died, her true form was revealed. Gone was the appearance of a pretty, attractive woman. She now looked like the demoness she was, with a gigantic body. Commentators observe in this context that if we seek His feet, our real svarupa will be revealed. What this means is that once we seek His association, then it will become clear that the jivatma is His slave. Putana had killed many children, and Krishna brought them all back to life, says Srimad Bhagavatam. When a corpse burns, the smell that emanates is foul. But in the case of Putana, when her body was burnt, the smell that emanated had the fragrance of sandal. Yasoda, thinking that Krishna might have been frightened by Putana, tried to console Him, by feeding Him her milk. Anyone else in her position would have worried that an unusual child, which sucked out the life of a demoness might harm her. But such was Yasoda’s motherly love for Krishna, that she thought of nothing but His safety and His happiness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/moksha-for-putana/article37973698.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 07:57 IST,||Sudoku — December 17, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-december-15-2021/article37974502.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The desi superhero||Tovino Thomas refuses to call Minnal Murali Malayalam cinema’s first ‘superhero’ film. “We are not making any such claims; there have been other films in the genre. Vinayan sir has made films — Little Superman , Athishayan — about people with extraordinary powers. Minnal Murali is our superhero film.” Directed by Basil Joseph, this much-awaited film drops on Netflix on December 24. From the making to release, it has been a long wait... of two years. The movie was initially scheduled to be a 2020 Onam release., “I always wanted it to be a Christmas release, and there is a reason for that; 10 minutes into the film, audiences will know why,” he says, rather cryptically. Watching a superhero in a movie hall is part of the experience. But how different will it be on an OTT platform? Tovino says, “This film was made for theatres. But we live in unprecedented times; producers have spent a lot on it and we can’t object when they take a call. When we made Minnal , we discussed what would work best in a theatre and how the audience would react. However, recently when Basil and I watched the film with my family at his place, I observed their reactions, and they were enjoying it. All the parts that we thought would be great on the big screen had more or less the same impact we expected. I want to look at the positive side of things,” he says, adding that it will be streamed in 190-plus countries and dubbed in eight languages, thus reaching more people. Tovino plays Murali, a tailor who gets superpowers. The odd-ball character, he reveals, is the opposite of what one imagines a superhero to be. “He is not your muscled, brilliant hero; he is the common man who is the butt of jokes because he is fashionable compared to others around him. The fun part is what happens when someone like him gets these superpowers. He is a grounded, desi superhero.” For that very reason, Tovino did not have to beef up as preparation before filming. “That happens organically in the film and I also needed to prepare likewise. There was mental preparation; Basil and I discussed how someone, who everyone makes fun of, would be affected when he suddenly finds himself with these powers.” The film tracks Murali’s evolution — physically and mentally — into his role as the saviour of his village. “We show the character’s evolution through humour and a few intense sequences. We had to ensure that the humour elicits laughter and is not slapstick,” adds Tovino, who earlier worked with Basil Joseph in Godha . Lockdown has seen Malayalam cinema make some good films, and Tovino has been a part of a few. Like the critically-acclaimed Kala , written by Rohith VS and Yadhu Pushkaran. “There was an element of risk in doing it, but people were unemployed then and me taking up the project would benefit many. It was risky literally too... as I was injured during the shoot,” says the actor, who co-produced the film. It was worth the effort and time because it made him understand a thing or two about Malayalam cinema’s reach. “I realised that we have an audience who are not Malayalis but enjoy our films,” says Tovino, who also starred in Manu Ashokan’s Kaanekkana , another OTT release. Does Tovino have a favourite superhero? “There are many; Batman, Ironman and Deadpool…but Superman will always be my ultimate choice!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-desi-superhero/article37973643.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A herd’s eye view||As sunshine filters through the trees, a peacock shakes off his morning slumber and langurs shriek as they hop across trees... that’s how morning unfolds inside the jungle through the eyes of Banti, a 60-year-old elephant. “Why are elephants entering human habitations looking for food? Why are streams inside forests drying up? What has triggered the man-animal conflict?,” asks author H Byju as he explains why he set out to write his recently released book, Matriarch – Autobiography of An Elephant (Neythal Pathipakam). Byju, an independent researcher, conservationist, and photographer, wrote a passionate account on why vultures are indispensable to bio-diversity in his first book Valley of Hope — Moyar and Vultures (Don Books). “During trekking expeditions at Moyar Valley gorge while tracking nesting of vultures, I encountered elephants twice,” he says, adding that they once saved an elephant stuck in slush. “After two decades inside the forest, I have enough scientific data and wanted to reach out to people by giving a voice to the wild animal itself.” The story celebrates the close-knit bonds they share. It explores the mother-calf relationship, the way the animals communicate by touching their trunks and high-pitched trumpet calls. He also highlights issues such as poaching and development, which have usurped their traditional pathways. “Invasive species like lantana and parthenium have occupied 40 % of forest cover in the Nilgiris Biosphere Reserve and pose a grave threat to food availability as elephants are mega herbivores. Now, we know why they enter agricultural fields looking for sugarcane and millets. There is no grass out there to feed on,” says Byju. The author says of the over 100 migratory elephant pathways across India, South India alone has about 35. “While in places like Jharkhand, mining has encroached the pathway, in Karnataka and West Bengal railway lines bifurcate the forest obstructing the natural path,” he says, explaining that annually elephants migrate 500 kilometres. “It is elephants that construct natural forests as they disperse seeds across long distances. In a life span of 60 to 65 years, they also bring offspring from a wide gene pool of males.”  Byju reiterates that conservation plans should involve all the stakeholders, especially tribals. Byju, who has written eight research papers on vultures and shorebirds, promises to persevere on his mission till the last person realises the need for conservation. He adds, “I want people to understand the elephant’s perspective. When we invade their space, they protest, move away, and attack.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-herds-eye-view/article37973647.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Black-and-white to colour||When Sandhya Prakash was a child, she would wait with her crayons for The Hind u’s ‘Colouring Corner’. After her father was done reading the newspaper, she spent the next hour or two, blunting and sharpening her pencils, adding colours to the black-and-white image. Then, she grew up. The colours stopped. The images remained black-and-white. Sandhya wanted to pursue a career in arts or architecture. But the family coerced her to choose “the traditional path”, which was engineering or medicine. Sandhya eventually got a Master’s degree in Computer Applications, got married, and left for Germany with her husband and son. Self-taught There, she rediscovered her childhood joy. “When I was in Germany, I saw many illustrators doing many good colouring books for adults. One of them was Johanna Basford, a Scottish illustrator who has sold over 22 million books for adults. I wanted to do the same,” she says. She began teaching herself new techniques on drawing and illustration on YouTube. Then, on returning to Coimbatore in 2019, she took her first baby step in accomplishing her dream. “I came up with Farmers Kingdom , my first colouring book,” she says. The book had images she witnessed as a child growing up in a village in Gobichettipalayam. Weekend sandhais (bazaars in South Indian villages and small towns), farm animals, insects, fish, cereals, flowers, fruits, and vegetables. It sold over 200 copies. She got a message from a buyer in the UK saying it kept her calm during pregnancy. Presence on social media  Social media, especially Instagram, helped her advertise her talent. Her page, sandy.inkyadventures, has about 8,000 followers. “Several people who brought my book shared it on Instagram. Seeing that, a few new authors approached me to illustrate their books, book covers or logos. For me, more than the money, I want to be recognised as an artist.” Sandhya is about to move to Germany again —this time for a long-term stay— with her husband and eight-year-old son. She is, however, not worried about the distance affecting her opportunities, thanks to her network online. “There is a good demand for illustrations for children’s books in Tamil as there aren’t many good ones in the market.” Sandhya has so far worked on 10 books, including one by her friend called 247 Letters in Tamil, a 96-page book with 96 stories. This year alone, she earned Rs. 2.5 lakh using her skill, and she has more projects in hand. “Not bad for a self-taught, part-time artist, huh?” she asks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/black-and-white-to-colour/article37973652.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||On the route||Thrice a month, G Valliammal catches the morning bus to Pollachi from her village, a cloth bag slung across her shoulder. The bag bears precious cargo: three Negamam cotton saris woven by the 80-year-old and her husband. “I take them to a textile shop in the city; they are our employers,” she says, running her hands over maroon cotton threads on the loom at her home at Kullakapalayam, a village eight kilometres from Negamam, and 40 kilometres from Coimbatore. Earlier this year, P Sanjai Gandhi, a Government advocate, High Court of Madras, and Geographical Indication registration attorney, filed a GI tag application on behalf of 15 co-operatives from the region. The saris, called ‘getti ragam’ (meaning thick variety) in local lingo, take a week to be woven by hand. “My husband and I weave two to three in two weeks,” says Valliammal showing us a deep red sari with a thin silk border, fresh off her husband’s loom. The fabric is sturdy, yet soft. “It will retain this quality for years,” says K Govindasamy, her husband. What makes it special is the intensity of the colour. “It will remain as it is as long as the cloth survives,” explains the 80-year-old. Negamam saris have a regular clientele. “They are popular among women in Erode, Sathyamangalam, and Gobichettipalayam, particularly those who work in agricultural fields,” says KV Manoharan, president, Arignar Anna Handloom Weavers Cooperative. “Negamam saris come as either six or eight gajam (yards), so women from the region drape them with a pack pleat, a style that makes it easy to work in the fields,” he adds. “Traditionally, they were woven in solid colours with a border and small motifs on the body,” he says. The saris changed with time. Today, they are adorned with motifs, contrast borders and pallus; but the fabric remains unchanged. While it is not common to see women with the defining Negamam sari drape today, many from the region still prefer them. The saris are priced at around Rs. 2,500 at Co-optex. “Powerloom saris are much cheaper and look similar,” points out Manoharan, explaining how this variety took over handloom saris. “Gradually, weavers too opted to weave fabrics that fetched them higher wages,” he adds. Kullakapalayam, for instance, has about 400 looms — every household has a loom — but only three weave the Negamam cotton variety. “We can earn much more weaving soft silk; so, most of us have stopped weaving cotton,” says KM Kumaravel, a local weaver who shifted to silk a decade ago. Besides, weaving a cotton sari is more complex: for the fabric to gain its defining thickness, the weaver puts in effort. He/she spends time and money to get the cotton thread prepared for the loom. It spends a day at the paavu pattarai, a workshop where a team works under a master who sprays starch on the threads spread between wooden stands. We visit one nearby, where K Uma Maheshwaran and team are strengthening and sizing cotton thread under a thatch roof. “It takes an hour to get this done on a sunny day,” he tells us as his team combs through the fine thread using a heavy implement made of wood and thick bristles. Two people, each holding one end of the brush, walk swiftly across the length of the thread, brushing it several times until the starch is absorbed and it is completely dry. “It is a lot of work,” says U Kiran Kumar, Uma Maheshwaran’s son. “But one that will guarantee quality,” he adds. He is disheartened when people are lured by powerloom saris. “I wish customers ask for handloom in particular when they go shopping,” says the 34-year-old. “This will ensure survival for artisans like us.” Meanwhile, Valliammal and Govindasamy are taking a tea break . Their loom, that is over 60 years old, stands still. The dull clackety-clack of other looms in the neighbourhood wafts into their one-roomed home. Govindasamy takes one last sip, places his tumbler on the ground, and gets back to work. His loom roars to life, joining the chorus of others nearby.  Traditionally, the saris were woven in solid colours with a border and small motifs on the body K V Manoharan, President, Arignar Anna handloom Weavers Cooperative||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/on-the-route/article37973656.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Homecoming||Whenever Allu Arjun travelled to other parts of the country, he would invariably come across people from that particular locality warming up to his films. Be it Rajasthan or Kerala, his films, dubbed into vernacular languages, have done extremely well; Arjun says the most watched Indian film on YouTube is his. All of which points towards the fact that Allu Arjun is a pan-Indian star. Yet, the actor says he felt something was missing until Pushpa, due for a theatrical release this Friday. And that something was not getting enough adulation from Tamil Nadu, even though Arjun was born and raised in Chennai. He says the circle is now complete. Having spent most of his childhood in T Nagar, Arjun is not too perturbed when friends call him a Telugu-speaking Tamilian. “I don’t feel shy when people say that. In fact, I think in Tamil,” says Allu Arjun, who was in the city to promote his upcoming Pushpa . Billed as a pan-Indian project, the film releases in five languages. Arjun has seen all versions of Pushpa but is particularly satisfied with the output in Tamil. “Even though my films have done well in other markets, it is a different feeling when you play in your homeground [Chennai]. I want my childhood friends and tuition teacher to call me after watching the film; that is a different kick altogether,” he says, adding, “I wanted to come to Madras with a proper film and that happened with Pushpa .” Directed by Telugu filmmaker Sukumar with whom Arjun had worked with in the Aarya films, Pushpa is set in the Andhra-Tamil Nadu border. Since the film’s subject happens in a forest terrain, the conditions made it even more challenging to shoot. “We had about 400-500 cars in the forest that would take us from point A to B. In some places, there were no roads and we had to create a pathway with whatever was available. The filming itself took us almost two years,” said Arjun, “That is why I say this: the effort we had put in for Pushpa is equal to four films.” Arjun credits his friend and music composer Devi Sri Prasad aka DSP for pestering him to venture into Tamil cinema. But DSP doesn’t think Pushpa is a Telugu film releasing in other languages. “Ever since I heard the narration, I have been telling Bunny [Arjun] and Sukumar that it is actually a Tamil film made in Telugu, since most of the story happens near Tirupati,” says DSP.    Pushpa also stars Rashmika Mandanna and Fahadh Faasil. About the latter, Arjun says, “I watched him perform live on the set and really enjoyed what he did. There were moments I forgot about myself watching him act.”  Like nobody Allu Arjun’s dance moves have always appealed to his fans. Does he have any favourites in the Tamil film industry?Arjun says that he loves watching Kamal Haasan and Vijay dance on the big screen . “All the actors, including Dhanush and Simbu, dance really well. I watched Sivakarthikeyan’s Doctor recently and enjoyed it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/homecoming/article37973639.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A luxe tent where guests catch lunch||Thirty years ago, swathes of paddy wrapped this part of Kottaikadu on ECR. And in their midst was Arun Vasu, scouring the State in search of untouched places where he could camp and windsurf. “I used to park here, pitch a tent or sleep in my Gypsy. It was a pleasure to come here. So I thought, we must do something here,” says Arun, adding that he then bought a piece of land in the area in 2008. (Arun also runs Surf Turf in Kovalam, popular for both its classes and laid back restaurant and is the chief managing director of the TT Group.) Cut to 2021: the 50-acre stretch is now a plush boutique resort called The Alampara, offering surfing, kayaking, wakeboarding and standup paddling facilities. The once barren land — formerly used as a prawn hatchery, in ruins with gaping pits — is now luxuriously green, with 500-odd trees lending shade, their leaves swaying gleefully in a wind that rarely ceases. The property boasts four luxury tents — the larger ones measuring 700 square feet can accommodate four people and the smaller ones at 600 square feet can hold three — a tented restaurant, a private lake and even a backwater lagoon with a kilometre-long sand bar across it. “The sand bar is like a private island with a simple deck and a thatched structure where people can spend a day. The only way to get there is on a boat,” explains Arun, CEO of The Alampara. Turtles come here to nest in the nights from January to April. The property also hosts 60 varieties of bird in season, he adds. Given its proximity to the majestic Alamparai fort, people can kayak to the monument or paddle up to the scenic salt pans nearby. Surf Turf is in charge of the water sports. “We are engaging three villages around, so guests can go fish with the locals, be it laying nets or throwing a line,” says Arun. And after all that activity, guests can take their fresh catch — prawns, fish, crab — to the chef who will cook it for them. “One of the highlights is that the women from villages, sit in the water, pick the clams, and break them,” says Arun. The team is connecting with surrounding villages to source local produce from the area. “We have a chef’s garden where he grows spices and greens,” says Arun, who along with his team is educating the surrounding villages on waste segregation and setting up a recycling plant for plastic waste. Local talent is being roped in to create employment opportunities. “There is a focus on sustainability with plans in place to switch entirely to solar and wind power,” says Arun, adding that the idea here is coming back to Nature, where one can unwind from their hectic life and gadgets. Where the beep of the phone and maddening echo of video calls are replaced with the chirping of crickets and twittering of birds.  The Alampara will open on December 27. It lies just before Marakkanam, 35 kilometres from Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-luxe-tent-where-guests-catch-lunch/article37973658.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Thirukkural on your tab||When was the last time you recited the Thirukkural ? If you grew up in Tamil Nadu, you probably last learnt it in school. Carnatic musician Saketharaman and popular TV personality ‘Pattimandram’ Raja are trying to re-ignite people’s fascination for this popular Tamil classic written by Thiruvalluvar. Combining their expertise in music and public speaking, their latest collaboration — titled Irukuralil Thirukkural — aims to package the text in a novel way to reach the younger generation. While Saketharaman will sing 15 selected verses, Raja will explain the kural’s meaning with a dose of humour so that it leaves a lasting impression. Visuals for Irukuralil Thirukkural, shot and worked on at Jamdub Soundlabs (a new Thoraipakkam-based studio), feature multiple cameras and drones, a rarity for Carnatic music videos. The 15-episode series, to be launched on December 16, will be rolled out till Thiruvallur Day (January 15) and hopes to ignite conversation around topics that Thiruvallur wrote about, which are relevant even today. The effort is an extension of the Carnatic vocalist’s previous venture Kala Siksha, which sought to sow the seeds of music in a contemporary manner. “The students learnt the Thirukkural by rote, but did not know its meaning. I wanted them to realise how many life lessons it had to offer,” recalls Saketh. It was around that time, earlier this year that he performed a Thirukkural couplet during one of his Carnatic concerts; the positive response egged him to take it on in a bigger way. “Musically, the Thirukkural gives a lot of scope, despite its brevity,” he explains. For this current project, he has chosen a couplet on neer (water), and tuned in raga Amritavarshini. Other couplets he has chosen cover socially-conscious themes, and those on friendship and love. “Apart from the musical possibilities, both from a ragam and a taalam standpoint, its duration can be custom-made; in fact, we plan to release a one-minute version on Instagram Reels and YouTube Shorts, and a detailed, longer version on YouTube.” His musical exploration will be followed by Raja’s short story explaining the kural. “It will not be like a discourse elaborating on the meaning, but connected to a short story derived from life experiences,” explains Raja, popular among TV audiences. Madurai-based Raja was introduced to the Tamil classic during his childhood, but discovered its various facets later in life. “Back in school, some of our Tamil teachers would sing and even act it out for us. This, despite it being featured only in two-mark questions,” he recalls. As Raja flourished in public speaking and associated himself with Tamil scholars such as Solomon Pappiah, he dug deeper into the Tamil classic. “The more I studied, the more I discovered. It presented new insights to me. The Thirukkural can be considered a teacher, guru or even a parent who teaches modern Science.” Raja says there should be more attempts towards popularising such works. He says, “Tamil ilakkiyam (literature) is not something that belongs to only a few sections of people; it should be simplified for the younger generation, who need to proudly flaunt it.”  Irukuralil Thirukkural will be featured on Saketharam’s YouTube, Facebook and Instagram pages||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/thirukkural-on-your-tab/article37973657.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Bringing romance back||Days before the release of his much-anticipated film Atrangi Re , director Aanand L Rai is waiting for AR Rahman to submit the final cut of the musical score. “He doesn’t sleep and doesn’t let us rest either,” says Aanand, who describes the film, starring Sara Ali Khan, Akshay Kumar and Dhanush, as his “most complicated story about love and its madness”. To be released this Christmas on Disney+Hotstar, the film not only brings him together with Rahman but also Dhanush, whom he successfully introduced to the Hindi belt with Raanjhanaa .  The trailer gives a sense that you are revisiting the  Raanjhanaa  space. What made you tell a love story all over again?   lMaybe these three minutes are making people feel this way but I have a feeling that I have attempted my most complicated story about love and its madness. What makes me very happy is that I am able to film a romance during times when love has taken a secondary spot in our lives.  What did you like most about Dhanush when you approached him for Raanjhanaa ?   lI wanted an actor who could understand the ordinariness of that character. I had watched Aadukalam , and whenever I watched his Tamil songs, I felt that this man realised the strength of ordinariness. Within 10 minutes of our meeting in Kolkata, he agreed to do it but said he didn’t know Hindi. I have always felt that playing a character has nothing to do with the language. He learnt the dialogues and dubbed himself but ultimately, it was about expressing the emotions. Now, I don’t look at him as an actor... he is like ghar ka bac c cha .  What made you cast him for Atrangi Re  ?  lWhen the story was initially discussed in 2014, the only thing that was certain was Dhanush, The rest of the casting has happened gradually. I enjoyed creating his character, which is very layered.  We often see foreign influences in Hindi cinema, but you seem keen on embracing the regional flavour...   lIt is my country, whether I go to the North or South. It was fun shooting in Madurai with a Tamil cast. As a maker, I felt ignited. I directed two Tamil scenes and I realised what you go through when you don’t know the language. Dhanush told me, ‘ Bhai , now you know. I did Raanjhana a with you without knowing the language. You are struggling with two scenes.’ I want to understand the language not just for the syntax but for the expression. In the next two years, I will hopefully direct a Tamil film.  Would you say that songs are losing their space in the OTT universe?   lI agree the value of songs is diminishing but I don’t feel it is to do with the rise of OTT. It is just that we are not working hard on music. When you work with AR Rahman, you realise you are not making the film for anybody but for yourself. What he lends to a film is not just music; it is a character. He never stops till he becomes the spine of the film.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bringing-romance-back/article37973636.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||On the road with Valimai||A new video on the making of Ajith’s next film Valimai has been released, that also shows footage on the actor’s bike crash during the shooting which caused an injury. Ajith was able to recover soon and resume shooting, though the Valimai team and fans feared the worst initially. The film is set to release next year on the occasion of Pongal 2022, and the video shows how the team emerged from setbacks such as COVID-19 to complete the project. Though there is no information about the storyline yet, Ajith Kumar apears to be playing a police officer in the film. Having been in the making for two years now, Valimai is being directed by H Vinoth who had previously worked with Ajith Kumar in Nerkonda Paarvai and is known for films such as Sathuranga Vettai and Theran Adhigaram Ondru . Produced by Boney Kapoor, Valimai also stars Bollywood actor Huma Qureshi, Kartikeya Gummakonda, Pearle Maaney and Yogi Babu in important roles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/on-the-road-with-valimai/article37973641.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Carols under the coir tree||Shafi Arts in Srinagar may be an unexpected outpost for Santa, but 61-year-old Mohammed Shafi Bhat and his family have been shipping their intricate papier-mâché bells, baubles and stars across the world for years. “The US, UK, Singapore, Spain...” lists Suhail, one of Mohammed’s three sons, as his brothers wind up work on the last batches: the bulk of their orders is completed and dispatched by September. “Orders come in as early as March,” he says over a video call, picking his way through the boutique. Apart from the traditional motifs, there are new designs: Santa is wearing a mask this year, of course. They also make Santa on a shikara and miniature elephants in pastel hues, which are light and compact so they can be hung from boughs of trees between tinsel and strings of lights. “We have seen a 70% increase in orders this year after a lull,” Suhail says adding that they made lakhs of baubles this year. One of the reasons he believes is buyers want to help out as the pandemic has been tough on many businesses, including artisans. “As artisanal goods are handmade, as opposed to plastic items; there is a lot of time, effort and a personal touch that goes into them.” “These products cannot be compared to mass produced plastic ones that are an environmental hazard,” says Sunil Jalihal, founder and CEO of Pune-based Indic Inspirations, who stocks creations by Shafi Arts along with those of 400 artisans from around the country. Stating that they can be reused year after year, instead of being disposed annually and adding to landfills, he says, “When shipments from China stalled, it gave people an opportunity to look for other resources. It led them to becoming conscious about not wanting plastic.” Indic Inspirations has seen a 20% increase in demand for handmade Christmas decor this year, he adds. At Okhai in Ahmedabad, artisans, primarily of the Rabari tribe in Gujarat, surf the Internet to keep up with annual trends. “They are on Pinterest and Instagram, and are aware of how Christmas trees are decorated world over,” says Manorath Dhillon who heads the organisation, “From mirror work to tattoos and tassels, they give inputs on what needs to be added to an ornament.” Aged between 21 and 55, the creators are excited to be part of the celebrations as they leave their mark in the form of sustainable trinkets. “Most tree ornaments here are made out of scrap fabric. There are disco balls, hoops that read Holly Jolly X’Mas, stars, and heart-shaped ornaments in cottons, silks and block-printed fabrics,” she says. Other items include handwoven boxes made of recycled cotton ropes, acacia wood ornaments with Pattachitra painting by master craftsmen from Odisha and candle holders with Santa’s face, made by potters in Rajasthan. “When the pandemic started, people finally had the time to pause and think about what they were creating and what they were consuming. Now we see they are a lot more forthcoming when it comes to buying handmade things even if it is a little expensive,” says Manorath. Okhai’s Christmas decor manufacturing has gone up by 70% this year in comparison to last year. Snowflake and veggies From reindeer and snowflakes to carols and pine trees, inspiration is flowing in from various quarters. For Karthik Vaidyanathan who started Varnam (a social enterprise that revived the Channapatna toy craft) in Bengaluru in 2012, fruits and veggies served as his muse this year. Glossy oranges, bananas, capsicums, chillies, tomatoes, mushrooms and carrots hang from his tree. They look edible: but are made of wood and natural dyes like turmeric, kumkum , and indigo. “People are looking for fun ornaments and something different to put up or use as a stocking stuffer or a Secret Santa gift. Plus, this is also a great way of making kids eat vegetables,” says Karthik. The Varnam Christmas collection comprises kuruvi bells, Santa jars, pig-shaped bells, wobbly snowmen, bobble head reindeer, and even bar accessories like bottle openers... Everything is made by a team of 15 skilled craftspersons in Channapatna, Karnataka. Varnam has made 500 ornaments in total this year. Karthik gets the bulk of his orders from Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai, and also exported to the UK and Australia last year. Artisan empowering organisations such as Runway India in Nagaland and Indian Yards in the Nilgiris have launched new lines that comprise hampers with functional gifts like reindeer-inspired serving trays, wreaths made with natural vines, wooden pine cones and macramé angels. Chennai’s Cane and Bamboo, which has been showcasing artisanal products for the last five decades, has hand-drawn kalamkari ornaments made by crafters from Andhra Pradesh this year. “This is the first time we have seen them think out of the box and try something new. There are stars, banners, and trees in earthy tones. They look beautiful,” says Thangam Phillip of Cane and Bamboo. Dropping sales, she says, has led artisans to experiment with different styles. The store also has linen angels, fabric-based and, papier-mâché ornaments. Single entrepreneur ventures too are adding their creativity to the Christmas market. Sahana V, 30, who lives in the Nilgiris, launched The Berry Shop two years ago, as an extension of her love for embroidery. “ Last year I began creating Christmas themed ornaments and hair accessories,” says Sahana. “This year I introduced tree ornaments made of felt. Both the hoop and felt decoratives have been of interest to collectors,” she states, adding, “I see a huge appreciation for handmade gifts now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/carols-under-the-coir-tree/article37973659.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Music of the people||It all begins with parai . Coimbatore’s first Margazhiyil Makkalisai concert is set to kickstart with a thunderous jikkattam performance by Mahendran and team from Pollachi. The folk art form will feature percussion instruments such as thudumbu and satti parai . The event, conceptualised by film director and producer Pa Ranjith’s Neelam Cultural Centre, seeks to introduce people to the music of our roots. Here, the stage is much more than just a performance platform. It is a space for democratisation of music, where artistes from several backgrounds and genres are given a voice. From gaana and rap, to oppari and rock, this concert promises a smorgasbord of genres. Coimbatore’s maiden event will see the coming together of musicians from the Kongu belt. There is kadavu mathattam , featuring eight types of parai . “Their rhythms reflect the lives of the people who play them; parai from the region is referred to by various other names depending on the material used to make the instrument. Although this percussion instrument is different from region to region, the beats that run through it have a common thread of humanity,” says ‘Pesu’ JK Jayakumar, a parai scholar and performer, who is the artistes’ coordinator at Neelam Cultural Centre. A tribal dance by artisans from Pillur will also be performed. “They will showcase their traditional instruments ,” explains Jayakumar, adding, “We also have a peru salangai attam in store.” Rappers from the region are set to perform. Joining them is Chennai-based independent band The Casteless Collective. Arivu, Isaivani, Balachandar, and Chellamuthu from the band will be part of the four-hour-long performance. For rapper and song writer Arivu, who weaves social and political issues close to his heart into his songs, this concert is like coming full circle. “I studied Engineering in Coimbatore from 2010 to 2014,” says Arivu, speaking over phone from Chennai, where he lives. “This is the first time I am visiting the city after my college days,” he adds. Arivu became a household name after the success of ‘Enjoy Enjaami,’ a Tamil pop and hip-hop song incorporating elements of R&B and the folk music style oppari . “I’m excited to perform in the city, particularly at an event that brings together so many genres. It is a special feeling,” he says. The music festival will also take place in Madurai and Chennai. The Chennai event, to be held from December 24, will feature over 500 artistes, spanning a week, with each day focussing on a particular genre. Arivu says that the Coimbatore concert will offer a “small sample” of the same. “Next year, we hope to hold a bigger concert in the city,” he adds. According to Kalpana Ambedkar, the programme coordinator, film maker Pa Ranjith will be at the event, and the evening’s chief guest is writer Paamaran.  Margazhiyil Makkalisai is on at Sitra Auditorium, DecembSandhya Prakasher 19, 5pm onwards. Entry is free. For details call 8925295451.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/music-of-the-people/article37973666.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Techie to tinseltown||Thirty-two new actors have been introduced through Tamil film Varisi , releasing this week in theatres. This romantic thriller revolves around four techies and how their lives turn topsy-turvy due to one incident. Varisi has been directed by Karthik Doss, who also plays the lead role. Karthik, a former IT professional, has also previously done a series of short films besides founding Muyarchi Padaipagam, an initiative to help aspiring actors and technicians. Says Karthik, "The storyline will revolve around a social-media addict and a CBI officer, and will feature elements of romance and revenge."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/techie-to-tinseltown/article37973638.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Meet the macaques||A Primate Festival by Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), Pollachi division, puts the spotlight on primates including gray slender loris, bonnet macaque, and common langur. The festival, organised on December 18 and 19, and December 25 and 26, will take tourists to habitats of primates as well as spread awareness on conservation. For bookings and details email atrreception@gmail.com or l 9842595826.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/meet-the-macaques/article37973668.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Loud and clear||Learn the nuances of voice range, voice projection, diction, pronunciation and speech clarity at a workshop on voice modulation and voice over by Sthaayi Theatre. You can also try your skill at voice-over at the event. There is no entry fee and it is open for anyone above eight years. zOn December 19, from 2pm to 5pm at Peace and Quiet Boutique, 5, 1st Main Road, Anna Nagar, Peelamedu.  9244412401 or e-mailsthaayi@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/loud-and-clear/article37973670.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Soul is missing from entertainment today’||Fresh from wrapping up Season 2 of Panchayat and crime thriller Six Suspects , actor Raghubir Yadav says he is the kind of artiste who rarely falls into a cultural limbo. Even though he is acclaimed as an actor, it is music, poetry, singing and set designing that keeps him going. “I am never out of work because I do not chase fame or money but focus on doing good work,” says the actor, who has essayed memorable character roles from his debut film Massey Sahib in 1985 to recent OTT release Pagglait in 2020. “I do not work according to the ways and pace of the film industry but wait till I get a role that I am completely convinced about.” That he has been a vital part of six films ( Peepli Live, Rudali, Bandit Queen, Salaam Bombay, Lagaan and Newton ) that were India’s nominations to the Oscars has been celebrated. But what many do not know is his penchant for poetry. “Poetry is often overlooked but it fosters pluralism and shows courage to speak against injustices,” says Yadav. “The maahaul (ambience) in our society today is such that we can bank on democratic forms of speech and art to empower those who have the will to change things.” Reciting Ghalib and Kabir This passion has egged him on to participate in the 10th edition of the three-day poetry festival, Jashn-e-Adab, to be held in New Delhi from Friday (December 17). Here, he will recite the works of Ghalib, Tulsidas and Kabir, whose lines he admires. “They are filled with pain but underline hope,” he says. Yadav’s tryst with poetry and art started during his childhood, which he spent in the fields of Ranjhi Karondi village in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, listening to old film songs on the gramophone. “Watching the village Ramleela and Rasleela evoked curiosity in me and taught me many things about live performances, costumes, make-up and folk music.” When his grandfather established a school in the village, Yadav was forced to study science. The fear of failing in the exams made him leave home before completing high school. “I did not run away. I explained to my father that music was my calling and left home requesting the family not to search for me,” he says. He landed in a Parsi theatre company near Lucknow, U.P., and was paid Rs. 2.50 as salary for singing performances. After six years of doing Urdu and musical plays, he trained at the National School of Drama, Delhi, where he also worked on plays helmed by theatre director Barry John. Then, Massey Sahib happened, and he debuted as an actor. “But my dream was to become a singer.” Pivotal roles in small films helped Yadav climb the steps of Bollywood, but he believes he is still humble. “My desire is always to be a part of good pieces of art,” he says and believes every learning in life comes from scarcity. “Contemporary cinema is luxurious today. Art has turned into business. That is why entertainment has no soul today.” Yadav’s genre is difficult to define as he functions independently and allows his setbacks to fuel a drive in him. Folklore remains his constant source of fascination and music helps him tide over crises, he says, and also has a good word for the OTT productions because young talents are getting the opportunity to showcase their artistic curiosity and creativity.  (The 10th International Hindi and Urdu Poetry Festival will be held from December 17 to 19 at India International Centre, Max Muller Marg, Lodhi Road)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/soul-is-missing-from-entertainment-today/article37973957.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Carols under the coir tree||Shafi Arts in Srinagar may be an unexpected outpost for Santa, but 61-year-old Mohammed Shafi Bhat and his family have been shipping their intricate papier-mâché bells, baubles and stars across the world for years. “The US, UK, Singapore, Spain...” lists Suhail, one of Mohammed’s three sons, as his brothers wind up work on the last batches: the bulk of their orders is completed and dispatched by September. “Orders come in as early as March,” he says over a video call, picking his way through the boutique. Apart from the traditional motifs, there are new designs: Santa is wearing a mask this year, of course. They also make Santa on a shikara and miniature elephants in pastel hues, which are light and compact so they can be hung from boughs of trees between tinsel and strings of lights. “We have seen a 70% increase in orders this year after a lull,” Suhail says adding that they made lakhs of baubles this year. One of the reasons he believes is buyers want to help out as the pandemic has been tough on many businesses, including artisans. “As artisanal goods are handmade, as opposed to plastic items; there is a lot of time, effort and a personal touch that goes into them.” “These products cannot be compared to mass produced plastic ones that are an environmental hazard,” says Sunil Jalihal, founder and CEO of Pune-based Indic Inspirations, who stocks creations by Shafi Arts along with those of 400 artisans from around the country. Stating that they can be reused year after year, instead of being disposed annually and adding to landfills, he says, “When shipments from China stalled, it gave people an opportunity to look for other resources. It led them to becoming conscious about not wanting plastic.” Indic Inspirations has seen a 20% increase in demand for handmade Christmas decor this year, he adds. At Okhai in Ahmedabad, artisans, primarily of the Rabari tribe in Gujarat, surf the Internet to keep up with annual trends. “They are on Pinterest and Instagram, and are aware of how Christmas trees are decorated world over,” says Manorath Dhillon who heads the organisation, “From mirror work to tattoos and tassels, they give inputs on what needs to be added to an ornament.” Aged between 21 and 55, the creators are excited to be part of the celebrations as they leave their mark in the form of sustainable trinkets. “Most tree ornaments here are made out of scrap fabric. There are disco balls, hoops that read Holly Jolly X’Mas, stars, and heart-shaped ornaments in cottons, silks and block-printed fabrics,” she says. Other items include handwoven boxes made of recycled cotton ropes, acacia wood ornaments with Pattachitra painting by master craftsmen from Odisha and candle holders with Santa’s face, made by potters in Rajasthan. “When the pandemic started, people finally had the time to pause and think about what they were creating and what they were consuming. Now we see they are a lot more forthcoming when it comes to buying handmade things even if it is a little expensive,” says Manorath. Okhai’s Christmas decor manufacturing has gone up by 70% this year in comparison to last year. Snowflake and veggies From reindeer and snowflakes to carols and pine trees, inspiration is flowing in from various quarters. For Karthik Vaidyanathan who started Varnam (a social enterprise that revived the Channapatna toy craft) in Bengaluru in 2012, fruits and veggies served as his muse this year. Glossy oranges, bananas, capsicums, chillies, tomatoes, mushrooms and carrots hang from his tree. They look edible: but are made of wood and natural dyes like turmeric, kumkum , and indigo. “People are looking for fun ornaments and something different to put up or use as a stocking stuffer or a Secret Santa gift. Plus, this is also a great way of making kids eat vegetables,” says Karthik. The Varnam Christmas collection comprises kuruvi bells, Santa jars, pig-shaped bells, wobbly snowmen, bobble head reindeer, and even bar accessories like bottle openers... Everything is made by a team of 15 skilled craftspersons in Channapatna, Karnataka. Varnam has made 500 ornaments in total this year. Karthik gets the bulk of his orders from Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai, and also exported to the UK and Australia last year. Artisan empowering organisations such as Runway India in Nagaland and Indian Yards in the Nilgiris have launched new lines that comprise hampers with functional gifts like reindeer-inspired serving trays, wreaths made with natural vines, wooden pine cones and macramé angels. Chennai’s Cane and Bamboo, which has been showcasing artisanal products for the last five decades, has hand-drawn kalamkari ornaments made by crafters from Andhra Pradesh this year. “This is the first time we have seen them think out of the box and try something new. There are stars, banners, and trees in earthy tones. They look beautiful,” says Thangam Phillip of Cane and Bamboo. Dropping sales, she says, has led artisans to experiment with different styles. The store also has linen angels, fabric-based and, papier-mâché ornaments. Single entrepreneur ventures too are adding their creativity to the Christmas market. Sahana V, 30, who lives in the Nilgiris, launched The Berry Shop two years ago, as an extension of her love for embroidery. “ Last year I began creating Christmas themed ornaments and hair accessories,” says Sahana. “This year I introduced tree ornaments made of felt. Both the hoop and felt decoratives have been of interest to collectors,” she states, adding, “I see a huge appreciation for handmade gifts now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/carols-under-the-coir-tree/article37974177.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Adventures galore||Dhruv is as upset as his grandmother is to discover that her beloved camera, containing all her memories, has been lost on her solo trip to Europe. What can Dhruv do? What surprises await his Paati? Holi is around the corner! Antara, Tarini, and their friend Saira want to do something different. So they get plotting and come up with a wonderful idea. But will all go according to plan? Ebby, the daughter of the eighth Father Ebon, is adept at a lot of things. But she wishes she could put an end to her father’s sadness. Is there any way she can help him? When a chance vacation takes Jaya to Oregon, she makes a new friend. But this strange girl isn’t all that she appears to be, with her solemn eyes and open laugh. Could Manolita be hiding something? The series is called Minmini Reads and is published by Karadi Tales. Each book is priced at Rs. 200||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/adventures-galore/article37974404.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s Sun cooked||By the 16th century in Europe, glass greenhouses that trapped the sun’s heat creating ideal conditions for the growth of highly popular tropical plants and fruits had become quite a rage. While many knew about the use of glass to trap heat, Horace de Saussure, a French-Swiss scientist, undertook an ingenious experiment around 250 years ago. On a black tabletop, he placed five glass boxes, one inside the other with a fruit inside the innermost box. The light radiating through the glass boxes was trapped. Second, these rays fell on a dark surface and were absorbed. A combination of the two led to the fruit being cooked and the solar cooker was born. Today, there are broadly two types of solar cookers — the concentrator solar cooker and the solar box cooker — that work on the same principles as that of Horace’s except perhaps the addition of the principal of reflection. Trapping the heat A concentrator solar cooker uses reflective panels to concentrate the Sun’s rays at a dark cooking pot, which absorbs the rays and turns them into heat, quickly reaching very high temperatures. The cooking time is almost the same as in regular gas stoves. The solar box cooker typically consists of an inner open metal box painted black, placed within a larger box with proper insulation on all four sides and the bottom. It has a transparent sealable top that lets in the sun rays and traps the heat. The black surface inside absorbs the light and turns it into heat, and the insulation keeps the heat from escaping. Often there are one or more reflective mirrors to increase the amount of light. The heat builds up slowly, so the food retains all the nutrients and the ingredients’ their original taste. If this is all too difficult to understand, remembered the word BAKE: B for “Bring in” as much sunlight as possible; A for “Absorb” energy from sunlight, make sure the bottom of the box and cooking pot is black to absorb well; K for “Keep” the heat inside the cooker. Seal the box tightly and insulate properly so that the heat cannot escape. And, of course, E for “Eat and enjoy” the Sun-cooked food!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/its-sun-cooked/article37974371.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Across space and time||Meghanth is curious to know the story of King Kakudmi. Sukracharya’s words keep echoing in his head: “The faster you travel, the slower time flows as per time dilation. That is why the sages never seem to age.”  Meghanth (to himself): But if they travel at such speeds, how do they meet the heavenly beings? Dad also told me he met Lord Shiva and gained much knowledge from him. How is this possible? Will the Kakudmi story give me the answers?  Sukracharya: So, Prince of Lanka, shall I begin the story of Kakudmi?  Meghnath: I am eager to listen to it, Guru.  Sukracharya: As I mentioned earlier, this story takes place in the Satya Yuga, a period where Gods/ethereal beings stay in accessible places.  Meghnath: Where?  Sukracharya: Vishnu in Vaikunta, which is somewhere near the constellation of Capricorn. Brahma in Brahmaloka, which is 337318502.4 km away from Vaikunta, and so on.  Meghnath: Then how did the sages on Earth meet these beings?  Sukracharya: You need to know the right path.  Meghanth: Like a shortcut or secret passage?  Sukracharya: Yes, somewhat like that. There are some underworld cities like Agartha and Shambala where you can find those secret passages. In modern science, they call it wormholes . These wormholes can connect light years of distance in a few seconds. Scientists of the future like Albert Einstein and Stephen Hawkins strongly believe in these.  Meghnath: Wow! They sound like teleportation portals.  Sukracharya: Yes. Now back to the story. King Kakudmi was looking for a good and accomplished man to marry his daughter Revathi. He wanted to meet Brahma regarding this. So, he sent a message to him mentally.  Meghnath: How?  Sukracharya: It’s a separate topic called electromagnetic waves. I’ll tell you about it another time. So assuming it reached him, he traveled to Brahmaloka. But Brahma was busy watching a dance performance.  Meghanth: Scope for some confusion...  Sukracharya: Exactly! Since Brahma was busy, Kakudmi waited outside. After 27 minutes, Brahma spotted Kakudmi and asked how long he had been waiting for. When Kakudmi told him and also the reason for this visit, Brahma laughed.  Meghanth: Why?  Sukracharya: Keep thinking. I will come back and tell you...  Meghanth (to himself): Why did Brahma laugh?  These wormholes can connect light years of distance in a few seconds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/across-space-and-time/article37974394.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Fatima plays football||“Fatima! Zain!” Ammi called out. “Dinner’s ready.’ She was about to step out of the kitchen, when a loud cheer sounded. “GOAL!” Ammi slapped a hand to her forehead. Not again! She strode into the courtyard. Fatima was so busy punching the air, she didn’t notice her. Zain was so busy sulking, he didn’t notice her. Abba was so busy cheering, he didn’t notice her either. Ammi cleared her throat. The players (and the cheerleader) swung around. “Er,” began Abba apologetically, “I was just telling them to go inside...” “Five more minutes?” Fatima pleaded. “We’ll play again tomorrow.” Abba smiled. “But bhaiya won’t be here tomorrow,” she protested. Zain was going back to the city. To work. “I’ll be back soon,” he promised, ruffling her hair. What a shot! It was lunchtime. Fatima and Datto were sitting under the tree, gobbling from each other’s dabbas . A few boys were on the field, playing football. The coach was yelling instructions. ‘Go, go go! Pass the ball, pass it now!’ Suddenly, the football came flying towards them and landed at their feet. Fatima was about to throw it back to them; then she grinned mischievously. She placed the ball down and stepped back. Everyone watched open-mouthed as she drew her right leg back, swung it forward and struck the ball with her foot. Up it went, sailing through the air in a graceful arc. Coach beckoned her over. “You can play football?” “Better than anyone I know,” Fatima replied modestly. “Want to play for the school team?” asked Coach. Fatima wanted to whoop. Instead, she said, ‘I’ll have to check with Ammi-Abba.’ *** Ammi wouldn’t hear of it. “Playing in the backyard with your family is one thing. Playing in public, quite another.” “But Ammi ...” Fatima protested. “I see no harm in it,” Abba told Ammi. Fatima exulted. “We win! Three votes to one.’” Ammi frowned. “Three?” “I called Zain bhaiya.” “But what will people say?” Ammi cried. *** Reactions Oh, they had LOTS to say! “She’ll wear revealing clothes and run around with boys?” shuddered the toothless dadi next door. “What’s so revealing about track pants-tee shirts?” Fatima wondered. “You should encourage her to learn cooking and sewing,” said Maithri aunty, Ammi’s friend. “Playing a sport teaches us many lessons that are useful on and off the field,” Fatima quoted Abba. “A girl’s place is not on the football field,” said someone. It’s not in the kitchen either, Fatima wanted to retort. “Her complexion will darken if she plays in the sun,” tsk-ed another. Fatima rolled her eyes. “What if sports practise interferes with prayer timings?” asked Khalu. “I’ll make sure it doesn’t,” Fatima assured her. “Girls from good families don’t do things like this.” Their loss, Fatima nearly shouted. “If you allow this,” Tau told Abba, “we’ll never speak to you again.” And they cut off all ties with Fatima’s family. *** Ammi wasn’t happy about the way things unfolded, but she didn’t express her displeasure. If Abba was upset, he didn’t show it. As for Fatima, she’d never been happier! The next few weeks were a blur of football practise, household chores, homework and studying. *** D-day Match Day arrived. Fatima’s heart thumped wildly. The butterflies in her stomach were playing a rather rough game of football. She turned to look at the crowd that had gathered around the football field, spotted Ammi and Abba, and gave a little wave. As loud cheers erupted, the budding football star took a deep breath, and trotted out on to the field.  “You can play football?” “Better than anyone I know...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/fatima-plays-football/article37974398.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Who will pull my sleigh? Overlooked||“Have you guys have ever thought about driving Santa around at Christmas time?” asked Raff, the jaunty one. “What’s the point?” said Lumière. “Santa prefers the female reindeer to take him around.” “But isn’t it unfair?” persisted Raff. “Yes, of course, it is. We can’t change the system, can we?” said Magus. “Let’s go meet Santa and tell him,” said Raff. And so it was that on a cold November evening, a delegation of 10 reindeer went to meet Santa. They presented their petition and Santa studied it deeply, his brows furrowed. The reindeer waited expectantly to see what his reaction would be. They had mentioned their names, their strong points and their special skills because they knew that Santa paid attention to skills and hobbies. He always said developing one’s skills and taking up a hobby was great for character building. Surprise for Santa When he had finished reading it, he nodded, scratched his beard and said, “This is a surprise. All these years you never said a thing and now suddenly... But I do see your point.” He hesitated and then said, “Let me think about it. Give me a day or two.” Santa took the letter to his wife and showed it to her. “What do you make of this, dear?” “About time. I often wondered how they kept quiet.” “So, you think I should take them this year? Dasher and gang are not going to give up that easily. It also means having to train a new team and getting them to learn the routes and so on. It’s not as easy as it seems to go sailing through the sky.” “In that case, they have to fight it out…” “Oh, you know, I despise violence. There’ll be blood everywhere and…” “Not that kind of a fight. I meant a competition.” “Now, that’s a thought,” said Santa. “Yes, we can have competitions to find out who is the fastest, who has the best reflexes…” Early on Monday, Santa put up a notice. In no time there everyone was reading it. The female reindeer were deeply annoyed. But everyone else was excited. The competitions were to be held on Saturday. It was to be a whole day event with a break for lunch and tea. The factory would be closed and everyone was expected to attend. The competitions were to be held between Team A of Dasher and gang, and Team B, with Uranus and gang. Who’s the better one? On Saturday, there was a festive air about the village. The two teams were tense and on edge. The first competition was to check speed and dexterity. Santa had decided the participants were to embroider a napkin with a Christmas theme using 10 embroidery stitches. Dasher and Uranus were the contestants. Dasher got to work embroidering a Christmas tree in shades of green, using different stitches. Uranus worked on a Christmas wreath. He used several colours and stitches and even French knots for the buds. When the bell rang to announce the end of the contest, they held up their work. Santa and Mrs. Santa examined the work. After much debate, Mrs. Santa said, “Uranus’ work is absolutely delightful. However, one of the conditions of the competition was that 10 stitches must be used. Uranus used only nine. Dasher has used 10. So, the winner is Dasher.” Team A yelled with joy and danced. Let’s dance The second round was a two-minute dance routine set to ‘Jingle Bells’. The participants were Dancer and HipHop. In two minutes, they had to display as many dance styles as possible. As the tune struck up, Dancer started with ballet and moved over to foxtrot and then ballroom and finished with a waltz. It was skillfully executed and everyone clapped. HipHop brought joie de vivre. He came into the ring doing the hip hop and quickly changed to an Irish jig, then a Scottish fling, some Zumba and finished with tap dancing. HipHop’s mood and excitement spread to the crowd and many of them were dancing too. “This round goes to HipHop,” announced Mrs. Santa. There was wild cheering from Team B. (To be continued)  All these years you never said a thing and now suddenly... But I do see your point.   There was a festive air about the village. The two teams were tense and on edge...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/who-will-pull-my-sleigh-overlooked/article37974362.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||On the clock||Across  1 Device that tells the time (5) 6 Do you get paid for ____time? (4) 7 A stretch of time (6) 8 Contest to pick the fastest (4) 9 The craft of clockmaking (8) 14 At the present moment (3) 15 AM: ____ Meridian (4) 16 For____: Always (4) 18 The part of the day after noon, for short (2) 19 Ancient (3) 20 Seven days (4)  Down  1 To bide one's time (4) 2 "Time and ___ wait for no one" (4) 3 Sixty minutes (4) 4 Something that just can't wait (6) 5 A significant span of time in history (5) 10 To go back to the beginning (6) 11 Not on time (4) 12 Twelve months (4) 13 A ____clock can be used to time races (4) 14 ____second: One billionth of a second (4) 17 The day before a big day (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/on-the-clock/article37974374.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are.||What is friction?  Friction is a force that acts between two objects that are in contact with one another. It slows down or stops movement between the two. There are four types of friction — static, rolling, fluid, and sliding. Some substances cause more friction than others. Surfaces that slow movement down most are known as as high friction, while those that allow more movement are low friction surfaces. Rough surfaces cause more friction than smooth ones.   What is the story behind ISRO?  The Indian Space Research Organisaion, or ISRO, was formed in 1969, to develop and harness space technology in national development. Pursuing planetary exploration and space science research were also among its main objectives. The ISRO replaced the Indian National Committee for Space Research (INCOSPAR), which had been established in 1962 by India’s first Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. India's first satellite, Aryabhata, wqas built by ISRO in 1975.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article37974354.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article37974389.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article37974414.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Sudoku||“Have you guys have ever thought about driving Santa around at Christmas time?” asked Raff, the jaunty one. “What’s the point?” said Lumière. “Santa prefers the female reindeer to take him around.” “But isn’t it unfair?” persisted Raff. “Yes, of course, it is. We can’t change the system, can we?” said Magus. “Let’s go meet Santa and tell him,” said Raff. And so it was that on a cold November evening, a delegation of 10 reindeer went to meet Santa. They presented their petition and Santa studied it deeply, his brows furrowed. The reindeer waited expectantly to see what his reaction would be. They had mentioned their names, their strong points and their special skills because they knew that Santa paid attention to skills and hobbies. He always said developing one’s skills and taking up a hobby was great for character building. Surprise for Santa When he had finished reading it, he nodded, scratched his beard and said, “This is a surprise. All these years you never said a thing and now suddenly... But I do see your point.” He hesitated and then said, “Let me think about it. Give me a day or two.” Santa took the letter to his wife and showed it to her. “What do you make of this, dear?” “About time. I often wondered how they kept quiet.” “So, you think I should take them this year? Dasher and gang are not going to give up that easily. It also means having to train a new team and getting them to learn the routes and so on. It’s not as easy as it seems to go sailing through the sky.” “In that case, they have to fight it out…” “Oh, you know, I despise violence. There’ll be blood everywhere and…” “Not that kind of a fight. I meant a competition.” “Now, that’s a thought,” said Santa. “Yes, we can have competitions to find out who is the fastest, who has the best reflexes…” Early on Monday, Santa put up a notice. In no time there everyone was reading it. The female reindeer were deeply annoyed. But everyone else was excited. The competitions were to be held on Saturday. It was to be a whole day event with a break for lunch and tea. The factory would be closed and everyone was expected to attend. The competitions were to be held between Team A of Dasher and gang, and Team B, with Uranus and gang. Who’s the better one? On Saturday, there was a festive air about the village. The two teams were tense and on edge. The first competition was to check speed and dexterity. Santa had decided the participants were to embroider a napkin with a Christmas theme using 10 embroidery stitches. Dasher and Uranus were the contestants. Dasher got to work embroidering a Christmas tree in shades of green, using different stitches. Uranus worked on a Christmas wreath. He used several colours and stitches and even French knots for the buds. When the bell rang to announce the end of the contest, they held up their work. Santa and Mrs. Santa examined the work. After much debate, Mrs. Santa said, “Uranus’ work is absolutely delightful. However, one of the conditions of the competition was that 10 stitches must be used. Uranus used only nine. Dasher has used 10. So, the winner is Dasher.” Team A yelled with joy and danced. Let’s dance The second round was a two-minute dance routine set to ‘Jingle Bells’. The participants were Dancer and HipHop. In two minutes, they had to display as many dance styles as possible. As the tune struck up, Dancer started with ballet and moved over to foxtrot and then ballroom and finished with a waltz. It was skillfully executed and everyone clapped. HipHop brought joie de vivre. He came into the ring doing the hip hop and quickly changed to an Irish jig, then a Scottish fling, some Zumba and finished with tap dancing. HipHop’s mood and excitement spread to the crowd and many of them were dancing too. “This round goes to HipHop,” announced Mrs. Santa. There was wild cheering from Team B. (To be continued)  All these years you never said a thing and now suddenly... But I do see your point.   There was a festive air about the village. The two teams were tense and on edge...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/who-will-pull-my-sleigh-overlooked/article37974358.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||In tune with nature||You hear the sound of the tambura along with birds chirping and gurgling water, as musicians perform in carefully curated natural, outdoor settings. Filmed across India, First Edition Arts’ (FEA) Blue Planet series hopes to highlight the connect between environment and art. Started in 2014, FEA was one of the earliest with online musical offerings. Now, it will use the digital medium again to offer viewers a multi-layered experience. While each episode is primarily a concert, woven in are vignettes of people and their issues from the places where the programmes are filmed . By setting musicians in locales such as forests, groves and water bodies, FEA hopes it will pull the classical arts ecosystem out of its insular bubble. According to Devina Dutt of FEA, the inspiration was the citizen-spurred environmental campaign, ‘Amche Mollem’, in Goa, which recently won the Sanctuary Wildlife Campaign award. “It was this campaign’s use of the visual arts to protest the clearing of forests for infrastructure projects that crystallised the idea of Blue Planet.” The episode featuring ‘A Carnatic Quartet’ alternates between the stark urban devastation of Ennore and North Chennai with the fragile beauty of Pulicat and the mangroves. In Nagaland, singer T.M. Krishna talks to Sethrichem Sangtam, a grassroots activist from Tuensang, one of India’s most backward districts, where Sangtam describes the challenges of jhoom (slash and burn) cultivation and his efforts to encourage the community to switch to more sustainable agricultural practices. To showcase issues caused by the recent extreme weather patterns, the Malladi Brothers will be filmed on Urur Olcott Beach. K.S. Vishnudev’s episode will be filmed in the Gurukula sanctuary in Wayanad, a 60-acre painstakingly nurtured rainforest habitat that preserves flora and fauna. Ramakrishnan Murthy’s episode is set in the tide pools of Goa where marine conservationist Gabriella D’Cruz explains the importance of seaweed cultivation and other ecological issues. The ticketed series features Hindustani and Carnatic vocal and instrumental music and Bharatanatyam performances. FEA will air five 90-120 minute episodes on Shaale.com, one weekend a month, through March 2022. All episodes will be available for viewing until May 31. The line-up begins today at 7 p.m. with two concerts — Uday Bawalkar and Ramakrishnan Murthy. Tomorrow’s episodes will have Shubhada Paradkar and a duet by Aishwarya Vidhya Raghunath and Brinda Manickavasagam. Sunday will air T.M. Krishna’s concert. Other episodes showcase Budhaditya Mukherjee, Ashwini Bhide Deshpande, Abhishek Borkar with Ramana Balachandra, Mohi Baha’ud-din Dagar, Pantula Rama, Waseem Ahmed Khan, Venkatesh Kumar, Abhishek Raghuram, Ulhas Kashalkar, Rithvik Raja with Shweta Prachande, Debashish Bhattacharya, Vignesh Ishwar with Christopher Gurusamy, and P. Unnikrishnan. To promote the series, FEA has selected nature poems in English, Tamil, Bangla, Kannada, Hindi, Sanskrit, Telugu and Marathi for the artistes to read out. The ‘Amche Mollem’ artistes are also creating hand-painted posters for each concert. The posters will be auctioned and the proceeds will go to the visual artistes.  The author writes on classical music and musicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/in-tune-with-nature/article37973629.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Two in one||Ragavan Manian presented a rather unique concert where he was both vocalist and saxophone player. He was accompanied by Shradda Ravindran on the violin, Neyveli Skandasubramaniam on the mridangam, and H. Sivaramakrishnan on the ghatam. Ragavan’s raga choices, kriti selections and presentation were all unusual. Given his supple but strong voice, Ragavan was able to present the kritis at varying speeds, some slow and unhurried, some at medium pace, and a few very fast. Surfeit of swaras He opened the concert with a varnam in raga Sarasangi, his own composition, influenced by Adi Sankara’s shlokam ‘Parabrahma lingam bhaje pandurangam’. As expected of the varnam, it had several swara passages, chitta and muktayi swaras. The next piece ‘Gam ganapathim’ was created by his guru Dr. M. Balamuralikrishna, in raga Ganapathi, consisting of just three notes ‘sa ga pa’. Ragavan added a few rounds of swarakalpana to this as he juggled with the three notes. A precise Purvikalyani raga essay was followed by the Syama Sastri kriti ‘Enneramum un namam’. This leisurely rendition was pepped up with ‘Edaari sancharinthura’ in the raga Sruthiranjani, a rare kriti by Tyagaraja. The main offering was Kamboji, which was sung in the normal fashion, with all the signature phrases of the raga intact. But Ragavan decided to add a different flavour to it by adding a tanam to the raga alapana on the saxophone. And then, just as everyone expected him to continue playing the instrument, Ragavan switched over to singing. His choice of kriti was Papanasam Sivan’s popular ‘Adum deivam arulvai’ with a complex swarakalpana segment with different nadais. The singer centred the penultimate swaras with ‘p d s r g s’ and ‘m g p d s p’ combination leading to a grand finale. Towards the end, Ragavan again forayed into saxophone territory with Dikshitar’s ‘Rangapura vihara’. Then, he switched to vocals to render a zesty thillana at breakneck speed in Brindavanasaranga, composed again by Balamuralikrishna. Shradda Ravindran stuck to her methodical approach to raga, tanam or swaras. Skandasubramaniam and Sivaramakrishnan underplayed their roles, but gave their best in supporting Ragavan’s performance.  The Chennai-based writer reviews Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/two-in-one/article37973617.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The German connection||The pandemic has not been easy on anyone and yet, when it changed things drastically, many performers adapted to the new normal by switching to the digital platform. For Aruna Sairam, however, it was a period of quiet introspection and learning. She did not seek online concerts because she felt that only live audiences, with whom she could connect, had the power of reciprocity. But she had other moments of cheer — such as being awarded the Kalidas Samman in 2020. “Every award, big or small is a reiteration of the work that we do as artistes and makes us reaffirm our commitment to the art,” says Aruna. Then, on November 4 this year, Aruna got the opportunity she had been waiting for — an invitation for a live concert at the grand Elbphilharmonie hall in Hamburg. “Performing there was amazing. The rows of layered seats rise high all around the stage, creating a proximity to the magical musical experience,” she says. For Aruna, the concert was also special because seated in the audience was her German teacher Renate, who had come to listen to an old friend and student. Renate brought back memories of how her musical link with Germany began. Way back in 1987, when Aruna Sairam was finding her niche in the music world, she got an invitation to be the visiting professor in a German music hochschule (institution) in Saarbrucken. She was excited about the three-month assignment because it was her first big overseas musical outing, and it would give her an opportunity to be a representative of Indian classical music. With Indian classical music an elective at the hochschule, Aruna soon realised none of the students had opted for it. Clad in a sari, she would sit alone in a room and watch the students pass by. “I thought why am I here? I recalled my years in Bombay and the kind of training I had received under several greats. I decided to make the best use of my time there by learning German music,” says Aruna. So she approached Renate Bellmann, who wondered what she would want to learn. Over an Indian meal at her apartment, she told him about how she had been in Saarbrucken for three weeks not doing anything. “I told him students here don’t seem to be interested in Indian music and lack the intellectual curiosity about other cultures.” The next day Renate invited her to the director’s room. When she walked in, Aruna was surprised to see the room packed; all the professors at the hochschule had been called to hear her out. Aruna told them that she had expected something more like an exchange programme. And that she had come with the intention of sharing knowledge and hoping to gain some too. Soon it was decided that over eight weekends, she would be hosted by each professor at their residence, where Aruna would talk about various aspects of Indian classical music.   The change By the end of eight Sundays, the whole scenario had changed. A bond had been sealed, new doors had opened. For Aruna, it was a new beginning. The German experience had taught her to communicate better, through music, and this was something that has stayed on with her. Her concerts after this experience ceased to be the same. She waited for the audience to respond and enthralled them with what they had come looking for. She had begun to feel the pulse of her listeners. In the fall of 1987, she was once again invited to teach, this time at colleges in six different German cities. Renate Bellmann also opened her mind to the techniques of the voice. He introduced Aruna to Prof. Eugene Rabine, who became her voice teacher. Eugene helped her experience singing as something that involves the entire body. Aruna has since visited the country several times, winning over audiences with her music and also entering into collaborations with Christian Bollmann and Michael Reimann. The recent concert at Elbphilharmonie was a continuation of her artistic bond with Germany.  The Chennai-based author writes on art and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-german-connection/article37973634.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The versatile Subramania Iyer||Rasika Ranjani Sabha hosted a thematic series titled ‘Music in Perpetuity’, which had a lecture-demonstration on composers and musicians of the past in the mornings and a concert based on them in the evenings. Conceptualised by Aruna Prabha Ranganathan, the idea was to make young enthusiasts aware of the work and thought processes of these great composers. The series featured composers, particularly from the Tyagaraja sishya parampara, who are not as well known as the Trinity. Veena vidushi R.S. Jayalakshmi, a teacher and musicologist, presented a lec-dem on Patnam Subramania Iyer (1845-1902), and spoke of how he had created a treasure of kritis, varnams, javalis and thillanas in his short life. Trained by stalwarts Born in Tiruvaiyaru, Subramania Iyer’s family was steeped in music. His grandfather Panchanada Sastri was a musician in the court of Maharajah Serfoji II and his father, Bharatam Vaidyanatha Iyer, was accomplished in music. It was his maternal uncle, Melattur Ganapati Sastri, who initially trained Subramania. Later, he learnt from Kothavasal Venkatarama Iyer and Manambuchavadi Venkatasubbaiyer, a direct disciple of Tyagaraja. Jayalakshmi wondered if these two gurus were the inspiration behind Subramania Iyer’s sahitya mudra ‘Venkatesa’. The prefix ‘Patnam’ was added to his name since he lived in Chennai patnam in later years. Jayalakshmi commended the composer’s expertise in Ragam-Tanam-Pallavi and the special pallavi he sang in Simhanandana tala, which has 128 aksharas. She pointed to his mastery in singing tanam and advised learners to practise his tana varnams to get ideas for singing at advanced levels. Quoting from Mysore Vasudevachar’s book, Naan Kanda Kalavidaru , Jayalakshmi spoke about how Vasudevachar described the experience of learning from Subramania Iyer, who made him only observe for the first six months before starting to teach, and then began, much to the sishya’s surprise, with the Begada varnam. Of the 40 varnams he has composed, the popular are the Navaragamalika varnam and Abhogi varnam across three octaves. She also mentioned the two Ata tala varnams in Sahana, both with sarvalaghu pattern in the third post-charanam set of swarams. Jayalakshmi sang the Kannada varnam, assisted by her disciple and granddaughter Charulatha Chandrasekar, to show how he introduced the grammar of a raga through different swara phrases. She also noted that in the Navaragamalika varnam, he followed the usage of ‘pa dha ni pa ma’, a Dikshitar school prayoga in the Sri raga swaras. Referring to the book, Sri Venkatesa Tana Varnangal, by his disciple Kakinada C.S. Krishnaswamy, and the couple of varnams that find place in Varna Sagaram by musician T.K. Govinda Rao, Jayalakshmi highlighted the swarakshara (the words phonetically matching the swaras) lines, yatis (increasing and decreasing syllabic patterns), a few rare prayogams in Natakurinji and Sankarabharanam in the varnams he composed. He handled apoorva ragas like Narayana Gowla and Begada beautifully, which eventually made him known as ‘Begada’ Subramania Iyer. Particularly adept at handling rare ragas like Sindhu Mandhari, Suguna Bhushani, Simhavahini, the composer created the new raga, Kadanakuthuhalam, with the popular composition, ‘Raghuvamsa sudhambudhi.’ Tyagaraja’s influence on his compositions come through in their structure— ‘Etunammina’ in Saveri and ‘Varamulu saki’ in Kiravani, which display the raga in the very first phrase, with many sangatis added to expand the abstract form; and ‘Rama ika nannu’ in Sahana, which has ‘ri ri’, the jeeva swara, at the very beginning, similar to Tyagaraja’s ‘Ee vasudha’. Another similarity is how the song begins with the one-and-a-half beat. The duo also sang and explained the solkattu chittaswaram in ‘Inka dayarale’ in Chakravakam; and highlighted the prosodic beauty of ‘Manasa vrudha garvametike’ in Abhogi. The composer’s verses are mostly in Sanskrit, with just one Telugu verb in many kritis, a feature also found in his disciple Poochi Srinivasa Iyengar’s compositions. As a guru, Subramania Iyer encouraged his students to compose and had no qualms about cross-checking the lyrics with Vasudevachar, who had a good knowledge of Sanskrit. He seldom sang his own compositions in concerts. The lec-dem ended with a reference to his javalis and tillanas, especially the popular Khamas tillana.  The Chennai-based writer specialises in Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-versatile-subramania-iyer/article37973601.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Lessons from a digital 2021||This is my last column for this year, and what a year it has been. The hope and euphoria that marked its beginning soon gave way to widespread chaos and despair as the second wave descended upon us. As this column goes to press, the Omicron variant has already hit the headlines and we don’t know where we are headed next. There’s a motley aggregation of offerings for the famed Chennai December Season. While some organisations continue to have a virtual festival, some others decided to go offline, and a few are attempting hybrid performances. This kind of presentation has created confusion among listeners and artistes. If online or hybrid is indeed the future, are we privileging just one month to load up as many hours of content as possible, causing a law of diminishing marginal utility to set in? With companies such as Spotify using the year-end as a means to amplify their traction figures, the fragile artistic ego has found yet another avenue to engage in comparisons. The “number game,” as one of my friends puts it, has seen a surfeit of bragging posts on social media making tantalising announcements including the number of countries one has audiences in (which is rather moot since even a Facebook profile can now be seen anywhere), the number of streams and hours that one’s music has been consumed and so forth. Nowhere do these statistics reveal the quality of listenership or performative progress — actual feedback from listeners. For instance, do we have the same set of people listening to our music multiple times or is it a lot of people listening for a few minutes and then getting bored? To put it less subtly — we are all now comparing the size of our houses as opposed to what actually goes on inside them. Powered by technology I realise I sound like the old curmudgeon trying to judge a tech-obsessed world. But the fact is that instead of us becoming more active and informed users of technology, the companies powered by technology are now using us. With data becoming crucial, we are quantifying prowess and popularity rather than stepping back to observe what is really going on. Technology by itself is not a terrible thing. Far from it, and I say this as an entrepreneur grappling with it everyday. And it has meant a lot of good things in other sectors — including education and the arts. More and more audiences are getting acclimatised to interact and learn online — and this has opened up new conversations, new audiences, and new ways of learning and absorbing. It has also brought the world closer in our collective ability to consume content. But our obsession with numerical measures of success and the way it impacts our psyche and mental health cannot be ignored. As we step into 2022, I would sincerely wish that we use the lessons from the pandemic to slow down and work on our artistry in more meaningful ways. And step into a happier version of ourselves. Happy New Year.  The writer is a well-known musician, educator and associate professor at Krea University.   With data becoming crucial, we are quantifying prowess and popularity rather than stepping back to observe what is really going on||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/lessons-from-a-digital-2021/article37973632.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Theatre Marina’s next||Theatre Marina will stage an English sci-fi play titledNever odd or even, on December 18 and 19, 5 p.m. and 7.30 p.m., at Alliance Francaise of Madras. Written by J. Raghunathan and directed by R. Giridharan, the play is about the invention of Paveway 2, the precision-guided missile that devastated Saddam Hussein. For tickets, log on to BookMyShow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/theatre-marinas-next/article37973606.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Nothing frenetic about it||Shruthi S. Bhat’s concert for Naada Inbam stood out for its poise and finesse. There was nothing frenetic about her music. Perhaps it’s because she has trained under veteran Chingleput Ranganathan and senior vocalist S. Sowmya. The Kamboji raga had dignity and emotive character, in line with the kriti, Tyagaraja’s ‘Marimari ninne’, one that’s rarely heard these days. It used to be one of the masterpieces of the Alathur Brothers. Shruthi took up the charanam line, ‘Karunato Dhruvanikedhu’ for niraval and swaraprastara. On the violin, M. Vijay was at his best in the alapana. He stood up well to every challenge posed by the singer. The concluding korvais of both were impressive, both technically and aesthetically. B. Ganapathiraman (mridangam) offered a lively thani, displaying through the concert a smooth and enjoyable artistry, with many hints of his laya refinement. Shruthi began with the Sahana varnam, ‘Karunimpa’, by Tiruvottriyur Tyagaiyer, with swaraprastara at the pallavi. She followed it up with Patnam Subramania Iyer’s Sourashtram piece, ‘Ninnujuchi dhanyudaiti’. Her elucidation of Ritigowla was graceful, with Tyagaraja’s ‘Ragaratna malikache’ as the composition. The niraval was at ‘Bhagavathoththamalu koodi’. Shruthi then took up the prolific Mysore Vasudevachar’s popular Sunadavinodini piece, ‘Devadi deva sri vasudeva’, rich in bhakti bhava, and followed it up with Neelakanta Sivan’s ‘Enraikku sivakrupai’. The singer’s rendering of Gopaladasa’s ‘Ena bedali ninna balige bandu’ in Revathi brought out the spirit of the song. ‘What more can I ask for when you have blessed me with sowbhagya,’  says the composer. It was preceded by two Purandaradasa Ugabhogas, in Hindolam and Revathi. Shruthi concluded with a Meera bhajan, ‘Koyi kahiyore prabhu aavan ki’ in a poignant Mia Malhar. The concert is available on Parivadini’s YouTube Channel.  The Chennai-based reviewer specialises in Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/nothing-frenetic-about-it/article37973613.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Ten-day festival||Chennai Fine Arts will inaugurate its annual music festival on December 21 at 4 p.m. with a nagaswaram concert by Injikkudi E.M. Subramaniam. The ten-day event will take place at Srinivasa Sastri Hall. The inaugural concert will be followed by the distribution of prizes to the winners of CFA’s Tala Vadya competition held recently. Winners in each category will be presented with musical instruments while runners-up will get cash prizes. As always, the festival will have two concerts, at 4 p.m. and 6 p.m., each day. It will be a free concert. For further details, call 94440 76899.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/ten-day-festival/article37973615.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||KGS cultural festival||Sri Krishna Gana Sabha’s 65th Margazhi festival, on till January 1, 2022, was inaugurated on December 15. The 18-day event will have music and dance concerts at 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. respectively, with a namasankirtanam at 7 a.m. Some of the concerts: Dec. 17: Sandeep Narayan followed by Navia Natarajan. Dec. 18: Sriranjani Santhanagopalan and Meenakshi Srinivasan. Dec. 19: Ranjani and Gayatri and Priyardarsini Govind. Dec. 20: Ramakrishnan Murthy and Sreelatha Vinod. Dec. 21: Nisha Rajagopalan and Uma Sathyanarayanan.   Dec. 22: N. Vijay Siva and Shijith Nambiar-Parvathy Menon. Dec. 23: Vittaldas Jayakrishna Dikshitar’s namasankirtanam, Saketharaman’s vocal concert, and Urmila Sathyanarayanan’s Bharatanatyam performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/kgs-cultural-festival/article37973619.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Digital concert series||Naadhabrahmam’s 20th edition of ‘Sangeetha Raga Mahotsavam’ goes digital with 19 concerts. It will screen on the Dinamalar website from December 23 to January 1, 2022 at 5 p.m. and 6.30 p.m. Dr. Justice S. Vimala, member, Law Commission, Tamil Nadu, will inaugurate and preside over the launch function, which will be held at P.S. High School at 6 p.m. The evening programme will include honouring Madurai G.S. Mani with the ‘Naada Kovidha’ title, Dr. D. Badrinarayanan with the ‘Naada Vaidhya Seva Nirata’, and N.S. Kamakshi with an award of appreciation. This will be followed by Madurai G.S. Mani’s vocal concert with Delhi P. Sunder Rajan (violin), Tiruvarur Bhaktavatsalam (mridangam) and Mysore M. Gururaj (morsing). For details, call 9381043396/ 9841140855.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/digital-concert-series/article37973623.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Focus on harikatha||Vishakha Hari’s Vijayashri School of Harikatha, part of the Bhagavatha Seva Trust, presents ‘Vijayashri Margazhi Vaibhavam’ from December 17 to 19, at Narada Gana Sabha. The 10-month-old school was started with the aim to train youngsters in the art of harikatha and Carnatic music. Vocal concerts (4.30 p.m.) and harikatha (5.30 p.m.) by the students of Vijayashri school will form part of the three-day event. The first day will feature Tarunya’s concert and Ramya Ramakrishnan’s harikatha ‘Karaikal Ammaiyar Charitram’. Day 2 will have Snigdha Desiraju’s concert and Vignesh’s ‘Srinivasar Aavirbhavam’. Day 3 will have G. Vishaka and Aradhana Anand’s ‘Namah Shivaya’. Vishakha Hari’s harikatha ‘Endaro Mahanubhavulu’, spread over three segments, will be presented at 6.30 p.m. on all three days of the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/focus-on-harikatha/article37973626.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Thematic productions||Kalakshetra, supported by the Ministry of Culture, will present its 68th annual art festival from December 21 to January 1, 2022. R.N. Ravi, Governor of Tamil Nadu, will inaugurate the festival on December 21, 5.30 p.m. at Bharata Kalakshetra Auditorium. A series of dance productions by Kalakshetra as well as music concerts by senior artistes will be presented, with the inaugural day featuring ‘Sita Swayamvaram’. This will be followed over the next two days by the dance drama ‘Sri Rama Vanagamanam’ and R.K. Shriram Kumar’s violin concert. Tickets are available at tikkl.com/kalakshetra and at the venue. For details, visit Kalakshetra’s social media pages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/thematic-productions/article37973621.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Dance camp at Thennangur||Natyarangam, Narada Gana Sabha’s dance wing, will conduct Natya Sangraham, the annual camp for dance teachers and senior dancers, from January 28 to 30 at Thennangur. Natyacharyas V.P. Dhananjayan and Shanta Dhananjayan will be the coordinators. The faculty members are Dr. Sudha Seshayyan, Jyotsna Narayanan, Sowmya and Lata Pada. The application forms can be downloaded from http://natyarangam.in/. Completed forms should be forwarded to natyarangam.ngs@gmail.com. The last date fior entry is December 31. In view of the pandemic, applicants have been restricted to Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/dance-camp-at-thennangur/article37973624.ece
17 December 2021||GURUGRAM,||Family refuses to cremate body of victim in lynching case||The family and relatives of a Scheduled Caste man, who was allegedly beaten to death by upper caste men on suspicion of theft in Haryana’s Hisar, refused to cremate the body for the second successive day on Thursday, demanding the arrest of the accused, and compensation. Two of the cousins of the deceased were also beaten up and had sustained injuries in the incident. “The families of the victims have been holding demonstration for the past two days and refused to cremate the body. We have been demanding the arrest of the accused named in the First Information Report, compensation to the victims as per the provisions in the law, government jobs and security and arms licences for the family members. Besides, the family of the deceased should be paid a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh from the CM Relief Fund and the injured be given Rs. 25 lakh each,” said Rajat Kansal, a Scheduled Caste rights’ activist in Hisar. Vinod, 38, a resident of Hisar’s Mirkan village, and his cousins Sandeep (26) and Bhal Singh (35) were allegedly beaten up by around two dozen upper caste men from the same village on suspicion of stealing an inverter, battery and water pump motors. According to the FIR, the accused took the three victims on the outskirts of the village on December 14 and beat them up with roads, and punched and kicked them to “teach them a lesson”. Vinod sustained serious injuries and was declared dead on arrival at hospital. Mr. Kansal alleged that the accused were in inebriated state and continued to beat up the victim even after he had died. Two arrested Deputy Superintendent of Police, Hisar-II, Narayan Chand said two persons, Rajpal alias Balu and Ishwar, were arrested and six teams constituted to arrest the remaining accused. “Five persons were named in the FIR and around a dozen more named in the supplementary statement,” said Mr. Chand. Priyanka Soni, Deputy Commissioner, Hisar, said Rs. 6 lakh was sanctioned to the family of the deceased and the two injured. She said that police were deployed in the village in adequate numbers and a duty magistrate appointed to prevent any untoward incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/family-refuses-to-cremate-body-of-victim-in-lynching-case/article37974192.ece
17 December 2021||HYDERABAD,||New rules against child labour||The Telangana government has decided to initiate stringent action against those employing child labour in different works/occupations and outlined steps envisaging continuity of their education. The State has come out with a comprehensive set of rules for protecting the interests of children and ensuring that their education is not disturbed. According to the new rules, if a child receiving education in a school remains continuously absent for 30 days without intimation to the principal or head master of the school, the latter should report the matter to the nodal officer concerned who would be designated by the district magistrate. Children would not perform any tasks during school hours and between 7 p.m and 8 a.m the next day. They should not be engaged in such tasks that would hinder/interfere with the right to education of the child or his/her attendance in the school. They should also be not engaged in activities that could adversely affect education, including activities that were inseparably associated to complete education like home work or any extra-curricular activity assigned by the school. The government has issued the Telangana Child Labour (prohibition and regulation) (amendment) Rules 2021 that would come into force on the date of their publication in the gazette. According to the new rules, children should not be engaged in any task continuously without rest that could make him/her tired and should be allowed to take rest to refresh health and mind. Accordingly, the child should not help for more than three hours excluding the period of rest in the day. Steps should also be taken to ensure that there was substitution of child for an adult or adolescent while helping family or family enterprise. In case of child working as an artist, he/she should not be allowed to work for more than five hours in a day and for not more than three hours without rest. Task force to be set up The new rules envisaged constitution of a task force with district magistrate as chairperson and it should consist of inspector of police, superintendent of police, additional district magistrate, assistant labour commissioner, two representatives each from voluntary organisations involved in rescue and rehabilitation of employed children on a rotation basis, representative of the district legal services authority, member of the district anti-trafficking unit, chairperson of the child welfare committee and district child protection officer as also the district education officer. Action plan The task force should meet at least once every month and should make comprehensive action plan for conducting rescue operation taking into account the time available, point of raid in accordance with the law, confidentiality of the plan, protection of victims and witnesses. The task force should also upload the minutes of its meeting on the portal that would be created by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-rules-against-child-labour/article37973721.ece
17 December 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Cong., AAP, Akalis go aggressive on the campaign trail||With electioneering gaining momentum for the Assembly polls in Punjab, leaders of key political parties — the Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party — were actively campaigning on Thursday. While Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who has been aggressively raising Congress party’s baton in the campaign in Ludhiana, launched a tirade on the Aam Aadmi Party, the AAP supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in Lambi, the bastion of Shiromani Akali Dal, urged people to give “AAP a chance”. In Pathankot, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal was seen pushing the region card to garner support. Accusing Mr. Arvind Kejriwal of being a hypocrite, Mr. Channi urged the people to remain cautious from “his [Mr. Kejriwal’s] nefarious plans to grab power.” “Kejriwal’s promises are a bundle of lies which varies from State to State. In Punjab he is promising allowance worth Rs. 1,000 to women every month but in Goa the same allowance promised by him is Rs. 5,000. It is the dubious character of Kejriwal and company,” he said. On the other hand, the State Government is making strenuous efforts for the well-being of every strata of society, he said. “No stone is being left unturned for the well-being of the common man,” he said. ‘Corrupt, hypocritical’ In Lambi, Mr. Kejriwal called the Congress Government the most corrupt and hypocritical Government in the history of Punjab and accused Mr. Channi of making a mockery of the Government. “Punjab should decide for itself whether it needs a puppet Government or a pro-people Government to build schools and hospitals. You have given opportunities to Congress for 25 years and SAD-BJP for 20 years and tried their governance many times. Give us [Aam Aadmi Party] a chance in 2022,” he said. Commenting on the ongoing factionalism in the Congress, Mr. Kejriwal said: “Navjot Sidhu is fighting with Chief Minister Channi, Sunil Jakhar is fighting with Navjot Sidhu, Partap Singh Bajwa is fighting with Jakhar. In fact, they are all fighting to plunder Punjab because they know that the Congress Government is leaving in a few days. All the Congressmen are looting Punjab beyond limits,” he said. In Pathankot, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said Akali Dal was the only party for Punjabis, and it would defeat all their opponents. “Punjabis will not let outsiders govern them and will impose trust in the SAD, which represents regional aspirations. Just like Mamata Banerjee was successful in West Bengal, we will defeat all the three forces pitted against us to emerge victorious in 2022,” he said. “Empty chairs at events presided over by the Chief Minister were a testament to the popularity of both Channi and the Congress party. The countdown of the Congress has started and so has their frustration due to which there is infighting,” he said. Hitting out at Mr. Kejriwal, he said: “The drama being enacted by Mr. Kejriwal promising Rs. 1,000 per month to all women of the State had not cut ice in Punjab. Punjabis are asking why not even one woman in Delhi has received Rs. 1,000 a month till now? Similarly, while Mr. Kejriwal was talking about regularising contractual employees in Punjab, his Government had not regularised 10,000 contractual employees of Delhi for years.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/blame-barrage-as-parties-hit-campaign-trail/article37973978.ece
17 December 2021||NEW DELHI,||Friday prayers: ex-MP’s plea in SC to rein in ‘hooligans’||A former parliamentarian has moved the Supreme Court to initiate contempt action against Haryana authorities for not reining in “hooligans” who have created an atmosphere of communal hatred and terror for worshippers offering Friday prayers in Gurugram. The petition, filed by former Rajya Sabha MP Mohammad Adeeb, said inaction violates a Supreme Court judgment of 2018 which mandated that authorities should not be either silent spectators or tolerate communal violence and use the law against hate crimes. The petition said the malicious attacks and false narratives on the prayers were made through social media platforms. It said the prayers were held in the open “due to compulsion”. However its conduct was portrayed as illegal and “some sort of encroachment”. The petition said the objections to the prayers have grown louder and more frequent. The police have not intervened despite complaints made. The petition has sought action against the Chief Secretary and the DGP of Haryana. The petition drew attention to December 3 and claimed how a large group of people were chanting communally divisive slogans at sites of namaz. “While a considerable number of police forces were present, despite the same videos emerged clearly showing such persons as having no fear of law. The police reportedly detained some persons from the mob, but the same were subsequently let off the same day,” the plea said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/friday-prayers-ex-mps-plea-in-sc-to-rein-in-hooligans/article37974188.ece
17 December 2021||Jaipur,||‘Politics of religion easy, but bad for country’||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said those who indulge in divisive politics should think about the future of the country. He said Pakistan became a nation on the basis of religion but was divided into two countries. He said Bangladesh was created in 1971 despite the fact that majority population was Muslim. “Doing politics in the name of religion is easy, provoking people in the name of caste is easy, spreading hate is easy but difficult to take back when it is spread. “I would like to tell those who do politics in the name of religion, please look at the future of the country … what will happen after 25 years or 50 years,” he said addressing a programme at ‘Amar Jawan Jyoti’ after paying tributes to martyrs on Vijay Diwas. He urged people to look into reasons and understand why India remained intact after independence and why Pakistan was divided. “Pakistan became a nation on the basis of religion but what was the reason that despite there being one religion it was divided?” he asked. “There are many languages in India … We all should live with love and harmony and this is what Mahatma Gandhi has taught us. This is our religion,” he said. People of all religions live in India yet the country remains intact even after 75 years of independence and different governments, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/politics-of-religion-easy-but-bad-for-country/article37974186.ece
17 December 2021||Srinagar,||Faces behind exquisite artwork from Srinagar get into spotlight||Buoyed by the recent UNESCO Creative Cities Network tag for Srinagar, the J&K government has finally decided to put a spotlight on the faces of the artisans and craftsmen in the old city area, who are behind the intricate and exquisite artworks, from shawls to carpets, in the Valley. In a first, the Directorate of Handicrafts and Handlooms, Kashmir, organised a craft tour for locals, students, teachers and tour operators. They met the master craftsmen and weavers living in the narrow alleys of the old city, whom the department considers as “magicians of their crafts”. In his 70s, Ghulam Nabi Dar, a woodcarver from Safa Kadal, was beaming as his small ‘karkhana (workshop) was swarmed by art enthusiasts. “Till date, I would showcase my art pieces only to suppliers. However, people coming to me to appreciate my work has given me a rare sense of accomplishment,” said Mr. Dar. Like Mr. Dar, the Handicrafts Department has identified around 150 award-winning artisans, weavers and craftsmen, among others, who would now be showcasing their craft and artwork to both enthusiasts as well as prospective buyers directly. “Our exercise is in line with the recent tagging of Srinagar by UNESCO as a craft city. The craft tour was to give locals a sense of participation and celebration of the craft heritage of the city. It will go a long way in enhancing the sense of dignity among the artisans,” Mahmood Shah, director of the Handcrafts and Handlooms Department, told The Hindu . Authentic goods The department is planning to organise more such craft tours. “I am sure when prospective buyers through these craft tours get to see the process through which an artwork is created, he or she may not insist on bargaining. Besides, it will also create a rare space to watch the process and buy authentic goods at the same time,” Mr. Shah said. The government is also pushing to connect the craft map of the city, with dozens of clusters known for different art works like papier mache, khatamband (geometrical ceiling), walnut wood carving or kan shawl (hand-loom shawls), with the tourism sector of Kashmir. Shamim Ahmed Shah, secretary general of the J&K Tourism Alliance, said the craft map of the city has a huge potential for tourism. “There are tourists who wants to know about Kashmir’s famed art and craft. Such craft tours will allow us to increase itinerary of tourists by one more day. Tourists will also get to see first hand the famous crafts by meeting the artisans and can buy without a middleman,” Mr. Shah said. UNESCO picked Srinagar among 49 other cities across the globe as a part of the Creative City Network under in November this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/faces-behind-exquisite-artwork-from-srinagar-get-into-spotlight/article37974191.ece
17 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘Wanted people to know that Wankhede lied’||Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik has stated before the Bombay High Court that he spoke out against Sameer Wankhede as people has the right to know how the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer ‘lied’ about caste to get his job. He wanted people to know that Mr. Wankhede, zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau here, was leading a “dual life” as “a Hindu and a Muslim”, the NCP leader said in an affidavit filed two days ago. “The materials published by me show the illegal manner in which Sameer Wankhede acquired his job and the illegalities committed by him during the discharge of his official duties,” it said. “Thus, the public has a right to know the truth related to the same,” the affidavit added. Mr. Malik’s affidavit was in response to a defamation suit filed against him by Sameer Wankhede’s father Dnyandev. Mr.Dnyandev filed the suit in November after Mr. Malik posted a series of tweets claiming, among other things, that Sameer Wankhede was born a Muslim but submitted a false caste certificate declaring that he belonged to a scheduled caste to secure a central government job. Mr. Dnyandev denied the allegation and claimed that Mr. Malik was targeting him and his family because the Minister's son-in-law had been arrested by NCB officials led by Sameer Wankhede in a drugs case. Last month, a single HC judge rejected Mr. Dnyandev’s prayer for an interim order to Mr. Malik not to make statements against the Wankhede family during the defamation suit’s pendency. The suit and interim relief prayer will now be heard afresh by another judge after Christmas vacation as both the parties have agreed to a fresh hearing. Denies charge The Minister also denied that he was making statements against the Wankhede family because of his son-in-law’s arrest in January 2021. He had been speaking out about the NCB’s illegal actions since November 2020, before the arrest and subsequent release on bail of his son-in-law, Mr. Malik said. The Minister said he started criticising the Central agency after noticing that it was going after celebrities for publicity instead of busting big drug syndicates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wanted-people-to-know-that-wankhede-lied/article37974194.ece
17 December 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata, Abhishek hit the streets as KMC campaign reaches final phase||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Trinamool Congress (TMC) general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Thursday hit the streets as the campaign for the polls to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) reached its final phase. The Chief Minister held a few public rallies in south Kolkata while Mr. Banerjee held a road show in north Kolkata. Elections to the KMC’s 144 wards will be held on December 19. The CM spoke of how the board of the Trinamool Congress had helped the city tide over frequent cyclones, including Amphan in May 2020. Ms. Banerjee said that despite pressure from different corners, including the Centre, she had not allowed the imposition of any tax on water. Promising better infrastructure, Ms. Banerjee cautioned TMC nominees to the civic polls that they would have to “stand with the people” and be more accessible. From the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), leaders like Suvendu Adhikari and State president Sukanta Majumdar campaigned for party nominees. Both alleged rampant corruption, particularly relating to real estate, in the board run by the Trinamool Congress. They also refuted Ms. Banerjee’s claims that the Centre was pressurising the KMC to impose water tax. The campaign for elections to KMC will end on Friday. The Trinamool Congress has been running the KMC board since 2010. In another development, the Calcutta High Court rejected a petition by the BJP leadership seeking deployment of Central armed police forces for the civic polls. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha in his order said that, “Since the State Election Commission does not see the requirement of deployment of Central Forces, this Court is not inclined to accede to the prayer of the petitioner on that score.” The High Court, however, directed that the Commissioner of Kolkata Police shall “forthwith attend to any other complaints from other complainants and based on the threat perception [to] ensure appropriate security as also other measures”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mamata-abhishek-campaign-in-kolkata/article37973976.ece
17 December 2021||Mumbai,||Param Bir’s co-accused in extortion case held||A man named an accused in an extortion case allegedly involving former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and others was arrested here on Thursday afternoon, a police officer said. The Crime Branch of Mumbai Police, which is probing the extortion case registered at suburban Goregaon police station, arrested the accused, Vinay Singh, from a cafe, he said. This was the fourth arrest in the case, in which Param Bir Singh and dismissed police officer Sachin Waze are among the accused. Param Bir Singh, who has been suspended by the Maharashtra Government over criminal cases against him, has court protection from arrest, whereas Bhati is absconding, the officer said. The offence was registered on a complaint of businessman Bimal Agrawal in which he had accused Mr. Waze of extortion at the behest of senior IPS officer Singh. According to the complaint, Mr. Waze, who is in jail in another criminal case, had extorted Rs. 9 lakh and two high-end mobile phones from the businessman for not conducting raids on two restaurant-cum-bars run by him in Goregaon. Anticipatory bail plea Vinay Singh had filed an anticipatory bail application which was rejected and he was asked by the Supreme Court to surrender before the police, the officer said. The Crime Branch officials had specific information about Vinay Singh visiting a cafe in suburban Kandivali and accordingly a team was sent to apprehend him, said Neelotpal, DCP (Detection-1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/param-birs-co-accused-in-extortion-case-held/article37974184.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s Ghazipur border partially opens for traffic||Delhi’s Ghazipur border was partially reopened for traffic on Thursday after remaining closed for more than a year due to the farmers’ stir, police said. According to officials, one of the carriageways at the border has been reopened for now and those coming from Vaishali, Ghaziabad can pass through the border to enter the national capital. On Wednesday, the Delhi Police had allowed traffic movement as well as opened two carriageways at Singhu border after it dismantled all the barricades that were erected to prevent the protesting farmers from moving towards the national capital. “It has been decided that Singhu border be opened from Delhi side also. It has been opened for all vehicles,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (outer north) Brijesh Yadav had said. The Singhu Border on Delhi-Chandigarh highway had been the epicentre of the farmers’ movement against the three Central farm laws. Farmers started leaving the protest site on the Delhi-Haryana border on Saturday after the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) suspended the agitation following the repeal of the farm laws and the Government conceding to its other demands. Major protest sites Besides the Singhu border, farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, had laid siege to Delhi's Tikri and Ghazipur borders on November 26 last year. The roads have already been cleared for commuters at the Tikri border and traffic is plying on the stretch, police had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhis-ghazipur-border-partially-opens-for-traffic/article37974189.ece
17 December 2021||Guwahati,||Chidambaram pitches for Oppn. unity||Pitching for Opposition unity to take on the BJP, senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram targeted West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, saying the seriousness of a political entity in combating the saffron party should be called into question if it is reluctant about coming under one umbrella. The former Union Minister was responding to questions at a press conference where he was asked about Ms. Mamata unleashing a relentless assault on the Congress while questioning its ability to fight the BJP. “I don’t respond to leaders of other political parties. All that I would like to reiterate and emphasise is that if you wish to defeat the BJP, either in a State election or in a national election, the non-BJP parties must come together. If someone is not willing to join the non-BJP front, one should question the seriousness of that party in opposing the BJP,” he said. Responding to a question about a common face that the Opposition would want to project against Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, he said, people will make the choice in due course of time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chidambaram-pitches-for-oppn-unity/article37974267.ece
17 December 2021||Pune,||No new Omicron cases reported in Maharashtra||While no new case of Omicron was reported from Maharashtra on Thursday, the Mumbai Police clamped prohibitory orders from December 16 to December 31 to preclude the spread of the variant. The State’s Omicron tally of 32 cases stayed constant. Of these, 25 have already been discharged, said officials. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of Omicron cases in the country thus far, prompting vigilance and screening to be stepped up at the Mumbai international airport and the airports in Pune and Nagpur. Mumbai has reported the highest number of cases (13) till date followed by Pimpri-Chinchwad in Pune (10). On Wednesday, prohibitory orders under the Code of Criminal Procedure’s Section 144 were imposed by the Mumbai police from December 16 to December 31 — a period covering Christmas and New Year eve — banning large gatherings as part of its measures to rein in the contagion. The number of COVID-19 cases was however, higher as compared with recoveries. While 877 new cases were recorded against just 632 discharges, as the active case tally rose incrementally to 6,693. While Mumbai reported 272 new COVID cases, Pune district reported nearly 220 new ones. Nineteen deaths have been reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-new-omicron-cases-reported-in-maharashtra/article37974199.ece
17 December 2021||Mumbai,||‘MVA Govt. to protect rights of COVID-19 widows’||The Maharashtra Government has expanded the scope of the district task force in the State to secure the rehabilitation and inheritance rights of women who lost their husbands due to COVID, by providing them guidance and legal aid. Authorities will also check if such widows are facing domestic violence, State Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur said in a statement on Thursday. Since March last year, 16,627 women lost their husbands due to COVID-19. The district task force has a list of 16,516 out of them, according to the Minister. Ms. Thakur said her department had received several complaints about such widows being denied their property and inheritance rights. “Hence, the scope of the district task force will be widened to authorise it to guide such women about their rights and financial matters, and provide legal aid,” she said. Under the “Mission Vatsalya” scheme, launched by the Maharashtra Government, a team of assigned government officials need to visit the households affected by COVID-19 and check if these widows are denied their property and inheritance rights, and if they are facing domestic violence, Ms. Thakur said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mva-govt-to-protect-rights-of-covid-19-widows/article37974183.ece
17 December 2021||December 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Cold tightens grip||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cold-tightens-grip/article37974198.ece
17 December 2021||New Delhi,||Fake call centre busted in Delhi, seven arrested||The Delhi Police has busted a fake call centre here and arrested seven persons for cheating over 150 people.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fake-call-centre-busted-in-delhi-seven-arrested/article37974195.ece
17 December 2021||Bengaluru,||HC relief to chairperson of Kollur temple managing committee||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday allowed the Chairperson and one of the members of the Managing Committee of the famous Kollur Sri Mookambika temple in Udupi district to perform day-to-day functions of their position without the right to vote in committee’s meetings for now. A Division Bench passed the interim order on an appeal filed by K. Chandrashakara Shetty, the Chairperson, and Ganesh Kini, one of the members of the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-relief-to-chairperson-of-kollur-temple-managing-committee/article37973719.ece
